-- Platinum Heading for Worst Year Since 2006 as Precious Metal Demand Surge
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-08T16:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/platinum-set-for-its-worst-year-since-2006-as-both-gold-and-palladium-jump.html
In a year when demand for precious
metals is only getting hotter, platinum is having its worst
relative performance since 2006.  The combination of uninterrupted production in South Africa
and a third year of stagnating demand has limited platinum’s
gains to about 20 percent this year, 24 percent below its 2008
record. Palladium has rallied 71 percent, silver rose 59 percent
and gold 27 percent.  Investors are piling into precious metals as the Federal
Reserve pumps $1.7 trillion into the financial system and buys
more debt to keep the economic recovery from flagging. That’s
not helping platinum as much as its peers as production of the
metal outstrips demand for a third year, according to data from
GFMS Ltd., a research company in London.  “Platinum’s been a laggard,” said  Brian Hicks , who helps
manage $750 million at U.S. Global Investors in San Antonio.
“Platinum has industrial uses like palladium but palladium is a
tighter market and platinum is not the kind of metal that
garners a lot of fund flow like gold and silver in times of
uncertainty.”  Hicks sold platinum and bought gold in the third quarter.
“We just decided we’d rather have more assets in gold than
platinum because of a concern in a slowdown in the economy,” he
said in a phone interview on Nov. 5.  Precious Metal Demand  Growing speculation that economic stimulus measures will
fuel inflation as economies recover from the first global
recession since World War II prompted investors to increase
exchange-traded product holdings in gold, silver, platinum and
palladium to 16,406 metric tons this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 65 percent of the 25,030 tons
mined around the world, leaving less for jewelers, glass
producers and automakers, the biggest industrial user, according
to GFMS.  Platinum for immediate delivery fell $8, or 0.5 percent,
to $1,760.50 an ounce at 3:56 p.m. in London. Gold was little
changed after earlier today trading at an all-time high of
$1,398.60 an ounce. Silver climbed 0.3 percent to $26.8194 an
ounce and palladium jumped 1.8 percent to $698.67 and earlier
today advanced to $700.75, the highest price since April 2001.  Precious metals outperformed stocks and bonds this year as
investors sought a store of value. The  MSCI World Index  of
stocks has climbed 7.7 percent while U.S. government debt
returned 8.8 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Treasury Master Index.  Lowest Ratio  An ounce of platinum bought  2.52  ounces of palladium today,
the lowest ratio since January 2003. That year, palladium fell
19 percent and platinum jumped 36 percent. In April 2004,
platinum fell 12 percent after Brussels-based  Umicore SA , the
world’s largest precious-metals recycler, said it developed a
catalyst for carmakers using more palladium.  “Nothing goes straight up all the time,”  Jim Rogers , the
chairman of Rogers Holdings who predicted the start of the
global commodities rally in 1999, said in an interview in
Oxford, England, last week. Platinum “was the hottest in the
world in 2008,” he said.  Platinum may start to catch up as jewelers shun more
expensive metals, according to Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. Hedge
funds and other speculators boosted bets on platinum rising,
pushing so-called net  long positions  to the highest level since
at least 1993 in the week through Nov. 2, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data showed on Nov. 5.  ‘Time to switch’  Platinum “jewelry demand could be supported by high gold
prices,” Bernstein analysts including London-based  Paul Galloway  wrote in an Oct. 29 report. “Perhaps it’s time to
switch.” Jewelry accounted for 41 percent of gold demand and 35
percent for platinum last year, according to GFMS.  A rally may boost the shares of Johannesburg-based Anglo
Platinum Ltd. and Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd., the world’s
biggest producers.  Anglo  dropped 8.1 percent this year.  Impala 
has gained 3 percent. The  MSCI World Materials Index  of 160
commodities shares has climbed about 14 percent in 2010.  Platinum production in  South Africa , which accounts for 63
percent of world output, will probably rise 1 percent this year
to 4.65 million ounces, the first increase since 2006, according
to GFMS. It fell 1.6 percent last year to a seven-year low as
mines closed and strikes and power outages interrupted supplies.  “There had been expectations through last year that
platinum production was going to be significantly hit by power
constraints in South Africa,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at
Societe Generale SA in London and the most accurate platinum
forecaster in the first quarter among 11 surveyed by Bloomberg
News. “The platinum market still seems to be in a reasonably
healthy surplus.”  Palladium Shortage  Platinum production may exceed demand by 350,000 to 400,000
ounces this year, according to GFMS. By contrast, palladium will
have a shortage of about 600,000 ounces, the first deficit since
2000, according to GFMS. Global platinum demand last year
dropped to the lowest level since at least 2000, a second
consecutive decline, according to GFMS.  “Platinum is a more longer-term story before it gets back
to the levels of demand we’ve been accustomed to,” said  Peter Ryan , a senior consultant at GFMS in London. “It could be
another two or three years before we see that. If you’re looking
at platinum and palladium right now, we’re probably more
positive on palladium.”  Palladium is benefitting as state inventories dwindle in
Russia, the largest producer, and China favors the metal for
catalytic converters in gasoline-powered automobiles. Car sales
 in China , the world’s fastest-growing major economy, and the
U.S. may rise 3 percent in the fourth quarter from the third,
according to J.D. Power Automotive Forecasting in Oxford.  Dwindling Stockpiles  Palladium accounts for 90 to 95 percent of precious metal
used in gasoline catalysts and platinum is used for about 75
percent in diesel devices, according to  Mark Bedford , Royston,
England-based director of precious-metals marketing at Johnson
Matthey Plc, which produces a third of the world’s
autocatalysts.  State stockpiles of palladium in Russia, the third-biggest
source of the metal, may have been all but exhausted, OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel said in May.  “The fundamentals for palladium are looking brighter than
they are for platinum,” said  Derek Engelbrecht , marketing
director at Impala Platinum, the second-largest producer of
platinum. The palladium shortage may grow to 500,000 ounces in
two or three years, from 200,000 ounces now, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  