-- Potash Says Shareholders Need More Details on BHP Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-08T23:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/potash-lawyer-says-company-s-shareholders-need-more-bhp-details.html
Shareholders of  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. , the world’s biggest fertilizer company, need
complete information about  BHP Billiton Ltd.’s  plans to acquire
the company or to compete against it, a lawyer for Potash said.  Attorney  Daniel Reidy , seeking to block the sale until BHP
provides more complete disclosure of its intentions, told U.S.
District Judge  David Coar  in Chicago today that his client’s
shareholders weren’t being told about internal debate at the
Australian company.  “BHP is deliberately overstating its commitment” to
building a competing Saskatchewan potash mine that could be the
world’s biggest in an attempt to drive down the Potash share
price,” Reidy said.  BHP Billiton, the world’s biggest  mining  company, has said
it intends to acquire a controlling interest in the Canadian
company for $40 billion.  Coar heard about six hours of evidence and testimony from
the parties on Nov. 4 as Saskatoon-based Potash pressed for an
injunction. BHP has said the case has no merit.  “There is absolutely no evidence that their price was
affected by anything my client did,” BHP lawyer Thomas Moloney
told the judge today. “They provided no empirical evidence of
that.”  ‘Net Benefit’  Canada’s government on Nov. 3 said it wouldn’t approve the
takeover of Potash Corp. by Melbourne-based BHP. Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said the proposal doesn’t confer a “net
benefit” on his country.  BHP has 30 days from the ruling date to lodge an appeal.
Reidy, Moloney and Coar today acknowledged that any ruling he
renders may be moot unless the Canadian government reverses its
determination.  Potash is a water-soluble form of  potassium . More than 93
percent of its world-wide production, predominantly in Russia,
Belarus and Canada, is used to make fertilizer.  Lawyers for BHP last week told Coar that the company wants
to resolve issues with the Canadian government so it can
complete the transaction under which stock must be tendered at
$130 a share by Nov. 18.  Moloney today told Coar he should throw out the suit,
arguing that the issue should first be decided by Canada and
then by Potash shareholders.  Competing Mine  Reidy told the judge that evidence obtained from BHP during
pre-hearing disclosure proved that while the company was making
bold public statements about plans for a mine at Jansen,
Saskatchewan that could produce 8 million tons of potash
annually, there was undisclosed internal dissent over financing
for the project.  The Potash lawyer cited one memorandum from BHP Chief
Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  to project leader  Andrew Mackenzie , warning that without adequate cost-control there
would be no Jansen project.  “This is the simple, brutal truth,” Kloppers told
Mackenzie.  “That’s what they should be telling people,” Reidy said
to Coar.  Moloney disagreed, returning to Mackenzie’s Nov. 4
testimony that the memo was part of a discussion between a CEO
and an executive who reports to him.  “It’s just an honest debate. It’s not a scheme,” Moloney
said. Jansen is a real development project, he said. “No other
witness with knowledge testified otherwise.”  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10cv6024, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 