-- Pound Reaches Five-Week High Versus Euro on Growing Irish Budget Concerns
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-08T17:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/pound-reaches-one-month-high-against-the-euro-on-irish-budget-gap-concern.html
The pound rose to the highest in five
weeks versus the euro amid concern that Ireland may struggle to
stem its fiscal shortfall as it negotiates with the European
Union, boosting demand for Britain’s currency as a haven.  Sterling has appreciated versus the European currency every
day since Nov. 4, when the Bank of England kept its so-called
quantitative easing program unchanged as the strength of the
recovery persuaded officials to hold off buying more government
bonds. European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  meets Irish policy makers today to discuss spending
cuts and tax increases, while German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
said last week that European bondholders should share the cost
of any restructuring.  The pound “will be driven very much from the European
side,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “We have the ongoing discussion of the
bailout and rescue packages once the current package expires.
That’s not going to help the euro in the near term, hence we’ll
probably see it dip lower.”  The pound appreciated 0.6 percent to 86.31 pence per euro
at 5:18 p.m. in London. It earlier reached 86.08, the strongest
since Sept. 30. Sterling fell 0.2 percent against the dollar to
$1.6147. It declined 0.4 percent to 131.02 yen.  The pound has still dropped 4.3 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone.  EU Support  “A lot of people were looking for euro-sterling to trade
higher on possible Bank of England quantitative easing,” said
 Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London. “That hasn’t materialized, and
they’re trimming some of those positions now. It’s a bit of a
pain trade for the market.”  Ireland aims to win support from the EU to avoid a Greek-
style bailout as investors balk at buying Irish bonds. While it
has the funds to avert the need for an immediate rescue,
Ireland’s cash may run out in the middle of next year unless it
can raise money from the bond market in 2011.  Morgan Kelly , an
economics professor dubbed Ireland’s “Doctor Doom,” wrote in
today’s  Irish Times  that the economy will need to be bailed out
amid a wave of mortgage losses.  Standard & Poor’s last month restored its outlook on the
U.K.’s credit rating to “stable” from “negative” after
third-quarter growth beat estimates and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  announced plans to slash spending.  U.K. government bonds declined, pushing the 10-year gilt
yield up 3 basis points to 3.01 percent. Two-year note yields
rose four basis points to 0.7 percent. Last week, the 10-year
gilt posted its biggest weekly gain in more than two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 