-- Rand Slumps Most Among Major Currencies to Dollar on European Risk Concern
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-08T16:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/rand-drops-most-among-major-currencies-to-dollar-on-signs-of-u-s-recovery.html
The rand weakened the most against
the dollar among major currencies as concern that European
governments will struggle to pay their debt rose, spurring
investors to sell emerging-market currencies and buy dollars.  South Africa’s currency depreciated for a third day,
slipping as much as 1.7 percent to 6.8864 per dollar, the
biggest drop since Oct. 27, and traded 1.5 percent down at
6.8774 by 6:26 p.m. in Johannesburg, compared with a previous
close of 6.7749. Against the euro, the rand retreated 0.6
percent to 9.5658.  “Debt problems in European countries have not gone away
and Europe is still our biggest trading counterpart, so we’ll
feel the consequences,” said  Ion de Vleeschauwer , chief dealer
at Bidvest Bank in Johannesburg, which runs South Africa’s
largest chain of moneychangers. “The Reserve Bank also said it
would try to weaken the currency by increasing dollar purchases.
It has decided to step up the pace of buying dollars.”  The euro weakened against the dollar as concern that
Ireland will struggle to plug its budget deficit curbed demand
for the region’s assets. EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  is in Ireland to examine government
budget plans, while Portugal has received an offer of help from
China and Greece says it will press ahead with cutting debt.  Last week the U.S. Federal Reserve unveiled plans to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries through June as part of its
quantitative-easing program and payrolls data showed the world’s
biggest economy added 151,000 jobs in October. South Africa’s
gross reserves rose for a second month in October as the central
bank absorbed foreign currency flows from a Japanese takeover of
Dimension Data Plc, helping to curb the rand’s gains.  Rand Rally  The rand has strengthened 38 percent against the dollar
since the start of 2009 as near-zero interest rates in developed
nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply there to invest
in higher-yielding emerging markets. South Africa’s  6 percent 
benchmark interest rate, which compares with deposit returns as
low as 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in the U.S., makes
the rand a popular purchase in this strategy, which is known by
traders as the carry trade.  Government bond prices in South Africa fell for a second
day, with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
dropping 17 cents, or the most since Oct. 22, to 126.52 rand.
The yield fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.96
percent.  Forward-rates agreements , or FRAs, showed money-market
investors maintained bets the Reserve Bank will reduce the main
rate when it announces its next decision on Nov. 18. The cost of
three-month contracts for cash in a month was unchanged at 5.69
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  