-- U.S. 30-Year Yields Fall From Highest Since June Amid Federal Reserve Buys
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-08T16:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/treasury-prices-fall-ahead-of-32-billion-3-year-note-sale-more-auctions.html
Treasury 30-year bonds rose, sending
yields down from the highest levels since June, as traders
speculated the securities had become attractive as the Federal
Reserve’s plan to purchase U.S. debt underpins the market.  The Fed committed to buy an additional $600 billion of U.S.
debt. Today, the central bank bought $6.26 billion of Treasuries
as part of a program to reinvest principal payments on its
mortgage holdings into long-term government debt to prevent
money from being drained out of the financial system. Three-year
note  yields  were higher ahead of a $32 billion sale of the
security today, following by offerings of $24 billion of 10-year
notes tomorrow and $16 billion in 30-year notes on Nov. 10.  “The long bond was under a lot of pressure, and has gotten
a bounce today as the oversold levels have brought yield buyers
in,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “The telling tale for the 30-year will be the
auctions, with the Fed not supporting that sector. The Fed’s
buybacks are giving support the rest of the curve.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  note  was little changed
at 2.53 percent at 11:22 a.m. in New York, after falling seven
basis points last week, the biggest weekly decrease since the
five days ended Oct. 8.  Spreads Narrow  Thirty-year bond yields fell one basis point to 4.11
percent after touching 4.08 percent. The yield spread between
two-year notes and 30-year bonds narrowed for the first time in
six days to 371 percentage points. The 3-year note yield rose
three basis point to 0.53 percent.  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.56
percent in pre-auction trading, which would be the least ever.
The rate was 0.569 percent at the previous sale of the
securities on Oct. 12.  Investors bid for 2.95 times the amount of available debt
last month. The average of the past 10 auctions is 3.12.
Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks, bought 29
percent of the securities, down from 42.4 percent in September.  Fed policy makers said following their Nov. 2-3 meeting
that the central bank will expand asset purchases at a pace of
about $75 billion a month through June to reduce unemployment
and avoid deflation. Fed Board Governor  Kevin Warsh  said in an
opinion article in the Wall Street Journal that the central
bank’s plans must be monitored for the risk they pose to
disrupting market-set price-making.  ‘Hard-Earned Credibility’  “The Fed can lose its hard-earned credibility -- and
monetary policy can lose its considerable sway -- if its
policies overpromise or under deliver,” Warsh wrote.  The Fed’s move will spur economic growth and reduce the
risk of deflation,  Jan Hatzius , the New York-based chief U.S.
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in an e-mail to
clients.  The central bank today acquired 15 of the 27 Treasuries
listed for possible purchase. The securities mature from October
2016 to August 2019, the New York Fed said in a statement today.  The Fed has bought $75.845 billion of Treasuries since it
began the program on Aug. 17. Policy makers are seeking to keep
holdings in the System Open Market Account, or SOMA, at about $2
trillion by using the proceeds of principal payments from its
agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debt.  Bank Buys  Because the Fed’s target for overnight loans between banks
is near zero, the central bank is doing “the next best thing,”
according to Goldman, one of the 18 primary dealers that are
authorized to trade directly with the central bank. “Downside
risks to the economic outlook have declined significantly. U.S.
inflation is unlikely to become a problem for years.  U.S. banks’ buying of Treasuries may be stifling the
economic recovery. Rather than providing money to businesses and
consumers, U.S. commercial banks are increasingly using the cash
available at interest rates set by the Fed that are next to zero
and lending it back to the government. Since June, the biggest
banks bought about $127 billion of Treasuries, compared with $47
billion in the first half, according to the central bank.
Commercial and industrial loans outstanding have fallen by about
$68.5 billion this year, central bank data show.  Treasuries fell Nov. 5 after the Labor Department reported
that employers added 151,000 jobs last month after a revised
decrease of 41,000 in September. The median forecast of 83
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for 60,000 more jobs.
The unemployment rate stayed at 9.6 percent.  Fund managers in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a
unit of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became less
bearish on the outlook for U.S. bonds through the end of
December.  Ried’s sentiment index rose to 47 for the seven days ended
Nov. 5 from 45 the week before. A figure less than 50 indicates
that investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  