-- Thirty-Year Treasuries Fall on Bets Fed Buys Won't Boost Long-Dated Bonds
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-08T11:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/treasuries-hold-last-week-s-gain-as-bernanke-damps-u-s-inflation-concern.html
Treasuries declined, sending 30-year
yields higher for a fourth day, as economic data pointing to a
stronger recovery damped investor appetite for the safest fixed-
income assets.  The yield premium investors demand to hold 30-year bonds
instead of 10-year notes stayed  near a record  high amid
speculation asset purchases by the Federal Reserve will fail to
support the longest-dated securities. The U.S. plans to sell $72
billion of notes and bonds this week, starting with $32 billion
of three-year debt today. Employers added 151,000 jobs in
October, a report showed on Nov. 5.  “We’re seeing a significant underperformance of the very
long end of the Treasuries curve,” said  Michael Leister , a
fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “The
U.S. data has been pretty much surprising to the upside.”  The yield on the 30-year bond rose one basis point to 4.13
percent at 6:50 a.m. in New York. The 3.875 percent security
maturing in August 2040 fell 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 95 20/32.  The 10-year yield rose less than one basis point to 2.54
percent, with the yield gap at 159 basis points, or 1.59
percentage points. The yield spread reached 164 basis points on
Nov. 5.  U.S. economic indicators are starting to show improvement.
The increase in payrolls exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists and was the first advance in five
months, a Labor Department report showed on Nov. 5.  Trade Deficit  The trade deficit probably narrowed in September as  exports 
rose, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
Commerce Department issues the figure on Nov. 10.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sought to reassure investors
inflation won’t get out of control as the central bank adds $600
billion to the economy.  “I have rejected any notion that we are going to raise
inflation to a super-normal level in order to have effects on
the economy,” Bernanke said at a Fed conference on Nov. 6.  He defended his decision in comments at the conference held
in Jekyll Island, Georgia. “It’s critical for us to maintain
inflation at an appropriate level,” he said.  Fed Board Governor  Kevin Warsh  said in an opinion piece in
the Wall Street Journal that the central bank’s plans must be
monitored for the risk they pose to disrupting market-set price-
making. “The Fed can lose its hard-earned credibility -- and
monetary policy can lose its considerable sway -- if its
policies overpromise or under deliver,” Warsh wrote.  ‘Follow the Fed’  The Fed on Nov. 3 announced it would purchase $75 billion
of Treasuries a month through June. Treasuries due in 5 1/2
years to 10 years will account for 46 percent of the purchases,
according to the New York Fed. Securities maturing in 17 years
to 30 years will make up 4 percent of the total.  “While it may seem simplistic to suggest that one should
follow the Fed there is very little argument to do anything else
in terms of U.S. rate positioning,”  Charles Diebel  and  David Page , strategists at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London, said
today in a research note.  The Fed is already reinvesting the principal payments from
its holdings of mortgage securities in Treasuries. It will buy
debt due from October 2016 to August 2020 today as part of the
plan, according to its  website . It plans to announce a new
schedule of purchases on Nov. 10.  The $32 billion of three-year notes scheduled for sale
today yielded 0.54 percent in pre-auction trading, which would
be the least ever. The  rate  was 0.569 percent at the previous
sale of the securities on Oct. 12.  Investors bid for 2.95 times the amount of available debt
last month. The average of the past 10 auctions is 3.12.
Indirect  bidders , which include foreign central banks, bought 29
percent of the securities, down from 42 percent in September.  Improved Indicators  Central bank efforts to add cash to the economy have yet to
spur lending. Rather than providing money to businesses and
consumers, U.S. commercial banks are increasingly using the cash
available by loaning it back to the government.  Since June, the biggest banks bought about $127 billion of
Treasuries, compared with $47 billion in the first half,
according to the central bank. Commercial and industrial loans
outstanding have fallen by about $68.5 billion this year,
central bank data show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. backed the Fed’s plan after it
drew criticism from officials in Germany, China and Brazil.  ‘Misplaced Hostility’  The central bank’s actions will spur gross domestic product
growth and reduce the risk of deflation,  Jan Hatzius , the New
York-based chief U.S. economist at the company, wrote in an e-
mail to clients.  “The widespread hostility to the Fed’s actions is
misplaced,” Hatzius wrote. “Downside risks to the economic
outlook have declined significantly. U.S. inflation is unlikely
to become a problem for years.” Goldman Sachs is one of the 18
primary dealers authorized to trade directly with the Fed.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to 2.13
percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points
set in August. The five-year average is 2.09 percentage points.  Fund managers in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a
unit of the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became less
bearish on the outlook for U.S. bonds through the end of
December.  Ried’s sentiment index rose to 47 for the seven days ended
Nov. 5 from 45 the week before. A figure less than 50 indicates
that investors expect prices to fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 