-- Record Bond Buying by Banks Frustrate Bernanke Easing for Loans
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/record-treasury-purchases-by-banks-frustrate-bernanke-easing-for-new-loans.html
Brian Williams burned through
$12,000 on rent for a vacant storefront in the historic district
of St. Louis where he planned to open a pizzeria after banks
refused him a $35,000 loan, forcing him to delay opening by a
year.  “There were a lot of times when I thought I was going to
pack it in,” Williams, 53, said in an interview. He eventually
turned to friends and smaller loans from government agencies and
a microcredit lender for the money.  Rather than providing money to businesses and consumers,
U.S. commercial banks are increasingly using the cash available
at interest rates set by the Federal Reserve that are next to
zero and lending it back to the government. Since June, the
biggest banks bought about $127 billion of Treasuries, compared
with $47 billion in the first half, according to the central
bank. Commercial and industrial loans outstanding have fallen by
about $68.5 billion this year, central bank data show.  While the Fed and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that they will pump $600 billion more into the financial system
through so-called quantitative easing to aid the economy and
boost the flow of credit, a growing number of bond investors and
strategists say the allure of government debt may only get
stronger. New global banking rules will force lenders to hold a
greater percentage of capital if they want to invest in riskier
securities or make new loans.  Basel III  The Basel III regulations set by the Bank for International
Settlements in Basel, Switzerland, may trim economic growth by
0.1 percent and 0.9 percent, and result in $400 billion of
additional Treasury purchases by U.S. commercial banks by 2015,
a  committee  of bond dealers and investors that advises Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a Nov. 2 report.  “Financial institutions are less willing to take risk
ahead of these new regulations than they might be otherwise,”
said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York. “One of the reasons to do quantitative
easing is to make it less appealing to hold Treasuries. You’d
expect this to be an environment where’d they might actually
want to take on a little more risk but so far they’re not.”  Demand for U.S. government debt is climbing even after
yields on two- and five-year Treasuries, usually among the
favored securities of banks, fell to record lows last week when
the Fed said it would concentrate the $600 billion of purchases
in that maturity range.  Yields Fall  Five-year note  yields  fell 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, last week to 1.09 percent in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the benchmark
1.25 percent security due in October 2015 rose 13/32, or $4.06
per $1,000 face amount to 100 25/32.  The yield fell as low as 1.015 percent on Nov. 4 before
rising a day later when the Labor Department in Washington said
payrolls jumped 151,000 in October. The rise exceeded all
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and following
a revised 41,000 drop in September that was smaller than
initially estimated.  “The whole point of getting five-year yields down to 1
percent” is to spur lending, said  John Briggs , a U.S.
government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut. “The increased
regulation makes this process longer.”  Financial Crisis  Regulators have been trying to strengthen the global
banking system after the world’s largest financial institutions
suffered almost $1.84 trillion in writedowns and losses since
the start of 2007. The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in September 2008 froze credit markets, causing the U.S.
government to take over at least 135 banks this year.  To rebuild their balance sheets, banks have been borrowing
at low rates and reinvesting the proceeds into higher-yielding
Treasuries and government securities.  Since the Fed cut its  target rate  for overnight loans
between banks to a range of zero to 0.25 percent in December
2008, the  difference  between the benchmark and five-year
Treasury yields has averaged about 1.75 percentage points. In
the three years before credit markets began to seize up in mid-
2007, the gap averaged 0.42 percentage point.  “Deposits have continued to grow, but the loan book has
not kept up with that and so we have put more and more of our
excess liquidity if you will into securities,”  Edgar Ancona ,
chief financial officer of HSBC North America Inc., said on a
Nov. 5 conference call after the bank released its third-quarter
earnings. Excess deposits “are clearly going to migrate towards
-- particularly in a world of people focused on risk-weighted
assets -- from collateralized debt into government debt and
other things that have lower risk weights.”  ‘Unenviable Position’  Lenders are on pace this year to buy the most Treasury and
agency debt since the Fed began tracking the data in 1950,
adding $186.2 billion of the securities through Oct. 20 and
bringing the total to $1.62 trillion. At the same time,
commercial and industrial loans fell by 5.3 percent to $1.23
trillion, Fed data show.  “The Fed may find that banks remain unwilling to move out
of government-backed securities as readily as it might be
hoped,” said  Jeffrey Caughron , an associate partner in Oklahoma
City at Baker Group LP, which advises community banks on
investing $25 billion of assets. “Banks are in the unenviable
position of having to wait until the animal spirits creep back
into the economy.”  Commercial and industrial loans are down for the year and
little changed since June. Reports last week showed the economy
may be gaining strength. Both the manufacturing and services
indexes compiled by the Institute for Supply Management rose
more than forecast. Last month’s growth in jobs was the most
since April.  Boosting Estimates  Williams employs one person full-time and four people part-
time after opening his St. Louis National Pizza Company in June.  Deutsche Bank AG senior economist  Torsten Slok  in New York
said in a Nov. 4 report the Fed’s bond purchase program may add
0.25 percent to 0.5 percent to gross domestic product next year
and 0.75 percent in 2012. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists raised
their fourth-quarter forecast to 2.5 percent from 2 percent.  “Economic data showed clear evidence of improvement in
October,”  Dean Maki,  the chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital in New York, wrote in a Nov. 5 report. The firm expects
the economy to expand at a 3 percent annualized rate this
quarter, up from 2 percent in the period ended Sept. 30.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, appointed by
the Swiss government, proposed new rules on Oct. 4 to require
banks increase available capital and better measure and control
their lending risk under the so-called Basel III rules.  Bad Timing  Banks will have less than five years to comply with the
minimum tier 1 capital ratios and until Jan. 1, 2019, to meet
the capital buffer requirements. Member countries will be
expected to adopt the regulations within their own rules by
January 2013.  Markets are pressuring banks to conform to the standards
before the deadlines, meaning the “extension of liquidity,
credit, and capital are being curtailed at a time of slow
economic growth,” the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
said in a Nov. 2 report to the government. “Compliance with
liquidity coverage ratios will lead to increased demand by
designated institutions for U.S. Treasuries.”  The last round of quantitative easing did little to
suppress banks’ appetite for Treasuries or spur them to make new
loans.  Prior Reaction  Between November 2008 and March 2010 the Fed bought $1.7
trillion of mortgage-related and Treasury debt. Over that time,
banks bought $226 billion of government and related debt, while
commercial and industrial loans outstanding fell by $367.4
billion.  Banks say loan demand remains low, after companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock  Index  boosted cash and equivalents
to a record $2.3 trillion at the end of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “As you look from first quarter to second quarter to third
quarter, we’ve seen loan balances stabilize” along with “the
demands from our customers,”  Brian T. Moynihan , the chief
executive officer of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp., said on a conference call last month. “It is not
growing, we wouldn’t say that, but it is stable.”  Before companies borrow to expand, they will likely tap
into their cash, said  Art Steinmetz , the chief investment
officer in New York at OppenheimerFunds Inc., which manages
about $165 billion.  “A credit crunch caused the recession; it is not accurate
to run the logic in reverse and say an extension of credit will
get us out of recession,” Steinmetz said. “The banks will lend
to good credit, but good credit is not interested in
borrowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  