-- REIT Credit Swaps Rally as Bernanke Fuels Boston Properties, Beazer Bonds
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-11-08T22:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/reit-credit-swaps-rally-as-bernanke-fuels-boston-properties-beazer-bonds.html
Credit-default swaps on real-estate
investment trusts and homebuilders tumbled as the Federal
Reserve pledged to buy additional Treasuries to keep interest
rates low, spurring corporate bond sales that curb borrowing
costs.  Contracts on Beazer Homes USA Inc. dropped 39.2 basis
points to 566.5, the lowest since May, after the Atlanta-based
builder sold bonds, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on
Boston Properties Inc., which today issued $850 million of
notes, have declined 11.7 basis points this month to 106.4, near
the lowest since April, CMA data show.  “It’s a major trend in terms of debt pricing and the
liquidity that the government has given us,” said  Damon Andres ,
who helps manage more than $145 billion in assets at Delaware
Investments in Philadelphia. Real estate investment trusts, in
particular, “continue to amaze at lower and lower refinancing
rates, plugging away and getting maturities taken care of and
getting really cheap debt.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced last week plans to
buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to aid the economy
after the central bank had already completed purchases of $1.7
trillion of long-term debt. That’s helped drive borrowing costs
for companies to record lows and the perception of corporate
creditworthiness to near the highest since April.  Zuckerman, BRE  Real-estate bonds in the U.S. have gained 2.4 percent since
Sept. 30, outpacing the broader investment-grade corporate bond
market, which has gained 0.5 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Boston Properties, the office REIT led by  Mortimer Zuckerman , sold the 4.125 percent debt coming due in May 2021,
according to data compiled to Bloomberg.  Swaps on BRE Properties Inc. fell 3.4 basis points to 109,
the lowest since October 2007, according to CMA. The swaps have
dropped 18.3 basis points since the San Francisco-based REIT
sold $250 million of debt in September.  Sales of corporate bonds by REITs globally accelerated to
$3.64 billion in October, the busiest month for offerings by the
companies since they sold $3.72 billion in September 2009,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with $593.1 million of
issuance worldwide in May, Bloomberg data show.  “They’re not going to have this cheap of debt forever, but
for now they’re getting bailed out of any problems,” said
Andres. “It’s not that fundamentals are getting better, it’s
that the debt is financing is cheap, it’s liquid, and it’s
cheaper than what’s in place.”  Homebuilders  Sales of  new homes  rose in September for a second month to
a pace that signals the industry is struggling to overcome the
effects of a jobless rate hovering near 10 percent. Swaps on
Miami-based homebuilder Lennar Corp. dropped 4.1 basis points to
395.7, CMA data show. The contracts lost 75.6 basis points last
week. KB Home in Los Angeles fell 2.8 basis points after a
decline of 81.2 last week.  Beazer, a builder of homes for first-time buyers, sold $250
million of 9.125 percent senior notes due May 2019, Bloomberg
data show. Proceeds may replenish cash used to repurchase
outstanding senior notes, the company said today in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
benchmark gauge for corporate credit risk investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased for the first time in six days,
adding 2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 87.8 as of 5:31 p.m.
in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Problems in Europe  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, ended Nov. 5 at 85.6, the
lowest since April 15.  “The problems in Europe may finally be moving into the
corporate space,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at
Miller Tabak Roberts Securities LLC in New York, wrote in an e-
mailed message. “The recent collapse in CDS spreads witnessed
since the end of October could start to slow.”  Credit-default swaps on Ireland and its banks surged on
concern the cost of bailing out the nation’s financial system is
unsustainable. Swaps on Ireland rose 20.8 basis points to 598.9,
CMA data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  