-- Resona Falls to Record Low in Tokyo on Share Sale, Bailout Repayment Plan
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-08T07:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/resona-shares-decline-on-11-billion-share-sale-plan-bailout-repayment.html
Resona Holdings Inc. , Japan’s fourth-
biggest bank, dropped to a record low in Tokyo after the lender
unveiled plans to sell new shares in a bid to repay as much as
900 billion yen ($11.1 billion) of government bailout funds.  Resona plunged 8.6 percent to close at 468 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, the  lowest  since the Tokyo-based bank was formed
in December 2001. The  Topix Banks Index  slipped 0.5 percent.  The lender said Nov. 5 it plans to  sell  as much as 600
billion yen of common stock over the next year, using the
proceeds and 300 billion yen of reserves to buy back preferred
stock from the government and retire the shares. Today’s decline
adds to the company’s 41 percent slump in the 12 months prior to
the announcement as investors remain concerned that Resona lacks
a feasible strategy to boost profit.  “Resona and Japanese banks as a whole haven’t come up with
rational and concrete business plans to bolster their bottom
line in a way that can convince and attract investors to buy
their stock,” said  Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Resona’s repayment plan may be feasible only
if it sets out a convincing business strategy for growth.”  The bank, whose  revenue  has fallen for three years straight,
owes 1.7 trillion yen to the government, including 1.4 trillion
yen of preferred shares that Chairman  Eiji Hosoya  aims to buy
back over the next six years.  Rating May Improve  Under former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, Japan
injected 1.96 trillion yen into Resona in 2003 after its capital
fell below minimum regulatory requirements. The government owns
42 percent of the firm’s  common stock  in addition to its
preferred shareholdings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s may consider raising Resona’s credit
rating if the bank manages to raise capital via the proposed
share sale and repay the public preferred stock,  Ryoji Yoshizawa ,
a primary credit analyst in Tokyo, said in a note today.  “The quality of the company’s overall capital would improve
if the percentage of preferred shares in its capital falls in
line with a rise in the percentage of common stock,” he said.  Still, Yoshizawa added that it remains unclear whether
Resona will be able to complete the proposed share sale within a
year, given the condition of the stock market. Japan’s benchmark
 Topix  index has fallen 7.3 percent this year, and the subindex
of 83 bank stocks touched a record low a week ago.  Hironari Nozaki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Citigroup Inc.,
downgraded Resona’s stock to “hold” from “buy” after
Resona’s announcement, according to his Nov. 5 note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 