-- Return to Frugality Is a Dangerous Transition: Chris Farrell
-- B y   C h r i s   F a r r e l l
-- 2010-11-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/return-to-frugality-is-a-dangerous-transition-commentary-by-chris-farrell.html
“Transitions are dangerous,” said
the late  Charles Kindleberger , an economic historian with a vast
knowledge of financial manias, panics and crashes, in 1983. That
was No. 9 of 10 lessons he summarized from 1929.  He noted that pursuit of smart public policy in the
tumultuous early years of the Great Depression was handicapped
by three transitions: The 1928 death of Benjamin Strong, the
forceful head of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , led to
power passing to the Federal Reserve in Washington, a more timid
group of central bankers; the electoral victory of  Franklin D. Roosevelt  over the incumbent  Herbert Hoover ; and the difficult
transition of international economic hegemony from the world of
Pax Britannica to Pax Americana.  Since economist  James Tobin  got the Nobel Prize in 1981 for
stating “Don’t put all your eggs in one basket,” Kindleberger
said he planned on submitting to the awards committee his one-
sentence insight: “Be very careful if you have to change
horses.”  Kindleberger never got the nod from Oslo, but his
admonition rings true a quarter century later. The midterm
election is over and the results have changed the balance of
power in Washington, with the Republican Party picking up at
least 60 seats in the House -- the biggest sweep since 1948.
Democrats held on to the Senate, but with a slimmer majority
after Republicans picked up at least 6 seats.  Grim Statistics  Voters are understandably angry over the lack of  jobs  and
economic growth. And the news remains grim on the employment
front. The 15th month of joblessness over 9.5 percent is the
longest such period since government statisticians started
collecting the numbers in 1948.  Indeed, the major force behind the slow recovery isn’t
going away anytime soon: America is turning away from debt and
embracing thrift, and the epicenter of change is the household.
History suggests that the transition toward a high-saving less-
debt balance sheet will be long and painful before vibrant
growth resumes.  The Federal Reserve is smartly trying to bolster the
economy during the transition from profligacy to thrift with its
latest round of quantitative easing, QE2 (a fancy term for
printing money). The Fed announced on Nov. 3 that on top of its
existing program of reinvesting the proceeds of its portfolio,
it will buy $600 billion of long-term government bonds -- $75
billion a month -- by the middle of 2011.  The Great Deleveraging  In the meantime, the message for Capitol Hill and the White
House is at minimum “do no harm” while the Great Deleveraging
run its course.  Considering the well-publicized extravagance of many CEOs,
it’s underappreciated just how much money Corporate America has
been hoarding during the downturn. Corporations have
accumulated almost $1 trillion in cash and equivalents, up 22
percent since 2008, according to an Oct. 27 report by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Apple Computer Inc.  has $51 billion on its balance sheet
alone. “The investment opportunities are more limited and most
can wait until management is more confident about demand,” says
 Charles Roxburgh , the London-based director of the McKinsey
Global Institute.  The recent corporate embrace of cash is really part of a
longer-term trend. It started after the economic trauma of the
1970s when companies were battered by one shattering experience
after another, from double-digit inflation and interest rates to
the two OPEC oil embargos to the U.S. government abandoning the
gold standard.  Raising Cash  Even with all the headlines devoted to leveraged buyout
buccaneers in the 1980s and private equity financiers in the
2000s, the average cash-to-assets ratio for U.S. industrial
firms increased by 129 percent from 1980 to 2004, according to
scholars Thomas Bates and Kathleen Kahle of the University of
Arizona, Tucson and  Rene M. Stulz  of Ohio State University.  In “Why Do U.S. Firms Hold So Much More Cash Than They
Used To?,” the scholars  wrote  that the creation of the cash
hoard has been so dramatic that “on average, American firms
could have paid off their debt with their cash holdings.”  Now that’s thrifty. Many factors combine to create such a
degree of corporate frugality, but the most important are the
unsettling combination of changing technology, the gale winds of
deregulation, and increasingly tough competition from emerging-
market companies.  “As economies have become more dynamic the ability of
profitable corporations to say five years from now they will
still be highly profitable has declined,” says  Jay Ritter ,
finance economist at the University of Florida, Gainesville.
What’s more, companies aren’t going to risk that money anytime
soon.  Less Household Debt  Now, it’s the household’s turn to be thrifty. People
learned the hard way how financially insecure they had become
when the debt bubble burst. There has been progress: According
to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , U.S. households have
reduced their debts over the past seven quarters. In the second
quarter of this year households owed $11.7 trillion, down 6.5
percent from the peak reached in the third quarter of 2008. (The
next report on total household debt is released on Nov. 8.) The
personal savings rate as a percent of disposable income in
September was 5.3 percent, the Bureau of Economic Analysis said
on Nov. 1. That’s significantly higher than the low of 0.8
percent reached in April 2005.  Still Not Healthy  Still, Americans have a long way to go before their
personal finances are healthy. For instance, total household
debt equaled 118.4 percent of after-tax income in the second
quarter of 2010, according to  Christian Weller , senior fellow at
the Center for American Progress, a progressive-oriented think
tank in Washington. That’s down from a record high of 130.2
percent in the first quarter of 2008 but well above the 100
percent figure of the early 2000s, let alone the 60 percent to
80 percent of the late 1950s to the early 1990s.  Of course, there is no magic debt ratio. Nevertheless, a
recent study published in the September 2010 BIS Quarterly
Review is suggestive. A look at private sector debt after 17 of
the 20 systemic banking crises examined Gary Tang and  Christian Upper  of the Bank for International Settlements suggests that
the trend toward deleveraging the U.S. household at best may be
only one quarter complete.  It’s also why the pressure on government to reduce its debt
won’t go away. The Republican resurgence and fulfilling a major
campaign promise is one factor, of course. But an even more
important reason is that households are struggling for greater
thrift. They will insist that government also embrace a new
frugality.  Beyond Austerity  Even economists that scorn calls for government austerity
at the moment call for reduced debt levels tomorrow. “The
deleveraging still has a long way to go for consumers,” says
Roxburgh. “The U.S. government’s deleveraging hasn’t started
yet.”  The return to frugality isn’t fun. The transition is
definitely painful. Yet an economy with a healthier savings
cushion and a greater reliance on equity financing is a society
with the financial wherewithal to take greater risks. The great
deleveraging offers the prospect that thrifty companies,
households and government will create the foundation for a more
prosperous, innovative economy.  Yet, as Kindleberger noted, transitions are dangerous.
Washington can ease the burden of the great deleveraging by
heeding the sage’s Lesson No. 8: “Formalism, politics and
ideology impede crisis-solution.”  Forget calls to default on the government’s debt when the
debt limit ceiling is reached in coming months. Gridlock is not
good public policy. The time for posturing is over. And the
opportunity for devising a realistic plan for bringing down the
federal debt over time comes when the Bipartisan Policy Center’s
 Debt Reduction Task Force  releases its suggestions on Nov. 17.  And any debt-reduction blueprint policy makers embrace
should keep in mind that the American household is deleveraging,
but it going to take time -- a long time to reach a better
balance.  ( Chris Farrell  is a Businessweek.com columnist. A
version of this column appears on Businessweek.com.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Chris Farrell at   cfarrell@mpr.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
William Andrews in New York at 
 wandrews7@bloomberg.net  