-- Trichet Says Fed's Move Wasn't Aimed at Weakening the Dollar
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-08T13:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/trichet-says-fed-s-stimulus-decision-wasn-t-aimed-at-weakening-the-dollar.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet , speaking on behalf of the world’s central
bankers, said the Federal Reserve’s decision to buy more assets
was driven by a desire to anchor inflation expectations, not to
weaken the dollar.  “What I have noted as part of the consensus was the idea
of a solid anchoring of inflation expectations that was
inspiring the sister institution,” Trichet said at a briefing
in Basel, Switzerland, today after chairing the Global Economy
Meeting. “All participants mentioned the fact that they were
not pursuing weak currency policies and that’s something that’s
very important.”  Officials from Asia to South America have warned that
the Fed’s decision to pump additional liquidity into the U.S.
economy will depress the dollar and spark flows of capital to
emerging markets that threaten asset-price bubbles. China’s Vice
Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said on Nov. 5 the U.S. step may
hurt global confidence, while German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  the same day described it as “clueless.”  The dollar fell the most in four weeks against the
currencies of six major trading partners after the Fed said it
will buy $600 billion of U.S. Treasuries through June. It also
helped push the euro to a 10-month high versus the dollar last
week, clouding Europe’s export outlook. The euro traded at
$1.3919 today.  ‘Currency War’  Leaders of the Group of 20 nations including the U.S. are
due to meet in Seoul this week to discuss last month’s pledge to
avoid “competitive devaluation” of their currencies. They have
already vowed to avoid weakening currencies to lift exports and
boost growth in an attempt to calm fears of a trade war.  Trichet said today that while central bankers discussed the
issue of capital inflows, the “expression ‘currency war’ was
not pronounced at all.” They agreed on the need to avoid
“excessive volatility” in exchange rates, “which we consider
very, very counterproductive to global growth and global
stability,” he said.  “I felt that the colleagues were very much in line with
the present consensus as regards the necessity to have
progressively more exchange-rate flexibility,” Trichet added.  ‘Risks for Everyone’  The Fed’s decision has drawn criticism from Germany, China
and Brazil. Schaeuble said the move won’t revive growth, while
Brazil’s central bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said
“excess liquidity” in the U.S. economy is creating “risks for
everyone.”  China’s Tiankai said “many countries are worried about the
impact of the policy on their economies.”  Nations such as China and Brazil are powering global growth
as advanced economies from Europe to the U.S. struggle to revive
domestic demand and push down budget deficits. Developing
nations will grow 6.4 percent next year, while advanced
economies may expand 2.2 percent, the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6.  Trichet said a global economic recovery remains “uneven”
and that there’s a “significant difference” between emerging
and industrialized economies.  “Colleagues at the level of this meeting certainly seem to
share this sentiment that we have to accept that we’re in a
universe with uncertainty, with risks, where we have to remain
permanently alert,” he said.  Trichet met in Basel with his counterparts from the world’s
largest central banks including China’s  Zhou Xiaochuan , Japan’s
 Masaaki Shirakawa ,  Duvvuri Subbarao  from India and Germany’s
 Axel Weber . The meeting is held every two months under the
auspices of the Bank for International Settlements, which
oversees central banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Basel at  smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Gabi Thesing  in Basel at  gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  