-- Rolls-Royce, Trojans, Sanrio: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-08T12:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/rolls-royce-astellas-fake-trojans-sanrio-miffy-intellectual-property.html
United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt &
Whitney jet-engine unit filed patent-infringement complaints
against  Rolls-Royce Group Plc , a counterpunch in a dispute that
may affect delivery of Boeing Co.’s Dreamliner airplanes.  Pratt & Whitney said it filed a complaint Nov. 5 at the
U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington that claims
the  Trent 900  and  Trent 1000  model engines made by London-based
Rolls-Royce are infringing a patent for a swept-fan blade. A
complaint making similar allegations was filed at the U.K. High
Court in London, according to the company.  The Trent 900 is the same engine that failed on a Quantas
Airbus A380 on Nov. 4 in Singapore.  A ruling in favor of Pratt & Whitney by the ITC would mean
Rolls-Royce would be blocked from shipping engines for Boeing’s
 787 Dreamliner , now in the final stages of flight testing. The
U.K. lawsuit may limit shipments for the Airbus  SAS A380 , now in
use by international carriers including  Qantas Airways Ltd. , and
the  Airbus A350XWB  model powered solely by another version of
the Trent engine.  “Pratt & Whitney’s case is very strong and we were left
with no choice but to take these actions in light of Rolls-
Royce’s aggression,” said Katy Padgett, a spokeswoman for East
Hartford, Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney. “We regret that
these actions are necessary, and we continue to be willing to
discuss a mutually acceptable resolution to this dispute.”  The complaints escalate a legal battle that started when
Rolls-Royce sued Pratt & Whitney in May, claiming the GP7200 Fan
Stage infringed a patent for a design that gives the largest
part of a jet engine greater resistance to damage by foreign
objects, more stability and lower noise levels. It later added
Pratt’s Geared TurboFan engines, as Airbus and Boeing consider
getting more efficient engines on the bestselling A320 and 737
planes.  The Trent engine that powers the A380 competes with one
built by a venture between General Electric Co. and Pratt, the
 GP7200 . GE is the biggest jet-engine maker, ahead of Rolls-Royce
and Pratt & Whitney.  Pratt & Whitney countered with a lawsuit in September in
federal court in New Haven, Connecticut, accusing Rolls-Royce of
trying to interfere with potential business and unfair business
practices. It amended that complaint to add the patent-
infringement claim.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency set up to protect U.S.
markets from unfair trade practices. It has the power to ban
imports of products that infringe U.S. patents. It if agrees to
investigate the complaint, a ruling would be given within 15
months.  Chicago-based Boeing and Toulouse, France-based Airbus
weren’t named in the ITC complaint.  The September case is United Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-
Royce Plc, 10-cv-01523, U.S. District Court, District of
Connecticut (New Haven). The earlier case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.
United Technologies Corp., 10-cv-00457, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Astellas Sues Glenmark Over U.S. Patent for Eczema Cream  Units of Japan’s Astellas Pharma Inc. sued Indian generic-
drug maker Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for patent
infringement, asking a federal judge in Delaware to block copies
of the eczema treatment  Locoid Lipocream  until 2014.  The hydrocortisone butyrate cream’s formulation is covered
by patent 5,635,497, which was issued in June 1997. The case was
triggered by Glenmark’s seeking approval of the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration to make a generic form of the drug.  Astellas is represented by  Jack B. Blumenfeld  of
Wilmington’s  Morris Nichols Arsht & Tunnell LLP .  The case is Triax Pharmaceuticals LLC v. Glenmark Generics
Inc. USA, 1:10-cv-00946-UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Siblings in Trojan Condom Counterfeit Ring Sentenced to Prison  A brother and sister were sentenced to prison for their
roles in a counterfeiting ring that brought more than 1 million
fake Trojan condoms and other consumer goods into New York.  Jian Hu, of Queens, New York, was sentenced Nov. 5 to 18
months in prison and three years of supervised release. His
sister, Lin Hu, 37, of Temple City, California, was sentenced to
24 months in prison and three years of supervised release.  The siblings pleaded guilty last year before U.S. District
Judge Brian Cogan  in Brooklyn, New York, to trafficking in
counterfeit goods including clothing, power cords and other
items. They denied dealing in the counterfeit condoms that other
ring members had pleaded guilty to selling.  “This is a major counterfeit operation even without the
condoms,” Cogan said. “We’re awash in this country in
counterfeit goods. You can go out to Canal Street and see it.”  Cogan said he weighed the public safety risks posed by
counterfeit electric cords the siblings had trafficked in and
the economic harm posed by fake goods against pleas for leniency
based on the fact that the pair were brought into the ring by an
older brother, Jian Zhong Hu, who remains a fugitive in China.  “I was stupid and I was blind,” a sobbing Lin told Cogan,
saying she regretted the dangers and damages she caused society.  Cogan had sentenced Jian “Jimmy” Wang on Aug. 11 to 37
months in prison for trafficking in more than 1 million
counterfeit Trojan condoms. He was the first of the seven
defendants in the case to be sentenced. All pleaded guilty
except Jian Zhong Hu, also known as Andy.  The siblings were ordered to pay $14,425.91 in restitution
to  Polo Ralph Lauren  Corp., and $495 to CAPS, Coalition to
Advance the Protection of Sports Logos, and barred from working
in business involving import-export.  The two were part of a six-year trafficking operation that
specialized in counterfeit goods, according to prosecutors in
the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn. They were
listed as owners of ZX Trading Corp. in Queens, a sham company
used to evade U.S. customs officials, prosecutors said.  Jian Hu and Lin Hu faced maximum sentences of 10 years in
prison, said Robert Nardoza, a spokesman for Lynch. Lawyers for
both defendants requested leniency, asking for either home
detention or a prison term of no more than eight months.  Cogan said Nov. 5 that the government had failed to prove
the siblings had knowledge that their ring was involved in
counterfeit condoms, which were at a separate warehouse from
that used by ZX Trading.  Cogan also said Church & Dwight Co., which makes Trojan
condoms in Virginia, couldn’t prove it was a victim of the
siblings. The company can bring a separate case, he noted.  Geoffrey Potter, a lawyer for Church & Dwight, declined to
comment.  “I cannot find by a preponderance of evidence that these
defendants traded in counterfeit condoms,” the judge said in
court, noting that there was a problem with the government’s
evidence and witnesses to support that point.  The case is U.S. v. Hu, 08-cr-425, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Anheuser-Busch Sued Over Similar Labels for Its Tilt Alcopop  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV  was sued for trademark infringement
by United Brands Co. of San Diego, California.  The suit, filed Nov. 4 in federal court in San Diego, where
United Brands is based, is related to Anheuser-Busch’s new
packaging for its  Tilt  brand of flavored malt beverages.  United Brands claims the new Tilt 24-ounce can infringes
the packaging for its 24-ounce cans of Joose. Both fruit-
flavored beverages are billed as energy drinks, and contain
alcohol, and fall into the category known as “alcopop.”  In 2008, Leuven, Belgium-based Anheuser-Busch agreed to
remove caffeine and extra stimulants from its Tilt drinks, after
an investigation by 11 state attorneys general showed it was
illegally marketing them to young people. Joose contains
caffeine, according to the product’s  website .  Among the similarities between Joose and the new Tilt
packaging, United Brands claims, are the use of archaic fonts,
and the depictions of dragons on the label. Both labels use a
black background with colored elements in the design features,
and both have crownlike graphics, according to court papers.  United Brands claims that the public is confused by the
similarities between the two competing beverages’ packaging and
that the Tilt packaging was redesigned to trade on the
“reputation and goodwill” of its products.  United Brands asked the court to order Anheuser-Busch to
quit infringing the marks, and for the destruction of all
infringing materials. It also seeks an order for corrective
advertising to be paid for by Anheuser-Busch disclaiming a
connection between the two products, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.  United Brands is represented by  Nancy O. Dix  of Chicago’s
 DLA Piper LLP .  The case is United Brands Co. v. Anheuser Busch Inc., 3:10-
cv-02281-BEN-WMC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
California (San Diego).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sanrio Says It Will Appeal Dutch Copyright Infringement Ruling  Sanrio Co. , the Tokyo-based maker of “Hello Kitty” toys
and other themed items, said it will appeal a Dutch court’s Nov.
2 ruling that one of its characters infringes the copyright for
a Dutch rabbit character,  Miffy , the U.K.’s Daily Mail  reported .  The Dutch court ordered Sanrio to pay as much as 2 million
euros ($2.8 million) if it doesn’t comply immediately with an
order to quit making and selling its “Cathy” rabbit products
in the Netherlands, according to the Daily Mail.  Sanrio said in a statement that it didn’t think it
infringed, and will appeal the ruling, the newspaper reported.  The Miffy character was created in 1955, according to the
newspaper.  Cooks Source Facebook Page Hit with Wrath of Web Users  A cooking magazine accused of using material from a website
without authorization and refusing to pay the author is being
hit with hundreds of snide comments by users of Facebook Inc.’s
social media site.  Cooks Source Magazine , which according to its website is
published in Western New England, allegedly picked up a story
about the history of apple pie from the illadore.livejournal.com
blog written by Monica Gaudio, refused to pay her, and told her
she should be the one paying because her piece was in need of
editing, according to Agence France Presse.  The publication’s website gives no contact information, and
refers readers to its Facebook page, which also lists no contact
information. What its Facebook page does have is screen after
screen of comments from users such as “Cooks Source makes
meatballs with Spam and always for free,” “Cooks Source
invented the recipe for soylent green” and “Cooks Source
drinks room temperature white wine in plastic cups.”  A satiric “Cooks (Open) Source Magazine” Facebook page
has been set up, as has one called “Cooks Source Mag,” which
appears to have some connection to the magazine.  According to the “Cooks Source Mag” Facebook page, the
new page was established because its previous one was hacked.
According to a posting on the Cooks Source Mag page, the
magazine won’t be stopped and the company “will take further
action against anyone caught hacking.” That page also bears the
statement that “any untruthful post will be considered
libelous.”  The magazine said on that page that it has received
comments from people who “do not seem to understand a few
basics yet they seem to be all experts in the print business.”  China Sets Up Task Force to Combat Piracy, Government Says  China has set up a task force led by Vice Premier Wang
Qishan to combat intellectual property rights violations
especially the pirating of software and audio-visual products,
according to a statement posted on the central government’s
website.  The vice premier, in a meeting Nov. 5 with  Corning Inc. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Wendell P. Weeks, said
China and the U.S. should avoid politicizing their economic
issues, the CriEnglish.com Chinese news site  reported .  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 