-- Rousseff Cabinet May Trigger Brazil Stocks Rally, Goldman Sachs Predicts
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-08T19:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/rousseff-cabinet-may-trigger-brazil-stocks-rally-goldman-sachs-predicts.html
Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  may spark a stock rally by making “market-friendly”
Cabinet picks that indicate “fiscal rigor,” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said.  The benchmark  Bovespa  index may climb to 78,000 by yearend,
a 7.4 percent advance from its close last week, should
ministerial appointments signal the government will achieve
primary surpluses of 3.3 percent of gross domestic product,
 Stephen Graham , an analyst at Goldman Sachs in Sao Paulo, wrote
in a note to clients dated yesterday.  “The target implies containment of inflation expectations,
and so less need for monetary policy to shoulder the burden of
inflation control,” Graham said. “Despite the variety of
possibilities, we think a market-friendly cabinet is likely.
There have been unusually clear comments by Rousseff on specific
fiscal targets.”  Rousseff, who takes office Jan. 1, said last week she will
seek to cut net public debt to 38 percent of GDP by the end of
her four-year term from 41 percent to allow Brazil’s  benchmark
interest rate  to decline.  “On the other hand, failure to move on the fiscal front
could increase the tension mounting between FX rates, interest
rates, and inflation, where solutions for any one problem
exacerbate others,” Graham wrote.  The  Bovespa  was little changed at 72,599.85 at 2:15 p.m.
New York time. Brazilian short-term interest-rate yields
declined today for the first time in a week on speculation
Rousseff will pressure the central bank to lower borrowing costs
next year, while longer-maturity contracts jumped on concern
policy makers will be forced to raise rates later to curb
inflation.  The yield on the contract due January 2012 dropped 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 11.42 percent, while the
yield on the contract due January 2017 jumped 14 basis points to
11.86 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  