-- Royal Bafokeng Platinum Surges on Its First Day of Trading in Johannesburg
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-11-08T15:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/royal-bafokeng-platinum-surges-on-its-first-day-of-trading-in-johannesburg.html
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. , a South
African miner of the metal, jumped on its first day of trading
in Johannesburg after raising more money than any other initial
public offering in the nation’s mining industry in at least 16
years.  Shares  in the company, known as RBPlat, jumped to as high
as 67 rand, and closed 7.3 percent up at 64.90 rand, giving it a
market value of 10.6 billion rand ($1.5 billion). RBPlat said on
Nov. 3 that it sold shares at 60.50 rand each in a “strongly
over-subscribed” IPO in which it raised 3 billion rand.  “We’re delighted,”  Niall Carroll , chief executive officer
of Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., RBPlat’s parent company, said
in an interview in Johannesburg today. “It’s been very well
received by the market.”  RBPlat needs funds to boost production by developing the
Styldrift 1 section of its Bafokeng Rasimone mine venture near
Rustenburg, in South Africa’s North West province. RBPlat, the
platinum arm of the 300,000-strong Bafokeng nation in northern
South Africa, is capitalizing on land holdings located on the
world’s richest reserves for the metal.  The price of platinum, used in devices that cut vehicle
emissions and to make jewelry, has doubled to $1,735 an ounce in
the last two years.  Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of the metal, owns 12.6 percent of RBPlat and has a
direct 33 percent stake in the Bafokeng Rasimone mine venture.  ‘Black Empowerment’  “What we want out of this is a visual representation of
black empowerment in South Africa, where black people are
operating a successful mining company,” Anglo Platinum Chief
Executive Officer  Neville Nicolau  said in an interview today.
“Today is the first step in that process.”  While the government has pushed historically white-owned
mining companies to sell stakes to black people, disenfranchised
under the former apartheid rule, the creation of independent
black-owned and operated mining companies has been limited.  “We’re very happy with where the shares are trading,”
RBPlat’s Chief Financial Officer  Martin Prinsloo  said in an
interview today. About 40 percent of the shares in the bookbuild
were sold to foreign investors, including to groups that haven’t
previously invested in the platinum industry, he said.  Ahead of the listing, Anglo Platinum blocked an offer of
almost 20 billion rand by  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. , the
world’s second-largest producer.  ‘Only Serious Offer’  “That was really the only serious offer prior to
listing,” said Carroll, who supported Impala’s bid. “Who knows
what happens after listing.”  Anglo Platinum is not currently planning to sell its stake,
Nicolau said today. “There’s always a price at which one will
sell, but what we want out of this is a black-operated
company,” he said.  RBPlat Chief Executive Officer  Steve Phiri  is looking to
boost annual production to about 300,000 ounces of platinum
group metals from 270,000 ounces currently, and could push that
to about a million ounces a year within 10 or 15 years, he said
in Johannesburg. RBPlat will look “opportunistically” at
mergers and acquisitions, he said in an interview broadcast by
CNBC Africa.  The company will use about 1 billion rand from the funds it
raised to fund the section one project at Styldrift, Phiri said.
The cost of the project may be lower than the 11.8 billion rand
estimated two years ago, Prinsloo said, declining to be more
specific.  Nationalization of Mines  “Abundant” interest in RBPlat’s IPO should give South
Africa’s government confidence that foreign investors are still
interested in the country, Phiri said in his speech. While the
company faced questions about a debate over the nationalization
of South Africa’s mines, it was “fairly easy” to secure
foreign investors, Prinsloo said.  South Africa’s ruling party agreed in September to
officially debate a possible nationalization of mines following
a call by its youth wing. The department of mines also placed a
six-month moratorium on the award of exploration right to give
it time to “clean up” the system after officials made awards
on some properties where rights were already in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  