-- Rubber Climbs to Records in Shanghai, Singapore as Demand Outstrips Supply
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-08T08:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/rubber-futures-in-shanghai-singapore-climb-to-records-amid-supply-concern.html
Rubber in Shanghai, Singapore and
Thailand climbed to records amid concern that rain and flooding
may limit supply from major producers in Asia. Futures in Tokyo
retreated from a 30-year high.  May-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange jumped
as much as 5.8 percent to an all-time-high of 37,070 yuan
($5,558) a metric ton before closing at 35,865 yuan. December-
delivery rubber on the Singapore Commodity Exchange advanced as
much as 2.8 percent to $4.34 a kilogram.  “Increasing worries over damage to rubber production from
floods and landslides in Thailand drove prices to new highs,”
Varut Rungkhum, analyst at commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd.,
said by phone from Bangkok.  June-delivery rubber on the Agricultural Futures Exchange
of Thailand gained as much as 0.4 percent to 131.50 baht ($4.40)
a kilogram, the highest level for the most-active contract since
the bourse was established in 2004.  The cash price in Thailand added 0.2 percent to 125 baht
per kilogram today, according to the Rubber Research Institute
of Thailand. The rubber trading center in Songkhla was closed
during Nov. 2-4 due to floods.  Exporters in Thailand, the largest producer, raised prices
of so-called RSS-3 grade rubber to foreign buyers by 7 percent
in the past week, according to  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co.  “Rubber continued a bull run because of concern about
supplies,” Saito said by phone today. “News about a volcano
eruption in Indonesia also raised speculation that supply from
the country, already limited by rain, may tighten further.”  Thailand, Indonesia  Heavy rain in Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam and
India has damaged rubber plantations, causing a supply shortage
amid strong demand and supporting prices, the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand said on its website today.  About 6.3 million rai (1.9 million acres) of agricultural
land, or 4.8 percent of total arable land, was damaged from
floods that spread across 51 provinces in Thailand, according to
the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation.  Mount Merapi in Indonesia, the second-largest rubber
exporter, has been spewing ash for two weeks. About 280,000
people sought shelter at evacuation centers outside the 20-
kilometer (12 mile) safety zone after the latest big eruption on
Nov. 5, according to the  National Disaster Management Agency .  The volcano may release ash for as long as two months,
Subandriyo, an official at the Volcanology and Geology Disaster
Mitigation Center, said Nov. 3.  April-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange lost
as much as 1.8 percent to 355.3 yen per kilogram ($4,372 a ton)
before settling at 359.2 yen. It jumped as much as 5.7 percent
to 364.8 yen on Nov. 5, the highest level for the most-active
contract since February 1980.  Futures in Tokyo declined as the dollar advanced against
the euro, raising speculation that a stronger U.S. currency may
weaken investor demand for commodities as an alternative asset,
Saito at Fujitomi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net  