-- Sappi Says Profit Rebound Will Strengthen This Quarter as Demand Recovers
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-11-08T15:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sappi-says-profit-rebound-will-strengthen-this-quarter-as-demand-recovers.html
Sappi Ltd. , the world’s largest maker
of glossy paper, said earnings will continue their rebound this
quarter as demand in North America and Europe recovers.  Sappi had net income of $84 million in the fourth quarter
ended Sept. 30 versus a $103 million year-earlier loss, it said
today. The Johannesburg-based company returned to profit in the
three months through June following five straight deficits.  “In our first financial quarter we expect the group’s
operating profit to continue the improving trend,” Sappi said
in a statement. The fourth-quarter operating profit of $120
million, before items, was “the highest for a number of
years,” and “the performance of each of the businesses
improved.”  Papermakers including Sappi, Mondi Ltd., Stora Enso Oyj and
UPM Kymmene Oyj were forced to close mills after a drop in
demand during the recession led to a glut in supply. Almost all
Sappi plants are now running at full capacity, it said today.  Net debt may drop below $2 billion in 2011, Chief Executive
Officer  Ralph Boettger  said on a conference call. Sappi had said
in January it would achieve that goal within three years.  Sappi gained 1.89 rand, or 5.7 percent, to 35.24 rand at
the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg, its biggest daily
advance since October 2009. The shares have fallen 0.7 percent
this year, while rival  Mondi Ltd.,  Europe’s largest maker of
office paper, has gained 35 percent.  Pulp Costs  In Europe, Sappi increased paper prices in September,
passing on “substantial” increases in pulp costs, the company
said, while the same trend benefitted units in North America and
southern Africa that are net sellers of pulp.  While demand for packaging and fine-paper products in South
Africa improved, imports remain highly competitive because of
the strength of the rand, Sappi said. The currency gained 8.8
percent against the dollar in the quarter through September.  Sappi is concerned about the volatility of the rand and
would prefer it to trade in a range of 7.50 to 8 to the dollar,
compared with the current 6.85, which would be “much more
beneficial,” Boettger said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  