-- SAS, Airlines Said to Face European Union Fines in Cargo Price-Fixing Case
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-08T17:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sas-airlines-said-to-face-european-union-fines-in-cargo-price-fixing-case.html
SAS Group , owner of Scandinavian
Airlines, may be among airlines to be fined as soon as tomorrow
by European Union regulators for their roles in a global cargo
cartel, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust chief, will announce
the fines, said the people, who declined to be named because the
discussions aren’t public.  The possible ruling comes almost three years after
regulators issued formal complaints to SAS,  Air France-KLM
Group ,  British Airways Plc  and 23 others. It follows coordinated
antitrust raids across the world that led to jail terms for some
executives, fines and settlements. U.S. watchdogs investigating
have already fined 18 airlines at least $1.6 billion and filed
criminal charges against 14 executives for price-fixing.  The level of fines has been “very difficult to quantify,”
 Sture Stoelen , SAS’s head of investor relations said in a phone
interview today. The company hasn’t made a provision for the EU
penalty and still has no information about how high it is likely
to be, he said.  Tony Cane , a spokesman for British Airways, declined to
comment. British Airways made a provision in 2007 of 350 million
pounds ($565 million) for possible losses relating to the global
cartel cases.  Air France spokeswoman  Brigitte Barrand  also declined to
comment today. The carrier said in 2008 that it set aside 530
million euros ($738 million) to cover global fines and lawsuits.
Freight customers are taking a case against Air France-KLM in
the Dutch courts.  Immunity  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-largest airline,
said three years ago that it may be granted immunity in the EU
case. The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust agency, has
the power to exempt companies from fines if they alert officials
to the existence of price fixing behavior. Firms that cooperate
with regulators may also see their penalties cut.  Under EU rules, companies can be fined 10 percent of annual
sales for antitrust violations. The commission typically opts
for a penalty of about 2 percent to 3 percent of sales in cartel
cases. Companies may appeal to EU courts.  The global airline industry has lost money in seven of the
past nine years, racking up losses of more than $50 billion,
according to the International Air Transport Association.  Cargo airlines often work together to carry freight,
setting aside as much as 10 percent of space for partners.
Carriers’ price structures include surcharges that change
depending on reasons such as oil prices and security measures.  The investigation involves European and inter-continental
routes, with alleged illegal cooperation “supposedly” dating
back to 2000, SAS said in 2006. It said the probe centered on
surcharges to cover fuel, security and insurance costs.  The commission will hold a press conference on an antitrust
case at about 5 p.m. Brussels time tomorrow, said EU spokesman
 Olivier Bailly  on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 