-- Sci-Fi Sphere Takes Art Fans on a Trip in London Exhibit: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-11-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sci-fi-sphere-takes-art-fans-on-a-trip-in-london-exhibit-martin-gayford.html
White-coated attendants stand by a
white sphere, resembling an early bathyscaphe or a space vehicle
from a vintage sci-fi film. At intervals, a hatch in the side
opens, a dazed art lover emerges and a fresh one lies down on a
stretcher and is slid into the mysterious recesses of the thing.  This is “Bindu Shards” (2010), the most daunting work in
an exhibition by the U.S. artist James Turrell ( Gagosian
Gallery , 6-24 Britannia St., London WC1, through Dec. 10). As a
critic, I felt it was my duty to subject myself to this ordeal,
and when given a choice between the “hard” and, more relaxing,
“soft” version I gulped and went for the tougher option.  What happens after you disappear into the gleaming globe is
a powerful experience. It’s like being inside a huge, soft-focus
kaleidoscope, surrounded by an ever-changing honeycomb pattern
of flickering color, accompanied by electronic sounds. It’s
trippy.  Readers may or may not be disappointed to discover that
trips into the inner space of “Bindu Shards” are now booked
until the end of the exhibition. More successful as a work of
art is the other large piece in the show, “Dhatu” (2010),
which you can get into (though there is a line). This is a large
white chamber with a rectangular opening at one end.  From outside this entrance, it looks -- as Turrell’s works
often do -- like a flat, abstract, monochrome painting.
Actually, it’s just light and empty space. Once inside you’re
confronted at the further end of the pod by another opening --
apparently into infinity. When the color inside changes, so does
the apparent color of the room from which you have come. In
reality, this is a standard gallery white cube, though as you
look out it seems to shift between green and orange.  Sky Obsession  “Dhatu” makes one of Turrell’s basic points: a lot of
what we think we’re seeing is the result of what goes on inside
our heads. He’s a remarkable artist, whose work blends several
traditions, among them the line of transcendental, sky-obsessed
painters from  Turner  to  Rothko  and the idea of a planetarium or
celestial observatory. It would be interesting to see what
Turrell would do with the Turbine Hall at  Tate Modern .  The Gagosian show is a sign of the ambitious scope of
commercial-gallery shows these days; another is “The Clock” by
Christian Marclay at  White Cube , 25-26 Mason’s Yard, London SW1
(until Nov. 13). This is a colossal video collage in which the
artist has fitted together thousands of fragments from feature
films of all periods and genres, the common factor in each being
that a clock or watch is in shot and the time visible.  Addictive Narrative  With great ingenuity, Marclay has arranged it so that
whatever hour is seen on screen is the real time at that moment.
The result is addictive. Ensconced in the comfortable seats of a
miniature cinema in the basement of White Cube, you’re immersed
in an unending narrative.  It’s always a little tense yet never resolved as the
footage shifts from black and white to color, from  Hitchcock  to
 Woody Allen . Comfortingly, if you’re a chronological obsessive
like me, you always know precisely what o’clock it is.  There will be continuous, 24-hour viewing Nov. 4-6 and Nov.
11-13. I didn’t find the experience compelling, but it easily
holds your attention for 30 minutes or so, which is more than
most video art achieves.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 