-- SEC Bans Market-Maker `Stub' Quotes Blamed for Losses in May 6 Stock Crash
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   G r e g o r y   M o t t
-- 2010-11-08T17:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sec-bans-market-maker-stub-quotes-blamed-for-losses-in-may-6-stock-crash.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission banned a market-maker pricing practice known as stub
quotes, prohibiting a technique that caused shares to trade as
low as 1 cent during the May 6 crash.  Stub quotes are placeholders provided by market makers to
satisfy a regulatory obligation to submit both bids and offers.
Transactions aren’t meant to occur at those levels, which are at
prices such as a penny or thousands of dollars. On May 6, when a
20-minute rout briefly erased $862 billion in value before
stocks rebounded, companies such as Accenture Plc tumbled as
traders pulled out of the market, leaving only stub quotes. The
SEC announced the ban today.  “We won’t have problems like we saw on May 6 where the
only bid was for one penny and the only offer for $1,000,” said
 Justin Schack , a director in market structure analysis at
Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New York. “The new rule doesn’t
necessarily address all the problems related to brokers’ order
routing practices that were revealed on May 6,” Schack added.  The SEC mandated that market makers’ quotes be within 8
percent of the national best bid or offer, known as the NBBO,
according to a statement e-mailed today. The rule begins Dec. 6.  Circuit Breakers  The  requirements  are aimed at preventing circuit breakers
that pause trading for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and Russell
1000 Index companies as well as some exchange-traded funds from
being triggered. The curb, introduced in June for  S&P 500 
companies, was expanded to the Russell 1000 and 344 exchange-
traded funds. It halts trading for a security for five minutes
once it rises or falls at least 10 percent within five minutes.  NYSE Euronext ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . and Bats Global
Markets, which own the biggest U.S. stock markets, requested the
change in September.  Before 9:45 a.m. and after 3:35 p.m. New York time, when
the volatility curbs don’t operate, quotes will have to be no
more than 20 percent away from the best nationally available
price. For securities not subject to trading curbs, market
makers must quote within 30 percent of the best price.  “Executions against stub quotes represented a significant
proportion of the trades that were executed at extreme prices on
May 6, and subsequently broken,” the SEC said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Mott  in Washington at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 