-- Seinfeld Directs Colin Quinn as Producer Assembles $900,000 Broadway Forum
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-08T20:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/seinfeld-directs-colin-quinn-as-producer-assembles-900-000-broadway-forum.html
In late August, a 32-year-old theater
producer named  Eva Price  found herself in a lower-Manhattan
Crate & Barrel talking on her mobile phone to  Jerry Seinfeld .  Taking a break from sofa shopping for her Union Square
apartment, Price called the comedian to explain why she believed
a one-man show that he directed and she managed off-Broadway
belongs on Broadway. She said off-Broadway houses best suited to
move Colin Quinn’s “ Long Story Short ” weren’t available and
the Helen Hayes Theatre was.  “‘This may sound corny, but it seems like the theater gods
are telling us to take this show to Broadway,’” Price recalled
telling Seinfeld. (She said she does business from wherever she
is on her mobile phone.)  Best known for his featured roles as a cast member of NBC’s
 Saturday Night Live  from 1995 to 2000, Quinn had a show at the
Helen Hayes in 1998. His jokes in this one, about 2,000 years of
world history, elicited steady laughs and even serious thought
at a preview. For the week through Sunday, the show grossed
$88,000, about a fifth of its capacity, according to the
Broadway League.  “That doesn’t mean anything,” Martin Markinson, a co-
owner of the Helen Hayes, said from his home in Santa Fe. “It’s
not a show with  Vanessa Redgrave  and  James Earl Jones . You have
to hang in there long enough for word of mouth to click.”  ‘Circumcise Me’  Price, who started working in off-Broadway in 2005, has
been down this road. In the past year, in addition to being part
of the producing teams of “‘ The Addams Family ,” “Wishful
Drinking,” “ A Life in the Theatre ,” and “The Merchant of
Venice” on Broadway, she shepherded a one-man show off-Broadway
called “Circumcise Me.”  It featured an American Catholic man who became an Orthodox
Jew and underwent several unpleasant, elective surgical
procedures as an adult. Thanks in part to Price’s low-cost model
-- weekly costs were a paltry $22,000 -- it ran for eight
months. She said it earned back some but not all of its $240,000
initial investment. (“Circumcise Me,” like “Long Story
Short,” played the  45 Bleecker , a theater that closed last
month because of a dispute with its landlord.)  “Long Story Short” cost about $900,000 to produce at the
Helen Hayes, one of the lowest capitalizations on Broadway today
and its smallest house, at 590 seats. Stagehands there charge
about 15 percent below the going Broadway rate, Markinson said.
The set features a world map and a video screen.  “Part of smart producing is figuring out what you have and
how to protect it,” Price said. “We did what we think is the
right mix of physical production values and effective
budgeting.”  Seinfeld appeared at a packed press event with Quinn Oct.
12.  “I didn’t particularly want to direct,” Seinfeld said.
“We realized if I don’t direct we’re going to have to meet a
third person.”  Seinfeld said at the press event that “there may be an HBO
special at some point.” Price declined to elaborate or disclose
weekly running costs. Producers who aren’t involved estimated
that they’re about $150,000 a week, depending on advertising.
The Helen Hayes can sell $428,000 of tickets a week.  Markinson said “Long Story Short” reminds him of 1995’s
“Defending the Caveman,” Rob Becker’s piece about the battling
sexes that ran for almost two years on Broadway.  “He came in with zippo advance sale, but the audience took
to it,” Markinson said.  “Long Story Short” opens on Tuesday and closes Jan. 8.
Information:  http://colinquinnlongstoryshort.com , or +1-212-239-
6200, or +1-800-432-7250.  -- Editors:  Manuela Hoelterhoff ,  Jeffrey Burke .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 