-- Shell to Sell 10% Stake in Woodside for $3.35 Billion
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-11-08T08:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/shell-sells-3-35-billion-stake-in-woodside-to-fund-coal-seam-gas-spending.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, is selling a 10 percent stake in  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd.  for $3.35 billion, freeing up funds to support a
six-fold increase in its Australian natural gas production.  Shell is selling 78.34 million shares in Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer at A$42.23 a share,
retaining 24.27 percent of Woodside, The Hague-based company
said in a statement today. UBS AG is arranging the transaction,
which is priced at an 8.6 percent discount to Perth-based
Woodside’s Sydney close of A$45.86.  Shell Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  is selling as
much as $8 billion in assets this year and next, cutting 7,000
jobs and reducing the less profitable refinery business. Today’s
sale announcement prompted speculation that Woodside may become
an acquisition target.  “Given that Shell has the intent to sell down, they may
not stand in the way of a Woodside takeover,” said  Jason Teh ,
who helps manage A$3 billion ($3 billion) at Investors Mutual
Ltd. in Sydney, which holds Woodside shares. “It looks like
Shell is selling out from what they consider something more
mature to help it develop something more fledgling.”  Woodside may be an acquisition target for  BHP Billiton Ltd .
after its $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp . of Saskatchewan
Inc. was blocked by Canada, UBS analysts said last week.  PetroChina, Chevron  BHP spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley  declined to comment on
Shell’s sale of a Woodside stake.  Roger Martin , Woodside’s
Perth-based spokesman, couldn’t immediately be reached by phone
or e-mail to comment.  Shell aims to spend as much as $50 billion in Australia
over the next decade, more than in any other region, as the
company shifts to producing natural gas instead of oil. Shell
and  PetroChina Co.  in August completed a A$3.5 billion purchase
of  Arrow Energy Ltd . to develop a liquefied natural gas venture
in Queensland fed by fuel extracted from coal seams.  Shell is a partner in Chevron Corp.’s Gorgon LNG venture in
Western Australia and with Woodside in the Northwest Shelf. It
plans to use floating LNG technology to develop the Prelude gas
field off the country’s northwest.  “Our Australian LNG portfolio has developed rapidly in
recent years, with exploration success around Gorgon and
Prelude, and our entry into coal bed methane plays through the
joint acquisition of  Arrow Energy ,” Voser said in the
statement.  ‘Funding Needs’  Shell’s directly owned LNG capacity in Australia is 2.7
million metric tons a year and is forecast to more than double
to 6.5 million tons by 2015, Australia country chair  Ann Pickard 
said in the statement. That could increase by a further 10
million tons beyond 2015 to 16 million, she said.  “Shell has a global LNG portfolio and is probably working
out the funding requirements associated with it,” said Teh.
“They’ve been a long-term investor in Woodside in the
development of the Northwest Shelf, and recently bought out
Arrow Energy, which has the potential to become an LNG
development.”  Australia is set to underpin Shell’s next tranche of LNG
expansion, aimed at growth markets in Asia Pacific, the company
said today. Shell has a 25 percent interest in Gorgon, where
 Exxon Mobil Corp . is also a partner.  “We have seen Shell on the front foot with other
Australian projects, so they want to carve out their own path in
the country,” Johan Hedstrom, an analyst at Southern Cross
Equities, said by phone from Sydney. “The bulk of Shell’s
holdings in Woodside were acquired for much lower prices a long
time ago,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story: Fred Pals at
   fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  