-- MSNBC Reinstates Olbermann After Suspension Over Political Contributions
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2010-11-08T10:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/msnbc-reinstates-olbermann-after-suspension-over-political-contributions.html
MSNBC  will reinstate  Keith Olbermann 
tomorrow, ending the “Countdown” host’s unpaid suspension for
making political donations after two nights off the air.  “Suspending Keith through and including Monday night’s
program is an appropriate punishment for his violation of our
policy,” MSNBC President  Phil Griffin  said in a statement
yesterday. “We look forward to having him back on the air
Tuesday night.”  Olbermann was suspended indefinitely on Nov. 5 for giving
$7,200 to three Democrats. The incident highlights a blurring of
lines between journalism and advocacy as news networks such as
MSNBC and  Fox News  try to attract viewers with partisan hosts.
Olbermann, who promotes his political viewpoint on
“Countdown,” also hosted MSNBC’s election-night coverage.  Including tonight’s show, the host will miss two
installments of “Countdown with Keith Olbermann,” which runs
on weeknights and is MSNBC’s most popular prime-time program.  Griffin decided to reinstate Olbermann “after several days
of deliberation and discussion,” he said in the statement.  Olbermann’s fans waged a campaign on Facebook to bring him
back.  “Greetings from exile!” Olbermann wrote in a Twitter
message posted on the “Countdown”  website . “A quick,
overwhelmed, stunned, thank you for support that feels like a
global hug.”  Newsroom policies vary on political donations. Some allow
personal donations, including MSNBC rival Fox News, owned by
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. The New York Times and Washington
Post forbid newsroom employees from contributing.  ‘Fig Leaf’  NBC News, the parent of MSNBC, requires journalists to ask
permission before making political donations or other activities
that may “jeopardize his or her standing as an impartial
journalist,” according to the MSNBC.com  website .  On the Web and in the media, some questioned whether the
NBC rules should apply, given MSNBC’s shift to the political
left in recent years.  “If NBC is worried about impartiality, then why put on a
whole lineup of shows without even a fig leaf over the bias?”
The Economist said in an op-ed.  In an MSNBC  commentary  on Nov. 5, host  Rachel Maddow 
defended the rules that led to Olbermann’s suspension, and said
they prove that the network is a “news operation,” while Fox
News is “a political operation.”  MNBC’s lineup, led by liberal voices such as Olbermann and
Maddow, has helped the network gain in the ratings, beating CNN
for four straight months, said  Brad Adgate , director of research
at Horizon Media, an advertising company in New York.  Donations  The network’s shift to the political left has helped it
compete with Fox News, which has became the leader on cable with
a conservative viewpoint, Adgate said.  Olbermann contributed the maximum $2,400 each to three
Democratic candidates in the Nov. 2 midterm elections. Arizona
Representatives  Raul Grijalva  and  Gabrielle Giffords  received
payments on Oct. 28, the day Grijalva appeared on “Countdown
with Keith Olbermann.” Olbermann also donated to U.S. Senate
candidate  Jack Conway  of Kentucky, who lost to Republican  Rand Paul .  “Countdown” runs weeknights at 8 p.m. New York time. This
year, Olbermann has averaged 1.03 million viewers a night,
according to data from Nielsen Co.  “The O’Reilly Factor” on Fox News was the most-watched
cable news program last week with more than 3.2 million viewers
a night, Nielsen data show.  Journalists who cover government and politics at Bloomberg
News may not make political donations or engage in activities
that create the appearance of a conflict of interest.  Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S. cable television company,
is poised to take control of MSNBC as part of its proposed
purchase of NBC Universal from General Electric Co. The deal is
awaiting regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  