-- Sonic Health to Buy CBLPath for $124 Million to Expand in New York Market
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-08T09:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sonic-health-to-buy-cblpath-for-124-million-to-expand-in-new-york-market.html
Sonic Healthcare Ltd.  agreed to buy
 CBLPath Inc.  for $123.5 million, in its third acquisition this
year, saying the deal will boost sales and cut costs.  Sonic is paying about eight times Rye Brook, New York-based
CBLPath’s estimated 2012 earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, the Australian company said in a
statement today. The purchase, which Sonic will pay for using
existing debt, will add to earnings per share immediately, Sonic
said.  Sonic has spent more than $1.8 billion on 19  acquisitions 
in the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
making it the biggest provider of medical tests in Europe and
third-ranked in the U.S. The overseas acquisitions will add
about 2.5 percent to Ebitda in the fiscal year ending June 2012
as sales growth remains “moribund” at home, according to  Shane Storey , a Brisbane, Australia-based health-care analyst with
Wilson HTM Investment Group.  “Nearly 50 percent of FY10 growth came from the U.S.A and
that will likely improve, given this focused, integrated
beachhead they’ve built on the upper east coast,” Storey wrote
in a note to clients today. He rates the stock “buy.”  Sonic was  unchanged  at A$10.93 on the Australian Securities
Exchange as of the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney,  compared  with a
0.5 percent decline by the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  CBLPath generates annual sales of more than $80 million
analyzing body tissue and organ samples sent by almost 4,000
doctors, according to Sonic’s statement and the company’s
 website . The Sydney-based company, which does laboratory testing
of bodily fluids, plans to boost revenue by cross-selling
services to doctors, Sonic said.  Boost Sonic’s Ebitda  Galen Partners , a Stamford, Connecticut-based private
equity company, owns more than 40 percent of CBLPath, Sonic
said. The rest is owned by management, staff and other private
investors, according to the statement.  Completion of the deal is conditional on approval by
CBLPath’s shareholders and antitrust regulators, and is expected
by December, Sonic said.  The acquisition of CBLPath is Sonic’s third this year after
the purchase of Antwerp, Belgium-based Medhold NV for 232
million euros ($324 million) in February, and the completion of
its 6.5 million euros buyout of Hamburg-based Lademannbogen
Laboratory in January.  “CBLPath has grown consistently to become one of the
largest independent anatomical pathology laboratories in the
U.S.A.,” Sonic said in its statement. “There are a number of
cost synergies which Sonic can offer CBLPath, particularly in
the areas of logistics, purchasing and billing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  