-- Coal Prices May Increase 12% Next Year on Asian Demand, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 2010-11-08T13:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/south-african-export-coal-prices-increase-4-to-highest-level-in-two-years.html
Coal burned to generate power may
jump 12 percent next year on Asian demand for the fuel and
supply constraints in producer nations, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Contract prices for the fuel in the Japanese financial year
starting April 1 will rise to $110 a metric ton from $98 in the
current year, Deutsche Bank analyst  Daniel Brebner  in London
forecast in a report dated today. Supplies of seaborne thermal
coal will lag behind demand by 13 million tons next year, up
from a shortage of 2 million tons this year, he wrote.  “Thermal coal has the potential to be the best performer
of the bulk commodities in 2011,” Brebner said.  Coal imports  by China, the biggest user and producer,
jumped 16 percent in September from the previous month, customs
data show, the fourth consecutive such increase.  India imports about 67 million tons of coal a year, Coal
Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said on Sept. 24. The country’s
demand for the fuel may more than triple in the next two decades
to 2 billion tons, he said.  South Africa’s Richards Bay Coal Terminal, the continent’s
biggest export facility for the fuel, exported 52.1 million tons
of coal in the ten months through October, according to data on
its website. That compares with capacity of 91 million tons
after expansion this year.  Coal deliveries to the port have been disrupted this year.
In September, Transnet Ltd., the state-owned freight rail and
ports operator, said repairs to a bridge damaged by a train
derailment between Phalaborwa and Richards Bay could take up to
eight weeks to complete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 