-- South Korea Won Drops After Government Vows to Curb Volatility; Bonds Gain
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-08T01:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/south-korea-won-drops-after-government-vows-to-curb-volatility-bonds-gain.html
South Korea’s won fell for the first
time in a week after the government vowed to implement measures
to curb volatility in the foreign-exchange market.  “Appropriate action” will be taken if banks violate
currency-derivative trade rules,  Lee Hoo Myung , director of the
foreign-exchange policy division at the finance ministry, said
on Nov. 5. The currency dropped the most since Oct. 27 as
leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in Seoul this week to
discuss last month’s pledge to avoid “competitive
devaluation.”  “The government wants to prevent speculative funds from
coming into the country, and that is hurting the won,” said
 Sung Jae Man , a currency analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in
Seoul. “But the market will wait to see what the G-20 has to
say about that. It may be difficult for Korea to implement the
rules if the move is criticized at the summit.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,112.80 per dollar as of
9:34 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
has advanced 1.1 percent this month, the second-best performance
among Asia’s most-actively traded currencies.  The government announced a cap on foreign and domestic
banks’ currency derivatives in June, which will require them to
cut their holdings to a specified amount of equity capital by
October 2012. The Finance Ministry today denied a report by
Yonhap News that said the government plans to further tighten
limits on the use of currency derivatives by foreign banks
starting in January.  The government is in discussions with lawmakers to withdraw
a tax exemption on foreign investors’ bond-investment gains,
Edaily said Nov. 5, citing an unidentified official at the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance.  Government bonds rose. The yield on the 3.75 percent notes
due in June 2013 slipped three basis points to 3.58 percent,
according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 