-- Soybeans, Palm Oil to Extend Rally on Chinese Purchases, Investment Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-08T05:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/soybeans-palm-oil-to-extend-rally-on-chinese-purchases-investment-demand.html
Global prices of soybeans and palm
oil are likely to extend their rally on demand from China, the
biggest user, and as investors buy commodities to protect their
wealth, said analysts and executives at a Guangzhou conference.  The price of July-delivery soybeans may climb to $16 a
bushel from $13 should drought occur in the U.S. next summer,
said  Anne Frick , analyst at Prudential Bache Commodities LLC in
New York. Palm oil may extend its rally into 2011, said Godrej
International Ltd. Director  Dorab Mistry  in prepared remarks. He
also predicted at the weekend that the price may gain to 3,300
ringgit ($1,067) per ton, a level reached today.  Higher prices may spur costlier food, fanning inflation.
 World food costs  climbed to the highest level in more than two
years in October on more expensive meat, cereals, cooking oils
and sugar, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization
said. Farm commodity prices, measured by the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Agriculture Index of eight futures, climbed 37 percent this
year as China and India grew three times faster than the U.S.  “The growth in consumption is in China,” and, by some
forecasts, is so rapid that it may test the world’s limited
resources, Frick told industry officials. Should the appetite
for commodities from cash-rich investors become “wild and
crazy” as some executives predicted, the market “could get out
of control,” she said.  Prices Climb  Soybeans for January delivery were little changed today at
$12.8575 a bushel, below the $12.90 a bushel reached on Nov. 5,
the highest level for the most active contract in more than two
years. Palm oil for January delivery jumped 4.4 percent to 3,330
ringgit in Malaysia.  The pace of China’s soybean  purchases  for delivery this
marketing year has exceeded expectations, according to Cofco Ltd.  “More and more companies are buying further into future
months” and purchases are larger, said Chang Muping, vice
general manager of the oilseed division at Beijing-based Cofco.
While Chinese crushers used to buy a few months before shipping,
they now buy half a year or more ahead, he said.  Soybean costs climbed even as global output increased to a
record, signaling prices are more influenced by economic changes
such as increased money supply, said Frank Zhou, general manager
of protein and vegetable oil trading at Cargill Investments
(China) Ltd.  Increase Surprising  The rates of price increases “have surprised me even as
I’m bullish,” Zhou said. China’s domestic edible oil market has
seen excessive price gains even with large inventories, which
are an “overbought” indication, Zhou said.  The market will find ways to regain the balance, said Frick.
China’s pace of U.S. soybean buying slowed last week, improved
weather in South America will speed planting, and a predicted
increase in palm oil output may alleviate tightness, she said.  “The flipside of the question is whether China’s demand in
fact supports global prices at these levels,” said Larry Li,
trading director at Noble Grain China. “Purely based on
fundamentals, these high levels are certainly not supported.”  “What worries me is everyone in the room is bullish,”
Frick said. “Who’s going to sell?”  -- William Bi , with reporting by  Claire Leow . Editor:  James Poole   To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Guangzhou at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  