-- Stalin's Slaughter, Men's Room From Hell Color Grand Siberia Tour: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2010-11-08T23:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/stalin-s-slaughter-men-s-room-from-hell-color-grand-siberia-tour-books.html
Well into his journey through some of
the harshest terrain in the inhabited world,  Ian Frazier  utters
a simple truth: “Travel, like much else in life, can be more
fun to read about than to do.”  The enjoyment is undeniable when your guide is a New Yorker
magazine humorist and deft journalist keenly interested in his
subject. Frazier’s “ Travels in Siberia”  reflects 16 years of
study starting in 1993, 5 excursions to Siberia -- including a
9,000-mile road trip -- and as many as 6 more to western Russia.
The discomforts are beyond measure.  Siberia’s vastness is one challenge. It’s a twelfth of the
entire planet’s land and 75 percent of Russia’s. “Only on the
sea can you travel as far and still be in apparently the same
place,” Frazier writes. Yakutsk, one of its roughest patches,
sits on permafrost that “extends thirteen hundred feet down.”
The average winter temperature there is -42 degrees Fahrenheit.  Roads are hellish, vehicles break down constantly and warm
weather brings other perils: “On calm and sultry evenings as we
busied ourselves around the camp, mosquitoes came at us as if
shot from a fire hose.”  Yet no horror elicits prose as perfectly controlled and
hilarious as the two pages that begin: “What I have to say next
concerns the Omsk airport men’s room. I regret this.”  Ohio Meets Siberia  Frazier traces his fascination with Siberia to several
people and things. A 19th-century forebear of  George F. Kennan ,
who preached containment of the Soviet empire, was an early
traveler across the region and hailed from an Ohio town where
many Frazier forebears also lived. The author’s boyhood spanned
the Sputnik era, when Soviet science seemed unmatchable. He
notes that he and John Reed “were on the same organization in
college, a humor magazine called the Harvard Lampoon.”  His father’s research lab at  Standard Oil of Ohio  produced
a fiber for cold-weather clothing, and Russians paid a licensing
fee for it in gold probably extracted through prison labor in
the infamous Kolyma mines. The writer has a knack for unearthing
neat connections.  Frazier spends a lot of time pondering “the deep and
ancient sorrow” of the many exiled to and imprisoned in Siberia
for petty crimes from czarist times through  Stalin ’s Terror. He
can’t reconcile the communist dictator’s continuing popularity
in Russia and scant condemnation elsewhere with his role in the
fate of a “large fraction” of the estimated 55 to 60 million
Russians who died of unnatural causes between 1917 and 1992.  Hefty Package  All in all, the book makes for a hefty package. Add to the
rich personal travelogue the many informed asides on the
region’s history, literature, language, industry, natural
resources and unnatural privation, and you have an exhaustive
portrait that verges on the exhausting.  I could have used less about the author’s moods, though in
the end I appreciated the honesty. I desperately wanted more
maps -- there’s just one big two-pager at the outset, to which
you’ll turn back often -- and fewer of the writer’s own
sometimes generic line drawings. I could never get enough of his
wit and lovely writing:  “Above the lines of open water, wraiths of steam 15 feet
high whisked along next to the floes, leaning forward and
rushing all in one direction like commuters.” I read much of
the book during the petty journeys of my daily commute and sadly
know exactly what he means.  “Travels in Siberia” is published by Farrar, Straus and
Giroux (529 pages, $30). To order this book in North America,
click  here . Rating: ***  ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 