-- Strabag Gets Olympic Contract for Sochi, $519 Million Deripaska Investment
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-11-08T09:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/strabag-gets-olympic-contract-for-sochi-519-million-deripaska-investment.html
Strabag SE , central Europe’s biggest
construction company, won a contract to build residences and
hotels at the Olympic village for the 2014 winter games in
Russia, after deepening ties with billionaire  Oleg Deripaska .  Rasperia Trading Ltd., a Deripaska investment vehicle,
agreed to buy a 17 percent stake worth 373 million euros ($519
million) in Strabag, the Villach, Austria-based company said
today in an e-mail. Strabag will pay 70 million euros for a 26
percent stake in Deripaska’s Transstroy construction company.
The Austrian builder signed a 350 million-euro preliminary
agreement with Glavstroy Corp., another Deripaska company, to
build the  Olympic facilities  in Sochi, Russia.  “Russia already shows first signs of a recovery from the
financial and economic crisis,” Strabag Chief Executive Officer
 Hans Peter Haselsteiner  said in the statement. “By 2020 Russia
could be one of the three largest markets for the Strabag Group.  Deripaska handed over a 25 percent stake in Strabag last
year to two of the company’s biggest investors after a falling
stock price forced him to either give up the stake or put up
more collateral on the loans he had used to buy it.  Strabag had worked with banks to help Deripaska refinance
500 million euros of loans used by the Russian billionaire to
gain up to 25 percent in the company. Deripaska’s United Co.
Rusal has been seeking to restructure more than $14 billion of
debt and has been talking with potential investors in his
construction, airport and financial-services businesses.  Deripaska has until July 2014 to purchase an additional 8
percent in Strabag, the Austrian company said. The contract is
subject to the completion of financing arrangements, Strabag
said.  Strabag is conducting ‘‘a thorough due diligence of
Transstroy” in order to determine a “definitive purchase
price” for its stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net .
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net . 