-- Sugar Mills in Uttar Pradesh to Challenge State-Set Cane Price, Move Court
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2010-11-08T13:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sugar-mills-in-uttar-pradesh-to-challenge-state-set-cane-price-move-court.html
Mills in India’s biggest sugar cane-
growing state plan to move court to challenge the price of cane
set by the provincial government for the 2010-2011 season, an
official from a producers’ group told reporters in New Delhi.  Mills in Uttar Pradesh will approach the Allahabad High
Court in two days, said the official, who didn’t want to be
identified.  Crushing of sugar cane in the state that’s home to more
than 100 mills may begin after Nov. 20 as the court may decide
on a price by then, the official from the Uttar Pradesh Sugar
Mills Association said.  The Uttar Pradesh government last week increased prices
mills must pay growers for cane to as much as 210 rupees ($4.7)
per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), up from 170 rupees last year, a
level deemed high by producers as domestic output is forecast to
exceed demand for the first time in three years.  Producers in Uttar Pradesh pay a so-called state-advised
price. The rate, aimed at shielding 4 million cane farmers, is
usually higher than the floor rate set by the federal government.  “At current domestic sugar prices, it may not be feasible
to pay the cane price” fixed by Uttar Pradesh, Abinash Verma,
director general of the Indian Sugar Mills Association, said in
an interview on Nov. 2. “If prices stay at current levels, it
is difficult for mills to pay the state-advised price for
cane.”  Growers will withhold supplies if mills don’t pay at least
280 rupees, Rakesh Tikait, national spokesman of the Bharatiya
Kisan Union, a farmers’ group, said in an interview on Nov. 2.
Factories paid an average 285-290 rupees last year to secure
cane amid a shortfall in production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  