-- Swaps Show PBOC to Raise Rates Most as Inflation Accelerates: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-09T07:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/swaps-show-pboc-to-raise-rates-most-as-inflation-accelerates-china-credit.html
Chinese policy makers will boost
benchmark interest rates four times in the next 12 months, more
than most of the world’s biggest economies, as they tackle the
fastest inflation in two years, trading in swaps shows.  Two-year interest-rate swaps that exchange the one-year
official savings rate for a fixed payment rose 52 basis points
to 3 percent since the People’s Bank of China raised its key
 deposit rate  on Oct. 19 by 25 basis points to 2.5 percent.
Traders are betting on another 100 basis points of increases to
3.5 percent in a year, said  Liu Linan , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG. Government data on Nov. 11 will show the October
consumer price index up 4 percent from a year ago, the median
estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows.  “If CPI doesn’t come down below 3 percent, it’s highly
likely that they will tighten again in the first quarter,
restarting the whole rate cycle,” said  Ee Leen Yueh , a
portfolio manager in Singapore at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
which oversees $261 billion globally.  The Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan are using near-zero
interest rates and printing money to avert recessions, spurring
concern that inflation will accelerate in developing nations as
dollars and yen flow to the world’s fastest-growing economies.
Central banks in Brazil, India and China have all raised
borrowing costs this year and increased the amount of funds
lenders must set aside as reserves.  Less Lending  Data this week is expected to show Chinese lenders extended
new yuan loans totaling 450 billion yuan ($67 billion) in
October, which would be the smallest gain this year, a Bloomberg
survey of economists showed. The total for the fourth quarter
can’t exceed 1.2 trillion yuan for the government to achieve its
goal of limiting credit growth to 7.5 trillion yuan in 2010.  China’s central bank raised borrowing costs in October for
the first time since 2007 and increased the reserve-requirement
ratio for the four largest banks to help contain inflation. The
Reserve Bank of India last week announced its sixth rate rise of
2010 and signaled a pause in the current tightening cycle. The
Fed will hold its benchmark near zero, futures markets show
while Brazil will raise rates by 150 basis points in 12 months.  The latest government figures show inflation rates at 4.7
percent in Brazil, 7.5 percent in Russia, 9.8 percent in India
and 1.1 percent in the U.S. China’s inflation exceeded the
government’s target of 3 percent throughout the third quarter.  China may miss its goal for full-year inflation, Zhang Ping,
head of the National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s top planning agency, said in comments published on a
state-controlled radio station’s website today. The central bank
today boosted the  yield  on one-year bills for the second time
since last month’s interest-rate increase, furthering efforts to
tackle inflation by draining funds from the financial system.  ‘Increasingly Worrisome’  “The rise in inflation has become increasingly worrisome,
and inflation expectations could be further fuelled by
anticipated capital flows,” said  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based
economist for UBS AG.  The Fed said last week it will buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, building on $1.7 trillion of asset
purchases made between December 2008 and March this year. The
People’s Bank of China reported a record $100 billion jump in
its foreign-exchange  reserves  to $2.65 trillion for September.  Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  demanded an explanation
from the Fed on Nov. 5 about its decision to pump money into the
world’s biggest economy because “many countries are worried
about the impact of the policy on their economies.”  ‘Hot Money’  China will force banks to hold more foreign exchange and
strengthen auditing of overseas fund raising as part of efforts
to crack down on hot-money inflows, the currency regulator
announced today. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange
will tighten management of banks’ foreign-debt quotas and
introduce new rules on their currency provisioning, the
regulator said in a statement on its website.  “The Fed’s policy will drive a considerable amount of hot
money into China, especially during this quarter,” said Shi Lei,
the head of fixed-income research in Shenzhen at Ping An
Securities Co., a subsidiary of China’s second-largest insurer.
“The central bank may either raise interest rates or raise the
reserve-requirement ratio by the end of this year.”  Buyers of China’s two-year swaps receive the deposit rate
for one year, after which the floating payment is reset for the
second year. Because the floating rate under the swap is now at
2.5 percent, a 3 percent level indicates traders expect the rate
will rise to about 3.5 percent a year from now.  ‘Widespread Fear’  Standard Chartered Plc said on Nov. 5 that China may raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, by
the end of 2010 because of the “widespread fear” of capital
inflows. The London-based bank predicted a 50 basis point
increase in the reserve-requirement ratio in the next month,
ahead of a raise in the interest rates.  “We are worried about inflation pressure in the future
because there is so much excess liquidity that the central
bank’s sterilization cannot mop it all up,” said  Hu Hangyu , a
bond analyst in Beijing at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s
biggest listed brokerage. “With so much hot money flowing in,
you have no choice but to seek more tightening measures.”  China’s one-year deposit rate exceeded its U.S.  equivalent 
by 183 basis points, the most since at least 1996. The yuan has
strengthened 2.4 percent against the dollar since China ended a
two-year peg on June 19 and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict the currency will appreciate another 5.3 percent by the
end of 2011.  Yuan Outlook  The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.6730 per dollar
as of 3:45 p.m. in Shanghai. The 12-month non-deliverable
forwards gained 0.2 percent to 6.4615, suggesting traders are
betting the yuan will gain 3.2 percent in a year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due August
2020 rose six basis points today to 3.88 percent, according to
National Interbank Funding Center. The extra yield  investors 
demand to hold benchmark 10-year Chinese government bonds rather
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened two basis points
to 129.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on China’s U.S.
dollar bonds rose three basis points to 57 yesterday, halving
this month’s drop, CMA prices show. Declines suggest the
nation’s creditworthiness is improving.  Government bonds suggest interest rates will rise by more
than half a percentage point, based on their performance during
the last tightening cycle, when the central bank lifted the one-
year deposit rate to 4.14 percent from 2.25 percent between
August 2006 and December 2007.  Investors are demanding a  3.88 percent  yield to hold the
debt, 138 basis points more than the benchmark deposit rate. The
yield averaged  72 basis points  more than the deposit rate during
the 17 months through December 2007.  “The central bank will continue to normalize rates,” said
 Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas SA who
predicts two more increases for the first half of 2010.  -- Judy Chen . With assistance from  Lilian Karunungan ,  David Yong 
and  Jay Wang  in Singapore, and  Chinmei Sung  in Taipei. Editors:
 Garfield Reynolds ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 