-- Sweden Debt Market Tensions Show ECB What Exit Brings
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-11-09T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sweden-s-money-market-disruptions-show-trichet-what-comes-after-ecb-exit.html
The  European Central Bank  need only
look north to  Sweden  to see what may happen when it begins to
withdraw liquidity.  Since the Swedish Riksbank became the world’s first central
bank to end emergency loans just over a month ago, short-term  interest rates  have soared to the highest levels since January.
The withdrawal of 300 billion kronor ($46 billion) of crisis
loans has also sparked a selloff in the country’s mortgage debt
market, which is twice the size of its government bond market.
The difference between  mortgage rates  and swaps last month rose
to the widest since March, as Sweden’s covered-debt market
slumped.  The tensions in Sweden, which boasts the European Union’s
smallest budget deficit, come as President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signals he’s undeterred in withdrawing the emergency measures
the ECB introduced to fight the financial crisis. The risk for
Trichet is that too speedy an exit will switch off the flow of
credit to cash-strapped banks in Ireland,  Greece  and  Portugal ,
worsening a crisis across the euro region’s periphery.  “The Swedish exit has proved that financial systems still
are extremely vulnerable and that confidence is not that
great,” said Andreas Halldahl, who helps manage about $15
billion in fixed-income assets at Storebrand Kapitalforvaltning
AS in Stockholm. “The implications for Europe could be severe
if the ECB doesn’t handle things delicately.”  Unlimited Cash  The ECB’s last set of six-month loans falls due on Nov. 11,
while its 12-month lending program ends on Dec. 23. While the
ECB is still offering banks unlimited cash at its benchmark rate
with seven-day, one-month and three-month maturities, Trichet
said on Nov. 4 the ECB will decide on the next steps next month.  Europe still needs ECB liquidity support, said Joakim Buddgard, a fund manager at  Svenska Handelsbanken AB  in
Stockholm, who helps manage $13.5 billion in fixed-income
investments. “Otherwise some of the euro countries with debt
problems will be in even more trouble.”  In Sweden, the withdrawal of crisis funds made the biggest
dent on covered bonds, which are backed by cash flows derived
from mortgage debt. The asset class shares the top  credit rating 
with Sweden’s government debt.  The Riksbank’s liquidity program had encouraged a so-called
carry trade, whereby banks had borrowed cheaply at the central
bank’s rate and used the funds to purchase higher-yielding
mortgage-backed assets. The Riksbank left its benchmark rate at
a record-low 0.25 percent until July this year. The covered
bonds were then used as collateral for new central bank loans.  Carry Trade  When the Riksbank exited its support program, the funding
side of the carry trade became too expensive to support demand
for covered bonds. Sweden’s one-year interest rate swap rates
began to climb on Oct. 6 and reached a nine-month high of 1.91
percent on Oct. 22.  The country’s covered bonds remain underpriced, according
to Charlotte Asgermyr, an analyst at SEB AB in  Stockholm . She
says the bonds are trading as much as 40 basis points, or 0.4
percentage point, below their fair value.  “Swedish covered bonds have suffered severely from the
problems in the funding market,” said Asgermyr. “The spread
remains too wide, given the high credit quality of these bonds
and the strong fundamentals of the Swedish economy.”  The disruptions caused by the Riksbank’s exit were “more
dramatic than people had expected,” said Mats Hyden, chief
strategist at  Nordea Bank AB  in Stockholm.  ‘Least Bad’  “Sweden is the least bad of all the region’s financial
markets; just imagine what will happen elsewhere when they start
withdrawing liquidity,” said Par Magnusson, chief Nordic
economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in Stockholm.
“Southern Europe is in no state to cope.”  Policy makers in Sweden decided to pull emergency support
after judging the country’s financial markets were “functioning
well” and that “Swedish banks have strong buffers,” the
Riksbank said in June.  Sweden’s overnight market is “working again
satisfactorily” and there is “no reason for the Riksbank to
intervene,” Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said, according to
minutes of the bank’s October meeting published yesterday.  The Riksbank is withdrawing support as it estimates the
largest Nordic economy will expand 4.8 percent this year,
recouping most of last year’s 5.1 percent contraction. Still,
the government warns that the growth surge may be short-lived.  ‘Borrowed Time’  “We should be grateful for every month and quarter with
positive growth,” Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in a speech
published yesterday. “After 2013, growth is living on borrowed 
time.”  In the euro area, a withdrawal of emergency support may
have a more direct impact on lenders from the region’s
peripheral states as they continue to rely on the cheap credit.  Lenders from Greece, Ireland and Portugal took 61 percent
of the loans supplied by the ECB at the end of September, up
from 51 percent the previous month, data from their respective
central banks show.  If the ECB exits too fast, peripheral countries may have
trouble finding investors willing to buy their bonds. Ireland,
whose banks borrowed 83 billion euros ($115.5 billion) from the
ECB in September -- 38 percent more than a month earlier -- has
seen its bonds slide for 10 consecutive days. The yield on the
Irish 10-year benchmark climbed over 8 percent yesterday.  ‘Definitely Hooked’  Yields on 10-year debt from Portugal, whose banks held 40
billion euros of ECB loans in October, rose to a record 442
basis points yesterday relative to same-maturity benchmark
German bunds. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The ECB has yet to decide when to return to a bidding
process offering limited funds at market rates. Any exit will
cause the biggest disruptions to financial markets in Portugal,  Italy , Ireland, Greece and  Spain , said Halldahl. “The PIIGS
banks are definitely hooked on ECB funding, as is much of the
rest of the euro zone,” he said.  Addiction to ECB liquidity is “a problem” that “needs to
be tackled,” governing council member Ewald Nowotny said on
Sept. 6.  Given what happened in Sweden, “there is a risk in  Europe 
that the market is not prepared for this and that many banks are
going to be short of funding if spreads start getting wider,”
Buddgard said. The risk is that “it becomes self-fulfilling and
things will get really scary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  