-- Most Swiss Stocks Gain; Credit Suisse, UBS Climb as Julius Baer Decreases
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-08T15:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-julius-baer-falls-as-credit-suisse-gains.html
Most stocks in Switzerland advanced,
as the shares of the nation’s largest banks increased, sending
the benchmark Swiss Market Index close to its highest level in
six months.  Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-largest Swiss lender,
gained 1.5 percent and UBS AG, the biggest, rose 0.8 percent.
 Cosmo Pharmaceuticals SpA  jumped 3.3 percent after an
experimental colitis drug met the primary endpoint in a study.
Julius Baer Group Ltd. fell 2.8 percent as BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research lowered its recommendation on the shares.  The  SMI  rose 0.2 percent to 6,597.8 at 4:21 p.m. in Zurich,
as two stocks gained for each one that fell. The SMI jumped 1.8
percent last week, its largest weekly climb since Sept. 3, after
the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries to boost the economy, a tactic known as quantitative
easing. The gauge has surged 11 percent since its low this year
on July 5. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  added 0.1 percent
today.  “European markets have advanced solidly after the Fed’s
quantitative easing announcement,”  Dale Gibson , head of
European equity sales at Raymond James Financial Inc. in London,
said. “It’s difficult to predict the precise outcome of last
week’s injection. People have been bamboozled by headlines and
by sums of money and how they will affect the economy. Equities
are the natural asset of choice in anticipation of an
inflationary environment.”  Credit Suisse, Cosmo  Credit Suisse advanced 1.5 percent to 42.51 Swiss francs,
its third straight gain. UBS rose 0.8 percent to 17.38 francs.  Cosmo Pharmaceuticals  jumped 3.3 percent to 18.80 francs.
The company’s experimental ulcerative colitis medicine
budesonide MMX met the primary endpoint of a late stage study.
Cosmo said in a statement today it will file the treatment for
approval in the U.S. and Europe in 2011. [bn:WBTKR=SYST:VX]   Synthes Inc. [], the maker of devices to treat spinal
injuries, added 1.5 percent to 120.90 francs. The company said
it acquired The Anspach Effort Inc., a Palm Beach Gardens,
Florida, company, to establish a high-speed surgical power tools
unit. Synthes does not expect the deal to affect earnings,
except for “small” one-time costs next year to build a global
distribution network, the company said.  Oil services company Transocean rose 2.8 percent to 63.35
francs. In the U.S., the presidential panel investigating BP
Plc’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has found no evidence that
the international oil company’s employees made decisions that
favored money over safety, Chief Counsel  Fred Bartlit  said
today. Transocean leased the Deepwater Horizon oil rig to BP.  “We have not seen a single instance where a human being
made a conscious decision to favor dollars to safety,” Bartlit
said today at a commission hearing in Washington.  Julius Baer declined 2.8 percent to 40.36 francs. Shares in
the 120-year-old Swiss private bank were cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.  “Relative valuation will prevent Julius Baer from
outperforming over the medium term,” the brokerage wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 