-- Sydney Opera House Luxury-Home Auction Hurt by Rate Increase
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-11-09T01:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/sydney-opera-house-luxury-home-auction-hurt-by-central-bank-rate-increase.html
A luxury home auction at the  Sydney
Opera House  yesterday managed to sell only two of the 11
Australian homes on offer as the most aggressive round of
interest rate increases by a Group of 20 member saps demand.  The auction, in a housing market the International Monetary
Fund said may be overvalued by as much as 15 percent, raised
A$4.11 million ($4.15 million), a fraction of the A$30 million
of properties on sale. They included 10 homes in New South Wales,
five of which were in Sydney, and one in Brisbane, and were
valued at A$2 million to A$10 million each, according to Ray
White, the biggest property broker in Australia and New Zealand.  “House prices have been going sideways since June,” said
 Alan Oster , chief economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.
“You’ve got interest rates that are going up and have further
to go, and that’s not helping.”  The Reserve Bank of Australia raised its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 4.75 percent on Nov.
2 and said it welcomed a cooling of house prices, even as home-
price growth slowed for a third straight quarter from July to
September. Auction clearance rates averaged 54.7 percent across
Australia’s eight capital cities during the Nov. 5 weekend,
compared with an average of 63.8 percent the weekend of May 29,
according to data from real estate research group RP Data.  Home values in the top 20 percent of Australian suburbs by
price fell 2 percent in the three months to July, compared with
declines of less than 0.7 percent for the rest of the market,
according to an RP Data-Rismark index.  Rates hit  Last week, “the Reserve Bank seemed to give the indication
that they were keen to keep the lid on prices, and that’s not
what buyers want to hear,”  Brian White , chairman of the  Ray
White Group , which organized the event, said in an interview
after the auction. “That’s a very bearish sentiment.”  With Sydney’s median home price at A$506,000 in the three
months to September, according to RP Data, even buyers of
properties in the low millions could be susceptible to rising
interest rates, White and Oster said.  Ray White is in talks with potential buyers and expects to
sell three more of the properties in “the next couple of
days,” White said. He said he had hoped to sell at least five
houses during the auction.  More than 100 people turned up to the event, the first Ray
White auction to be held at the Opera House, which was marketed
both domestically and internationally. About 20 were registered
bidders, according to Chief Auctioneer Sam Kelso.  Brisk Start  After a brisk start -- with two parties almost doubling the
opening price to A$1.56 million for a  country home  in Mittagong
in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales -- the next seven
properties either received low offers or none at all. The other
successful offer was a A$2.55 million bid for a  riverfront 
development in Birdwood, 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of
Sydney.  Some properties -- including a six-bedroom rural  lakefront
home  with a tennis court, billiards room, pool and sauna in
Tuncurry, about 300 kilometers north of Sydney, and a  three-
level home  with under-floor heating and a 12-person lift in
Blakehurst, a south Sydney suburb -- failed to receive any bids.  Sellers Disappointed  Others, such as a seven-acre, five-bedroom  estate  in
Belrose, in Sydney’s northern beaches, and the five- bedroom
Brisbane penthouse apartment  that included full butler’s
quarters and three outdoor entertaining areas, received bids
that didn’t meet the owners’ expectations. The only offer for
the Belrose property was A$3.4 million, A$500,000 below the
owner’s price, and the highest bid for the Brisbane apartment
was A$3.5 million, missing the seller’s A$4.3 million
expectation.  The broker expects more interest in the remaining
properties in the coming month, White said. The company plans to
hold similar auctions each November and March.  More sellers are now putting prime properties up for sale
than at the start of the year, according to Ray White.  “With the top end of the market toughening a little bit,
we wanted to offer our top-end clients a point of difference,”
Kelso said in a telephone interview on Nov. 5.  Luxury properties are taking longer to sell and about 25
percent fewer homes are changing hands than 18 months ago,
though there is still demand, Bill Malouf, principal at real-
estate chain LJ Hooker in the eastern Sydney suburb of Double
Bay, said last month.  Acute Shortage  An “acute” housing shortage, credit constraints and
income growth will keep Australian home prices from falling,
 Westpac Banking Corp.  said on Oct. 28, joining  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia  in refuting speculation about a bubble. Preliminary
results of a stress test on mortgages by Fitch Ratings found
banks could handle an unlikely worst-case loan default scenario.  Bidders based in Singapore, China and Indonesia expressed
interest in the properties following Ray White’s marketing
campaign in Asia, White said yesterday.  Johann Boyke Nurtanio, who works for Ray White in Indonesia
and attended the auction, said he’s on the lookout for
properties in Australia priced at A$500,000 to A$2 million for
clients whose children are considering attending university in
the country.  Ray White isn’t the only group trying to draw overseas
buyers, even after a change in rules by the federal government
in April made it more difficult for foreigners to invest in
Australian properties. Colliers International is holding a
property exhibition in Hong Kong to market its new Dominion
residential estate in Darlinghurst, an inner suburb of Sydney,
on Nov. 13 and 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 