-- First-Time Homebuyers in U.K. Return After Prices Decline, Rightmove Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-08T17:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/u-k-first-time-homebuyers-return-on-price-drop-rightmove-says.html
The number of Britons planning to buy
a home for the  first time  has increased as the prospect of
falling prices bolsters demand,  Rightmove Plc  said.  The proportion of people who intend to buy a home in the
coming 12 months and who will be making their first purchase
rose to 26 percent, Rightmove said in an e-mailed statement in
London today, citing an October survey. That compares with 22
percent found in a study conducted in July, said the operator of
Britain’s biggest property website.  U.K. house prices have declined in the past six months as
more homes were put on sale and the planned biggest budget
squeeze since World War II that will wipe out almost half a
million public-sector jobs hurt demand. The number of  first-time
buyers  expecting values to drop in the next year surged to 32
percent from 20 percent in July’s survey, Rightmove said.  While there are “tentative signs” of a recovery in the
total number of potential homebuyers, the proportion of first-
time buyers identified in  Rightmove ’s October survey was still
lower than the 28 percent found a year earlier, the company
said.  The most recent first-time homebuyer data are part of
Rightmove’s fourth-quarter consumer-confidence survey, which
questioned 25,584 people between Oct. 4 and Oct. 18.  A first-time buyer in London still needs to have an annual
income of almost 100,000 pounds ($161,000) in order to buy an
average priced home in the city, the National Housing Federation
said today in an e-mailed statement. To be able to afford a home
valued in the bottom quartile in the U.K. capital, a potential
buyer would require a salary of more than 50,000 pounds a year,
the group said, citing its Home Truths London 2010 survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  