-- First-Time Mortgage Defaults in U.S. Rise for 1st Time in Year
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-08T20:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/u-s-initial-mortgage-defaults-rise-for-first-time-in-year-amherst-says.html
The pace of defaults among U.S.
homeowners who’ve never fallen two months behind on mortgages
backing so-called non-agency securities is increasing for the
first time in a year, according to  Amherst Securities Group LP .  First-time defaults rose to 1.1 percent of previously
“always performing” mortgages based on payments due in
September, up from 1 percent the prior month, according to a
report from the Austin, Texas-based securities firm.  The rate had been as high as 2.5 percent early last year,
then declined even as the  employment rate  hovered near a 26-year
high. While the recent rise probably relates in part to seasonal
patterns, it also suggests renewed drops in home prices may
cause more homeowners to stop paying, Amherst analyst  Laurie Goodman  said.  “Negative equity is the single most important driver of
defaults,” Goodman said in a telephone interview, referring to
borrowers who owe more than their properties are worth. “We’ve
got to see what happens over the next few months.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose central
bank last week announced plans to buy an additional $600 billion
of Treasuries to bolster the economy, is among those concerned
that such homeowners may fuel additional defaults.  “More than 20 percent of borrowers owe more than their
home is worth, and an additional 33 percent have equity cushions
of 10 percent or less, putting them at risk should house prices
decline much further,” Bernanke said on Oct. 25. “With housing
markets still weak, high levels of mortgage distress may well
persist for some time to come.”  Home Prices  Home prices in 20 of the largest U.S. metropolitan areas
declined 0.49 percent in July and August after the expiration of
tax credits for buyers, according to the latest seasonally
adjusted S&P/Case-Shiller index data. Values are down almost 29
percent from their 2006 peak.  Outstanding mortgages backing bonds in the market for non-
agency securities, which  grew  as large as $2.3 trillion in 2007,
have fallen to $1.4 trillion, or about 13 percent of the  total 
U.S. home-mortgage debt. Such bonds lack guarantees from
government-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or federal
agency Ginnie Mae. About $415 billion of the underlying loans
are nonperforming, according to Amherst.  Mortgage  delinquencies typically fall in the early and
middle parts of a year and rise in later months, a seasonality
stemming partly from income-tax refunds, employment patterns and
winter-holiday spending. Last year, first-time defaults on non-
agency loans rose starting in August before renewing their drops
a few months later, Amherst data show.  ‘Credit Burnout’  Analysts at Morgan Stanley and Nomura Securities
International Inc. said in reports that what’s often called
“credit burnout” will continue to limit first-time defaults as
homeowners who still haven’t fallen delinquent remain stronger
than those under pressure in the past. A “small” amount of the
drop over the past year has stemmed from adjustable-rate
mortgages resetting to lower payments,  Paul Nikodem  and  Sean Xie , the Nomura analysts, wrote in a Nov. 5 report.  For subprime loans, the increase last month was
“significantly more muted” than during similar times of the
year in the past, the Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Vishwanath Tirupattur  wrote today in a report. Rates at which Alt-A and
prime-jumbo mortgages first turned delinquent continued
declines, they wrote, though the latter loans were at about the
same level as a year ago after rising in the interim.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  