-- U.S. Says Europe Has No Alternative to Solving Debt Crisis
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-08T12:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/u-s-says-europe-has-no-alternative-to-joint-action-to-solve-debt-crisis.html
The European Union has no alternative
to the joint action needed to solve sovereign debt woes facing
some of its member countries, a U.S. official said today.  As a whole, the EU has plenty of financial savings and
capacity to act, the official told reporters, speaking on
condition of anonymity on the sidelines of appearances in New
Delhi today by President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner . The official expressed confidence that the
EU would be able to manage the issue.  Europe has seen an erosion of its progress in calming
investors about the risks of investing in debt from cash-
strapped countries like Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the
official said. Proposed conditions on future assistance,
intended to limit the costs of any rescue efforts, are scaring
investors and pushing borrowing costs up dramatically, the
official said.  For investors to ease up on the rates they require, they
need confidence that the EU won’t impose conditions that
resemble a default on countries that get into trouble, the
official said, adding that Europe needs to make sure the debt
woes don’t outpace efforts to find a solution.  Ireland led a surge in the cost of insuring sovereign debt
to a record on Nov. 5 as the government struggles to convince
investors it won’t be the next Greece, whose economy was rescued
by the EU and International Monetary Fund in May. The U.S.
comments come as Ireland is trying to win support this week from
the European Union to avoid a Greek-style bailout, as investors
balk at buying the country’s bonds.  The U.S. official also downplayed criticism of American
efforts to boost economic growth by German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble . The official said Schaeuble faces tensions
within Germany’s current governing coalition, as well as policy
differences between the finance ministry and the central bank.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has been
outspoken in his criticism of the Federal Reserve’s Nov.3
decision to pump $600 billion into the U.S. economy in an effort
to help the economy recover from recession. He said Nov. 5 in
Berlin that the Fed was “clueless” and the move wouldn’t stoke
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in New Delhi at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  