-- U.S. Steel Locks Out Canadian Workers Over Contract
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-08T21:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/u-s-steel-locks-out-canadian-workers-amid-contract-dispute.html
U.S. Steel Corp. , the country’s
largest producer of the metal by volume, locked out some
employees at a Canadian plant after their union blocked a vote
on the company’s most recent contract proposal.  The company told United Steelworkers of Canada yesterday
that employees at the Hamilton Works plant in Ontario would be
barred from working if Local 1005 didn’t permit members to vote
on its “final contract offer,” made on Nov. 4,   James Garraux ,
U.S. Steel’s general counsel, said in a statement.  About 900 of the plant’s 2,200 workers are affected by the
lockout. The union rejected the latest offer on Nov. 5.  “We made substantial concessions in our offer,” Garraux
said. “Our offer is fair and reasonable under the
circumstances.”  U.S. Steel is demanding concessions to the company’s
pension plan and that the plan be closed to new employees, Rolf
Gerstenberger, president of the  union local , said yesterday. The
union has been without a contract since July 31 and has proposed
that a new contract contain the same terms as the old agreement,
Gerstenberger said.  Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel said on Oct. 1 that it’s
closing the blast-furnace and steelmaking operations at Hamilton
Works because of lower demand.  The Canadian government is suing U.S. Steel, claiming the
company failed to maintain employment levels and steel
production at plants in Hamilton that it agreed to when
acquiring Stelco Inc. in 2007.  U.S. Steel fell 80 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $47.70 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares
have dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 