-- U.S. Stocks Retreat; Boeing, Home Depot Lead Declines in Dow
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-11-08T21:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-schlumberger-avon-products-fall-jds-gains.html
U.S. stocks fell, dragging benchmark
gauges down from two-year highs, as a five-week rally left the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at the highest valuation since May
and concerns over Irish debt curbed demand for riskier assets.  Travelers Cos., Boeing Co. and Home Depot Inc. led a drop
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , each sliding at least 1.3
percent. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. lost 4.3 percent after an
analyst suggested BHP Billiton Ltd. as a more likely suitor for
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. American International Group Inc.
slipped 2.1 percent after being removed from UBS AG’s “Short-
Term Buy” list.  The  S&P 500  decreased 0.2 percent to 1,223.25 at 4 p.m. in
New York, after earlier declining as much as 0.7 percent. The
 Dow  slipped 37.24 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,406.84. U.S.
stocks rallied last week as the Federal Reserve announced a $600
billion bond-purchase plan, employment increased more than
forecast and midterm elections produced a divided Congress.  “It looks like expectations have gotten ahead of
themselves,” said  Jeffrey Coons , president of Manning & Napier
Advisors Inc. in Fairport, New York, which manages $25 billion.
“The Fed announcement, the election results -- it doesn’t
really change the fundamentals of the environment, the weak
economic growth and a very aggressive Fed policy.”  Dollar Rebounds  The Dow rallied to its highest level since before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy on Nov. 5, while the
S&P 500 capped a fifth straight weekly advance to close at the
highest level since the week after the Lehman filing. The
advance left the S&P 500 trading at 14.4 times estimated
earnings over the next year, its most expensive since mid-May.  The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six
major peers, slumped to its low for 2010 on Nov. 4 after the Fed
announced plans to pump more cash into the economy. The gauge
rebounded 0.6 percent to 77.031 today, with the dollar
strengthening against the euro for a second day as EU Economic
and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  traveled to Ireland
to examine government budget plans.  “We had a spike last week after a series of up days, but
the dollar strength this morning gets everybody looking at their
screen and thinking to maybe take a little bit off,” said  Liam Dalton , president of Axiom Capital Management Inc. in New York,
which oversees $1.4 billion. “There are elements keeping stocks
from running meaningfully higher -- issues related to the debt
overhang, U.S. and European. It’s not a clean picture. We’re
heading into the reality of what some of the restraining factors
are.”  Irish Debt Concerns  Rehn will be in Dublin for two days after the Irish
government laid out a plan last week to cut spending and raise
taxes by as much as 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) in 2011.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said last week that European
bondholders should share the cost of any restructuring, rather
than leaving taxpayers “on the hook.”  The market rally that began in September may last until the
beginning of 2011, when investors should become more careful if
the economic data don’t support continued gains for equities,
according to  Barry Knapp , chief U.S. equity strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. He forecasts that the S&P 500 will end
the year at 1,250, or 2.2 percent above today’s close.  “Quantitative easing, and what it means for stock prices
and riskier assets, and a resolution of the tax issue will
probably continue to push stock prices into the new year,”
Knapp said in an interview with  Scarlet Fu  on Bloomberg
Television. “At that point we would get considerably more
cautious.”  The  S&P 500  has gained 17 percent since the end of August
as earnings per share have topped estimates at 76 percent of the
414 companies in the S&P 500 that have announced results since
Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Net income has
grown 30 percent for the group as sales increased 9.8 percent.  Boeing, Home Depot  Travelers Cos. fell 1.5 percent to $56.58, the first drop
in four days.  Boeing  declined 1.5 percent to $70.21, while Home
Depot slipped 1.4 percent to $31.49. The largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer was cut to “market perform” from
“strong buy” by Raymond James & Associates.  Anadarko Petroleum slid 4.3 percent to $64.71. Sanford C.
Bernstein said BHP Billiton is a “more likely bidder” for
Woodside Petroleum. Last week, UBS named both Anadarko and
Woodside as takeover targets for BHP.  Warner Chilcott Plc declined the most in the Russell 1000
Index, sliding 14 percent to $20.15. The pharmaceutical company
focused on women’s health care reduced its 2010  revenue forecast 
and said sales next year will decrease.  AIG sank 2.1 percent to $44.63. The insurer rescued by the
U.S. was removed from UBS’s “Short-Term Buy” list as the
shares reflect much of the value of the warrants to be given to
existing common stockholders, the bank said.  HP, Bank of America  Hewlett-Packard advanced 1.2 percent to $44.25 after being
added as a “Short-Term Buy” by UBS.  Bank of America Corp. rose 1.9 percent to $12.60, the
 biggest gain  in the Dow. Morgan Stanley said shares of the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based firm will likely rise over the
next 60 days following the Nov. 4 dismissal of a Maine lawsuit
and improving credit in master trust.  JDS Uniphase Corp., a maker of fiber-optic equipment,
jumped 4.9 percent to $11.96, after earlier rising as much as
8.3 percent, the most intraday since May 10. Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Waechter  told Barron’s magazine that broadband
capacity demand is “growing faster than any of the carriers can
respond to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 