-- Hungary's Budget Deficit May Drop to 2.4% of GDP Next Year, Council Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-08T15:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/hungary-s-budget-deficit-may-drop-to-2-4-of-gdp-next-year-council-says.html
Hungary is overdoing revenue
generation for next year and may undershoot its budget-deficit
goal by half a percentage point of economic output, according to
the  Fiscal Council , the independent watchdog.  The  shortfall  may narrow to 2.4 percent of gross domestic
product next year from an estimated 3.7 percent this year, the
Fiscal Council said today in a report. The government’s target
for 2011 is 2.94 percent.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is levying a three-year tax on
selected industries starting this year and using private pension
funds to plug budget holes from a reduction of the personal
income tax to a flat 16 percent next year.  “It sounds more and more like overkill on the budget,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based economist at Nomura
International, said in an e-mail. “It raises questions as to
exactly why they are doing so much growth-negative policy it is
now so likely that they will meet the target even under lower
revenue assumptions.”  The forint traded at 274.52 per euro at 3:40 p.m. today,
compared with 273.94 late on Nov. 5.  The economy may grow 2.8 percent next year, compared with
0.9 percent this year, the Fiscal Council said. That compares
with a government forecast of 0.8 percent for 2010 and 3 percent
for 2011.  Industry Tax Income  Hungary expects 343 billion forint ($1.7 billion) from the
taxes on financial, energy, telecommunications and retail
companies this year. Income from the tax “may improve” the
country’s market credibility and lead to a lower interest-rate
premium on government debt, the Fiscal Council said.  The Cabinet is also counting on as many as 90 percent of
members of mandatory private pension funds returning their
portfolios to the state by the end of 2011, after a government
drive to convince them that their savings are safer there.  Private pension fund members have amassed a total of 2.7
trillion forint in savings.  The government plans to use 540 billion forint of the
returning portfolios to plug holes in the state retirement fund,
in addition to the 360 billion forint that will come from the
redirection of next year’s social security payments from private
funds to the state, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on
Oct. 30.  “The 2011 budget gap goal could be met if revenue were 0.5
percentage point of GDP less,” the Fiscal Council said in its
report.  Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 3 said the government’s measures
were “largely ad hoc” and failed to address the “structural
deficit,” which may lead to the shortfall rising to 6 percent of
economic output by 2014.  Next year’s budget faces “serious risks” as the
government’s accounting methods or the special taxes may be
overruled by local or European Union authorities, Budapest-based
economic research institute  GKI  said in an e-mail today.  Hungary’s market financing may become significantly more
expensive or “outright impossible” from 2012 unless the
government overhauls state spending and manages to convince
markets of fiscal sustainability, GKI said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  