-- Munich Re May Say Third-Quarter Profit Declined on Lower Investment Gains
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-11-08T07:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/munich-re-may-say-quarterly-net-income-declined-on-lower-investment-gains.html
Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer, may say third-quarter profit declined on lower income
from investments.  Net income attributable to shareholders probably fell to
571 million euros ($796 million) from 643 million euros in the
year-earlier period, according to the  average estimate  of six
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  That would bring nine-month profit to 1.8 billion euros,
close to Munich Re’s target for full-year  net income before
minority interests  of more than 2 billion euros. The Munich-
based company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Nikolaus von Bomhard , in August said the goal was “ambitious but within
reach.” Reinsurers help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE 
shoulder risks for clients.  Munich Re resumed plans to buy back as much as 1 billion
euros of its own shares by the 2011 shareholders’ meeting to woo
 investors , including  Warren Buffett  and asset manager  BlackRock
Inc.  Billionaire investor Buffett last month raised his stake in
Munich Re to more than 10 percent.  Buffett also holds about 3 percent in  Swiss Reinsurance
Co. , the world’s second-largest reinsurer. The Zurich-based
company said Nov. 4 that it agreed to an early repayment of 3
billion Swiss francs ($3.1 billion) of capital injected by
Buffett last year.  Munich Re’s investment income probably fell to 2.11 billion
euros, according to the analysts’ estimates, while spending on
claims and costs as a percentage of property and casualty
reinsurance premiums may have worsened to 94.7 percent.  Combined Ratio  The reinsurer’s target for a combined ratio of about 97
percent is “likely to be exceeded significantly in 2010,” it
said in August, citing the first half’s costly natural
catastrophes including the Chile earthquake.  As capacity for reinsurance coverage meets or slightly
exceeds demand from primary insurers, rates for property and
casualty reinsurance are likely to remain unchanged in the
January round of renewals, Munich Re said on Oct. 25, echoing
comments from rival  Hannover Re .  The following is a table of analysts’ projections and year-
earlier figures. Munich Re revised last year’s numbers to
reflect changes in reporting standards and in its segment
reporting. The figures, except the combined ratio, are in
millions of euros. The reinsurer plans to report results on Nov.
9 before stock markets open in Germany.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  