-- UPS Sells Debt to Fund Pensions as U.S. Corporate Volume Hits $1 Trillion
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-11-08T22:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/ups-sells-debt-to-fund-pensions-as-u-s-corporate-volume-hits-1-trillion.html
United Parcel Service Inc. , the
world’s largest package-delivery business, sold $2 billion of
bonds to pay for pension-fund contributions as dollar-
denominated corporate bond sales reached $1 trillion for 2010.  Companies including Becton Dickinson Co.,  Boston Properties
Inc. ,  Icahn Enterprises LP  and AutoZone Inc. have sold or are
expecting to price $13.8 billion of bonds today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That will make this the ninth-
busiest day of the year, and mark the most volume since Nov. 4,
when issuance was $15.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Issuance jumped as investment-grade borrowing costs hover
near the lowest on record, Bloomberg data show. Sales this year
compare with $1.1 trillion in the similar period of 2009, when
volume was boosted by government-guaranteed debt. Companies are
selling bonds after the Federal Reserve announced a second round
of Treasury purchases, a midterm election divided Congress and
third-quarter earnings reports come to an end, said  Rajeev Sharma  of First Investors Management in New York.  “Companies are looking at rates being historically
extremely low, and now is the time to take advantage of that,”
said Sharma, a money manager who helps oversee $1.4 billion of
investment-grade debt. The Fed announcement is “a good argument
that rates could go even lower,” he said.  At least eight companies boosted the size of their
offerings today, Bloomberg data show. That’s a good barometer of
demand from investors, Sharma said.  $1 Trillion  This marks the fourth time that annual volume has surpassed
$1 trillion, according to Bloomberg data since 1999. Companies
issued $991.9 billion of bonds in 2010 through Nov. 5, the data
show.  UPS sold debt due in 2021 and 2040 to fund domestic pension
plans whose contributions are otherwise payable over five years,
the Atlanta-based company said today in a regulatory filing, as
corporations face increasing retirement obligations in the
future.  A $1.5 billion portion of notes due in January 2021 yield
65 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, and $500
million of 30-year bonds pay a spread of 85 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  UPS Chief Financial Officer  Kurt Kuehn  said in an Oct. 21
conference call that the company’s pension expenses may be
“volatile” in 2011 as discount rates tumble to “the lowest in
recent history.” U.S. corporate pension plans fell this year
into their biggest financial hole ever because interest rates
plummeted to 1960s levels, according to  David Bianco , chief U.S.
equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  ‘Stepped-Up Contributions’  “One should fully expect a continuation of stepped-up
contributions throughout the balance of this year,” said
 Kenneth Hackel , president of Alpine, New Jersey-based research
and consulting firm CT Capital LLC. “The ramifications are much
bigger than investors realize.”  UPS’s U.S. pensions were underfunded by $2.41 billion on
Dec. 31, 2009, and by $3.49 billion a year earlier, according to
its most recent annual report.  The numbers compare with overfunding of $2.49 billion in
December 2007, according to the company’s 2008 annual report.
UPS has pension funding commitments of about $1 billion a year
through 2012. The amount declines to $509 million in 2013, it
said in the 2009 report.  The gap between pension-fund assets and projected payouts
widened to $380 billion this year for companies in the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index , Bianco estimated in an Oct. 29 report. The
shortfall worsened as interest rates fell, he wrote.  Norman Black , a spokesman for UPS, said he couldn’t discuss
details of how the company plans to use the proceeds.  Bond Yields  Investment-grade corporate bond yields fell to 3.53 percent
on Nov. 4, the lowest on record, after rising to 3.57 percent on
Nov. 5, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The  S&P
500 Index  has returned 11.5 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends.  Many investors are assuming that because the S&P 500 is up
this year that companies “are bailed out from making additional
stepped-up contributions,” Hackel said. “The decline in bond
yields has completely overridden the advance in stock markets
this year.”  “A side effect of companies reducing the risk of their
pension funds is their returns are declining as well,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “In order to compensate
for declining returns, companies need to provide increasing
funding for their pensions.”  Boston Properties  Boston Properties, the U.S. office real estate investment
trust led by  Mortimer Zuckerman , sold $850 million of notes;
billionaire  Carl Icahn ’s Icahn Enterprises issued $500 million
of bonds in a reopening and AutoZone, the biggest U.S. auto-
parts retailer, sold $500 million of debt, Bloomberg data show.  Companies’ $15.8 billion of issuance on Nov. 4 was the most
since Sept. 8, the busiest day this year, Bloomberg data show.  UPS last issued debt in March 2009, when the company sold
$2 billion of 5- and 10-year notes, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Pension plans are 77 percent funded at S&P 500 companies
this year, down from 82 percent at the end of last year, Bianco
estimated. The percentage is the lowest since at least 1994,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  