-- Mutual Funds Seek to Avoid Risk Supervision by Fed
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-09T18:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/mutual-funds-should-be-excluded-from-fed-supervision-industry-lobby-says.html
Mutual funds pose little threat to
the U.S. financial system and should remain beyond the reach of
Federal Reserve oversight, the firms’s lobbying group said.  “Many characteristics of funds -- including their simple
capital structure, limited used of leverage and comprehensive
regulatory scheme -- put funds at the ‘less risky’ end of the
spectrum when considering the potential for systemic risk,” the
 Washington-based Investment Company Institute  said in a letter
sent to the  Financial Stability Oversight Council .  The oversight council, created by the Dodd-Frank financial
overhaul law, has the authority to recommend that the Fed and
other agencies toughen rules to reduce risk at banks as well as
non-bank financial firms.  U.S. bank holding companies with more than $50 billion in
assets -- about 35 in all, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  -- are automatically included. The
council, led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , will
rule next year on which, if any, mutual funds, hedge funds,
private-equity firms, life insurers and other companies need
extra oversight because they pose a potential risk to financial
stability.  The designation should be “reserved for those
circumstances, presumably quite limited,” when a company’s risk
isn’t addressed by current rules or regulations granted by Dodd-
Frank, ICI said in its Nov. 5 letter posted on a federal
government  website on regulations .  ‘No Single Factor’  “No single factor in isolation -- such as how ‘big’ a firm
is -- is sufficient,” the letter said. ICI’s members --
including mutual, closed-end and exchange-traded funds -- manage
assets of $12 trillion.  Vanguard Group Inc., Capital Group Cos., Franklin Resources
Inc., Fidelity Investments and Pacific Investment Management Co.
are among the largest U.S. mutual fund companies.  Because money-market funds are a type of mutual fund, the
firms shouldn’t have a “blanket exemption,” said Heather
Slavkin, senior legal and policy adviser at the AFL-CIO labor
federation’s investment office.  Money-market funds have been under scrutiny since the
September 2008 failure of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, whose value fell below the standard $1 a share. The fund’s
failure to meet redemptions sparked a run that helped freeze
global credit markets and prompted the Federal Reserve to
provide liquidity to money-market funds.  “If a class of financial institutions received government
support during the financial crisis, there should be a strong
presumption that they can pose a systemic threat,” Slavkin
said.  Increased Supervision  Geithner said Sept. 30 that bailed-out insurer American
International Group Inc. and GE Capital, General Electric Co.’s
finance arm, could be considered for increased supervision
because Dodd-Frank imposes stricter oversight on entities “that
are banks in all but name, whether you call them investment
banks, or AIG, or GE Capital.” Such firms may be forced to
“run with a much more conservative, prudent leverage and
funding mix,” Geithner said.  The council also includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  The group, for the past month, has been accepting public
comment on what criteria should be used to determine which
companies should be the target of increased oversight. It is
scheduled to meet again Nov. 23.  The council supplants the smaller President’s Working Group
on Financial Markets, formed in response to the October 1987
stock-market crash. It is has begun work on implementing the so-
called Volcker rule that bars bank holding companies from
trading for their own accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  