-- Vienna’s City Vineyards Turn Tavern Plonk Into Musical Whites
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2010-11-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/vienna-s-city-vineyards-turn-tavern-plonk-into-musical-whites-elin-mccoy.html
Beethoven composed part of his 9th
Symphony in a small apartment at the  Mayer am Pfarrplatz  winery.
Downstairs in its noisy tavern, with old paintings of antlered
animals and memorabilia of the composer, I’m dining on schnitzel
and gemischter satz, Vienna’s contribution to the wine world.  Light, tangy, fragrant and surprisingly complex, the best
examples of this white blend pair brilliantly with local
cuisine, and with music. They are the ideal sippers in the
barrel-laden cellar, where winemakers and other guests dance to
the echoing strains of Strauss.  The only world capital with major vineyards, Vienna grows
more than 600 hectares of vines inside the city limits, and its
vinous history goes back some 2,000 years. The Danube, which
bisects the city, creates perfect microclimates.  Traditionally, many white grape varieties, such as gruner
veltliner, pinot blanc, sylvaner, riesling, welschriesling and
about 20 more were planted, harvested and vinified together, to
make the gemischter satz field blends that were Vienna’s local
vino. In the last century, most were low-level plonk, poured
freely at “heurigen,’’ the popular taverns attached to
wineries. Producers didn’t even bother to bottle them.  Now a handful of estates in the city, like Mayer am
Pfarrplatz, are reviving gemischter satz as a high-quality wine.  Six young winemakers who make up the innovative  WienWein 
group, clad in black T-shirts complete with logo, pour their
delicious bottlings before and during dinner.  Soil Sensitive  “Gemischter Satz isn’t about the taste of a grape
variety,” explains Rainer Christ of  Weingut Christ , who makes
two. “The flavors show the fingerprint of the soil.’’  His classic 2009 Gemischter Satz ($15) is light, bright and
jazzy, while the 2009 Gemischter Satz Alte Reben Bisamberg
($30), from 60-year-old vines in one of Vienna’s top vineyards,
is riper and richer. Bisamberg’s sandy soils, he says, produce
wines with more fruit and freshness.  Each winery’s version includes a unique mix of grapes, so
all have slightly different characters. I’m also a fan of the
savory 2009 Rotes Haus Gemischter Satz Classic ($20) from the
city’s best vineyard, the Nussberg, a limestone-rich hill
speckled with fossilized seashells near the Danube that gives
wines more of a mineral taste.  Two days later, after a morning admiring paintings by
Breughel and Velasquez at the  Kunsthistorisches Museum  and
indulging in a Hauskaffee heaped with schlag sahne (whipped
cream) at the crowded Demel Konditorei, I head to the city’s
northern edge to meet with Fritz Wieninger, leader of the
movement to restore Vienna’s wine to its 19th-century glory.  Beer Mugs  Wieninger’s eponymous  family winery  is in a village at the
foot of the Bisamberg vineyard on the north side of the Danube.
For most of its century-long history, it was primarily a
heuriger.  People used any excuse to drink after World War II,
Wieninger explains, so heurigen boomed. In a single evening
theirs would sell 1,500 liters of cheap wine that drinkers
glugged from small glass beer mugs. But by the 1990s, people
were looking for quality rather than quantity.  Wieninger, 44, took over from his father in the 1980s and
started buying plots of the best vineyards. An experiment
convinced him that there was a future for gemischter satz, which
roughly translates as “mixed batch.” Five years ago he founded
the group dedicated to bringing it back.  This afternoon he’s in a celebratory mood. He and his team
brought in the last of 2010’s grapes three hours ago, just
before rain hit. In his messy office, he pulls out several
gemischter satz wines to taste.  Folk Music  My favorites are the intense, citrusy 2008 Nussberg Alte
Reben ($38); the rich, powerful 2009 Rosengartl Alte Reben; and
his wine-and-music bottling, 2008 Der Schrammler. This creamy
“composition’’ of the best gruner veltliner and gemischter satz
“reinterprets’’ the Viennese folk music played by the
 Philharmonia Schrammeln , a chamber group within the Vienna
Philharmonic.  I’m trying to process the idea that his lively wines are
produced a 25-minute drive from Sigmund Freud’s house.  Wieninger’s biggest vineyard headache turns out to be
people. “On weekends, thousands come out to walk by the vines
and they help themselves to grapes,” he says. “Some even bring
plastic bags to fill up.’’  The reason vineyards survive is because they’re part of
Vienna’s green belt, the vision of a forward-thinking mayor 100
years ago. Those walkers would protest if growers started
selling vineyard land worth 150,000 euros ($212,000) to 450,000
euros for 10 times that amount to real-estate developers.  We cross a courtyard filled with wet wooden tables and
barrels of drying flowers to the heuriger run by Wieninger’s
brother. The smoky connecting rooms are jammed with locals. A
stern blond woman behind a glass-encased buffet dishes out
schnitzel and potatoes.  An hour later, a bottle of gemischter satz in hand, I grab
a taxi back to my hotel. No Beethoven or Strauss on the driver’s
CD player, but that’s okay -- the wine also goes pretty well
with  Roy Orbison ’s “Only the Lonely.”  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure service of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 