-- Vodacom Profit Rises as Year-Ago Charges Not Repeated
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-08T07:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/vodacom-s-earnings-per-share-increases-by-38-4-in-six-months-to-sept-30.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. , the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to South Africans, said fiscal
first-half profit surged after year-earlier impairment and tax
charges weren’t repeated and it spent less on its network.  Net income climbed to 4.42 billion rand ($649.4 million) in
the six months through September, from 61 million rand a year
earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement to
the city’s stock exchange today. Sales rose 3 percent to 29.5
billion rand.  “We had solid revenue growth despite the negative impact
from lower mobile-termination rates in South Africa,” Chief
Executive Officer Pieter Uys said in an e-mailed statement. Data
sales jumped 41 percent while capital expenditure fell 30
percent to 2.06 billion rand.  A maturing voice-services market is forcing South African
mobile-phone companies to diversify services away from voice.
Mobile Internet services are being used for new growth and make
up for cuts regulators have made to the fees phone companies
charge to carry each other’s calls.  Earnings in the prior period were affected by the reversal
of a deferred tax asset in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
of 551 million rand, after operations in the Central African
country declined because of weakening commodity markets and
price competition from other operators.  Subscriptions in South Africa fell to 23.9 million from
28.2 million because of laws that require customers to be
registered or be disconnected. Vodacom is “hoping for a
positive confirmation that we will get an extension” of at
least six months on the Dec. 31 deadline for registrations, Uys
said on a conference call.  Subscribers in other parts of Africa grew about 16 percent
to 15.5 million users. Vodacom is 65 percent-held by Newbury,
England based  Vodafone Group Plc .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  