-- Vodacom Has Increased Appetite for Africa Expansion, Chief Executive Says
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-08T14:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/vodacom-ceo-has-increased-appetite-for-african-expansion.html
Vodacom Group Ltd.  Chief Executive
Officer  Pieter Uys  said growth opportunities in Africa, outside
the mobile-phone company’s South African home market, have
whetted his appetite for acquisitions.  The first quarterly growth in Vodacom’s international
operations after five consecutive quarters of negative growth
and the appointment of  Johan Dennelind  from Dec. 1 as manager
for the operations will give Uys more time to consider
strategies for expansion, he said in a phone interview today.  “I deliberately in the last 12 months did not focus on
expansion,” Uys said. “If the opportunity came we would have
looked at it, and we did look at Zain, but we did not send out a
whole troop of people around the continent, I focused on turning
around existing business outside South Africa.”  Vodacom, majority owned by  Vodafone Group Plc , would be
seeking to expand as intensifying competition from multiple
providers of mobile-phone services pulls down prices. That’s
forcing companies to develop in new markets and find more growth
engines.  The competitive environment has changed “dramatically,”
Uys said. Vodacom’s unit in Tanzania took 12 months to
reorganize to compete with  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  and  Millicom
International Cellular SA , which operate under the brand names
Zain and Tigo respectively. Tariffs have been cut by as much as
90 percent in the past 15 to 18 months, he said.  Tariffs were “5 shillings a second about 15 months ago, it
is now a shilling or below a shilling a second,” he said.
Tanzania is the largest of Vodacom’s operations outside of its
home market of South Africa.  Vodafone Connection  The need to focus on rebuilding the African operations,
including the Democratic Republic of Congo where Vodacom is
trying to resolve a shareholder dispute and find ways to fund
the unit’s growth, has hindered closer integration with  Vodafone
Group , which holds 65 percent of Vodacom.  Vodacom has not been “in a position that I could say to
Vodafone we are really on top of our international business,”
Uys said. “I haven’t approached them to see if we should
integrate closer through shareholding.”  Vodafone raised its stake to 65 percent from 50 percent in
Vodacom in November 2008 and Uys said six months later that
Vodafone will use Vodacom as  its vehicle  for expansion in
Africa. No acquisitions have been made yet. With a quarter of
positive growth and management support that may change.  “What will be different is that now that we have the
energy and the capacity to start looking wider than our existing
businesses we can at least go and see if there are
possibilities,” Uys said.  Angola, Ethiopia  There are some markets such as Malawi and “other countries
like Angola and Ethiopia with only one operator there and low
penetration levels,” he said.  He said the company would be interested if there is an
asset that’s not valued at 10 times  earnings before interest,
taxes depreciation and amortization  when Vodacom is trading at 5
times ebitda.  “We will look at it, but we are not going to throw away
shareholder money,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  