-- Vodafone's Colao May Boost Bet on Data as Voice Margins Decline
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-08T00:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/vodafone-s-colao-may-boost-bet-on-data-as-voice-margins-decline.html
Vodafone Group Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  made driving mobile data use a priority
shortly after taking over in 2008.  Two years after his first strategy review for the world’s
largest mobile-phone operator, he may tomorrow present a goal
that focuses on squeezing more profit out of growing data
revenue. On Colao’s watch, sales from mobile data have climbed
43 percent to 4 billion pounds ($6.5 billion).  “Colao will say this is a bigger opportunity than we
thought initially and will stress Vodafone’s ability to
capitalise on that,” said  Will Draper , an analyst at Execution
Noble in London, who rates the stock a “buy.” “It’s more
sharpening up the message and talking up the opportunity.”  Vodafone, like all phone operators faced with falling
margins on traditional voice offerings, has pushed smartphones
and invested in networks to ride the wave of demand for data-
hungry services such as the Internet, music and video on mobile
devices. The sale of  Apple Inc.’s  iPhones helped it return to
service revenue growth in the quarter ended June following 1 ½
years of declines.  Now, Colao needs to turn the rising sales into margin
growth. “The data bet is the right bet,” Colao said in July.
“Two years down the road, it’s about time to refresh and
update” the strategy.  Earnings Expectations  Vodafone, based in Newbury, England, may say tomorrow that
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the first half ended Sept. 30 fell 2.3 percent to 7.29
billion pounds ($11.8 billion) even as sales rose, according to
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales may have risen 2.8 percent
to 22.4 billion pounds from 21.8 billion pounds a year earlier.  In the year ended March, the Ebitda margin fell by 2.2
percentage points to 33.1 percent.  “First of all they have got to protect the margins,” said
 Derek Mitchell , a fund manager at Royal London Asset Management,
who said he sold all his Vodafone shares in the summer. “In the
telecoms industry it’s been downwards for perhaps too long.”  Vodafone shares  have advanced 21 percent this year, making
them the second-best performers on the Stoxx 600
Telecommunications Index after Tele2 AB of Sweden. Deutsche
Telekom AG shares are little changed and Telefonica has dropped
1.4 percent in the same period.  Vodafone plans to increase the percentage of sales from
smartphones in Europe to about 70 percent in the fiscal year
2012 to 2013 from 30 percent in 2010, it said in September.  Tiered Pricing  The company also intends to switch to tiered pricing plans
based on the amount of data use and quality of service from its
fiscal third quarter, Colao said in September at a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. conference in New York.  “I hope they find a method to make customers pay for
data,” said  Ulf Moritzen , who helps manage 1 billion euros
($1.4 billion) at Hamburg-based Aramea Asset Management
including Vodafone shares. “They still seem to be in a downward
spiral with everything getting cheaper.”  Last week, Deutsche Telekom AG reported declining operating
profit on costs to subsidise mobile phones in the U.S.  About 11 percent of Vodafone’s users have smartphones. The
company, which initially missed out on selling iPhones in the
U.K. to  Telefonica SA’s  O2, is now offering the device in its
home market and in Germany and the Netherlands.  Vodafone is seeking to roll out networks to support the
increased demand for data and can start to “make the arguments
for network investment as core to their business,” according to
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein.  Verizon, SFR  In Italy, Vodafone signed an agreement with Huawei
Technologies Co. to invest 1 billion euros in mobile broadband
coverage over three-to-four years.  The investments will come as Colao determines the company’s
priority areas and gets out of businesses that are not central
to Vodafone’s growth.  Vodafone in September sold a stake in China Mobile Ltd. for
$6.5 billion in the biggest divestment since Colao took charge.  The CEO is also reviewing stakes in French mobile-phone
company SFR and U.S. operator Verizon Wireless and is
considering a sale of Vodafone’s holding in Polkomtel SA,
Poland’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  “We’ve seen the first move created by shareholders and the
disposal of China Mobile,” Royal London’s Mitchell said.
“Tidying up their portfolio will enable them to concentrate on
assets that they can start to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 