-- Warsh Says Federal Reserve's Asset Purchases May Fail to Benefit Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-11-08T22:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/warsh-says-federal-reserve-s-asset-purchases-may-fail-to-benefit-economy.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Kevin Warsh 
said he’s concerned the central bank’s expansion of record
stimulus may spark too much inflation, fail to aid growth and
delay any plans to reduce U.S. indebtedness.  “I am less optimistic than some that additional asset
purchases will have significant, durable benefits for the real
economy,” Warsh said today in a speech in New York. “Of
course, benefits may well be more substantial than I
anticipate.”  Warsh’s comments suggest his vote Nov. 3 to support the
Fed’s $600 billion of additional Treasury purchases was
reluctant. Further disagreement came today from Dallas Fed
Richard Fisher, who said the Fed is “monetizing” the
government’s debt by printing money to finance the shortfall.  “When non-traditional tools are needed to loosen policy
and markets are functioning more or less normally -- even with
output and employment below trend -- the risk-reward ratio for
policy action is decidedly less favorable,” Warsh said at the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association’s annual
meeting. “These risks increase with the size of the Federal
Reserve’s balance sheet.  “As a result, we cannot and should not be as aggressive as
conventional policy rules -- cultivated in more benign
environments -- might judge appropriate,” Warsh said. The
remarks are an expanded version of an opinion column published
today in the Wall Street Journal.  Entire Amount  Warsh’s comments mean it may not be a sure thing for the
Fed to purchase the entire $600 billion amount of securities,
said  John Ryding , a former Fed researcher.  “You can chalk his speech up as a soft dissent,” said
Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York. “He’s
raising serious concerns and questions of the kind that weren’t
raised by some of the other members of the FOMC when talking
about the potential costs.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week defended the decision,
saying Nov. 6 that the “standard considerations suggest that we
should be using expansionary monetary policy” and that the move
was “nothing extraordinary.”  Fisher said in a San Antonio speech that the Fed may be
prescribing the “wrong medicine” for the economy.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, said in New York that
the central bank’s decision will probably stimulate the economy
as soon as six months from now.  Hoenig Dissent  Bullard voted Nov. 3 to support the move, while Fisher
isn’t a voting policy maker this year. Kansas City Fed President
 Thomas Hoenig  was the only official to dissent in the 10-1
decision. Fed governors and five of 12 regional Fed presidents
vote at each meeting; there’s one vacancy among the seven
governors.  The minutes from the FOMC meeting, scheduled to be released
on Nov. 24, “will try to provide some clarity over the nature
of disagreement” among  policy makers , Warsh said in response to
audience questions after his speech. Overall, “my colleagues
are remarkably focused on our statutory mandate” of price
stability and full employment, he said.  Warsh’s skepticism about asset purchases isn’t new. In
June, he said any decision to expand the $2.3 trillion balance
sheet must be subject to “strict scrutiny.”  In today’s speech, he reiterated points from the column
that the Nov. 3 decision wasn’t unconditional or open-ended and
that the move is “necessarily limited, circumscribed and
subject to regular review.”  Potential Risks  “Policies should be altered if certain objectives are
satisfied, purported benefits disappoint, or potential risks
threaten to materialize,” Warsh said.  The Fed won’t bring down the U.S. unemployment rate to its
natural level without reforms in fiscal, trade and regulatory
policies, Warsh said in response to questions.  “Monetary policy cannot do it alone,” he said. The Fed
“should not be overpromising.”  The expanded stimulus carries “significant risks that bear
careful monitoring,” including inflation from a weaker dollar
and higher commodity prices, he said. In addition, buying more
Treasuries “also runs the more subtle risk of obfuscating price
signals about total U.S. indebtedness,” he said.  “Long-term economic growth necessitates putting the U.S.
fiscal trajectory on a sounder footing,” Warsh said. “The
fiscal authorities need as clear an early warning system as
possible, not a handy excuse to delay.”  Treasury Yields  Kurt Karl , chief U.S. economist at Swiss Re Financial
Products in New York, said he didn’t think Warsh’s reservations
would change the course of the Fed in deciding next year whether
to expand the second round of asset purchases. Bonds “didn’t
move much today” in response to the remarks, he said. The 10-
year Treasury yield rose 0.02 percentage point to 2.55 percent
at 5:07 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.  “If it’s very successful, I think dissent will diminish
enormously, and if it looks like there’s another one necessary,
then we’ll have another one,” Karl said, referring to the
program of asset purchases.  Warsh, 40, a former Morgan Stanley investment banker and
economic-policy adviser under President  George W. Bush , was
appointed to the Fed in 2006 and worked closely with Bernanke on
the response to the financial crisis in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  