-- Wheat Futures Climb to Four-Week High Before USDA Report on Grain Supplies
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-08T20:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/wheat-futures-climb-to-four-week-high-before-usda-report-on-grain-supplies.html
Wheat rose to a four-week high on
speculation that a U.S. government report tomorrow will show
shrinking domestic and world grain supplies.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture may say that global
wheat inventories will total 173.53 million metric tons (6.38
billion bushels) on May 31, down 0.6 percent from an October
forecast, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The estimate for
U.S. corn production may be cut for a third straight month after
adverse weather curbed yields, according to the survey.  Traders are “not looking for a lot of changes in wheat,
but they are looking for big changes in corn, and that will
affect wheat,” said  Mike Zuzolo , the president of Global
Commodity Analytics & Consulting in Lafayette, Indiana. The
crops are used in livestock feed and compete for acreage in the
U.S.  Wheat futures for December delivery rose 7.5 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $7.3625 bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Earlier, the price climbed to $7.39, the highest
level for a most-active contract since Oct. 11.  Corn futures for March delivery fell 0.4 percent to $5.9925
a bushel. Earlier, the price rose as much as 0.7 percent.  Wheat futures have jumped 53 percent since the end of June
after a drought slashed output in Russia and Eastern Europe,
eroding world supplies. The USDA will update its crop outlook at
8:30 a.m. tomorrow in Washington.  Earlier, wheat dropped as much as 1.1 percent on
speculation that rain will improve crop prospects, Zuzolo said.  Kansas, Colorado  Parts of central Kansas, the largest winter-wheat producing
state, may receive 0.75 inch (1.9 centimeters) in the next 10
days, while areas of Colorado may get as much as 0.5 inch, said
 David Streit , an agricultural meteorologist at the Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “We will see beneficial moisture for some areas,” Streit
said. “The problem is, we’re also going to be significantly
colder once those systems go by, and it will push crops into
dormancy. They may no longer be able to take full advantage of
that moisture.”  Some growing areas in the Great Plains got as little as 5
percent of the normal amount of rainfall in the past 30 days,
Streit said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 