-- When a Tax Is a Tax May Be Pivotal Issue for U.S. Debt Panel
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-11-08T05:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/when-a-tax-is-a-tax-may-be-pivotal-issue-for-u-s-deficit-reduction-panel.html
President  Barack Obama ’s debt-
reduction panel is looking at curbing the more than  $1 trillion 
in tax breaks Congress provides for everything from corporate
research and development to child care, as a way to raise money
without raising income taxes. It’s already facing a backlash.  Senator  Judd Gregg , a New Hampshire Republican and
commission member, said the bipartisan panel is holding
“extensive” talks on the issue, though no decision has been
made on which breaks would be targeted.  “The message from the American people was do something
about the  deficit  and the debt,” Gregg said in an interview,
referring to the elections in which Republicans picked up at
least 60 House seats and six in the Senate, promising to cut
spending.  The idea has support from some prominent Republicans.  Martin Feldstein , who was chairman of President  Ronald Reagan ’s Council of Economic Advisers, has called for reducing
the breaks, known as tax expenditures, saying that could both
lower the deficit and make the tax code more efficient.  “Although cutting tax expenditures does raise revenue, it
is very different from tax increases that raise marginal tax
rates,” he said in an e-mail. “Reducing tax expenditures does
not reduce incentives to work, to save or to invest.”  Yet  Grover Norquist,  president of Americans for Tax Reform,
said eliminating the tax breaks and using any of the revenue to
reduce the deficit is “just a dirty trick for raising taxes,”
and “tax increases are not an option.”  Deadline Looms  The disagreement underscores the obstacles facing the
commission as it seeks to reach an accord by Dec. 1, when it’s
due to report to Congress. Most economists say any effort to
reduce the deficit will require some combination of spending
cuts and tax increases. The chances of getting panel members to
agree on measures to increase revenue may be dim.  Any deficit-reduction plan would have to be backed by at
least 14 of the commission’s 18 members, who consist of current
and former Republican and Democratic lawmakers, corporate
executives and other experts.  The government is projected to run $8 trillion in deficits
over the next 10 years, which would push the national debt up to
more than $20 trillion. Obama charged the commission with
reducing the annual deficit to 3 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product by 2015 from about 9 percent now. Medicare and
Social Security will consume a steadily growing share of the
federal budget, and the panel is studying those programs, too.  Signing the Pledge  Norquist, 54, who  testified  earlier this year before the
commission, said he is willing to support limiting tax breaks
only if accompanied by a “dollar-for-dollar” reduction in
income taxes. That wouldn’t do the panel any good because it
wouldn’t increase revenue.  His opinion matters because 235 House members and 41
senators who will be serving next year have signed his
Washington-based group’s pledge to oppose tax increases.  Lawmakers shouldn’t sign such pledges, said  Bob Bixby , head
of the Concord Coalition, which promotes balanced budgets.
“Social Security and Medicare are widely popular, and they’re
going to be more expensive in coming decades,” Bixby said.
“That means unless you can find savings elsewhere, it’s going
to necessitate higher revenues.”  There are more than 300 individual tax breaks benefiting
groups ranging from solar energy companies to film and
television productions to restaurateurs, oil companies and
owners of historic buildings.  The 16 largest breaks, which include those allowing
homeowners to write off mortgage-interest payments, account for
two-thirds of the $1.2 trillion in revenue lost to the Treasury
every year -- and may be among the most difficult to curb.  Best of Both Worlds  The tax breaks have multiplied in the past 20 years, in
part because they offer politicians the best of both worlds: aid
that works like a spending program yet is a tax cut. Efforts to
pare them back have foundered amid complaints, like Norquist’s,
that reducing tax breaks is a tax increase.  Michigan Republican  Dave Camp , in line to become chairman
of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he is open to the
idea of limiting tax breaks if overall rates come down.  “Lowering rates and broadening the base is something I’d
be very interested in,” said Camp, who co-leads the tax working
group.  His spokesman, Sage Eastman, later said, “Simply moving
one provision or another to raise revenue is a tax increase”
that could “hurt economic growth.”  Homebuilders’ Opposition  Any move to scale back the tax breaks would also spark
opposition from industries that could be affected.  Homebuilders are prepared to fight any proposal from the
panel to curtail mortgage tax breaks, said  Jerry Howard ,
president of the National Association of Home Builders, which
represents companies such as  KB Home  and  NVR Inc.   “If this comes to the fore, we will do everything we can
to nip it in the bud,” he said.  Tax expenditures are getting renewed attention in part
because Gregg has written a bill that would finance a cut in
rates by eliminating 60 tax preferences, including ones allowing
special treatment for business income earned abroad.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , co-chairman
of the panel’s working group on taxes, says he is looking at the
Gregg plan, which is cosponsored by Oregon Democrat  Ron Wyden .  Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a Georgia Republican, has joined
with Virginia Democrat Mark Warner  in providing outside help for
the commission by arranging meetings with experts such as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke . Both said lawmakers need
to consider clamping down on tax expenditures.  “I’m not a person who’s ever voted for a tax increase,”
said Chambliss. “But if we don’t incorporate everything from
mammoth reductions in spending to reform of Social Security and
Medicare to looking at the revenue side -- if we don’t have all
of that on the table for discussion and debate, then we’re not
doing our job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net . 