-- Wilmington Trust Sued by Shareholder Claiming M&T Takeover Price Too Low
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-11-08T21:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/wilmington-trust-sued-by-shareholder-claiming-m-t-takeover-price-too-low.html
Wilmington Trust Corp. , the century-
old bank founded by a member of the du Pont family, was sued by
a stockholder who claims directors violated their duties by
agreeing to sell the firm to  M&T Bank Corp.  at too low a price.  The investor asked a judge to block the $351 million
takeover until Wilmington Trust implements a procedure to get
the best price possible for its shares, according to a Nov. 5
complaint filed in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “The proposed transaction is the product of a flawed
process” and “has been engineered to take advantage of the
recent decline in the trading price of Wilmington Trust
shares,” investor Daniel Yi said in the complaint.  Wilmington Trust, based in Wilmington, said Nov. 1 it would
exchange each of its shares for 0.051 share of Buffalo, New
York-based M&T, a deal that valued the company at 46 percent
less than the previous closing price. The shares fell 41 percent
to $4.21 that day.  The fact that Wilmington Trust received below-market price
doesn’t mean the lawsuit will necessarily advance in the courts,
said  Charles Elson , chairman of the John L. Weinberg Center for
Corporate Governance at the  University of Delaware .  “But since it’s local, in an area with which the judges
have great familiarity, perhaps it will garner more attention”
during litigation, Elson said in a phone interview.  Judge Assigned  The case was assigned to Judge  J. Travis Laster .  “There is no comment we wish to make,”  Bill Benintende , a
Wilmington Trust spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  M&T has $68.2 billion in assets and Wilmington Trust has
$10.4 billion, the companies said in a statement announcing the
acquisition.  Wilmington Trust’s Chief Executive Officer  Donald E. Foley 
said in the statement that officials “continue to face
difficult financial realities associated with the credit quality
of the loan portfolio in our banking business,” and the M&T
agreement was the best available option after discussions with
several potential partners.  Wilmington Trust fell 8 cents or 1.86 percent to $4.23 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:02 p.m. On April
22, the shares reached a 52-week high of $20.23. M&T fell 48
cents to $82.22.  The case is Yi v. Wilmington Trust, CA5959, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 