-- Woodside Sale by Shell May Spark Interest in Takeover
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-09T07:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/woodside-petroleum-may-become-a-takeover-target-following-shell-stake-sale.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  may become a
takeover target after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  cut its stake in
Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer.  Shell, planning a sixfold increase in Australian gas
production, completed the sale of a 10 percent holding in
 Woodside  for about $3.3 billion, The Hague-based company said
today. Europe’s largest oil company may eventually sell its
remaining 24.27 percent stake as it focuses on developing
Australian liquefied natural gas projects, analysts said.  “The big question, with Shell reducing its stake, is if
another company will come in and make a bid for Woodside,” said
 Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. “Given the strategic value of these assets it
would be difficult for a foreign company to bid. A more likely
bidder would be an Australian major such as  BHP Billiton .”  Woodside declined the most in Sydney trading in 23 months
after Shell said it was selling the stock at A$42.23 a share, a
discount of about 8 percent below yesterday’s close. UBS AG
arranged the transaction. The Perth-based company fell 6.3
percent to A$42.99 at the 4:10 p.m. close, the most since
December 2008. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.8 percent.  Woodside, whose Chief Executive Officer  Don Voelte  plans to
retire in the second half of next year, may be an acquisition
target for BHP Billiton Ltd., UBS AG analysts said Nov. 4. BHP,
the world’s largest mining company and Australia’s biggest oil
and gas producer, has room for acquisitions after Canada blocked
its $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan Inc.  Takeover Deterrent  BHP Billiton spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley  declined to comment
on Shell’s sale. Roger Martin, a spokesman for Woodside, also
declined to comment.  “A whole lot of companies around the world will be dusting
off the files and thinking about it,” Woodside Chairman  Michael Chaney  told reporters in Perth today, when asked about a
potential offer from BHP Billiton. “That doesn’t mean they
will” bid. Shell’s shares were sold to institutional investors,
Chaney said.  Shell’s holding in Woodside was seen as a deterrent to
taking over the $34 billion company, which produced about
222,000 barrels a day of oil and gas last year. Woodside
operates the North West Shelf Project, responsible for 40
percent of Australia’s oil and gas, according to  its website .  Voelte, 57, will step down after the A$13 billion Pluto
liquefied natural gas project begins production. Pluto is set to
become the fastest LNG venture developed, with the initial
discovery of the field in 2005. The company has delayed a
decision to expand the project until 2011 after its exploration
campaign progressed more slowly than expected.  ‘Take the Bait’  “It’s an invitation to BHP, the big question is whether
BHP will take the bait,” said  Johan Hedstrom , an analyst at
Southern Cross Equities in Sydney. “It would be easier for BHP
to buy a stake in Woodside than any other company, especially
where the Foreign Investment Review Board is concerned.”  Shell said it will keep its remaining Woodside holding for
at least one year, “with limited exceptions,” including a
potential takeover offer by another company for Woodside.  Shell is selling as much as $8 billion in assets this year
and next, cutting 7,000 jobs and reducing the less profitable
refinery business. Shell aims to spend as much as $50 billion in
Australia over the next decade, more than in any other region,
as the company shifts to producing natural gas instead of oil.
Shell and  PetroChina Co.  in August completed a A$3.5 billion
purchase of  Arrow Energy Ltd.  to develop a liquefied natural gas
venture in Queensland fed by fuel extracted from coal seams.  Northwest Coast  “With Shell’s recent portfolio progress in Australia, our
world-wide push to simplify the company and to improve our
capital efficiency, we will increasingly focus our investment in
Australia through direct interests in assets and joint ventures,
rather than indirect stakes,” Voser said in a statement.  Shell’s first involvement with Woodside was in 1963 when it
joined forces to explore for oil and gas off the remote
northwest coast of Australia. In 1985 it raised its stake in
Woodside from 21.34 percent to 40.04 percent before cutting back
the stake to 34.27 percent in 1994. Shell tried to take over
Woodside in 2000 and was blocked by the Australian government.  Shell is a partner in Chevron Corp.’s Gorgon LNG venture in
Western Australia and with Woodside in the North West Shelf. The
company also aims to pioneer the use of a floating LNG plant
with the proposed Prelude venture off the northwest coast.  While the move has prompted takeover speculation, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts in Sydney said they are skeptical offers
will arise. Shell may have “exhausted all other options with
strategic suitors” and decided to take advantage of a stronger
oil price and a surging Australian dollar, they said.  Strategic Buyer  “If there was currently a willing strategic buyer of
Woodside, with a realistic chance of government approval, we
believe Shell would have shopped its stake to that party -- and
sold at greater than or equal to the spot share price,” the
analysts, including  Benjamin Wilson , wrote yesterday.  Shell’s directly owned LNG capacity in Australia is 2.7
million metric tons a year and is forecast to more than double
to 6.5 million tons by 2015, Australia country chair  Ann Pickard 
said in the statement. That could increase by a further 10
million tons beyond 2015, she said.  “Its importance to Shell is now less, given that Shell has
developed a strong portfolio of direct interest in Australia
gas,”  David Cline , a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said. “An eventual exit from Woodside will
further simplify Shell’s portfolio.”  Australia is set to underpin Shell’s next tranche of LNG
expansion, aimed at growth markets in Asia Pacific, the company
said today. Shell has a 25 percent interest in Gorgon, where
 Exxon Mobil Corp . is also a partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fred Pals  at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  