-- Woodside Petroleum May Become a Takeover Target Following Shell Stake Sale
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2010-11-08T15:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/woodside-stake-sale-by-shell-may-spark-interest-in-takeover.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd . may become a
takeover target after  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  decided to cut its
stake in Australia’s second-largest oil and gas company.  Shell said yesterday it will sell a 10 percent holding in
 Woodside  for about $3.3 billion, freeing up funds to support a
six-fold increase in its Australian natural gas production. The
Hague-based company may eventually sell the 24.27 percent stake
it retains in Woodside in its push to further simplify its
portfolio, analysts said.  “The big question, with Shell reducing its stake, is if
another company will come in and make a bid for Woodside,” said
 Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. “Given the strategic value of these assets it
would be difficult for a foreign company to bid. A more likely
bidder would be an Australian major such as  BHP Billiton .”  Woodside, looking for someone to replace Chief Executive
Officer  Don Voelte  who plans to retire in the second half of
next year, may be an acquisition target for BHP Billiton Ltd.,
UBS AG analysts said Nov. 4. BHP, the world’s largest mining
company and Australia’s biggest oil and gas producer, has room
for acquisitions after Canada blocked its $40 billion offer for
 Potash Corp . of Saskatchewan Inc.  BHP spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley  declined to comment on
Shell’s sale of a Woodside stake.  Roger Martin , Woodside’s
Perth-based spokesman, couldn’t be reached by phone or e-mail to
comment.  Shell’s holding in Perth-based Woodside has been seen as a
protection against takeover for the $36 billion company, which
produced about 222,000 barrels a day of oil and gas last year.
The company operates the Northwest Shelf Project, responsible
for 40 percent of Australia’s oil and gas, according to
 Woodside’s website .  Pluto Begins  Voelte will step down after the A$13 billion Pluto
liquefied natural gas project begins production. Pluto is set to
become the fastest LNG venture developed, with the initial
discovery of the field in 2005. The company has delayed a
decision to expand the project until 2011 after its exploration
campaign progressed more slowly than expected.  “It’s an invitation to BHP, the big question is whether
BHP will take the bait,”  Johan Hedstrom , a Sydney-based analyst
at Southern Cross Equities, said by phone today. “It would be
easier for BHP to buy a stake in Woodside than any other
company, especially where the Foreign Investment Review Board is
concerned.”  Shell is selling 78.34 million shares in Australia’s
second-largest oil and gas producer at A$42.23 a share. UBS AG
is arranging the transaction, priced at a discount of about 8
percent discount to  Woodside ’s close of A$45.86 in Sydney
yesterday.  Shell Sells  Shell is selling as much as $8 billion in assets this year
and next, cutting 7,000 jobs and reducing the less profitable
refinery business. Shell aims to spend as much as $50 billion in
Australia over the next decade, more than in any other region,
as the company shifts to producing natural gas instead of oil.
Shell and  PetroChina Co.  in August completed a A$3.5 billion
purchase of  Arrow Energy Ltd . to develop a liquefied natural gas
venture in Queensland fed by fuel extracted from coal seams.  “With Shell’s recent portfolio progress in Australia, our
world-wide push to simplify the company and to improve our
capital efficiency, we will increasingly focus our investment in
Australia through direct interests in assets and joint ventures,
rather than indirect stakes,” Voser said in yesterday’s
statement.  Takeover Blocked  Shell’s first involvement with Woodside was in 1963 when it
joined forces to explore for oil and gas off the remote
northwest coast of Australia. In 1985 it raised its stake in
Woodside from 21.34 percent to 40.04 percent before cutting back
the stake to 34.27 percent in 1994. Shell tried to take over
Woodside in 2000 and was blocked by the Australian government.  Shell is a partner in Chevron Corp.’s Gorgon LNG venture in
Western Australia and with Woodside in the Northwest Shelf. It
plans to use floating LNG technology to develop the Prelude gas
field off the country’s northwest.  “Its importance to Shell is now less, given that Shell has
developed a strong portfolio of direct interest in Australia
gas,”  David Cline , a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said. “An eventual exit from Woodside will
further simplify Shell’s portfolio.”  Shell’s directly owned LNG capacity in Australia is 2.7
million metric tons a year and is forecast to more than double
to 6.5 million tons by 2015, Australia country chair  Ann Pickard 
said in the statement. That could increase by a further 10
million tons beyond 2015, she said.  Australia is set to underpin Shell’s next tranche of LNG
expansion, aimed at growth markets in Asia Pacific, the company
said today. Shell has a 25 percent interest in Gorgon, where
 Exxon Mobil Corp . is also a partner.  “Given that Shell has the intent to sell down, they may
not stand in the way of a Woodside takeover,” said  Jason Teh ,
who helps manage A$3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney
and who holds some Woodside shares. “Shell has a global LNG
portfolio and is probably working out the funding requirements
associated with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals at   fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  