-- World Bank Urges Malaysia to Spur Investment as Growth in Economy Slows
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-11-08T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/world-bank-says-malaysia-needs-to-spur-investment-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Malaysia’s  economic  growth may slow
as global demand falters, and the government needs to improve
its finances while ensuring measures to attract investment are
implemented, the World Bank said.  Gross domestic product  may expand 4.8 percent next year,
slowing from a 7.4 percent gain in 2010 following last year’s
recession, the World Bank said in its Malaysia Economic Monitor
report today. The economy may contract in the third or fourth
quarter of this year compared with the previous three months if
external demand is weaker than expected, it said.  “Until solid implementation of reforms is seen, there is
unlikely to be a groundswell of positive sentiment of foreign
investors towards Malaysia,” the Washington-based lender said
in the report from a team led by Philip Schellekens. “The
economy is in dire need of further investment climate
improvements.”  Foreign investment in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy has fallen amid growing competition from neighbors
including India and China, tumbling 81 percent last year,
according to the United Nations 2010 World Investment Report.
Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s government unveiled an economic
program in September that included plans for $444 billion of
projects to achieve developed-nation status by 2020.  “The main risks to medium-term growth remain reform
implementation and progress in fiscal consolidation,” the World
Bank said.  Budget Deficit  The government expects to cut its  budget deficit  to 5.6
percent of GDP this year from a 22-year high of 7 percent in
2009. The reduction in the shortfall is largely due to a
recovery in growth, the World Bank said.  The country spends about 73 billion ringgit ($24 billion) a
year on subsidies on essential items ranging from fuel to flour,
Najib said in April, calling the amount “not sustainable.” The
prime minister trimmed some fuel and food subsidies in July to
save 750 million ringgit in government expenditure.  Last month, the government said it will further postpone
the implementation of a goods and services tax intended to boost
revenue and help narrow its budget deficit. It didn’t specify
the length of the delay or when the tax would have started.  Malaysia’s stock market has rebounded with the country’s
economy this year. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index 
climbed 0.5 percent to 1,519.69 at the 12:30 p.m. mid-day break,
set for a record close. The gauge has surged about 20 percent in
the past year, surpassing levels before the start of the global
financial crisis in 2008.  Monetary Policy  The country’s  central bank  started raising rates before any
other Asian central bank this year to reduce what officials said
was a risk of financial imbalances caused by keeping borrowing
costs too low for too long. Policy makers left the benchmark
 overnight policy rate  unchanged at 2.75 percent at their
September meeting after three consecutive increases, choosing to
support growth as the global recovery slows.  The World Bank said it expects no further changes in
Malaysia’s monetary policy stance this year. Interest rates are
projected to rise “moderately” in 2011 as inflation recovers,
the lender said.  “The strength of the recovery in global demand remains a
key source of uncertainty,” according to the report. “Malaysia’s
exposure to external drivers of growth, such as policy-induced
moderation in China and renewed concerns over the prospects of
advanced economies, along with uncertainty over the impact of
the current reform program complicate near-term forecasting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  