-- World Bank Says Asia May Need Capital Controls to Curb Bubbles
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-11-09T04:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/world-bank-says-asia-may-need-capital-controls-to-curb-fed-created-bubbles.html
Asian economies may need to turn to
capital controls as quantitative easing by the U.S. threatens to
spur asset bubbles in the region’s stock, currency and property
markets, the World Bank said.  Any curbs should be “targeted,” temporary and tailored to
address specific problems,  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , a World Bank
managing director, said in an interview. This could include
countries tying up funds for as long as a year to help limit
hot-money, she said.  The U.S. Federal Reserve last week announced plans to buy
$600 billion of long-term government bonds in its second effort
at so-called quantitative easing, or QE2, aiming to stoke U.S.
economic growth. Policy makers from Asia to South America have
responded by warning it could have the side-effect of depressing
the dollar and sparking capital flight to emerging markets.  “Certain assets will become, potentially, bubbles,” Sri
Mulyani said in Kuala Lumpur late yesterday. “The quantitative
easing will create a lot of liquidity flooding to the East Asia
Pacific region, because it is the most dynamic and attractive
with a higher return on investment.”  Real-estate prices are a concern in China, Australia and
parts of Southeast Asia, she said. Japan, Thailand and Malaysia
have seen their currencies surge more than 10 percent against
the dollar this year, while some of the region’s stock markets
have jumped more than 50 percent, Sri Mulyani said. Sri Lanka’s
benchmark stock index is up more than 90 percent this year,
while the measures for  Thailand  and  Indonesia  have exceeded 40
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Job Threat  Manufacturers in Malaysia and Thailand on Oct. 14 called on
policy makers to curb “speculative” capital inflows, saying
currency gains pose a threat to output, trade and jobs.  During the Asian financial crisis between 1997 and 1998,
then-Malaysian Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad  drew
international criticism and alienated foreign investors when he
imposed capital and currency controls to block speculators
betting against the ringgit. Mahathir called  George Soros  a
“moron” and accused him of attacking the country. The
billionaire investor responded by describing Mahathir as a
“menace to his own country.”  “In 1997-98, the words ‘capital controls’ were forbidden
and stigmatized,” said Sri Mulyani, 48, who joined the World
Bank in June and oversees the Asia-Pacific and Latin America
areas. “Now the problem of capital is so systematic and huge
globally, it has now become universally acceptable to have a
certain type of temporary capital controls.”  Temporary Steps  South Korea’s won fell to a one-week low today amid
speculation local regulators will tighten curbs on the use of
derivatives to help damp exchange-rate volatility. Heightened
concern that some European governments will struggle to pay debt
also bolstered demand for dollars and pushed currencies lower.  Thailand last imposed limits on fund inflows in December
2006 to slow baht gains and protect exporters, a measure that
led foreign investors to flee the country’s financial markets
and spurred the  benchmark index ’s biggest slide in 16 years.  “We may see some capital controls, particularly on debt,
but they won’t be disruptive,” said  Chetan Ahya , an economist at
Morgan Stanley in Singapore. “Having learnt from what had
happened in Thailand in the previous cycle, controlling equity
flows won’t be top on the agenda.”  Productive Investment  Sri Mulyani said that “a more narrow, targeted and less
permanent sort of control is going to be better in this case,”
adding that governments may also want to consider policy
measures to help turn capital inflows into more productive long-
term foreign investment.  China’s Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said Nov. 5 the
Fed’s decision to pump liquidity into the U.S. may hurt global
confidence. Vice Finance Minister  Wang Jun  said the next day
after Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum finance chiefs met
in Kyoto, Japan, that the U.S. move could contribute
“tremendously” to global growth.  Nations from Brazil to Thailand and South Korea have tried
to restrain their currencies and protect exporters as investors
seek higher-yielding emerging market assets amid near-zero U.S.
borrowing costs. Capital flooding into Asia could lead to asset
bubbles and financial instability, International Monetary Fund
head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Oct. 18.  Taxes on Bonds  Thailand said Oct. 12 it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining
South Korea and Brazil in seeking to hold back currency gains as
investors pour a record amount of money into emerging markets.
Korean regulators started an audit of banks handling foreign-
currency derivatives last month, and Brazil raised a tax it
charges foreigners on investments in fixed-income securities.  China has kept its currency’s advance against the dollar to
less than 3 percent since mid-June, a strategy that’s
contributed to other currencies rising and nations taking steps
to prevent an “unfair disadvantage,” U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said last month.  As the dollar weakens, China is likely to maintain the
value of the yuan within its targeted band by accumulating
reserves, Sri Mulyani said.  While short-term capital controls may be sometimes
necessary, the World Bank managing director said she was against
currency intervention, except to restrain short-term volatility.  Southeast Asian countries that are manufacturing-based are
likely to face balance-of-payments challenges due to stronger
currencies, the former Indonesian finance minister said. Imports
will become cheaper and exports less competitive, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  