-- Myanmar Army Clashes With Minorities, Sending Thousands Across Thai Border
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-08T12:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/myanmar-army-clashes-with-minorities-sending-thousands-across-thai-border.html
Clashes between Myanmar’s army and a
rebel ethnic group sent thousands fleeing across the border into
Thailand a day after the country’s first elections in 20 years
that excluded political prisoners and certain minorities.  Members of the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army, one of more
than 30 ethnic armies based inside Myanmar, stormed the border
crossing of  Myawaddy  yesterday during the election. As many as
5,000 people are staying in temporary camps set up by the Thai
army after rebels threatened to set fire to the town, said Khin
Ohmar, coordinator of the  Burma Partnership , an umbrella
organization of civil-society groups.  The rebels “are sending a clear message to the regime and
to the world that they don’t accept the election,” said Khin
Ohmar, who lives on the Thai side of the border in  Mae Sot  and
visited the camps today. “This is really prime time for them
because they know the regime’s plan is to wipe them out.”  Ethnic unrest may complicate Myanmar’s attempts to set up
its first multiparty parliament since 1962 after a vote
criticized by Western and other nations for leaving out  Aung San Suu Kyi  and some 2,100 other political prisoners. Rival military
factions are vying to control the legislature and nominees for a
new president to ensure the current ruling generals maintain
their grip on power as 22 years of direct military rule comes to
an end.  Thailand tightened security along the border and
anticipates more attacks until the new government is set up, a
process that could take three months, Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  told reporters today. All those who flee will be
treated humanely, he said.  Border Guards  The rebel DKBA brigade doesn’t want its members to become
border guards, partially under the junta’s control, as mandated
by the new constitution, said Khin Ohmar. There aren’t any signs
that other ethnic armies, including the bigger  Karen National
Union  will join them, she said.  Myanmar’s  constitution , passed by a referendum in 2008,
calls for a unitary state and says “all the armed forces in the
Union shall be under the command of the Defense Services.”
About a third of the country’s 55 million people are ethnic
minorities occupying roughly half of total land area, according
to the  International Crisis Group .  Myanmar army battles last year with ethnic Kokang rebels on
its border with China near planned oil and gas projects sent
about 30,000 people fleeing into China’s Yunnan province.
Thailand houses 102,000 Karen and Karenni asylum seekers from
Myanmar in nine camps on its border, according to the United
Nations  refugee agency .  ‘Neither Free nor Fair’  Several dozen ethnic-based political parties joined
yesterday’s election, which was condemned by the U.S., Canada,
Australia, the U.K., Japan and the Philippines. The elections
“were neither free nor fair,” said President  Barack Obama  in a
statement yesterday during a trip to India.  China, India and Thailand are investing in ports, railways
and oil and gas pipelines that give them access to Myanmar’s
natural resources and trade routes to the Indian Ocean.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, signed an $8.6 billion contract on Nov. 4
with Myanmar to build a deep-water port and industrial park.
Earlier this year,  China National Petroleum Corp.  started
building oil and gas pipelines across the country.  Early returns showed that the National Democratic Force,
the main pro-democracy party created by former Suu Kyi
colleagues, may win almost half the 37 seats in the city of
Yangon, the country’s former capital, Deutsche Presse-Agentur
reported, citing initial vote tallies. Pro-military parties were
set to win the most votes overall, it said.  Suu Kyi  Suu Kyi, 65, may be released on Nov. 13 and will visit
supporters around the country “as soon as possible” if she’s
freed,  Win Tin , a senior member of her party, told reporters
yesterday by phone from Yangon. The Nobel Peace Prize laureate
has been detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her latest
house arrest starting in 2003.  Suu Kyi “is ready to consider the economic sanctions”
imposed by Western nations, said  Win Tin , who spent 19 years in
prison before his 2008 release. “First she would like to see
what kind of sanctions are there and how they affect people’s
lives.”  The military will  retain  a quarter of seats in the two
houses of parliament, according to the constitution. Elected
lawmakers in both houses will be able to nominate a presidential
candidate to compete against the candidate picked by military-
appointed legislators.  Junta Leader  Junta leader  Than Shwe  backs the Union Solidarity and
Development Party, which claims a third of the population as
members. Its main challenger is the National Unity Party, a
group loyal to former dictator  Ne Win , who led a 1962 coup and
established one-party rule until Than Shwe’s group took power
following a pro-democracy uprising in 1988.  “We can’t get away from the fact that Burma is still run
by a dictator, which is Senior General  Than Shwe ,”  Jacob Ramsay , a senior analyst at Control Risks Group, told Bloomberg
Television today, referring to Myanmar by its former name.
“Most people believe he will remain a dictator by proxy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 