-- Chrysler's Jeep Could Become a Platform for Maserati, Alfa Romeo
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-08/your-future-maserati-alfa-could-be-based-on-jeep-platform-fiat-ceo-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s redesigned Jeep
Grand Cherokee has been so successful that  Fiat SpA  may use the
sport-utility vehicle’s platform for Alfa Romeo and Maserati
models, the companies’ chief executive officer said.  Chrysler, the U.S. automaker controlled by Fiat, introduced
the updated Grand Cherokee earlier this year.  “One of the things that we are now looking at in some
detail is the possibility of utilizing this architecture and
extending its application for additional products both within
Chrysler and outside Chrysler,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of both Chrysler and Fiat, said yesterday on a
conference call.  Fiat, based in Turin, Italy, owns its namesake brand, Alfa
Romeo, Ferrari and Maserati as well as a 20 percent stake in
Chrysler that it acquired during the U.S. automaker’s bankruptcy
last year.  Marchionne plans to open about 165 Fiat franchises in the
U.S. in 119 markets. The majority of Fiat franchises will be
held by dealers now selling Chrysler brands, the company said in
a presentation posted on its website yesterday.  Chrysler said 135 dealers are receiving letters of intent
for the franchise and the company is in negotiations with the
“balance of the markets.”  Marchionne said Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler is
working on bringing the small, multi-purpose Fiat L0, pronounced
L-zero, to the U.S.  Avenger Replacement  The current Dodge Avenger will be replaced by a car based
on the Alfa Giulietta in the first quarter of 2012, Marchionne
said. Production is slated to begin at the end of next year, and
the architecture will be used for other Chrysler vehicles, he
said.  Marchionne denied reports in Italy that Fiat was
considering spinning off its Mirafiori plant near Turin to a
company owned in part by Chrysler.  “Expect Chrysler products to be made by Fiat and Fiat
products to be made by Chrysler,” Marchionne said. “I think we
are working very hard to get that done for the benefit of both.
But there’s not going to be a shift of plants from one
organization to the other.”  Marchionne said Fiat and Ferrari wouldn’t use the Jeep
platform.  The Grand Cherokee’s architecture could be used for the
higher-priced Alfa Romeo or Maserati brands and could handle
stronger powertrains, Marchionne said.  “It’s a little bit of a Demi Moore and Ashton Kutcher
situation,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS
Automotive in Lexington, Massachusetts. “It’s kind of a curious
mix, yet by all appearances it seems to be working.”  An Alfa Romeo or Maserati based on the Grand Cherokee could
compete against BMW’s luxury SUVs in the U.S. market, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  