-- Taint-Free Wine Corks Help Amorim Take on Screw Caps
-- Brian McGee
-- 2007-06-04T16:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-04/taint-free-wine-corks-help-amorim-take-on-screw-caps-update2-.html

          
          
             Antonio Amorim is putting a new cork
in wine bottles to keep his company's  profits  from spoiling.  
 After losing sales to synthetic stoppers and metal screw
tops, Amorim says he's found a way to stem a decline in market
share through a process that gets rid of ``cork taint.'' The
contaminant can render the finest vintage undrinkable and costs
the wine industry hundreds of millions of dollars a year.  
 Corticeira Amorim SGPS SA, the world's biggest maker of wine
corks, saw sales decline each year from 2000 through 2004 as
consumers turned up their noses at pinot noirs with the bouquet
of damp dog. Amorim responded by modernizing plants to cut
production costs as he searched for a cure. The  shares , which
shot up 79 percent in the past two years, are set to rise more as
he wins back customers by virtually eliminating cork taint, said
analyst Sonia Baldeira.  
 ``This should be a very good year for Corticeira Amorim,''
said Baldeira, of Lisbon-based Caixa Banco de Investimento SA, who
raised her rating on the shares March 5 to ``buy'' from ``hold''
with a 2.35 euro price target. ``There is a lot of room to grow,''
including in the U.S., its second-biggest market after  Europe .  
 The  shares , which reached a high of 2.84 euros in May 1998,
advanced as much as 2 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 2.05 euros and
closed up 1 cent at 2.03 euros.  
 Amorim's new process, which steams out compounds caused by a
naturally occurring fungus, has helped lower the industrywide
incidence of cork taint to less than 1 percent of wine bottles
produced, from as much as 5 percent, Baldeira said.  
 ``We're fighting back,'' Amorim said in an interview in
Mozelos, northern Portugal, where the company founded by his
great grandfather in 1870 is based. ``We may have lost market
share in some places but we are gaining in others.''  
 Problem Solved?  
 French rival  Oeneo (SBT) , which has developed its own taint-removal process, sniffs at Amorim's claim and says it has
eliminated the malodorous problem caused by the chemical
trichloroanisole, or TCA, once and for all.  
 ``That's a thing of the past,'' Dean Banister, a sales
director at Oeneo's Diam Closures subsidiary, said last month at
the  London  International Wine & Spirits Fair.  
 Paris-based Oeneo said March 26 that 2006  earnings  rose more
than fivefold, helped by a recovery at its cork unit. The  shares 
reached a high of 2.34 euros on April 10 and are up 96 percent in
the past two years.  
 Corticeira Amorim spokesman Carlos de Jesus said the
Portuguese company's process is the only one that combines
``preventive and curative measures.''  
 Both cork makers are now turning their efforts to halt a
slide in sales to wineries with their new technology.  
 Screw Tops  
 About 78 percent, or 14 billion, of the 18 billion wine
``closures'' each year are sealed with cork, Banister said.  
 ``If you went back 10 years, you'd probably find that it was
95 percent cork,'' he said.  
 Cork makers may have their work cut out for them.
Alternatives such as  Alcan (AL)  Inc.'s Stelvin aluminum screw cap are
finding fans even among die-hard cork aficionados.  
 ``Screw tops are the thing,'' said Richard Harvey-Jones,
chairman of Seckford Wines, a Melton, England-based seller of
fine and rare wines including Lafite and  Mouton Rothschild .  
 While screw caps work ``brilliantly'' on everyday wines, cork
is really the only choice for those that need to breathe and
mature, Harvey-Jones said in an  interview  at the London wine fair.  
 ``You go to one huge amount of effort, time, trouble and
money to make great wine and one poxy little stopper ruins it,
that's dreadful,'' he said. ``It's bad for business.''  
 `Corked' Wine  
 The number of ``corked'' bottles -- wines that have gone bad
-- may be as high as 12 percent, Banister said. Vintners are hurt
when consumers stop buying a particular brand after they've
purchased a tainted bottle, he said.  
 A taint rate of 1 percent would mean a loss of about $100
million for the U.S. wine industry alone, along with tarnished
reputations, said Christian Butzke, professor of oenology at
 Purdue University  and a former winemaker.  
 ``It's very hard to truly assess the value of what is
lost,'' he said.  
 Amorim's loss of market share to synthetic closures and
screw caps is almost entirely due to cork taint, said Butzke,
chairman of the  Indy International Wine Competition , the
largest in the U.S.  
 ``Without the problem of cork taint I don't think we would
have seen any of these different products,'' he said.  
 Slow Harvest  
 Cork's waning popularity also has hurt the rural economy in
Portugal, which produces 54 percent of the world's cork, or about
185,000 tons a year, and exports 900 million euros ($1.2 billion)
a year in cork products.  
 Corticeira Amorim has been cutting cork from the country's
oak forests for more than 130 years. Cork comes from the bark of
the slow-growing tree, which can only be stripped once every nine
to 14 years.  
 The company makes about 3 billion wine corks a year, 25
percent of world output. Its fortunes soured in the 1990s when
retailers and restaurants began to favor screw caps and synthetic
stoppers from companies such as Montreal-based Alcan and closely
held  Supreme Corq Inc ., based near  Seattle , which were cheaper
and free of cork taint.  
 The race to find a way to produce fungus-free natural cork
stopper and one cheap enough to compete with alternatives has
cost Corticeira Amorim about 6 million euros a year in research
spending since 2000, its chairman said.  
 Rising Profit  
 The effort paid off with a reduction in taint of as much as
90 percent and has led some wine producers in  South Africa  and
 Chile  to start using cork again, Amorim said.  
 Sales, half of which come from bottle stoppers and the rest
from products such as flooring, are starting to pick up. Revenue
increased 3.4 percent last year to 442.6 million euros and is
forecast to gain 5 percent this year, according to Baldeira. That's
after a 0.3 percent gain in 2005 and a 0.2 percent decline in 2004.  
 Net income will rise to 22.3 million euros this year, said
Baldeira, who has Corticeira Amorim as one of her six top stock
picks from the 52-member Portuguese index. Profit last year
climbed 28 percent to 20.1 million euros.  
 Earnings per share will rise to 17 cents this year and 19
cents in 2008, Baldeira said. In 2006, the company earned 15
cents as  sales  increased for the second-straight year.  
 Highly Profitable  
 Corticeira Amorim will be able to boost margins over the
next 10 years even as cork loses share to alternative products
because it can raise prices, said David Skalli, a partner at
Paris-based wine consultant  Skalli & Cie .  
 ``Amorim won't lose money. In fact, they will be highly
profitable in the coming years,'' Skalli said.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be 8 percent to 10 percent of stopper sales in
the next 10 years, Skalli said.  
 If last year's 8.2 percent Ebitda margin remains the same,
and sales and the number of shares are unchanged, the stopper
business will contribute about 15 cents per share annually to the
bottom line, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 ``TCA is not an issue for the future,'' Skalli said.
``Amorim can only benefit.''  
 Plastic's share of the wine closure market has fallen to 12
percent from 15 percent in the past couple of years, according to
Corticeira Amorim. Screw caps, meanwhile, have grabbed more
business, rising to 8 percent from 5 percent.  
 Premium Wines  
 ``Cork's market share can fall to as low as 75 percent in
the next six to seven years but it will be a much bigger
market,'' Amorim said. ``We will not be selling less cork.''  
 While Amorim is seeking to win over producers of everyday
drinking wine, which accounts for as much as 40 percent of the wine
market, he's also working to persuade makers of premium varieties.  
 Spanish winery Vina Araujo has agreed to attach a necktag
certifying that its 2005 Albarino wine is sealed with natural
cork, Amorim said.  
 Baldeira expects Corticeira Amorim's sales to increase in
 Central Europe , as the economies of countries like France and
 Germany  pick up, and in the U.S., where demand for cork stoppers
has been flourishing as more states become wine producers.  
 Amorim also is looking at  China  for growth. The company signed
an agreement with a local partner and plans to invest as much as 3
million euros to set up a plant in that country, he said.  
 Sentimental Value  
 To fend off alternative stoppers, cork makers also stress
the fact that their product is biodegradable and recyclable.  
 ``Cork is clearly the best performer at this level,'' Amorim
said.  
 Cork forests support a wide range of bird species including
black storks and several varieties of eagles and vultures,
according to the  Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.   
 Investors and environmentalists aren't the only one cheering
the cork industry's attempted comeback.  
 ``There's a certain charm in removing the cork from a wine
bottle,'' said wine critic Luis Antunes, who writes for the
Portuguese magazine Revista de Vinhos. ``Cork doesn't only have
an important economic value in  Portugal , it also has sentimental
value.''  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian McGee in London at 
 bmcgee3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Corticeira Amorim SGPS SA Chairman Antonio Amorim poses at the company's factory in Coruche, Portugal, Jan. 16, 2007. Photographer: Vanda de Mello/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A worker looks over a machine at the Corticeira Amorim SGPS SA factory in Coruche, Portugal, Jan. 16, 2007. Photographer: Vanda de Mello/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A worker inspects corks at the Corticeira Amorim SGPS SA factory in Coruche, Portugal, Jan. 16, 2007. Photographer: Vanda de Mello/Bloomberg News.  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
