-- FACTBOX: Why oil prices are at a record high
-- 
-- Thu Nov 1, 2007 7:02am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/01/us-oil-prices-idUSL0144522320071101

 

 (Reuters) - U.S. oil hit a record high $96.24 a barrel 
on Thursday after a steeper-than-expected drop in U.S. crude oil 
stocks and a further cut in U.S. interest rates. 

 Strong demand for crude and a weak dollar have fuelled the 
rally from a dip below $50 at the start of the year. Adjusted for inflation, oil is still below the $101.70 peak
hit in April 1980, according to the International Energy Agency,
a year after the Iranian revolution. DOLLAR WEAKNESS The fall in the value of the dollar against other major 
currencies has helped drive buying across commodities as 
investors view dollar assets as relatively cheap. It has also reduced the purchasing power of OPEC's revenues 
and increased the purchasing power of some non-dollar consumers. OPEC oil ministers have noted that although prices are 
rising to record nominal levels, inflation and the dollar have 
softened the impact. Some analysts say investors have been using oil as a hedge 
against the weaker dollar. FUNDS Since the Federal Reserve cut U.S. interest rates in 
mid-August and central banks pumped billions of dollars into 
financial markets to ease a credit crunch, oil prices have 
surged 37 percent and gold has risen 20 percent. Investment flows from pension and hedge funds into 
commodities including oil have boomed, as has speculative 
trading. At the same time, the credit crunch has brought some 
other markets, notably the U.S. asset-backed commercial paper 
market, to a virtual standstill. In the United States, the size of the asset-backed 
commercial paper market has fallen for 11 consecutive weeks, to 
$883.7 billion this week from a peak of $1.17 trillion at the 
end of July, according to data from the Federal Reserve. In Europe, according to analysts at BNP Paribas, the market 
shrunk to $192 billion at the end of September from $297 billion 
at the end of July. Some of that money has found its way into energy and 
commodities. DEMAND While previous price spikes have been triggered by supply 
disruptions, demand from top consumers the United States and 
China is a driver of the current rally. Global demand growth has slowed after a surge in 2004 but is 
still rising and higher prices have so far had a very limited 
effect on economic growth. Analysts say the world is coping well with high nominal 
prices because, adjusted for exchange rates and inflation, they 
are lower than during previous price spikes and some economies 
have become less energy intensive. OPEC SUPPLY RESTRAINT The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, 
source of more than a third of the world's oil, started to 
reduce oil output in late 2006 to stem a fall in prices. Fewer OPEC barrels entering the market helped propel this 
year's rally and consumer nations led by the International 
Energy Agency for months urged OPEC to pump more oil. At a meeting last month, OPEC agreed to increase oil output 
by 500,000 barrels per day from November 1. Few in the group believe there is much they can do to tame a 
market they say defies logic. NIGERIA Supply of crude from Nigeria, the world's eighth-largest oil 
exporter, has been cut since February 2006 because of militant 
attacks on the country's oil industry. Oil companies have detailed about 547,000 bpd of shut 
Nigerian production due to militant attacks and sabotage. IRAN Oil consumers are concerned about supply disruption from 
Iran, the world's fourth-biggest exporter, which is locked in a 
dispute with the West over its nuclear program. Western governments suspect Iran is using its civilian 
nuclear program as a cover to develop nuclear weapons. Iran 
denies this, saying it wants nuclear power to make electricity. On Oct 25, Washington designated Iran's Revolutionary Guard 
Corps a proliferater of weapons of mass destruction and its 
elite Qods force a supporter of terrorism. IRAQ Iraq is struggling to get its oil industry back on its feet 
after decades of wars, sanctions and underinvestment.  Exports of Kirkuk crude from the country's north are 
sporadic as sabotage and technical problems have mostly idled 
the pipeline since the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003, 
preventing exports returning to the pre-invasion rate. REFINERY BOTTLENECKS Refiners in the United States, the world's top gas guzzler, 
struggled with unexpected outages which drained inventories 
ahead of the summer, when motor fuel demand peaks.