-- Australian Dollar Rises as Retail Sales Gain for a Sixth Month
-- Chris Young
-- 2007-01-09T06:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-09/australian-dollar-rises-as-retail-sales-gain-for-a-sixth-month.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar strengthened as
a government report showed retail sales rose in November,
supporting speculation the Reserve Bank of  Australia  may raise
interest rates to control inflationary pressures.  
 The Australian dollar climbed against all 16 of the most
active currencies tracked by Bloomberg today as a gain in retail
sales signals the central bank's third rate increase in a year on
Nov. 8 didn't deter consumers from spending.  
 ``The number is painting a pretty solid picture of consumer
spending,'' said Warren Hogan, head of research at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. ``People will put
interest-rate bets back on the table, which will support the
Australian dollar.''  
 Australia's currency bought 78.33 U.S. cents as of 5:20 p.m.
in Sydney compared with 77.97 cents late in Asia yesterday. It
will gain to 80.20 cents in coming weeks, Hogan said. It reached
a 22-month high of 79.80 cents on Jan. 3.  
 Retail sales rose 0.2 percent from October, when they gained
a revised 0.9 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 0.3 percent gain. The figures have risen every
month since May, when they were flat.  
 ``The consumer is in good shape,'' said  Annette Beacher ,
economist at Citigroup Australia in Sydney. ``This will allow the
RBA to reiterate its tightening bias, which is good for the
Australian dollar.''  
 The bureau yesterday said the number of approvals to build
or renovate houses and apartments rose 4.1 percent from October
to 12,739. The median estimate of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 2 percent gain.  
 Yield-Related Support  
 Australian government bonds fell for a second day, pushing
yields higher and widening their margin over U.S. Treasuries.
This makes the currency more attractive to overseas investors.  
 The yield on the 10-year bond rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 5.86 percent, 1.2 percentage points more
than like-dated U.S. Treasuries. That gap has averaged 82 basis
points in the past year.  
 The price of the 6 percent bond maturing in February 2017
fell 0.47, or 47 cents per A$1,000 face amount, to 101.071.  
 Commodity Slide  
 Gains in the Australian dollar may be limited by a slide in
the price of some of the metals the nation exports, said Joanne Masters, a currency strategist at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in Sydney.  
 A gauge of six metals traded on the London Metals Exchange,
including Australian exports nickel and zinc, yesterday dropped
1.6 percent, a seventh daily decline. Sales of raw materials
contribute 13.5 percent to Australia's economy.  
 Copper futures in  Shanghai  traded near a nine-month low,
after plunging 9 percent last week, on signs the decline in
prices may spur buying from  China , the world's biggest consumer
of the metal.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia raised its overnight  cash rate 
target to 6.25 percent in November to slow inflation that held
above its target for two straight quarters.  
 Traders see a 60 percent chance the bank will increase
borrowing costs by mid-year, compared with 48 percent late last
week, according to 30-day inter-bank interest rate futures
contracts.  
 Employment numbers  
 Jobs advertised in major newspapers and on the Internet
jumped 12.1 percent, according to an Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. report released yesterday. The increase was
the largest since ANZ Bank began compiling figures for Internet
advertising in July 1999.  
 A government report in two days will probably show employers
added 15,000 workers in November after 36,200 new jobs were
created the previous month, according to a Bloomberg  survey  of
economists. This may add to pressures on wages to rise and fuel
inflation.  
 ``Employment numbers are arguably the single most important
economic release for the Australian dollar,'' said Richard Grace,
senior currency strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in
Sydney. ``The risk with this number lies with further strength in
employment growth and a return to strength for the Australian
dollar.''  
 The currency will rise to 80 cents in the next few months,
said Grace, who in May correctly predicted it would end 2006 at
79 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Young in Sydney at 
 cyoung12@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        