-- Fremont Toughens Sub-Prime Mortgage Loan Guidelines
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2007-01-09T18:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-09/fremont-toughens-sub-prime-mortgage-loan-guidelines-update1-.html

          
          
             Fremont Investment & Loan, the third-largest provider of sub-prime U.S. mortgages through brokers, is
making broad changes to its lending guidelines for at least the
second time within a year to reflect concerns about rising late
payments by the riskiest borrowers.  
 The lender will stop giving mortgages to individuals who
can't prove their income when buying a home with no money down,
or to those that make down payments of less than 10 percent for
properties sold without real estate agents, according to an
internal memo. Fremont Investment, the main operating unit of
 Santa Monica , California-based Fremont General Corp., will also
refuse to refinance loans that are more than 90 days late.  
 ``Change can be difficult for everyone, but in the current
market, change is necessary,'' Robert Clafford, a senior vice
president at Fremont, wrote in the memo, which outlined 11 areas
where the company would tighten standards. Clafford declined to
comment about the memo when reached by telephone yesterday.  
 A slowing housing market and looser underwriting has pushed
delinquencies on sub-prime mortgages made in 2005 and 2006 to
the worst levels for their ages since loans originated in 2001,
according UBS AG and Friedman Billings Ramsey Group Inc. Sub-prime mortgages are considered the riskiest types because they
are made to people with poor or limited credit histories.  
 Other lenders have also clamped down on lending practices
within the past month, including New Century Financial Corp.,
General Electric Co.'s WMC Mortgage, and First Franklin
Financial, which Merrill Lynch & Co. bought this month.  
 Case for Quality  
 Fremont has been seeking out chances to talk with bond
investors to encourage them to buy new securities backed by its
loans, according to Jeremy A. Shor, a portfolio manager at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York .  
 ``They are really trying to step up and make the case that
they have quality underwriting standards,'' said Shor, whose
firm manages about $3 billion in asset-backed securities.  
 Questions about Fremont's relative loan quality have been
raised by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. Since
October, the rating firms have said they may downgrade low-rated
bonds created last year in securitizations of mortgages made in
late 2005 and early 2006. Rating companies typically don't
reassess such bonds' creditworthiness within their first year.  
 Shares in Fremont plunged 30 percent last year, compared to
a 14 percent gain for the Standard & Poor's 500 index. They've
fallen almost 9 percent this year, trading down 33 cents to
$14.78 as of 1:45 p.m. today on the New York Stock Exchange.  
 Rethinking Policies  
 Lenders have started rethinking their policies as prices
fall for the riskiest sub-prime mortgages and for some
securitizations, and because of demands by investors for the
companies to repurchase loans with early repayment problems.
Fremont bought back $345.7 million of loans in the third
quarter, according to a Nov. 9 company earnings statement.  
 ``We periodically do changes to our underwriting
guidelines,'' said Trude Tsujimoto, general counsel for Fremont
Investment. ``That's part of our normal processes.'' She refused
to discuss the memo's details.  
 In his memo, Fremont's Clafford referenced the closure of
Agoura Hills, California-based Ownit Mortgage Solutions Inc.
last month and last week's decision by Middletown, Connecticut-based Mortgage Lenders Network USA Inc. to halt its broker
business amid lower sales and higher defaults.  
 Fremont Performance  
 After adjusting for traits such as credit scores, loan-to-value ratios and the mortgages' ages, as well as estimates of
appreciation, securitized sub-prime mortgages made last year by
Fremont had the fourth-worst performance among those of the 20
bond issuers studied by analysts at UBS for a Dec. 19 report.  
 About 19 percent of loans made by Fremont between July 2005
and December 2005 and backing a bond sold in February 30 days
late or worse, according to a Dec. 12 regulatory filing. About
5.9 percent were being foreclosed and 2.4 percent had become
seized properties, according to the filing.  Standard & Poor's 
said last week that it may downgrade that bond.  
 Fremont had $12.6 billion in assets and was collecting
payments on $24 billion of residential real estate loans as of
Sept. 30, according to the company's recent earnings statement.  
 `80-20' Program  
 In mid-2006, Fremont tightened loan standards by ending
``80-20'' programs for consumers with credit scores below 600
ready to document their income or those with scores below 640
and looking to ``state'' it, according to slides on its Web site
from a December presentation to bond investors.  
 The 80-20 programs allow borrowers to use home-equity loans
in lieu of down payments. Fremont also introduced new fraud
training and appraisal procedures, according to the slides.  
 Tighter standards could depress sub-prime industry volumes
by more than 15 percent this year, Bose George, an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., wrote in a report last month.  
 After the earlier round of adjustments by Fremont, the
company's new residential lending, fell 23 percent between the
second and third quarters to $9.5 billion.  
 Fremont did make some changes this week that favor
borrowers, including lowering the number of existing credit
accounts that first-time home buyers must have.  
 Last month, the company told bond buyers that past changes
cut the amount of first-time buyers in its new loan mix from
24 percent in June, to 5.6 percent in September.  
 ``We are also working to provide you with competitive
advantages,'' Clafford told employees in the memo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at   bburgess@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        