-- Quiznos Appoints Ex-Burger King Chief to Top Post
-- Danny King
-- 2007-01-09T00:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-09/quiznos-appoints-ex-burger-king-chief-to-top-post-update4-.html

          
          
             Quiznos, the second-biggest U.S.
sandwich chain, appointed former Burger King Chief Executive
Officer Greg Brenneman as president and CEO, effective
immediately.  
 TurnWorks Inc., Brenneman's private-equity firm, has taken
a stake in the company, Denver-based Quiznos said today in a
statement without being more specific. Brenneman replaced
Richard E. Schaden, who will remain chairman of the company.  
 ``This is a big opportunity to eat my own cooking,'' said
Brenneman, who declined to say how much he invested in the
company. He said he will focus on improving average store sales
and expanding overseas.  
 Brenneman, 45, was Burger King's CEO from August 2004 to
April 2006, the month before the company held its initial
public offering, and also served as chairman for 14 months. He
left the company to return to TurnWorks Inc., though remained
as a consultant until June 30. He said Quiznos had no plans to
go public.  
 Miami-based Burger King, the second-largest U.S. hamburger
chain, raised $425 million when it went public last May. It was
purchased by Texas Pacific Group, Bain Capital LLC and Goldman
Sachs Capital Partners in December 2002 from Diageo Plc for
$1.5 billion.  
 Brenneman, who's a director at Home Depot Inc. and had
previously been president at PWC Consulting and Continental
Airlines Inc., was paid $13.9 million by Burger King for the
year ended June 30, including a $12.4 million bonus.  
 Employment Agreement  
 His agreement with Burger King prevents him from working
for or investing in hamburger chains McDonald's Corp. and
Wendy's International Inc., though not Quiznos, he said.  
 ``He's kind of a fix-it, turnaround guy, not a restaurant
guy per se,'' said Bob Goldin, an executive vice president at
Chicago-based restaurant consultant Technomic Inc. ``They're
pretty inconsistent in terms of unit performance. When a
private-equity firm invests in these firms, they're out to
recapture they're investment sooner rather than later.''  
 Last March, JPMorgan Partners LLC bought a ``significant''
stake in Quiznos from Cervantes Capital for an amount that
wasn't disclosed. The closely held company, which trails Subway
Restaurants, has more than 5,000 restaurants.  
 In 2001, Schaden and his father, Richard F. Schaden, took
Quiznos private by acquiring the 32 percent of the company they
didn't already own for about $8 a share. The company operated
about 1,200 restaurants at the time. Richard F. Schaden remains
on the company board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Danny King in  Los Angeles  at 
 dking19@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        