-- Investors push 90 companies for say on CEO pay
-- By  Joseph A. Giannone
-- Thu Jan 24, 2008 7:16pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/25/businesspro-compensation-proxies-dc-idUSN2426366520080125

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. CEO pay packages will come under 
greater fire at annual meetings in the next few months as more 
than 90 U.S. corporations face resolutions from stockholders 
battered by the credit crunch and economic slowdown. 

  The targets are companies that overpaid their executives, 
or where pay is deemed out of line with performance over the 
past three to five years, according to a network for more than 
70 institutional and individual investors on Thursday.  The network, organized last year by the American Federation 
of State, County and Municipal Employees and Walden Asset 
Management, wants companies to sponsor "say on pay" resolutions 
in proxy statements for upcoming annual meetings.  Typically, shareholders submit resolutions in December and 
January for annual meetings that take place in the spring.  "We are in the middle of a subprime mortgage crisis where 
some failing CEOs are walking away with hundreds of millions of 
dollars. That makes no sense, and we think giving shareholders 
a vote on CEO pay will help to stop it," AFSCME President 
Gerald McEntee said. AFSCME members participate in pensions 
managing more than $1 trillion in assets.  Companies receiving resolutions include Abbott Laboratories 
( ABT.N ), Bear Stearns Cos BSC.N, Blockbuster BBI.N, Capital 
One Financial Corp ( COF.N ), Citigroup Inc ( C.N ), Coca-Cola 
( KO.N ), Countrywide Financial CFC.N, Lexmark ( LXK.N ), Merrill 
Lynch & Co MER.N, Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ), Motorola MOT.N, 
Northrop Grumman ( NOC.N ) and Wells Fargo & Co ( WFC.N ).  Similar resolutions were filed last year at more than 50 
companies. On average they received more than 42 percent 
shareholder support, AFSCME said.  The investor group also filed "say on pay" resolutions with 
Apple ( AAPL.O ), AT&T ( T.N ), Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ), General 
Electric ( GE.N ), Goldman Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ), Home Depot 
( HD.N ), IBM ( IBM.N ), JPMorgan Chase & Co ( JPM.N ), Merck 
( MRK.N ), Nabors Industries Ltd ( NBR.N ), UnitedHealth ( UNH.N ), 
Wachovia Corp WB.N and Wal-Mart Stores Inc ( WMT.N ).  The union group also told Reuters that in addition to 
seeking a voice on executive pay, it is taking aim for the 
first time at several other perks not available to the average 
worker and practices that reduce accountability.  One such perk is the "tax gross up" policy, where companies 
reimburse executives for taxes paid on other compensation. 
These pacts can cost millions of dollars, AFSCME said.  "It's abhorrent to have a CEO not paying taxes on their 
golf club memberships. What makes them so special?" said Rich 
Ferlauto, AFSCME's director of corporate governance and pension 
investment.  AFSCME also seeks reforms of "10b5-1" plans, preset 
stock-trading plans designed to stop insider trading abuses. 
The union is asking companies to tighten provisions around 
these plans to ensure they are not manipulated by CEOs.  The group also seeks improvements to the compensation 
discussion included in proxies. A format introduced last year 
was supposed to make it easier to measure and compare CEO pay, 
but Ferlauto said these discussions need improvement.  "Right now it's a compliance document for outside lawyers, 
not a resource for shareholders. It should be a narrative to 
describe how a pay package was designed to increase shareholder 
value," Ferlauto said.  (Reporting by Joseph A. Giannone, editing by Richard Chang, 
 Gary Hill )