-- CAT execs say internal issues key in earnings miss
-- By  James B. Kelleher
-- Fri Jul 20, 2007 10:21pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/21/businesspro-caterpillar-results-dc-idUSWNAS682820070721

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Executives at Caterpillar Inc. ( CAT.N ), 
the U.S. heavy equipment maker whose disappointing earnings 
dragged Wall Street into the red on Friday, said internal 
company factors -- as much as broader economic headwinds -- 
were to blame for the company's bad quarter. 

  In an interview with Reuters, Chief Finance Officer Dave 
Burritt and Mike DeWalt, head of investor relations, said 
Caterpillar's effort to streamline manufacturing and the 
bankruptcy of a key European supplier contributed to the big 
second-quarter miss.  Caterpillar said net profit fell 21 percent to $823 
million, or $1.24 a share, from $1.05 billion, or $1.52 a 
share, in the year-ago quarter. Analysts, on average, had 
expected a profit of $1.49 a share on machinery and engine 
sales of $10.34 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.  Caterpillar was hit by a massive price squeeze, on top of 
simultaneous downturns in U.S. housing and the market for 
diesel engines for the biggest on-highway trucks in North 
America, analysts said. Price increases were unable to keep up 
with rising costs, mostly from manufacturing inefficiencies 
rather than material prices increases, they noted.  In the interview on Friday, Burritt and DeWalt acknowledged 
as much, citing internal issues such as high costs for adopting 
the CAT Production System which resembles Toyota Motor Corp.'s 
( 7203.T ) streamlined manufacturing process.  "The big issue when you create change and you do it this 
broad and this deep across the company ... is the rollout cost 
upfront," Burritt said of the system.  "And I think the costs were a bit higher. One of the 
cultural things we're doing is this 'stop and fix it,' which is 
fundamental to improving the quality. And that's painful 
sometimes because you basically have the entire line down until 
you get it right."  The bankruptcy of a European company that makes driver cabs 
for some of Caterpillar's equipment also idled some key 
production lines, DeWalt said, and ate into the Peoria, 
Illinois-based company's operating profits.  "And so all of a sudden our supply was cut off and we were 
scrambling to get an alternate supplier," DeWalt said. "That's 
a pretty involved component. "It was a big hassle and really 
shut us down for awhile."