-- Most U.S. mid-sized companies not hiring: survey
-- By  Dan Wilchins
-- Mon Jul 30, 2007 1:19am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/30/businesspro-usa-employment-dc-idUSN2728868420070730

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - More than half of U.S. mid-sized 
companies are not planning to hire over the next 12 months or 
may lay people off, and fewer than a third of the firms expect 
strong economic growth, a survey said on Monday. 

  The news adds to evidence the U.S. economy may not grow as 
robustly next year as it did last quarter, when gross domestic 
product grew at an annualized rate of 3.4 percent.  Not all companies are gloomy about employment -- 47 percent 
expect to hire, according to the survey from CIT and the 
Economist Intelligence Unit. But 44 percent of mid-sized 
companies see their workforce size staying the same, and 9 
percent forecast a decline.  Executives are not excessively optimistic about the 
economy, either, with just 30 percent saying they expect the 
economy to be strong over the next 12 months, while 38 percent 
were neutral and 24 percent expect it to be weak.  "Middle-market companies are realists in terms of what the 
economy will offer them," said Walter Owens, president of CIT 
Corporate Finance.  But the companies are still optimistic about their own 
prospects. Nearly two-thirds of the companies polled said they 
expect their revenue to grow over the next 12 months.  The survey covered companies that generate between $25 
million and $1 billion in annual revenue.  These mid-sized companies employ about 32 million people, 
more than the 22 million employed by large companies in the 
Standard & Poor's 500, according to the survey.  The U.S. job market has been chugging along steadily at a 
moderate level. By some measures, it looks strong -- the U.S. 
unemployment rate was 4.5 percent in June, according to a 
monthly government survey of households.  But Wall Street watches the government's monthly survey of 
employers' payrolls more carefully, because it uses a broader 
sample size, and that has been showing more tepid growth of 
around 150,000 new jobs a month.  Some economists argue that the payrolls survey ignores 
smaller and mid-sized companies, which are crucial for the 
labor market's growth. The Bureau of Labor Statistics tends to 
survey companies with more than 1,000 employees.  The respondents to the survey averaged about 700 employees, 
CIT said.