-- Thornburg gets SEC subpoenas, survival in doubt
-- By Jonathan Stempel
-- Wed Jun 18, 2008 10:33am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/18/businesspro-thornburg-dc-idUSBNG11997320080618

 

 BANGALORE  (Reuters) - Thornburg Mortgage Inc TMA.N, the 
jumbo mortgage lender that lost $3.31 billion in the first 
quarter, said on Wednesday it has received subpoenas from U.S. 
securities regulators and its survival remains in doubt. 

  The disclosures reflect further problems for the Santa Fe, 
New Mexico-based lender, which was on the brink of bankruptcy 
in March before raising $1.35 billion of capital.  In its delayed quarterly report filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, Thornburg said it is complying with 
SEC subpoenas for documents.  It said the subpoenas, issued on April 24 and May 23, 
relate to a previously disclosed probe into Thornburg's 
restatement of 2007 financial results, demands for more 
collateral by its lenders, its accounting for mortgage-backed 
securities, and various disclosures.  SEC spokesman John Nester declined to comment.  Thornburg also said it has been "significantly and 
negatively impacted" by worsening mortgage market conditions, 
including falling home prices, rising borrower defaults, credit 
rating agency downgrades of mortgage securities, and 
illiquidity.  It said uncertainty about liquidity, financing and the 
outcome of a planned tender offer for preferred stock "continue 
to raise substantial doubt about the company's ability to 
continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future."  The lender also said it is defending against class-action 
litigation accusing it of making false and misleading 
statements about its financial health, inflating its stock 
price.  Thornburg specializes in mortgages above $417,000, which 
often go to buyers of larger homes who have good credit.  It proved vulnerable when investors stopped buying such 
loans, and it failed to cover $610 million of margin calls from 
its lenders.  Thornburg's $3.31 billion loss stemmed largely from 
write-downs, losses on mortgage sales, and the capital-raising. 
The capital came from MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC, 
which invests in distressed companies, and other investors.  Well over 100 mortgage lenders have stopped lending, sold 
themselves or gone bankrupt since the beginning of 2007.  Though the capital-raising kept Thornburg in business, it 
heavily diluted existing shareholders. Those shareholders last 
week approved an increase in authorized shares to 4 billion 
from 500 million.  Thornburg shares closed Tuesday at 69 cents, New York Stock 
Exchange data show. Their 52-week high is $27.80, set last June 
20.  (Additional reporting by  Karey Wutkowski  in Washington; 
Editing by John Wallace)