-- Austria Investigates Elevator Companies for Cartel
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2007-02-05T17:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-05/austria-investigates-elevator-companies-for-cartel-update1-.html

          
          
             Austrian regulators are probing
elevator and escalator makers, including  Schindler Holding AG (SCHN) , for
operating a possible price-fixing cartel starting in the 1980s.  
 The Vienna-based Austrian antitrust authority on Jan. 30
asked a competition court to fine some of the country's ``leading
companies,'' the regulator said in a statement on its Web site.  
 ``We got the accusations and they're asking for a fine,''
Riccardo Biffi, a Schindler spokesman, said today in a telephone
interview. ``We have to check it and respond to the authority.''  
 The Austrian investigation follows a European Union probe.
The EU alleges a price-fixing cartel took place in Belgium,
 Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands between 1998 and 2004. In
October 2005, the EU charged  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) 's Otis
unit, the world's largest elevator company, Schindler,
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Kone Oyj (KNEBV)  with operating a cartel.  
 The four companies control about 75 percent of the global
elevator and escalator market, which is worth 30 billion euros
($39 billion) in annual sales, Christian Obst, an analyst at HVB
in Munich, said in November.  
 Thyssenkrupp isn't ``affected'' by the Austrian probe, the
company said in a faxed statement today. Minna Mars, a spokeswoman
for Kone, and Gabriele Stoik, a spokeswoman for Otis, had no
comment.  
 The Austrian regulators were tipped off by two unidentified
companies applying for leniency under Austrian competition law.  
 ``Such agreements are a serious infringement of European and
Austrian antitrust law,'' the authority said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Newman in Brussels at 
 Mnewman6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eamonn Sullivan at   esullivan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        