-- Kuwait Finance Plans Rashid Hussain Bid Announcement
-- Shanthy Nambiar
-- 2007-02-05T07:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-05/kuwait-finance-plans-rashid-hussain-bid-announcement-update1-.html

          
          
             Kuwait  Finance House, the Persian
Gulf's largest Islamic investment bank that's in talks to buy a
stake in Malaysia's Rashid Hussain Bhd., said it plans to make
an announcement about the transaction as early as this week.  
 The bank is in ``negotiations'' with Malaysia's Utama
Banking Group Bhd. about the possible acquisition, Salman Younis,
the managing director of Kuwait Finance's local unit in Kuala
Lumpur, said in an e-mailed response to a Bloomberg query.  
 Flush with oil revenue, Persian Gulf states such as Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait are searching for investment opportunities in
banking, oil infrastructure and real estate in the fast-growing
economies of Asia. Purchasing a stake in Rashid Hussain may give
Kuwait Finance access to the world's largest Islamic bond market
and control of  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , Malaysia's fourth-biggest bank.  
 Malaysia's central bank on Nov. 15 said it will ease rules
to allow Malaysian banks and financial services companies to
discuss mergers and acquisitions with more than one suitor.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in November agreed to
pay A$833 million ($658 million) for 24.9 percent of  AMMB
Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , Malaysia's fifth-biggest bank.  
 ``Any reference to the details of the proposed deal is
premature at this point in time,'' Younis said in an e-mail sent
by the bank's spokeswoman today.  
 Other Suitors  
 Kuala Lumpur-based Rashid Hussain, which owns a 65 percent
stake in RHB Capital, on Jan. 30 said it's considering selling a
stake. Rashid Hussain is 33 percent owned by Utama Banking and
31 percent by the Employees Provident Fund,  Malaysia 's biggest
pension fund.  
 Utama last month said it won approval from the central bank
to also start talks with Primus Pacific Partners, the largest
financial services investor in the Asia-Pacific region, on the
proposed recapitalization and restructuring of its holding in
Rashid Hussain.  
 Primus on Feb. 1 said Utama Banking would remain the
biggest shareholder of Rashid Hussain should a group of
investors led by Primus succeed in buying a stake. Primus
shareholders included the Qatar Investment Authority.  
 Shares of Rashid Hussain and Utama Banking rose today on
the stock exchange. Rashid Hussain added 6 sen, or 4.1 percent,
to 1.51 ringgit as of 2:57 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur. Utama Banking
rose 9 sen, or 5.8 percent, to 1.65 ringgit. RHB Capital
advanced 24 sen, or 6.5 percent, to 3.92 ringgit.  
 About 60 percent of Malaysia's 27 million people are Muslim.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shanthy Nambiar in Bangkok at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        