-- `Immigrant Kids' Unite Germans for Argentina World Cup Showdown
-- Brian Parkin
-- 2010-07-02T14:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/-immigrant-kids-unite-german-team-in-world-cup-showdown-against-argentina.html

          
          
             Jan Coskun , a third-generation German
of Turkish heritage, finally sees himself reflected in the
country’s soccer team.  
 The 24-year-old, who runs a kiosk selling tobacco and
confectionary underneath Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate, is rooting
for the national side to win its fourth World Cup title as the
team prepares to play Argentina tomorrow in a quarterfinal
match.  
 Eleven of the 23 players taking on  Diego Maradona’s  squad
in Cape Town, South Africa, are the offspring of immigrants,
just like Coskun. Players, including  Mesut Oezil ,  Sami Khedira 
and  Jerome Boateng , give the German-born shopowner a sense that
he has arrived in a country that still struggles to accept its
 6.9 million foreigners .  
 “We’ve finally made it, we immigrant kids, even if it’s
taken us three generations,” said Coskun. “The team shows that
we can all live together and be successful under the German
flag.”  
 The multicultural side coach  Joachim Loew  assembled has
united the country’s citizens under a sea of black, red and gold
flags from the capital to Hamburg, Frankfurt and Munich in a
celebration of Germany’s cultural diversity. It also shines a
spotlight on a debate about immigration that has sullied its
foreign population and resurfaced last month when  Thilo Sarrazin , a board member at Deutsche Bundesbank, was cited as
saying immigrants from Turkey, the Middle East and Africa are
making Germany “dumber.”  
 ‘Personal Views’  
 Sarrazin said immigrants from those countries are less
educated than other people and have more children, according to
a report by Deutsche Presse-Agentur. Through such immigrants,
Germany is getting “dumber on average,” dpa quoted Sarrazin as
saying.  
 Susanne Kreutzer, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based
Bundesbank, at the time said the comments were “the personal
views of Mr. Sarrazin” and declined to comment further.  
 Germany’s national team players trace their roots to
Bosnia, Brazil, Ghana, Nigeria, Poland, Spain, Tunisia and
Turkey. Europe’s largest economy sought to attract workers from
Mediterranean countries in the 1950s and 1960s to compensate for
a labor shortage.  
 Oezil, a Muslim whose grandparents came to Germany from
Turkey, plays for Werder Bremen in Germany’s Bundesliga. The 21-
year-old’s left-foot shot against Ghana helped the national side
through to the knock-out stages of the World Cup to meet the
team they eliminated in a penalty shootout at the same stage
four years ago, when the tournament was held in Germany.  
 Man-of-the-Match  
 Loew brought him into the team after he was named man of
the match when Germany beat England in the under-21 European
Championship last year.  
 Fans argue on his  website  in German and Turkish about
whether he should play for the place of his birth or that of his
ancestry. He prays before every match to help calm his nerves,
according to the site.  
 Midfielder Khedira, whose father is Tunisian, said some of
the team’s Muslim players say prayers during the anthem.  
 “We have the best ambience in our squad,” Khedira told
reporters at the German team’s training base near Pretoria on
June 28. “We’ve been together six-and-a-half weeks and everyone
has respect for the other players’ backgrounds. Before the
match, everybody doesn’t sing the national anthem but that
doesn’t mean we don’t feel a 100 percent behind the country.”  
 A citizenship law introduced in 2000, allowing German-born
children of foreigners to gain a German passport as long as one
parent has lived in the country for eight years, has resulted in
an increase in the number of players of foreign heritage in the
squad.  
 ‘Calling Card’  
 The 1998 World Cup squad didn’t have any members of foreign
heritage. Four years later, two were included in the line-up,
 Miroslav Klose , who was born in Poland, and  Gerald Asamoah , who
hails from Ghana.  
 Speaking after Germany’s 4-0 victory over Australia in its
first World Cup match, German Football Association President
 Theo Zwanziger  said the team is “the best calling card the
country can have. It shows the world that young people from
immigrant backgrounds can be successful.”  
 Boateng, who has a Ghanaian father and whose half-brother
Kevin-Prince Boateng plays for that African nation, was
approached to play for Ghana.  
 “For me it was clear I’d play for Germany because I grew
up here,” he told the football association website.  
 German Chancellor Angela Merkel is scheduled to fly to Cape
Town today to attend the game, according to the government press
secretary’s office in Berlin.  
 “I’m fully confident, even with this young team, we will
be able to beat Argentina,” Loew told reporters in Cape Town
today. “We can be very happy about what we have achieved so
far.”  
 Giovanni Falzoi, 69, a retired car-paintshop worker
originally from Sardinia, has lived in Germany 34 years, the
last two in Berlin.  
 “I love Berlin because you see and meet people from
everywhere under the sun,” he said. ‘I think it’s really great
to see these young players with foreign backgrounds playing for
Germany. It says: see you there from Turkey or Lebanon or
Africa, you belong here too if you’re a good player. It’s taken
decades to get this far. I hope it won’t change.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Germany's defender Jerome Boateng reacts after the 2010 World Cup round of 16 match against England  in Bloemfontein. Photographer: Stephane de Sakutin/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from Johannesburg on the quarterfinal matches at the soccer World Cup.
     Netherlands plays Brazil in Port Elizabeth and Uruguay takes on Ghana in Johannesburg in matches today, while tomorrow sees Argentina clash with Germany in Cape Town and Paraguay versus Spain in Johannesburg. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Thomas Mueller, left, celebrates scoring his side's third goal with team mates Jerome Boateng, center, and Sami Khedira during their World Cup match between Germany and England in Bloemfontein, South Africa. Photographer: Cameron Spencer/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
