-- L'Oreal Heiress Recordings Must Be Investigated, Trial Stayed, Judge Rules
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-01T17:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/l-oreal-heiress-recordings-must-be-probed-trial-stayed-french-judge-says.html

          
          
             Recordings of  L’Oreal SA  heiress
 Liliane Bettencourt  must be turned over for investigation into
their contents, a judge ordered today, staying a trial into
whether the 87-year-old was manipulated into giving a friend
1 billion euros ($1.23 billion) in gifts.  
 Bettencourt’s only child,  Francoise Bettencourt Meyers ,
filed a private prosecution against photographer and author
 Francois-Marie Banier  last year, claiming he manipulated her
infirm mother to get art, real estate and cash gifts. The mother
has opposed her daughter’s effort.  
 “It’s good, this is exactly what we asked for,” Meyers’s
lawyer  Olivier Metzner  said. “The case could still evolve,” he
said, since Judge Isabelle Prevost-Desprez didn’t specify what
she would do next or give a time frame for resuming the trial.  
 The recordings, on 28 compact discs, were made secretly by
a former butler beginning in May 2009 and given to Meyers. They
have drawn politicians, including French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and Labor Minister  Eric Woerth , into the family dispute
and raised questions about whether tax authorities ignored
claims Bettencourt hid 78 million euros in Swiss accounts.  
 The Nanterre prosecutor, representing the Paris suburb
where the trial is taking place, appealed today’s decision,
saying the scope of the judge’s investigation wasn’t defined, as
required by French law. Also, the ruling jeopardized the chance
of a fair trial, said Astrid Granoux, a spokeswoman for the
prosecutor’s office. The appeals court will consider the filing
within the next week, she said.  
 Privacy Complaint  
 Police have been investigating how the recordings of
Europe’s wealthiest woman discussing political dealings and
Swiss bank accounts were made, after Bettencourt made a privacy
violation complaint.  
 “The decision consists of not deciding,” Bettencourt’s
lawyer Georges Kiejman said of today’s postponement. “It is
very sad. It is the first time that we’ve agreed to use
evidence” gathered illegally, as Bettencourt claimed in her
privacy complaint.  
 Banier could face as much as three years in prison and a
fine of 375,000 euros if found guilty.  
 Banier doesn’t have “a single fear” of a trial, his
lawyer  Herve Temime  said outside the courtroom after the judge
approved his request for a stay. “This additional investigation
could clarify not only the recordings, but how they were made.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        