-- AbitibiBowater, National Envelope, Lehman, General Growth: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-01T14:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/abitibibowater-national-envelope-lehman-general-growth-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Subsidiaries of Truvo Luxemburg Sarl,
a Belgium-based international publisher of directories, missed a
June 1 interest payment on two issues of second-priority notes
and filed a Chapter 11 petition early this morning in New York.
Truvo has agreement for the holders of 778 million euros ($964
million) of first-priority senior debt to receive the new equity
plus 600 million euros in new debt.  
 Truvo said in a court filing that holders of 70 percent of
the first-priority debt support the plan as do 15 percent of the
second-priority debt.  
 Truvo said in court papers that “cash flow cannot support
the existing capital structure.” The petition lists assets for
1.04 billion euros against liabilities totaling 1.67 billion
euros. As the result of a shift away from print advertising and
directories, revenue of 389 million euros in 2007 declined to
302 million euros in 2009.  
 Debt includes 778 million euros owing on the first-priority
debt and 595 million euros outstanding on two issues of second-
priority notes. In addition, there is 173 million euros owing on
pay-in-kind third-priority notes.  
 The agreement with the first-priority debt holders to
support the plan calls for them to receive the new equity plus
600 million euros in new debt obligations. The new debt is to be
composed of 350 million euros in first-lien debt, 100 million
euros in second-lien debt, and 150 million euros in pay-in-kind
debt.  
 If the second-priority noteholders accept the plan, they
can receive 15 million euros cash plus 5-year warrants for 14
percent of the stock at a 150 million euros strike price. The
pay-in-kind debt holders, if they accept and so do the second-
priority, will receive warrants for 1 percent of the new equity.  
 The existing agreement among holders the three tiers of
debt provides that the senior lenders can cause the companies to
be released from obligations on the subordinate debt in
connection with an action to enforce the senior debt.  
 When Truvo missed the interest payment this month, Moody’s
Investors Service predicted that holders of the second-priority
debt would see a “very low recovery.”  
 Truvo is the leading directory publisher in Belgium,
Ireland and Romania. Through a joint venture, it is the leading
directory publisher in Portugal.  
 The case is In re Truvo USA LLC, 10-13513, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 New Filings  
 Arrow Files Third Ch11 Petition, Now Liquidating  
 Arrow Air Inc., the largest cargo airline in Miami, filed
in Chapter 11 again late yesterday. The new filing, Arrow’s
third, will be a liquidation.  
 Also known as Arrow Cargo, it was operating 60 flights a
week with four leased DC-10-30 and three leased B757-200
aircraft.  
 Arrow was unsuccessful in finding a buyer despite having
received six letters of intent. It halted operation on June 29.  
 Arrow intends to liquidate while in Chapter 11 and to
operate charter flights when possible. A court paper says Arrow
intends to file a Chapter 11 plan “relatively soon.”  
 Arrow was acquired in June 2008 by a fund affiliated with
MatlinPatterson Global Advisors. Arrow owes MatlinPatterson
funds $72 million on term loans. The principal amount of the
secured term loan is $58.5 million and the unsecured loan is
$7.8 million.  
 The petition says the assets are worth less than $50
million while debt exceeds $100 million.  
 Arrow first filed under Chapter 11 in September 2000,
emerging with a confirmed plan in May 2002. It filed again in
January 2004. The second reorganization was confirmed in June
2004 with a plan that carried out a change of control to an
investor group which reportedly paid $11.5 million to purchase
all of the $32 million in secured debt. At the time, it was the
country’s fourth-largest air cargo carrier.  
 The case is In re Arrow Air Inc., 10-28831, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 SK Hand Tool Files in Chicago for Sale to Ideal Industries  
 SK Hand Tool Corp. , a manufacturer of hand and power tools,
filed a Chapter 11 petition on June 29 in Chicago along with a
contract for the sale of the business to Ideal Industries Inc.  
 The price will be $3.25 million unless a higher bid turns
up at auction. SK wants the bankruptcy judge to schedule an
auction so the hearing for approval of the sale can occur by
July 26.  
 SK owes $9 million to the secured lender Webster Business
Credit. The company has a plant in Chicago and a non-operating
facility in Defiance Ohio.  
 SK blamed the filing on the loss of customers, rising labor
costs, and the recession.  
 According to the petition, assets and debt both exceed $10
million.  
 The case is In re SK Hand Tool Corp., 10-28882, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District Illinois (Chicago).  
 Platinum Condo on Biscayne Bay Files Chapter 11 in Miami  
 The owner of the 22-story  Platinum  condominium just off
Biscayne Bay in Miami filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on
June 28.  
 Court papers say the assets are worth $24.7 million, while
debt totals $20.2 million. Mortgages aggregate $19.8 million.  
 In addition to other real estate properties, the developer
of the condominium owns 22 unsold Platinum units.  
 The case is In re Maysville Inc., 10-28244, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District Florida (Miami).  
 Updates  
 Noteholders Contend Bowater Plan Can’t Be Confirmed  
 AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, attracted several objections to the disclosure
statement that’s up for approval at a July 7 hearing. If the
disclosure statement is approved, creditors may begin voting on
the revised plan filed in late April.  
 Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian Capital
Management LLC, holders of unsecured notes issued by Bowater,
contend in a 48-page filing on June 29 that the plan can’t be
confirmed. The two noteholders say they have a blocking position
by their ownership of notes representing more than one-third of
unsecured claims against Bowater. The only other creditor
classes of Bowater aren’t impaired by the plan and therefore
can’t vote.  
 Aurelius and Contrarian argue that the companies can’t even
use the so-called cramdown process because their class isn’t
being paid in full and there will be no impaired class voting in
favor of the plan. Bankruptcy law doesn’t allow confirmation
absent an affirmative vote from one impaired class. A class is
impaired if it isn’t paid in full.  
 The two noteholders also take the disclosure statement to
task for not explaining how value was allocated between Abitibi
and Bowater. They see the disclosure statement as defective for
lacking a liquidation analysis and valuation of the reorganized
companies.  
 The indenture trustee for notes issued by Abitibi similarly
believes the disclosure statement shouldn’t be approved until it
contains an explanation for how value was allocated between
Abitibi and Bowater.  
 The agent for the secured term loan lenders to Abitibi
believe the plan is defective because it cuts off their right to
a pre-payment penalty.  
 Aurelius and Contrarian unsuccessfully objected to approval
of a commitment for $500 million in backstopped debt financing
for the reorganization plan.  
 The disclosure statement tells creditors of each of the
more than 30 affiliated companies how much they stand to
recover. For details about the plan, click here for the May 25
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper, and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber. The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24
pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in
2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April
2009, the combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of
$9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September
2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Cenveo Offers National Envelope Enough to Pay Lenders  
 Cenveo Corp., although it’s offering $140 million cash,
said it’s been “systematically excluded” from the sale process
by National Envelope Corp., the largest closely held envelope
manufacturing company in the U.S.  
 In papers filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware, Cenveo calls itself a “major player in
the envelope business.” Cenveo believes its offer is better
than a proposal from a private-equity investor who required NEC
to sign an agreement prohibiting talks with anyone else.  
 NEC said in court documents that it signed a letter of
intent on June 4 to sell itself to the private equity firm Gores
Group LLC.  
 Cenveo, based in Englewood, Colorado, contends that
“dozens of other potential investors” were allowed to conduct
a financial investigation while it wasn’t. Consequently, Cenveo
wants the bankruptcy judge to compel NEC to produce financial
information despite the so-called no-shop agreement.  
 The price it’s willing to pay is more than NEC’s first-lien
debt, Cenveo says.  
 NEC filed under Chapter 11 on June 10 along with a loan
agreement in which the agent,  General Electric Capital Corp. ,
requires having a sale agreement by July 2 and approval of sale
procedures by July 16.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14 manufacturing
plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Net sales in 2009
were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net loss. The
petition says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.
Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6
million on a secured revolving credit, and $89 million owing on
unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Neff Committee Wins Some Concessions on Loan, Bonuses  
 The unsecured creditors’ committee for  Neff Corp.  was
partially successful at a hearing yesterday in the
reorganization of the closely owned equipment rental concern.  
 The committee won some concessions before the court granted
approval yesterday for a $175 million financing package. The
lenders won’t have liens on lawsuits that might end up being
among unsecured creditors’ few assets. The committee will also
be able to challenge the validity of the liens.  
 Neff was also aiming for approval of a bonus program for
executives. The committee complained that the bonuses improperly
locked the executives into pursuit of the plan negotiated before
bankruptcy.  
 The bankruptcy judge didn’t approve bonuses based on a
quick exit from Chapter 11 under the pre-negotiated plan. She
did approve bonuses based on Neff’s financial performance. For
Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Neff began the prepackaged reorganization in May and has a
July 12 hearing for approval of a disclosure statement
explaining the Chapter 11 plan designed to reduce debt by more
than $400 million. The plan would give most of the new equity to
first-lien lenders owed $90 million on a term loan. For details
on the company’s finances and the plan, click here for the May
17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Miami-based Neff, with 63 branches in 14 states, listed
assets of $299 million and debt totaling $609 million.  
 The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Angelo Gordon Buys Capmark Mall Loan for $59 Million  
 Capmark Financial Group Inc. was authorized by the
bankruptcy judge on June 29 to sell a $70.4 million matured
mortgage loan to Angelo Gordon Real Estate Inc. for $59.2
million.  
 Before the bankruptcy judge in Delaware set up auction and
sale procedures, Angelo Gordon was offering $53 million. With
three other bidders in attendance, the auction went through nine
rounds of bidding until Angelo Gordon won.  
 The loan has a mortgage on the Shops at Georgetown Park
mall in Washington. Part of the consideration for the purchase
is a waiver of $19 million in claims being made by the borrower.  
 Capmark filed under Chapter 11 in October and since then
completed three sales generating more than $1 billion cash.
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  and  Leucadia National Corp.  bought most
of the business for $468 million.  
 Capmark previously said it intends on filing a
reorganization plan giving stock to unsecured creditors while
reorganizing around its non-bankrupt bank subsidiary which was
not sold. Based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, Capmark was called
GMAC Commercial Holding Corp. before control was sold in 2006.
It had been GMAC’s servicing and mortgage banking business.  
 KKR & Co. , Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from  General
Motors Corp.  for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt. Capmark’s debt includes a $1.5 billion term loan
secured by all assets except Capmark’s bank’s, $234 million
remaining under a bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior credit,
$2.34 billion in notes, and a $250 million junior subordinated
debt. The bank had assets of $11.12 billion and deposits of
$8.39 billion, according to a court filing.  
 The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Lehman Terminating Out-of-the-Money Derivatives Contracts  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  filed papers to terminate
derivatives contracts with five counterparties where Lehman
currently has a loss on its side of the transactions. Lehman
wants the bankruptcy court to reject the agreements as executory
contracts, thus fixing the amount of the resulting claims and
preventing losses from growing in the future.  
 Lehman explained in its papers on June 29 how most other
counterparties to derivatives transactions already terminated
the agreements where the former broker is out of the money. The
contracts being terminated are commodity basket options and
mortgage-backed securities index derivatives.  
 The hearing is scheduled for July 14.  
 Lehman filed a Chapter 11 plan and explanatory disclosure
statement. For details on both, click here and here for the
April 15 and April 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, and the liquidation proceeding
under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the brokerage
operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v. Lehman
Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  
 General Growth Properties Wants Estimate for Summerlin Claims  
 General Growth Properties Inc.  doesn’t like the idea of
using arbitration to determine what former investors in Hughes
Corp. should receive in a Chapter 11 plan. The mall owner wants
the bankruptcy judge to estimate the investors’ claims and
decide how much they should receive on account of their equity
interest.  
 Hughes Corp., some of whose investors include heirs of the
late Howard Hughes, owned a 22,500-acre master-planned community
outside Las Vegas named Summerlin. General Growth, through a
predecessor, acquired Hughes Corp., with the purchase price to
be paid over 14 years. For the last payment at the end of 2009,
the Hughes investors were to be paid half of the fair market
value of the remaining assets, plus other items like excess cash
flow.  
 Rather than being paid in cash, the Hughes investors were
to be paid in General Growth stock. They don’t have claims,
General Growth contends. Rather, they should be treated like
stockholders.  
 The Hughes investors filed a motion last week asking the
bankruptcy judge to send the parties into arbitration under the
agreement. General Growth opposes the idea, contending the
bankruptcy court should estimate how much the investors are to
receive under the reorganization plan as stockholders.  
 The Hughes investors’ motion for arbitration and General
Growth’s motion to estimate the claim are both on the bankruptcy
court’s calendar for July 22.  
 General Growth will file a plan and explanatory disclosure
statement by July 9 for the four top-tier companies providing
for full payment to all creditors. All the property-owning
subsidiaries have already confirmed plans paying their creditors
in full. The disclosure statement hearing is to be held in
August, with the confirmation hearing for approval of the plan
to take place in October.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008. The
company owns or manages more than 200 shopping-mall properties.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Oscient Confirms Liquidating Ch11 Plan in Boston  
 Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp. , a drugmaker from Waltham,
Massachusetts, has approval to exit Chapter 11 with the
signature of the bankruptcy judge on a June 29 order confirming
the Chapter 11 plan.  
 Unsecured creditors with $78.8 million in claims are slated
for a 22.5 percent recovery.  
 Lupin Ltd.  paid $38.6 million to buy Oscient’s Antara
cholesterol drug. The Factive bronchitis drug was bought by
 Cornerstone Therapeutics Inc.  for $5 million plus the value of
inventory and a 15 percent royalty for five years.  
 Oscient’s petition listed assets of $174 million and debt
of $183 million. Debt included $27.4 million owed on 12 percent
senior secured notes, $48.4 million on 12.5 percent senior
notes, and $12.7 million to the holders of 3.5 percent
convertible notes.  
 The case is Oscient Pharmaceuticals Corp., 09-16576, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 Watch List  
 Lion Capital’s American Safety Razor May Prepack Plan  
 American Safety Razor Co. , the leading maker of private-
label wet-shaving blades, issued a statement yesterday afternoon
saying it received a financing proposal from a major financial
institution and holders of second-lien debt. The terms weren’t
disclosed.  
 The press release also said that lenders granted waivers of
loan covenant violations so discussions on the refinancing could
be brought to conclusion.  
 The statement said nothing about a prepackaged bankruptcy
filing. It did say it’s important for the company to insure that
trade suppliers be paid in full.  
 Should discussions with the second-lien creditors not work
out, the company said there is a backup proposal from first-lien
lenders.  
 Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based ASR was acquired for $625
million in July 2006 by London-based Lion Capital LLP.  
 Although ASR has the largest market share for private-label
blades, it has only 8 percent of the market when branded goods
are included, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
leader, with 66 percent of the market, is  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Gillette products.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Smurfit-Stone Container Finishes Plan, Relists Stock  
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. , a corrugated container and
containerboard maker, is being traded today on the New York
Stock Exchange now that the reorganization plan was implemented.
The bankruptcy judge confirmed the plan on June 21. Existing
common and preferred shareholders between them kept 4.5 percent
of the new stock. For details on the plan, click here for the
June 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  
 The Chapter 11 filing in January 2009 by the Chicago-based
company listed assets of $7.45 billion and debt of $5.58 billion
as of Sept. 30, 2008. Debt at the time included $1.2 billion
under secured revolving credit and term-loan agreements, five
issues of unsecured notes totaling $2.275 billion, $388 million
under an accounts receivable securitization facility, and $284
million owing on tax-exempt bonds.  
 The case is In re Smurfit-Stone Container Corp., 09-10235,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Trident Resources Consummates Plans in U.S., Canada  
 Trident Resources Corp. , an independent natural gas
production and development company, said yesterday that it
implemented the reorganization plan that the bankruptcy judge
approved in a June 15 confirmation order. Together with a
companion reorganization in the Court of Queen’s Bench in
Calgary, the company reduced long-term debt from $1.9 billion to
$410 million. To read details on the plan, click here for the
June 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The companies filed for reorganization in September in the
U.S. and Canada. Trident focuses on coal-bed methane.  
 The case is In re Trident Resources Corp., 09-13150, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 General Growth, San Diego Hotel, Two Appeal Rulings: Audio  
 A luxury hotel in San Diego, General Growth, and two
significant appellate rulings on bankruptcy are discussed in the
latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Downgrade  
 Military Gun Maker Colt Defense Downgraded to B2  
 Colt Defense LLC, a manufacturer of the M4 carbine and M16
rifle for the U.S. and foreign militaries, received a one-notch
downgrade yesterday from Moody’s Investors Service, dropping the
corporate grade to B2.  
 The $250 million in senior unsecured notes went to B3.  
 Although West Hartford, Connecticut-based Colt has a
“large cash balance,” Moody’s downgraded on account of the
deferral of a large foreign order for the M4. Moody’s is also
not sure whether Colt’s M4 will be the “standard issue carbine
of the future.”  
 Advance Sheets  
 When a Tax Refund Isn’t Part of Bankrupt Estate  
 For individuals, tax refunds for periods before bankruptcy
can sometimes be excluded from the reach of creditors, the 10th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver ruled on June 29 with
qualifications.  
 A husband and wife were entitled to a $3,000 tax refund on
their 2006 income tax return. They applied the refund to their
2007 taxes.  
 In ruling on whether the bankrupts were nonetheless
required to pay the $3,000 to the bankruptcy trustee, the 10th
Circuit referred to tax law saying that the election to apply
the refund to future taxes is irrevocable.  
 The Circuit Court pointed to well-known principles of
bankruptcy law saying that a bankruptcy trustee has no greater
interest in property than the bankrupt. Thus, the trustee has no
power to compel payment of the refund.  
 The 10th Circuit qualified its ruling by saying that the
bankruptcy trustee may be entitled to some or all of the 2006
refund if the bankrupts were entitled to a refund for 2007
taxes. The circuit court said the trustee could receive any
portion of a 2007 tax refund “attributable to pre-petition
earnings.”  
 The circuit court said the result it reached was proper
from “policy and practicality standpoints.” Requiring the
bankrupts to pay the 2006 refund would force them to use exempt
assets or post-bankruptcy income.  
 The case is Weinman v. Graves (In re Graves), 08-1462, 10th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Denver).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        