-- Alleged Russian Spies Bail Hearing Delayed in Boston
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-01T19:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/accused-russian-spies-have-bail-hearing-delayed-as-defense-prepares-case.html

          
          
             Bail hearings for five defendants
accused of belonging to a “deep-cover” Russian spy ring have
been delayed following requests from defense lawyers for
additional time.  
 A Boston-area couple was sent back to jail after a U.S.
magistrate postponed their bail hearing until July 16 while a
hearing for three of the alleged spies was delayed by one day in
federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. A hearing for four
defendants in New York is scheduled for later today.  
 In a court appearance that lasted less than 20 minutes,
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Jennifer C. Boal  in Boston granted defense
attorneys’ request for more time to prepare a bail application
for Cambridge, Massachusetts, residents  Donald Howard Heathfield 
and Tracey Lee Ann Foley. The two are among 11 people charged in
connection with an alleged years-long, Russian spy operation.  
 Speaking outside the courtroom, defense attorney  Peter Krupp  said the couple, whom he described as husband and wife,
are worried about their two sons, who are 16 and 20.  
 “The government’s case is extremely thin,” Krupp told
reporters. “It’s saying they infiltrated cocktail parties and
the PTA.”  
 Prosecutors filed court papers today in New York that said
the New York defendants have a “powerful incentive to flee” if
freed on bail. The filing revealed new details about the case.  
 Safe Deposit Box  
 U.S. officials said they executed a search of a New Jersey
safe deposit box in connection with defendants Richard and
Cynthia Murphy and found eight unmarked envelopes that each
contained $10,000 in “apparently-new” $100 bills.  
 Prosecutors disclosed that a federal grand jury in New York
has been convened in the case. The panel requested the immediate
testimony of a “particular individual,” referred to as I-1,
has “has not come to the grand jury, as the law requires,”
according to the filing.  
 Two of the defendants, Vicky Pelaez and Juan Lazaro of
Yonkers, New York, made a series of statements after their
arrests, prosecutors said. Lazaro admitted that he wasn’t born
in Uruguay and had given a false name, and Pelaez delivered
letters to Russian agents and that their house had been paid for
by the Russian foreign intelligence service called SVR,
prosecutors said.  
 Lazaro said that even though he “loved his son, he would
not violate his loyalty to the ‘Service’ even for his son,”
prosecutors wrote. Lazaro “refused to provide his true name,”
according to the letter.  
 ‘Systemic Deception’  
 Prosecutors said the Murphys, as well as Lazaro and Pelaez,
had engaged in “systemic deception” of neighbors, friends,
colleagues and family members.  
 “There is no indication that the Murphys’ children have
any inkling that their parents are, in truth and in fact,
Russian secret agents,” prosecutors said.  
 Ten of the defendants have been locked up since June 27
after their arrest by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said they were all part of a “long-term, deep-cover”
Russian espionage operation whose ultimate goal was to
infiltrate U.S. policy-making circles.  
 One of the defendants, Anna Chapman, 28, was ordered held
without bail on June 28 after a federal magistrate ruled she
posed a flight risk. Chapman’s lawyer, Robert Baum, identified
her as the owner of a Manhattan online real estate business
worth $2 million.  
 Challenging Claims  
 In today’s hearing in Boston, defense attorneys told the
court they will challenge the government’s claims of the
defendants’ identities.  
 Krupp told the court that Heathfield could be referred to
as Donald Heathfield during the proceedings. An attorney for the
woman referred to as Tracey Lee Ann Foley asked that she be
known as “Defendant No. 5.”  
 Heathfield wore an orange jumpsuit and smiled at reporters.
Both defendants were shackled by their feet and handcuffed from
behind. The judge asked if she should call him Donald
Heathfield, he replied, “That is correct, your honor.”  
 Defense attorneys asked that the couple be allowed to meet
to talk about their children.  
 “There are custody issues relating to their kids we’d like
to deal with,” Krupp told the court.  
 Request Granted  
 Defendants Michael Zottoli, Patricia Mills and Mikhail
Semenko were scheduled to appear this afternoon in federal court
in Alexandria, but a federal magistrate granted a defense
request for a one-day delay.  
 Four defendants, Richard Murphy, 39, his wife, Cynthia
Murphy, and Peleaz and Lazaro, who are married, are scheduled to
appear in court in New York at 4 p.m. today. U.S. Magistrate
Judge Ronald Ellis will hear defense lawyers’ bail applications.  
 “Lazaro, Richard Murphy, and Cynthia Murphy have lied, one
way or another and every day, to virtually everyone they have
come in contact with,” prosecutors wrote. “Pelaez, with her
secretive travel and encouragement of Lazaro, has also lived a
life of deceit.”  
 The alleged ring included Russian agents posing as American
and Canadian citizens, some of them living in the U.S. for more
than 20 years, with the goal of becoming “Americanized” and
passing intelligence back to the Russian Federation, according
to criminal complaints unsealed July 28.  
 ‘Long-Term Service’  
 “You were sent to USA for long-term service trip,”
officials at the Russian Federation’s foreign intelligence
agency called SVR said in a 2009 message the FBI deciphered.
“Your education, bank accounts, car, house, etc. -- all these
serve one goal: fulfill your main mission, i.e. to search and
develop ties in policymaking circles in U.S. and send intels
(intelligence reports) to C(enter).”  
 Federal prosecutors charged all 11 with conspiring to act
as unregistered foreign agents of the Russian Federation within
the U.S., which carries a term of up to five years in prison.
Nine of the defendants are charged with conspiracy to commit
money laundering, a charge that carries a potential 20-year
term.  
 None were charged with espionage, which carries a possible
life sentence.  
 An 11th suspect, Robert Christopher Metsos, who the U.S.
said “purports to be a Canadian citizen” was arrested in
Cyprus on June 29 and was released by local authorities on bail
of 20,000 euros ($24,500). He failed to appear at a scheduled
meeting with police yesterday. Cyprus said it would issue a
warrant for his arrest.  
 Disappeared  
 Prosecutors cited the disappearance of Metsos after he
posted bail in Cyprus.  
 “Within 24 hours of being bailed, Metsos simply
disappeared,” prosecutors wrote. “There is little need here
for speculation as to what will happen if the defendants are
permitted to walk out of the court pursuant to a release order;
as Metsos did, they will flee.”  
 Prosecutors didn’t allege that the defendants had succeeded
in passing any secret information back to Russia. The Russian
spy ring’s ultimate goal was to infiltrate U.S. policy-making
circles, according to the Justice Department.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos 10-MJ-1391; U.S. v. Chapman,
10-MJ-1389, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This drawing dated June 28, 2010 shows five of the 10 arrested Russian spy suspects in a New York courtroom. Source: Shirley Shephard/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
