-- Maersk Rejects Cargos, Cosco Imposes Levy as Container Shortage Hits Trade
-- Wing-Gar Cheng
-- 2010-07-01T00:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/maersk-rejects-cargos-cosco-imposes-levy-as-container-shortage-hits-trade.html

          
          
             AP Moller-Maersk A/S , the world’s
largest container line, is rejecting some shipments and
retrieving cargo-boxes from customers more quickly to help
offset a shortage of the containers.  
 “There are hundreds of little things that we are trying to
do, but at the end of the day there is a shortage and we can’t
fix that,” Soren Karas, head of the company’s South China
operations, said yesterday in Hong Kong.  China Cosco Holdings Co. 
separately announced surcharges on shipments to Taiwan from
Shanghai from July 15 because of a container “imbalance.”  
 Maersk has reactivated idled vessels to help relocate empty
containers and ordered new boxes after a larger than expected
jump in shipping demand squeezed supplies. The global container-
box fleet shrank 4 percent last year, according to  Textainer
Group Holdings Ltd. , the world’s largest container-lessor, as
lines cut spending on new units amid the global recession and
slumping world trade.  
 “It’s the first time in many years that we are seeing
consistent equipment shortages in many areas of Asia,” said
Claude Lebel, senior vice president for Asia, at CMA CGM SA, the
world’s third-biggest container line. Shipping demand “is still
growing much faster than we were expecting.”  
 Manufacturers may produce the equivalent of 1.5 million 20-
foot containers this year, up from 200,000 last year, Lebel said.  
 The container shortage may persist through the third
quarter before easing in the last three months of the year,
Karas said. The last quarter is traditionally a slower period
for container lines.  
 ‘Unhealthy’ Imbalance  
 “This is not healthy for us,” Karas said. “We like
balanced supply and demand.”  
 The shortage of boxes has been compounded by shipping lines
operating vessels more slowly to pare  fuel costs . This means
that journeys take longer and that containers spend more time
onboard vessels.  
 Lines including China Cosco and  China Shipping Container
Lines Co. , the nation’s two biggest, have also imposed extra
surcharges this year citing the shortage of boxes. Container
lines traditionally impose peak-season levies from around the
middle of the year.  
 The combination of levies and rebounding demand has pushed
freight rates to near historical highs, according to the Hong
Kong Shippers’ Council, a group representing exporters and
traders in the city.  
 “Shipping lines are just maximizing their profits now,”
said Sunny Ho, executive director of the council. “Since they
have imposed peak season and other additional surcharges, they
should be delivering better services and boosting their shipping
speeds.”  
 Container shipments  at Hong Kong port jumped 15 percent
last month from a year earlier, according to preliminary figures
from the city’s Port Development Council.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        