-- Agency Mortgage Bonds Return Most to Start Year Since 2002
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-01T19:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/agency-mortgage-backed-securities-have-best-first-half-returns-since-2002.html

          
          
             Mortgage  securities with U.S.
government backing offered their best returns to start a year
since 2002 as the Federal Reserve drained supply from the market
and then investors piled into the bonds because of their
relative safety amid Europe’s sovereign crisis.  
 Home-loan debt guaranteed by government-supported Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac or federal agency Ginnie Mae returned 4.65
percent in the first half, the most in the first six months of a
year since 2002, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Mortgage Master Index. The Fed ended a program in which it
agreed to buy $1.25 trillion of the securities on March 31.  
 Gains in the debt, stoked also by forecasts that tighter
credit and lower home  prices  will limit refinancing and other
sources of prepayments, have reduced home-loan rates to a record
low. Still, the type of the bonds that guide new home loans,
which have failed to appreciate as fast as U.S. Treasuries since
early last week, may be set to continue to underperform fixed-
income benchmarks, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analysts.  
 “If rates continue to rally, prepays and supply should
eventually pick up,” the New York-based analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  wrote in a report today. On the other hand, higher
rates, which typically come as investors’ perception about the
state of the economy improve, “will likely unwind the flight to
MBS, in our view.”  
 ‘Yieldier’ Substitute  
 So-called agency mortgage-backed securities “have been
viewed as a yieldier Treasury substitute,” Swaminathan said in
a telephone interview.  
 The  average rate  on a typical 30-year home loan fell to a
record low 4.58 percent in the week ended today, down from this
year’s high of 5.21 percent in April, McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac said.  
 The amount of agency mortgage bonds and agency debt held at
the Fed for foreign central banks, sovereign wealth funds and
other official investors rose by $67 billion to $827 billion on
June 23 from a more-than-two-year low in November, growing at an
accelerating pace since March, according to Fed  data .  
 Dollar-dominated assets have benefited this year from
concern that governments including Greece, Portugal and Spain
may struggle to refinance their debts. The euro’s
“attractiveness as a reserve currency” to “global reserve
managers” has been shaken in many cases by the “fiscal
stress” in the region, according to a Credit Suisse report June
29 based on information from the bank’s salespeople.  
 Fannie Mae  
 Yields on Washington-based Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-
year fixed-rate mortgage bonds -- or those that most affect
home-loan rates because they’re trading closest to face value --
fell to the lowest since January 2009 two days ago, before
climbing 0.03 percentage point to 3.73 percent as of 3:08 p.m.
in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The  difference between yields  on the Fannie Mae securities
and 10-year Treasuries has widened 0.13 percentage point since
June 21 to 0.80 percentage point, Bloomberg data show. The
spread reached 0.59 percentage point on March 29, the lowest on
record, as the Fed’s purchases approached their end and then
widened as high as 0.93 percentage point on May 24.  
 “We believe that the borrowers with the highest credit
quality will be very efficient refinancers,”  Kevin Cavin , a
mortgage strategist in Chicago at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
wrote in a note to clients today.  
 The “potential refi wave is likely to be led by” loans in
mortgage securities with lower coupons, such as 4.5 percent
debt, he said. Mortgage bonds with 4 percent coupons are the
current coupons, Bloomberg data show.  
 Mortgage-Bond Market  
 The market for agency mortgage bonds, which reached a peak
of $5.4 trillion in February, declined by about $133 billion in
the first half of this year, as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
bought delinquent loans out of their securities to reduce their
expenses, according to Bank of America.  
 That market will probably grow by about $213 billion for
the rest of the year if home-loan rates stay at about 4.5
percent, and about $53 billion if rates climb to 6 percent, the
bank’s analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  in New York wrote in a
June 25 report. The amount available for investors is less than
the $5.2 trillion outstanding after the Fed’s purchases and the
Treasury Department’s buying of $220 billion of the bonds under
a separate program ended last year.  
 Agency Debt  
 The New York Fed disclosed today the initial trades in its
new plan, announced earlier this week, for the final stages of
its program, in which it’s replacing in the settlement of its
purchase contracts certain mortgage bonds with other ones,
reflecting the scarcity of some debt in the market that its
buying has helped cause.  
 The Fed this week agreed to buy $2.5 billion of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac 30-year securities with coupons of 4.5 percent,
and agreed to sell the same amount of 5.5 percent bonds to
offset existing unsettled trades, according to a posting on the
New York Fed’s  website .  
 U.S. agency debt aside from mortgage securities --including
the corporate bonds of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Federal Home
Loan Bank system and U.S.-guaranteed bank notes --returned 3.92
percent in the first half, also the best performance in the
period since 2002, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
US Agencies, Composite Master Index.  
 Both agency mortgage bonds and agency debt last returned
more, including price appreciation and interest payments, over
six months in the second half of 2008, when the global financial
crisis peaked, the U.S. agreed to bail out Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac and the Fed announced it would begin buying the
debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        