-- AIG Bonds Get Top Returns With Benmosche as Spreads Shrink: Credit Markets
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-02T16:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/aig-bonds-get-top-returns-with-benmosche-as-spreads-shrink-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Fixed-income investors betting on
 American International Group Inc . Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  were rewarded with the best-performing investment-
grade corporate bonds in June.  
 AIG debt gained 4.92 percent last month, the most among the
50 biggest U.S. issuers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The New York-based insurer’s shares declined 9.1
percent in May and 2.7 percent in June as the company’s sale of
its AIA Group Ltd. Asia unit fell apart.  
 Benmosche, 66, who last week threatened to resign unless
Chairman  Harvey Golub  leaves the firm, has been balancing the
demands of regulators and lawmakers while divesting units to
repay the government for its $182.3 billion bailout. Bonds from
the insurer have ranked first for 4 of the 11 months since the
former head of  MetLife Inc . became president and CEO.  
 “Benmosche’s got the vote of investors and you can see
that in the bond prices,” said  Mitchell Stapley , the Grand
Rapids, Michigan-based chief fixed-income officer for Fifth
Third Asset Management, which oversees $18 billion, including
some AIG debt. “He’s really trying to focus on the parts of the
company that make money and bring it back.”  
 The fifth CEO since 2005 demanded more control over the
divestiture of AIA, which the company had failed to sell to
Prudential Plc, during a board meeting on June 25, two people
with knowledge of the matter said. The executives have
subsequently agreed to hold talks to work through their
differences, a person said.  
 Christina Pretto , an AIG spokeswoman, declined to comment.  
 ‘Imbue Confidence’  
 “Benmosche has done a great deal to help imbue confidence
in AIG, the scuttled AIA deal notwithstanding,” said  David Havens , managing director in credit trading at Nomura Securities
International Inc. in New York. “Were he to leave, that would
create uncertainty and angst in the market, and you would
probably see the credit come under pressure as a result.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 196 basis points, or 1.96 percentage point, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
Index shows. Yields averaged 3.955 percent.  
 An indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S. held near
a three-week high as private employers added fewer workers to
payrolls in June than forecast, reinforcing concern that the
economic recovery will weaken as Americans curtail spending.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 122.3 basis points as of
12:15 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Employment at companies rose 83,000, less than the 110,000
gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Including government, payrolls fell for the first time this year
because of a drop in federal census workers. The  jobless rate 
dropped to 9.5 percent from 9.7 percent as the labor force
shrank, the Labor Department reported today in Washington.  
 In London, the benchmark Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 4.9 basis points
to 126.7, according to Markit.  
 Both indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 AIG Debt  
 AIG debt has been less affected than its stock since the
insurer’s planned $35.5 billion agreement to sell AIA collapsed
last month after London-based Prudential’s investors balked at
the price and AIG rejected a reduced offer. Benmosche has
several options for divesting AIA, he said in a letter to
employees on June 1, without specifying them.  
 Equity investors in AIG have a greater stake in the insurer
repaying the U.S. government, said  Jason Brady , a managing
director at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New
Mexico, which oversees $59 billion.  
 Shareholders “don’t want the U.S. government to own AIG
anymore because it’s just an abomination, they’re never going to
let them grow, they’re never going to let them do things,” said
Brady, who doesn’t own any AIG bonds. “Debt holders are more in
the situation where they’re saying, ‘Just run the company and
pay us back, we don’t need the risk of a very, very levered
company just to get the U.S. government out of the mix.’”  
 The Treasury has about a $49 billion preferred stake in
AIG, and the insurer owes about $25 billion on a  credit line  to
the Fed.  
 Yield Premiums  
 The yield premiums on AIG bonds in the index ended last
month at 505 basis points, down from 789 at the end of December
and 1,357 basis points a year earlier. The spreads are the
narrowest in two years.  
 The returns on AIG investment-grade bonds in June followed
a loss of 7.26 percent in May, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index, which contains 11 bonds from the insurer
with a par value of $13.3 billion. AIG bonds were also the best
performer in August, December and March.  
 AIG shares, which were down $1 to $32.88 as of 12:17 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, declined in
6 of the past 11 months.  
 Still, shareholders have been rewarded more richly since
Benmosche was named to his post on Aug. 3. AIG’s $750 million of
5.6 percent notes due in 2016 have returned 88.2 percent,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The  stock  price has
more than doubled from $13.60.  
 Credit-default swaps on AIG debt fell 92 basis points in
June to 387 basis points. The contracts rose yesterday to 410.25
basis points after Bloomberg News reported on the boardroom
fight involving Benmosche.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Benmosche, president and chief executive officer of American International Group Inc., smiles during a Congressional Oversight Panel hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Chairman Phil Angelides talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s management of its risk tied to American International Group Inc. during the financial crisis.
     Angelides, speaking with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart," also discusses legislation overhauling U.S. banking rules and the outlook for the FCIC's investigations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
