-- AIG's Forster `Surprised' Supervisors Unaware of Collateral Rules on Swaps
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-01T16:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/aig-s-forster-tells-panel-he-was-surprised-managers-unaware-of-swap-rules.html

          
          
             Andrew Forster , an executive of
 American International Group Inc. ’s derivatives unit, said he
was surprised that the insurer’s managers were unaware of
collateral-posting requirements included in the contracts.  
 “It’s a fairly standard feature of a derivative contract,
so, to that extent, I’d be surprised,” Forster said today at a
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing in Washington. “It
was clear to me. I thought it was clear to them.”  
 Steven Bensinger , AIG’s former chief financial officer, and
 Elias Habayeb , former CFO of the division including the
derivatives unit, told the panel they didn’t know of the
provision until the third quarter of 2007, according to an FCIC
document released yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  demanded
$1.8 billion on July 27, 2007, saying the market value of the
securities underlying credit-default swaps had declined.  
 “I find it just stunning that you have such a deeply
siloed risk management system and that the CFO, who was in
charge of liquidity-risk management, would be unaware of
contractual obligations to deliver collateral,” said FCIC
Commissioner  Douglas Holtz-Eakin .  
 Goldman Sachs was the first firm to demand collateral on
the swaps tied to mortgage-linked assets, testified Forster, an
executive vice president in charge of the AIG Financial Products
trading desk. Subsequent collateral calls from Goldman Sachs and
banks including Societe Generale SA fueled  losses  that forced
New York-based AIG to seek a U.S. government bailout in 2008.  
 ‘A Whole Bunch of Cash’  
 AIG and Goldman Sachs disagreed on the value of assets
covered by the swaps because a freeze in Wall Street trading in
2007 for mortgage-related assets made it difficult to get
pricing data, Forster said.  
 “We don’t agree with their marks and are simply saying
let’s use a third party and keep it friendly,” Forster wrote in
an August 8, 2007  e-mail  to a Financial Products colleague.
“What do they expect us to do -- just give them a whole bunch
of cash because they are Goldman Sachs?”  
 FCIC Chairman  Phil Angelides  called Goldman Sachs’s initial
capital call a “stab in the dark” because the New York-based
bank reduced its request to $1.2 billion from $1.8 billion by
Aug. 2, 2007, according to the FCIC  documents . AIG posted $450
million of collateral on Aug. 10, and Goldman Sachs said at the
time that the funds were insufficient.  
 ‘Not a Science’  
 For “illiquid assets like this, it’s not a science, there
is judgment involved,” Goldman Sachs CFO  David Viniar 
testified. “We used our best estimate at all times of what the
market was.”  
 Robert Lewis , AIG’s chief risk officer, also didn’t know
about the swaps’ collateral call provisions until after
Goldman’s 2007 demand, according to the FCIC documents. When
asked by FCIC staff if the provisions caused consternation
within AIG, Lewis said, “I would say that’s an
understatement.”  
 AIG’s former Chief Executive Officer,  Martin Sullivan ,
testified yesterday he was unaware in 2005 of the tripling of
risk through derivatives at AIG Financial Products. AIG’s swaps
tied to asset-backed securities surged to $54 billion in the 12
months ended Dec. 31, 2005, Angelides said.  
 “My first knowledge of the super senior credit-default
swaps portfolio was sometime in 2007,” Sullivan, 55, said
yesterday during the first day of the hearing.  
 Sullivan, Obama  
 Before 2007, Sullivan had received reports about the
“totality” of the swaps unit without being alerted to the
specific trades that later contributed to AIG’s near collapse,
he said. He was ousted in 2008 as the firm’s writedowns mounted
on bets that he previously said would be “manageable.”  
 Angelides, who will report the commission’s findings to
Congress and President  Barack Obama  in December, said Sullivan
should have known more about risk at AIG.  
 “We will probably debate on this panel many, many issues,
but I do not think that the failure of leadership and effective
management at AIG will be a matter of much debate,” Angelides
said yesterday.  
 AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, received a U.S.
bailout designed to protect banks that bought more than $60
billion in swaps from the firm. The FCIC is reviewing decisions
that led to the insurer’s rescue as lawmakers seek to prevent
another company from accumulating so much risk that its collapse
could threaten global economic stability.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andrew Forster, former senior vice president and chief financial officer of financial services with American International Group Inc.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
