-- Thailand's Inflation Cools, Giving Tarisa Time to Consider Interest Rates
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-01T04:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/thailand-s-inflation-cools-giving-tarisa-time-to-consider-interest-rates.html

          
          
             Thailand’s inflation slowed in June
after the country’s worst political violence in almost two
decades hurt demand, giving the central bank time as it
considers when to raise interest rates.  
 An index of  consumer prices  rose 3.3 percent last month
from a year earlier after climbing 3.5 percent in May, the
Commerce Ministry said today. The median estimate of 15
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 3.3 percent
increase.  
 Bank of Thailand  Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  said last week
the country has less need for “abnormally low” interest rates
as the economy improves. While  manufacturing output  growth
slowed in May as curfews during the political unrest that month
disrupted production, the central bank said yesterday the impact
was “limited” and should be temporary.  
 “Overall inflation this year is expected to remain
benign,”  Charl Kengchon , managing director of Kasikorn Research
Center Co., said before the report. Still, “we expect the
central bank to make a preemptive move by raising the key rate
in August as the inflationary pressure will accelerate quickly
next year.”  
 The central bank on June 2 kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent, the lowest level since July 2004. The
next meeting will be on July 14.  
 Core Inflation  
 Thailand’s  core inflation  index, which excludes fresh food
and fuel prices, rose 1.1 percent last month from a year
earlier, the Commerce Ministry said. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was for a 1.2 percent
increase.  
 The central bank in April forecast that core inflation,
which it uses to guide monetary policy, may be as much as 2
percent this year and accelerate to 3 percent in 2011. The Bank
of Thailand’s target is to keep gains in core prices under 3
percent.  
 Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Cabinet this week
extended state subsidies on mass transportation and energy costs
for six months to help reduce the public’s burden following
months of political unrest. That may keep inflation this year
below the central bank’s forecast and cause price gains to
accelerate in 2011, Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  has said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        