-- Taiwan Shares to Rally as `Vitamin' Pact Ties Island to China's Prospects
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-07-02T07:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/taiwan-shares-to-rally-as-vitamin-pact-ties-island-to-china-s-prospects.html

          
          
             Taiwan  stocks , trading at their
cheapest against Chinese equities in 18 months, will gain as an
agreement this week ties the island more closely to the mainland
economy, the market’s three top-performing fund managers said.  
 The  Taiex Index  may resume a rally that drove the benchmark
gauge 78 percent higher last year after the former civil war
foes signed the trade accord on June 29, said PineBridge
Investments Co.,  Fubon Securities Investment Trust Co.  and  Union
Securities Investment Trust Co.  The measure climbed 1.1 percent
to 7,330.74 at the close in Taipei, the biggest advance in
almost two weeks and the best performer in Asia today.  
 “It’s going to be positive” for Taiwan stocks,  Mark Mobius , 73, who oversees about $34 billion in emerging markets
as executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd. in
Singapore, said in an interview. “But it’s not going to be a
huge movement. It will be gradual.”  
 Taiwan’s President  Ma Ying-jeou , who yesterday called the
accord a “vitamin,” is striving for closer ties as China spurs
domestic demand amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt
exports. Taiwanese-run factories in the mainland make about 11
percent of China’s  electronics exports  including iPhones and
Playstations, according to the  Taiwan Institute of Economic
Research . About 29 percent of the island’s overseas shipments
head across the strait,  government data  show.  
 The Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement, expected to
take effect on Jan. 1, will “cement peaceful development of
cross-strait relations and accelerate economic integration in
the Asian region,” Ma said at a briefing in Taipei yesterday.  
 ‘Aftermath’  
 China will cut duties on more than 500 items from Taiwan
with an export value of $13.8 billion, both governments said.
The island will lower tariffs on 267 items from China worth
$2.86 billion, or about 10.5 percent of the country’s shipments
to Taiwan in 2009.  
 “I expect Taiwan shares to rise as more details are ironed
out,” said  William Cheng , a money manager at PineBridge
Investments, which oversees $83 billion of assets globally,
including the best-performing Taiwan equities fund in the past
year, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. “What will boost
shares is the aftermath, the benefits that are given to the
individual industries.”  
 The Taiex may rise to as high as 9,000 by the end of the
year, Cheng said in an interview in Taipei, or a 23 percent gain
from today’s close.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  this week said the
measure may climb to 10,000 within 12 months, while Fubon
Securities and Union Securities, which run the second and third-
best performing funds, forecast the gauge may reach as high as
8,500 by the end of the year.  
 Economic Rebound  
 The central bank on June 24 raised Taiwan’s benchmark
interest rate for the first time since 2008, signaling its
confidence that the economic rebound will help the island
withstand Europe’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  expanded
13.3 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace since 1978.  
 Rapprochement has risks. The Taiex dropped 10 percent this
year, the second-biggest decline in Asia excluding Japan,
dragged down partly by a 27 percent slump in the  Shanghai
Composite Index , according to  Monika Yang , who helps oversee $2
billion at Hamon Asset Management in Hong Kong. China’s shares
retreated on concern a government clampdown on property
speculation will hurt demand.  
 Taiwan “can’t live without China, but we have problems
with China being so closely connected as well,” Yang said.
“China’s strategies are uncertain for now and Taiwan is now
seen as part of Greater China, so investors are holding back.”  
 Valuations  
 The  Taiex  trades at 16.9 times reported earnings, compared
with 17.7 times for the  Shanghai Composite , one of the lowest
level since the start of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  
 China regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has
threatened to invade if the island declares formal independence.
The two sides have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai-shek’s 
Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after being
defeated by  Mao Zedong’s  Communists in 1949.  
 China’s decision to allow greater flexibility in the yuan’s
exchange rate last month underscores the benefit to Taiwan,
according to  Peter Kurz , head of the Citigroup Inc.’s research
team that was ranked first in Taiwan for the past three years by
Institutional Investor.  
 Taiwanese-controlled businesses have invested an estimated
$200 billion in China, Ma said yesterday. Among them, Taipei-
based  Foxconn Technology Group  employs about 800,000 workers
assembling iPhones and iPads for Cupertino, California-based
 Apple Inc. , personal computers for Palo Alto, California-based
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Playstations for  Sony Corp.  in Tokyo.  
 “It is certainly significant as it is another milestone in
the peace process, which will increase prosperity for both,”
investor  Jim Rogers , chairman of investment company Rogers
Holdings in Singapore and author of “A Bull in China,” said in
an e-mail. “It is another seal in the relationship.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A group tourists from Jiangsu province, China, shop for accessories at a night market in Taipei. Photographer: Maurice Tsai/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius pauses during an interview. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Templeton Asset Management Chairman Mark Mobius pauses during an interview. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
