-- Malaysia's Ringgit Weakens as China Slowdown Signs Dim Outlook for Exports
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-01T06:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/malaysia-s-ringgit-weakens-as-china-slowdown-signs-dim-outlook-for-exports.html

          
          
             The ringgit weakened after a report
showed manufacturing in China expanded at the slowest pace in
four months, adding to signs demand is cooling in Malaysia’s
biggest export market. Bonds gained on optimism the central bank
will refrain from raising borrowing costs this month.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid for a third day,
extending a global stocks slump, after Moody’s Investors Service
put Spain’s Aaa rating on review for downgrade on deteriorating
growth prospects. Malaysia’s economic expansion may moderate in
the second half of 2010 as an export recovery “normalizes” and
demand from Europe and China “softens,”  Lim Chee Sing , an
analyst with RHB Research Institute Sdn., said in a report today.  
 “China’s growth is cooling off and the weaker-than-
expected PMI report underpins that view,” said  Azmi Shukri Rahman , a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “Equities and commodities are weakening and
that’s the driving force for currencies.”  
 The ringgit declined 0.7 percent to 3.2480 per dollar as of
1:45 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It strengthened 1.1 percent in the three months
through June, a fifth quarterly gain.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index for China fell to 52.1 in
June from 53.9 in May, the Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in Beijing today. Malaysia’s economic growth may
slow to 4.8 percent in the second half from an estimated 8.8
percent in the first six months of the year, RHB’s Lim said.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of  stocks  dropped 1.4 percent
while crude oil fell for a fourth day, slipping 1 percent to
$74.86 a barrel. Palm oil prices fell 0.3 percent to 2,365
ringgit ($728) a ton. The commodity declined 7.2 percent in the
three months ended June, the biggest quarterly loss since 2008.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Malaysia shipped 18 percent of its exports to China,
including Hong Kong, in the first four months of this year,
according to trade ministry statistics. Crude oil and palm oil
are the nation’s two biggest commodity exports.  
 Three-year bonds rose for a third day, pushing their yield
to the lowest level in five weeks, as the prospect of slower
growth buoyed demand for government debt.  
 The yield on the 3.21 percent note due May 2013 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage points, to 3.12 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia. The price increased 0.075, or 75
sen per 1,000 ringgit face amount, to 100.25. The yield has
declined 10 basis points this week to the least since May 25.  
 “There’s more talk of a double-dip scenario as economic
data has been disappointing,” said  Choong Yin Pheng , general
manager for economic and bond research at Hong Leong Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “This increases the likelihood that the policy
rate will stay on hold.”  
 Central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said June 28
domestic  inflation  wasn’t a concern. Bank Negara Malaysia, which
holds its next monetary policy meeting on July 8, has raised its
overnight policy rate twice this year, lifting it to 2.5 percent
from 2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        