-- Alex Expected to Dissipate in Next 24 to 36 Hours, U.S. Says
-- Mark Scott
-- 2010-07-01T20:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/alex-strengthens-into-category-2-hurricane-in-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Alex is losing power
after coming ashore in Mexico, at the end of a path that began
in the Caribbean, drenched Central America and forced the
shutdown of a quarter of the U.S.’s Gulf oil production.  
 Before landfall overnight, Alex reached Category 2 storm
status with winds of 100 mph (161 kph), the earliest Atlantic
hurricane since 1995 and the first of the 2010 season.  
 About 21 percent of crude-oil production in the Gulf of
Mexico and 14 percent of natural-gas output remained idled
today, the U.S. government said.  
 Alex’s biggest threat now is potentially heavy rain across
southern Texas and northeastern Mexico that may linger for
several days. As much as 10 inches may fall in isolated areas of
Texas, while mountainous regions of Mexico may receive as much
as 20 inches, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said.  
 “This system has a large area of moisture associated with
it, and the remnants of Alex are expected to keep a heavy
rainfall threat in northern Mexico and portions of the far-south
U.S. for the next few days,” the center said.  
 Alex is packing maximum sustained winds of 40 mph and is
about 94 miles east of Zacatecas, Mexico, the hurricane center
said on its website at 4:30 p.m. Houston time. The storm is
heading west at 13 mph and is expected to collapse tonight or
tomorrow.  
 The storm has been blamed for the deaths of at least 16
people. Thirteen were reported killed in Central America earlier
this week as the storm moved from the Caribbean into the Gulf of
Mexico. Three people were killed in Mexico overnight, according
to the Associated Press.  
 Stormy Weather  
 Tornado watches and warnings cover a large part of  southern
Texas today . A warning means a tornado has been spotted either
by observers or on radar, and a watch means conditions are ideal
for storm development.  
 Mexican officials dropped tropical storm warnings for the
coast south of La Cruz to Cabo Rojo and from Rio San Fernando to
the Rio Grande.  
 Eight rigs and 74 production platforms in the Gulf were
evacuated because of Alex, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement  said earlier. About 930
workers were removed from offshore Gulf platforms yesterday.  
 About 421,000 barrels a day of oil output were halted, 26
percent of Gulf production, along with 919 million cubic feet of
natural-gas output, or 14 percent.  
 Gulf Production  
 The Gulf Coast is home to 43 percent of operable U.S.
refining capacity, according to the Energy Department. Gulf
Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about 20
percent of production capacity due to hurricanes Ike and Gustav.  
 The Gulf of Mexico makes up about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output, 10 percent of its gas production and seven of the 10
busiest ports.  
 The storm missed a direct hit on a wrecked BP Plc well that
unleashed the worst oil spill in U.S. history. However, swells
of up to 10 feet triggered a second day of suspended skimming
and booming operations, said Brian Ferguson of the Joint
Information Center.  
 The rough seas prevented work by a relief ship designed to
suck up 25,000 barrels a day of oil, Coast Guard Rear Admiral
Paul Zukunft said yesterday. The ship won’t be able to start
working until at least July 7.  
 Alex also tore oil-containment booms and sent streamers of
crude into parts of Louisiana’s coast that had been spared
earlier, Zukunft said.  
 LOOP Reopening  
 The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , which serves tankers in
deep water off eastern Louisiana, halted offloading on June 29
because of rough seas, according to a spokeswoman,  Barb Hestermann . There were no supply disruptions and the port was to
reopen tonight, she said.  
 Ports along the Texas coast expected to reopen and ship
pilots started to board vessels today.  
 Alex was the  earliest  Atlantic hurricane since Allison
formed on June 3, 1995. Last year,  Bill  became the season’s
first hurricane on Aug. 15. The Atlantic storm season runs from
June 1 through Nov. 30.  
 As Alex fades away, forecasters are starting to look at
signs another storm may develop in the Caribbean,  Jim Rouiller ,
a senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania, said today.  
 Rouiller said he believes conditions in the Caribbean are
ripe for a storm next week. Earlier this week,  Joe Bastardi  of
AccuWeather Inc. said he also thought it was possible another
storm could form by early July.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Scott  in London at 
 mscott50@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hurricane Alex has been downgraded to a tropical storm. Source: NOAA via Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican from California, talks about the U.S. government's response to the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Issa speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
