-- Amedisys, Almost Family Shares Decline on SEC Probe of Medicare Payments
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-07-01T20:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/amedisys-almost-family-shares-decline-on-sec-probe-of-medicare-payments.html

          
          
             Amedisys Inc. , the largest U.S. home-
nursing provider, dropped the most in 10 months in New York
trading after saying the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
was probing whether the company manipulated Medicare payments.  
 Amedisys fell $4.64, or 11 percent, to $39.94 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the  biggest one-day drop 
for the Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based company since Sept. 3.
 Almost Family Inc. , the fourth-largest home-nursing provider,
declined $3.88, also 11 percent, to $31.05, the most since
February 2009, after the Louisville, Kentucky-based company said
in a statement that it, too, was under SEC investigation.  
 The U.S. Senate Finance Committee  in May  said  it was
reviewing whether the home-nursing industry manipulated the
number of visits made to patients to boost government
reimbursements. The Almost Family and Amedisys statements
suggest the probe is widening and raise the risk that other
agencies may expand it further, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT
Capital Group LLC analyst in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 “The industry is especially adept at optimizing therapy
visits in order to receive higher reimbursements,” Skolnick
said in a note to clients. “We would not own shares in this
group and expect trading in these shares to reflect that view.”  
 No Subpoenas  
 Gentiva Health Services Inc. , the second-biggest home-
nursing company, said today it hadn’t received subpoenas or any
“notice of formal investigation” from the SEC. The Atlanta-
based company also said it was cooperating with the finance
committee. Gentiva fell $3.08, or 11 percent, to $23.93 in
Nasdaq trading, its biggest single-day  decline  in 16 months.  
 LHC Group Inc. , the third-largest U.S. home-nursing
company, declined $3.34, or 12 percent, to $24.41, its  biggest
drop  since February 2008.  
 Amedisys will cooperate with the probe and “understands
that the SEC is also investigating others in the home health
industry regarding matters being examined by the Senate Finance
Committee,” the company said in its statement.  
 Almost Family has been “cooperating fully with the Senate
Finance Committee, and we will do the same with the SEC,” said
William Yarmouth, its chief executive officer, in his statement.  
 The Senate Finance Committee review followed an April 27
article in The Wall Street Journal that questioned reimbursement
patterns in the industry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        