-- Manhattan Apartment Sales Surge to Two-Year High as Wall Street Adds Jobs
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-07-01T15:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/manhattan-apartment-sales-surge-to-two-year-high-as-wall-street-adds-jobs.html

          
          
             Manhattan apartment sales jumped 80
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, reaching the
highest level since 2008, as the city’s  job market  improved.  
 About 2,750 condominiums and cooperative apartments sold in
the period, New York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker
 Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate  said today. The average
price per square foot was little changed at $1,051, reflecting
an 18 percent drop from 2008’s peak. The median apartment price
rose 7.6 percent from a year earlier to $899,000.  
 “What we’re seeing is the first step in an improving
housing market,”  Jonathan Miller , president of Miller Samuel,
said in a telephone interview.  
 New York City’s unemployment rate fell to a seasonally
adjusted 9.6 percent in May, the fifth consecutive decline, the
New York State Labor Department reported June 17. New York’s
finance industry added 6,800 jobs from the end of February
through May, the largest three-month increase since 2008. The
securities industry accounted for 5.5 percent of the city’s
private sector jobs in 2009 and 22 percent of total wages,
according to the Labor Department.  
 The income figures don’t include Wall Street year-end
bonuses, which gained an estimated 17 percent from 2008 to $20.3
billion in 2009, New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said
in February.  
 Miller’s quarterly property data are based on sales that
went into contract eight to 12 weeks earlier. Those numbers
don’t break out activity since the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
began a two-month decline in May, Miller said.  
 Stock Market Dive  
 New contracts fell 12 percent to 822 in June from the
previous month and the number of broken contracts more than
doubled to 130, according to a  report  from StreetEasy.com, a
service that compiles broker listings.  
 “Whatever improvements we saw in the past three quarters
have run out of steam,” Sofia Song, vice president of research
at StreetEasy.com, said in a telephone interview.  
 An  index  of U.S. pending sales of existing homes dropped 30
percent in May from April after a homebuyer tax credit expired.
It marked the biggest drop in records dating to 2001, the
National Association of Realtors reported today from Washington.  
 Near record-low  mortgage rates  and the possibility that
Manhattan’s real estate prices have hit bottom brought buyers
from the sidelines during the quarter, said  Gregory Heym , chief
economist for Terra Holdings LLC, which produced its own
reports. Those numbers showed an 81 percent jump in sales and a
6 percent increase in the median apartment price to $842,779.  
 “People are getting more confident,” said Heym, whose
employer owns New York real estate brokers Halstead Property LLC
and Brown Harris Stevens LLC. “There are still good buying
opportunities.”  
 Gramercy Park Home  
 In May, Paul and Susan McDowell purchased a two-bedroom,
1,800-square-foot (167-square-meter) loft in the Gramercy Park
neighborhood for $1.7 million, according to public records on
the New York Department of Finance website. The McDowells bought
after selling their home in Darien, Connecticut, and concluding
New York prices were reasonable, said  Paul McDowell , chief
executive officer of  CapLease Inc ., a real estate investment
trust based in Manhattan.  
 “In the early spring there was a sense that things had --
or were very smartly -- turning around and that it may be a good
time to buy,” he said. “Values were wildly inflated. They’re
certainly less inflated than they were.”  
 The sales jump pushed the inventory of unsold apartments
down 13 percent from a year earlier to 8,157 units. Co-ops and
condos took an average 105 days to sell, down from 162 days,
according to Miller Samuel and Prudential data.  
 Northern Manhattan Deal  
 Kevin Mancuso, a hairstylist and creative director for
Nexxus Salon Haircare products, signed a contract to buy a
penthouse at the PS 90 Condos, a former public school on 148th
Street, after raising his bid to the $899,000 asking price.  
 “How many times have you heard ‘Oh you can get this for a
song?’” said Mancuso, 54. “It’s actually not true.”  
 The biggest median price increase was for apartments with
at least four bedrooms, which rose almost 19 percent to $4.65
million.  
 Bidding wars have broken out over scarce multi-bedroom
luxury apartments while apartments with high asking prices
linger without offers, said Lisa Lippman, a director with Brown
Harris Stevens.  
 “Sellers think the market is better than it is,” Lippman
said in a telephone interview. “Buyers think it’s worse.”  
 Moving In Together  
 Andrew Flicker, a 37-year-old physical therapist, spent two
weeks negotiating for a two-bedroom, two-bath condo in the
Armstead on West 104th Street before striking a deal for less
than the $975,000 asking price. He declined to say how much he
agreed to pay. He wanted a larger apartment to share with his
girlfriend.  
 “I think we’ll look back and say this is a good
opportunity to buy real estate in New York,” Flicker said.  
 Loft sales nearly quadrupled to 262 apartments from 72 a
year earlier, Miller Samuel reported. Median prices for luxury
apartments, defined as the top 10 percent of the market by
price, rose about 12 percent to almost $4.1 million. Those units
were little changed on a per-square-foot basis at an average
$1,843.  
 Outside Manhattan, prices in the greater  New York area 
continued to fall in April, down 22 percent from their June 2006
peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  
 Manhattan was less affected than other parts of the country
by a federal tax credit of as much as $8,000 for first-time
homebuyers because the city’s property prices are so high, said
 Pamela Liebman , chief executive officer of New York-based
Corcoran Group.  
 “The tax credit didn’t put a lot money in people pockets,
but it did put the idea to buy in a lot of people’s heads,” she
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'What we’re seeing is the first step in an improving housing market,' said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel. Photographer: Adam Rountree/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about the outlook for the New York and U.S. housing markets. 
     Manhattan apartment sales jumped 80 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, reaching the highest level since 2008, as the city’s job market improved. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                         July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Zahra Burton reports on Manhattan apartment sales, which rose in the second quarter as the city's job market improved. According to Terra Holdings LLC, apartment sales jumped 81 percent and the median apartment price rose 6 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
