-- Tanning Salon Patrons Face 10% Tax Today
-- Ashley Lutz
-- 2010-07-01T19:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/tanning-bed-patrons-in-u-s-face-10-tax-today-as-part-of-health-care-bill.html

          
          
             (Corrects location of International Smart Tan Network in
third paragraph.)  
 The price of looking good increases
by 10 percent today when a tax on indoor tanning created by the
U.S. health-care reform bill takes effect.  
 The tax is expected to raise $2.7 billion over 10 years,
according to a March 10 estimate by the Joint Committee on
Taxation, and will help pay for the estimated $940 billion
overhaul of health care.  
 Small-business owners will be hurt by the tax, said Joseph
Levy, vice president of International Smart Tan Network, whose
Jackson, Michigan-based group represents more than 3,000
members. Women own 67 percent of the more than 20,000 tanning
salons in the U.S., he said.  
 “It’s an expensive change at a time when small businesses
don’t have the money,” Levy said. The average monthly cost of
an unlimited tanning package is likely to rise to $55 from $50,
he said.  
 Douglas Rassmussen, who owns Absolute Tan in Omaha,
Nebraska, said his typical customer is a woman in her forties
who attends the salon two to three times a week.  
 “My customers think the tax is ridiculous,” Rassmussen
said. “I think it’s going to scare people away.”  
 At Beach Bum Tanning & Airbrush Salon in New York, the most
popular tanning package for unlimited access to the beds is
$109.90 a month, up from $99 because of the tax, said Jah
Muhammad, a sales associate.  
 The industry employs about 140,000 people, said John
Overstreet, executive director of the Washington-based Indoor
Tanning Association, which lobbies for salons and equipment
manufacturers.  
 Centers Exempt  
 Fitness centers that offer tanning beds as an incidental
service are exempt from the tax as are those who use spray-on
services or lotions, according to the Internal Revenue Service.  
 Tanning-bed use may contribute to skin cancers such as
melanoma, said Darrick Antell, a New York-based plastic surgeon
who has treated skin cancer.  
 “Data from the Centers for Disease Control show that for
every 10 percent price increase, cigarette consumption drops by
3 percent to 4 percent among adults and 6 percent to 8 percent
among young people,” said Perry Robins, a physician and
president the Skin Cancer Foundation, based in New York. “We
hope this tax will have the same effect on tanning-bed use.”  
 Dermatologists who use ultraviolet rays similar to those in
tanning beds to treat skin conditions also are exempt from the
tax, the IRS said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at  alutz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        