-- Food Inflation Drops to 8-Month Low, Manufacturing Growth Slows in India
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-07-01T10:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/manufacturing-growth-in-india-slowed-in-june-as-inflation-pressures-rose.html

          
          
             India’s food inflation rate dropped
to an eight-month low and manufacturing growth slowed, driving
benchmark bond yields to the least in three weeks.  
 The wholesale-price index of farm products fell to 12.92
percent in the week ended June 19 from a year earlier, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index declined to 57.3 from 59 in May,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  
 The nation joined China and South Korea in reporting weaker
gains in manufacturing, suggesting that growth may slow in the
region leading the global recovery. The moderation in economic
data may not be enough to prevent the Reserve Bank of India from
raising interest rates after the government permitted state
refiners to boost fuel costs last week.  
 “Like others in Asia, India’s PMI took a dip in June,”
 Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC, said in a
statement. “But this isn’t the end of the boom and doesn’t
eliminate the need for rate hikes. India is still going a little
too strong.”  
 The yield on the 10-year government bond dropped three
basis points to 7.52 percent at 3 p.m. in Mumbai and the Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 1.1 percent to 17,510.58.  
 India’s manufacturing growth slid in June from a 27-month
peak in May as orders and output grew at a slower pace.  
 Fuel Prices  
 Even so, the inflation rate may increase after Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  last week allowed state refiners
including  Indian Oil Corp.  to raise gasoline prices as it seeks
to trim the budget deficit from a 16-year high.  
 The government’s move may accelerate inflation by almost a
percentage point from 10.16 percent in May, according to  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in the finance ministry.  
 India’s economy expanded 8.6 percent in the first quarter
of this year from a year earlier as Asia rebounded from the
global financial crisis. Now, the region’s growth may be
cooling. Two manufacturing indexes released in China today
showed slower growth, while in South Korea, a purchasing
managers’ index released by HSBC and Markit also declined.  
 Monetary policy decisions in India may be complicated by a
cash squeeze at banks after companies including  Bharti Airtel
Ltd.  paid 1.06 trillion rupees ($22.7 billion) to buy high-speed
mobile phone and broadband internet airwaves and businesses
withdrew money to pay taxes.  
 “The RBI will be looking at the cash shortage before it
raises rates,”  Samiran Chakraborty , a Mumbai-based economist
with Standard Chartered Bank, said before the PMI report.  
 Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has increased rates
twice since mid-March by a quarter-percentage point each time.
The repurchase rate is 5.25 percent and the  reverse repurchase
rate  is 3.75 percent. The next monetary policy announcement is
scheduled for July 27.  
 In the PMIs, a reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        