-- Aquino Can Meet Philippine Revenue Goal Using Tax Crackdown, Henares Says
-- Clarissa Batino
-- 2010-07-01T06:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/aquino-philippine-revenue-goal-doable-as-tax-cheats-pursued-henares-says.html

          
          
             Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
can fulfill a pledge to boost annual government revenue by 150
billion pesos ($3.2 billion) as officials go after tax cheats,
corrupt agents and smugglers, his internal revenue chief said.  
 Increasing tax and tariff collection  to 15 percent of gross
domestic product from the current 13 percent is “doable”
without new or higher taxes, Bureau of Internal Revenue
Commissioner  Kim Henares  said in a telephone interview in Manila
today. The agency will bind its collectors to a performance
contract that will ensure targets are surpassed, and simplify
processes to encourage tax payment, she said.  
 “I will make it clear from day one that it won’t be
business as usual,” said Henares, 49, who takes charge of the
tax office tomorrow after leaving the agency in 2005 as one of
its deputy commissioners. Aquino’s revenue target will be
pursued “as soon as possible” and may be reached in a year,
she said.  
 Aquino has promised to fight corruption and tackle an
entrenched culture of tax evasion that’s contributed to the
 budget deficit  and hampered Philippine growth while neighbors
prospered. Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said yesterday the
campaign against tax dodgers will be “unrelenting” and that
programs to jail corrupt officials will be revived.  
 Bonds Climb  
 Six-year bonds are headed for their best week in almost two
months as yields fell for a third day today on optimism the
government will narrow the budget shortfall from record levels.
The yield on the debt due January 2016 fell six basis points to
a record-low 6.62 percent.  
 Still, “there is skepticism” on whether the deficit can
be cut using “collection efficiency,” said  Deanno Basas ,
investment director for fixed-income at ATR KimEng Asset
Management Inc. in Manila, which has assets of about $150
million. “Eventually they will need to augment revenue
sources.”  
 Budget Secretary  Florencio Abad  said today there will be
“zero tolerance” for corruption. The Philippines ranks 139th
out of 180 in Transparency International’s corruption perception
index, tied with Pakistan and Bangladesh. Malaysia is 56th while
Thailand is 84th.  
 In the 20 years through 2009, the Philippine economy
expanded an average 3.7 percent annually, lagging behind
Thailand’s 4.7 percent and Malaysia’s 6 percent.  
 Least Sincere  
 The internal revenue agency and the Bureau of Customs,
which together make up more than 80 percent of government
income, have been two of the three worst agencies in terms of
“sincerity in fighting corruption” in the past two years,
according to surveys by the  Social Weather Station , a Philippine
non-profit research group.  
 Tax and tariff revenue had climbed to about 17 percent of
GDP in 1997. Aquino will appoint a new head for the Bureau of
Customs this week, Purisima said today.  
 The government will review tax incentives, cut operating
expenses at state agencies and may “rationalize” subsidies to
state companies including the National Food Authority, whose
rice sold below market prices also benefits the rich, Abad said.  
 Still, the Philippines may keep this year’s budget deficit
estimate because there are “a lot of expectations” and due to
Aquino’s pledge not to raise taxes, Abad told reporters in
Manila today. The Aquino administration will review the former
government’s 1.68 trillion-peso 2011 spending plan, as well as
this year’s economic and fiscal targets, the budget chief said.  
 Spending Focus  
 Spending will be focused on the poor, including an
emergency employment program this year with a clean-up of rivers
and canals as the rainy season starts, Abad said. The government
will also build more classrooms, health centers, roads and
irrigation facilities, he said.  
 The tax agency, responsible for more than 60 percent of
 state income , will improve its computer system and enhance
partnerships with other government offices to boost data
gathering and profiling of taxpayers, Henares said. Exceeding
the bureau’s collection target “should not be a problem if
everyone will pull their weight,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        