-- Armstrong Poses Cycling `Problem' for Contador in His Final Tour de France
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/armstrong-poses-cycling-problem-for-contador-in-his-final-tour-de-france.html

          
          
             As  Lance Armstrong  prepares for his
final  Tour de France , former riders say he may help unseat
defending champion  Alberto Contador  without being a contender
for the title himself.  
 “Armstrong isn’t necessarily going to be a rival that can
win, but one who can help” competing cyclists by reading the
race better than other participants, said 1988 Tour winner Pedro
Delgado in an interview. “He will be a problem for Alberto
Contador.”  
 Odds for the 38-year-old Armstrong, the record seven-time
champion who placed third in 2009, are 14-1 on the London-based
 Betfair  website, compared with 6-1 for last year’s Tour.
Contador is the 4-7 favorite for the 2010 race, which starts
tomorrow in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and ends July 25 in
Paris.  
 Armstrong and Spain’s Contador fell out as teammates on the
Astana team last year, prompting the Texan to start a team
sponsored by RadioShack Corp. Contador, 27, remains with Astana.  
 The rift was exacerbated on stage three of last year’s tour
when Armstrong anticipated that crosswinds would break up the
peloton and he stayed with the leaders as Contador lost 41
seconds and dropped down the standings.  
 Contador recovered to pass Armstrong in the standings
during the 15th stage to the Swiss ski resort of Verbier.
Armstrong eventually finished behind Contador and Luxembourg’s
 Andy Schleck  in the overall standings. Armstrong wrote June 28
on his Twitter account that this will be his last Tour. The
comment was confirmed by his spokesman Mark Higgins.  
 ‘Great Ride’  
 “It’s been a great ride,” Armstrong wrote. “Looking
forward to three great weeks.”  
 Armstrong and Contador weren’t available for interviews for
this story, according to RadioShack spokesman Philippe Maertens
and Contador spokesman Jacinto Vidarte.  
 The race starts with a prologue in Rotterdam before moving
through Belgium into France. As in last year’s event, Armstrong
and other riders could make ground on Contador during stage
three, in which eight miles are over cobblestones, said  Jonathan Vaughters , who manages the Garmin team and is a former teammate
of Armstrong.  
 Riders will jockey for position at the start of the
cobblestoned portion, increasing the risk of crashes splitting
open the main pack of riders, Vaughters said.  
 Pyrenees Climbs  
 “There will be somebody who loses the Tour on that day,”
Vaughters said. “I don’t know if it will be Contador, but it
could be.”  
 The course heads to the Alps in the second week and in the
final seven days participants will go over the Pyrenees climbs
of Peyresourde, Aspin, Tourmalet and Aubisque in one day for the
first time since 1969, when Belgium’s  Eddy Merckx  won a stage
with an 87-mile solo ride. They will scale 2,115-meter (6,900-
foot) Tourmalet again three days before the event ends on the
Champs Elysees in Paris.  
 Armstrong will be assisted in the mountains by  Andreas Kloeden  and  Levi Leipheimer , who both switched with him to the
RadioShack team. Contador has been joined by  Alexander Vinokourov , who returned to Kazakhstan-backed Astana after a
two-year ban for blood doping.  
 For Francaise des Jeux team manager Marc Madiot, Contador
is “the big favorite” and no one can catch him if everything
goes to plan. Delgado agrees.  
 “It’s very difficult to beat Contador: He’s the great
rider of his times,” Delgado said. “Whether it’s cobblestones,
wind or mountains, you have to be able to handle it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lance Armstrong rides during a training session on the route of the prologue of the Tour de France in Rotterdam, on July 2, 2010. Photogrpher: Vincent Jannink/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Alberto Contador smiles during the 62nd edition of the Criterium du Dauphine Libere cycling race in Allevard-les-Bains, France. Photograper: Lionel Bonaventure/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
