-- Asia Private-Bank Boom Not What It Was in '07, Credit Suisse's Kreis Says
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-07-01T01:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/asia-private-bank-boom-not-what-it-was-in-07-credit-suisse-s-kreis-says.html

          
          
             The past year’s expansion in Asia’s
wealth management industry bears little resemblance to the boom
of 2007, when firms were hiring indiscriminately and clients
were less cautious, said the head of  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s
private-banking unit in the region.  
 “In 2007, banks who were expanding organically hired
everyone that could count to ten without using ten fingers,”
 Marcel Kreis  said in a June 24 interview. “Certainly we’re not
back: the investment environment, the client environment, the
whole thing is not what it was in 2007.”  
 Credit Suisse , based in Zurich, and rivals such as  UBS AG 
are adding private bankers in Asia as wealth managers replenish
ranks depleted following the bust of 2008. This time, banks need
to be more careful because rich clients who suffered losses
during the global financial crisis haven’t fully regained their
confidence, said Kreis, 58.  
 “If you fall off a cliff, you have a sharp recovery
afterwards,” said  Roman Scott , managing director of Calamander
Capital and the former head of Boston Consulting Group’s Asia
wealth management practice. “That’s called a dead cat bounce.
But it doesn’t mean things are back to normal.”  
 Credit Suisse, ranked the world’s fifth-biggest wealth
manager by Scorpio Partnership last year, trimmed its private-
banking workforce in Asia-Pacific by 13 percent in 2009 to about
360, said Kreis. He plans to add about 60 managers in 2010.  
 ‘Cynical’ Clients  
 Kreis joined Credit Suisse in 2007 from UBS, where he was
head of global wealth management for the Asia-Pacific region. He
has worked in the region’s private-banking industry since 1983,
including stints at  Citigroup Inc.  and Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 Private banks face pressure to be more transparent in their
dealings with customers, after wealthy investors got burned on
complex securities that plummeted in value during the credit
crisis, Kreis said.  
 “2008 has left a lot of private investors a lot more
cautious, a lot more short-term oriented, a lot more focused on
simple products than more complex ones,” he said. “Clients are
more cynical today.”  
 The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  has lost 6.2 percent after
rallying 34 percent in 2009. The gauge soared almost 150 percent
in the five years through Dec. 31, 2007 before plummeting 43
percent in 2008.  
 Margin Drop  
 Industry profit margins have fallen by about 30 percent
since 2007 as rich clients shifted their focus to investments
like gold and real estate, said Calamander’s Scott.  
 Growth may also be hurt by cross-border restrictions on
private bankers based in Singapore and Hong Kong who fly to
neighboring countries to woo clients, according to the executive.  
 Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest  bank , attracted
a record 11.5 billion Swiss francs ($10.6 billion) in net new
money last year at its Asia-Pacific private-banking unit. Kreis
said he aims to increase net new money to as much as 45 billion
Swiss francs by 2012 from the end of last year.  
 Wealth in Asia outside Japan is expected to grow at twice
the global rate from the end of 2009 through 2014, the Boston
Consulting Group forecast this month.  
 Higher Demands  
 Credit Suisse plans to hire senior private bankers who can
help bring in investment-banking work, since entrepreneurs
control much of Asia’s wealth. The wealth management unit
initiated 69 investment banking deals in the Asia-Pacific region
in the first half of 2009, up from one in the same period of
2006, according to presentation slides from a conference Credit
Suisse hosted in September.  
 “In a raging bull market where a rising tide lifts all
boats, you were a lot more inclined to give junior bankers an
extra year or so to prove they can deliver,” said Kreis. “In a
market that’s more volatile and more uncertain, you tend to err
on the side of the caution and that’s certainly what we do.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        