-- Stocks Fall on China Manufacturing, Spain Rating
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-07-01T10:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/asian-stocks-decline-as-moody-s-spain-review-stokes-european-debt-concern.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index towards its lowest level in three weeks,
after Chinese manufacturing growth slowed and Moody’s Investors
Service said it may cut Spain’s top credit rating.  
 Mining companies  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group,
which get at least a fifth of their revenue from China,
retreated in Sydney after the Purchasing Managers’ Index, a
gauge of Chinese manufacturing, fell more than economists
estimated.  Nissan Motor Co. , which gets 13 percent of its
revenue in Europe, lost 3.2 percent in Tokyo after Moody’s said
it may lower Spain’s Aaa classification.  
 “Investors are already finding difficulty traversing the
wall of worry,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about
$1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “A downgrade
of Spanish sovereign debt would be another piece of negative
news that adds to demand for perceived safe-haven investments.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1.3 percent to 111.36
as of 7:21 p.m. in Tokyo, extending its biggest quarterly
decline in more than a year. The measure is set to close at the
lowest level since June 10. The gauge has fallen 14 percent from
its high this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis
and Chinese steps to curb property prices will hurt global
growth.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slumped 2 percent, a fifth
day of declines. An increase in the Bank of Japan’s Tankan index
of sentiment among the country’s largest manufacturers to a two-
year high failed to stem the slump in stocks.  
 South Korea’s Kospi dropped 0.7 percent. The S&P/ASX 200
Index declined 1.5 percent in Sydney and China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  decreased 1 percent. Markets in Hong Kong are
closed today for a public holiday.  
 Biggest Declines  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.2 percent.
The gauge yesterday fell 1 percent as ADP Employer Services said
companies in the U.S. added fewer workers in June than forecast.  
 All 10  industry gauges  represented on the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index declined. Utilities stocks, perceived to be less sensitive
to economic growth cycles, fell the least.  
 “Investor sentiment is certainly negative and we’ve seen
that reiterated in buying of defensive asset classes,” said
 Chris Weston , head of institutional dealing at IG Markets in
Melbourne. “Traders are pricing in a double dip, which is not a
healthy stalking ground for equities.”  
 BHP, which is also Australia’s biggest oil producer, sank
1.4 percent to A$37.11 as crude oil and copper futures in New
York retreated.  Rio Tinto  slumped 2.3 percent to A$65.10.
Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s largest producer of the metal, lost
2.6 percent to 23.44 yuan in Shanghai.  
 Manufacturing Slowdown  
 China’s manufacturing expanded at a slower pace for a
second month in June, adding to signs that growth in the world’s
third-largest  economy  is moderating. The  Purchasing Managers’
Index  fell to 52.1 from 53.9 in May, the Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said today. That was less than the median 53.2
estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 12 economists. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  
 Gree Electric Appliances Inc., the largest Chinese maker of
home air-conditioners, lost 2.3 percent to 18.37 yuan in
Shenzhen, southern China. Tokyo-based Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., which counts China as its biggest market, lost
2.6 percent to 1,613 yen.  
 Speculation global growth will slow has helped drag down
the average price of stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to
about 14 times estimated profit, compared with 24 times a year
ago. The gauge lost 0.5 percent last week after new-home sales
in the U.S. tumbled to a record low.  
 Nissan, Sony  
 Stocks also fell today after Moody’s announced its review
on Spain. “Deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in
meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be
lowered by as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts in New York
said yesterday in a statement. The review will be concluded
within a three-month period, the ratings company said.  
 Nissan slipped 3.2 percent to 606 yen. Mazda Motor Corp.
plunged 5.2 percent to 199 yen, the fifth-biggest drop on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Sony Corp. , which gets 21 percent of
its revenue from Europe, declined 3.7 percent to 2,296 yen. Sony
separately said it’s recalling 535,000 Vaio personal computers
because they may overheat due to a temperature-control defect.  
 Also in Tokyo,  Softbank Corp. , Japan’s No. 3 mobile-phone
company, dropped 4.4 percent to 2,267 yen after the company’s
Yahoo Japan Corp. affiliate was ordered to pay more taxes.
Softbank was the largest contributor to the Nikkei’s decline.
 Yahoo Japan  slumped 3.2 percent to 34,500 yen.  
 Shipping stocks declined after the  Baltic Dry Index , which
measures the cost of transporting commodities, sank 1.7 percent
yesterday, extending a 24-day slump to 43 percent.  
 Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., Japan’s third-largest shipping
line, retreated 2.5 percent to 357 yen.  Cosco Corp. Singapore
Ltd. , a China-based shipbuilder that also operates bulk carriers,
dropped 3.4 percent to S$1.44 in Singapore, while STX Pan Ocean
Co., South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier, dipped 1.3 percent to
11,150 won.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        