-- Asia's Manufacturing, Export Growth Slows as Data Signal Peak of Rebound
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-01T09:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/asia-s-manufacturing-export-growth-slows-as-data-signal-peak-of-rebound.html

          
          
             Manufacturing growth in China, South
Korea and Australia slowed in June, indicating the economic
rebound has peaked in a region that has led the global recovery.  
 India and Taiwan’s purchasing-manager indices also fell
last month, while South Korean overseas sales expanded at a
slower pace, reports today showed. Indonesia’s  export  growth
eased for a fourth month in May, according to its statistics
department.  
 Asian stocks fell for a third day as the reports added to
concern that global growth will slow as governments curb
spending to narrow budget deficits. The region’s recovery may
ease as Europe’s debt woes hurt consumer and business confidence
in advanced economies, and a weaker euro makes Asian goods by
companies from Nissan Motor Co. to  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co.  more expensive.  
 “The fastest phase of the recovery process is probably
behind us and the uncertainty for the second half continues to
rise on the back of the European crisis,” said  Tai Hui , head of
Southeast Asian economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in
Singapore. “The global environment is moderating.”  
 Manufacturing in the U.S.  probably fell  last month from an
almost six-year high, the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index may show today. Purchasing-manager indices in
Europe were mixed, with lower readings in Sweden and Ireland,
and higher levels in Norway and Poland.  
 Group of 20 leaders, who met last month, said advanced
economies among its members will aim to halve deficits by 2013.
While U.S. President  Barack Obama  is pushing his counterparts to
focus on spurring growth, leaders in the U.K. and Germany are
already tightening spending to bolster investor confidence.  
 Stocks Tumbling  
 Concern that the global recovery may stall have sent stocks
tumbling. More than $7 trillion has been wiped from stocks
worldwide since this year’s high on April 15. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  dropped 1.3 percent today, and has declined 4.9
percent in the past week.  
 While sentiment among Japan’s biggest manufacturers rose to
a two-year high, the advance in the world’s second-largest
economy may also be hampered by evidence global growth is
slowing. The  Tankan  index of sentiment climbed 15 points in June
to plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today, meaning
optimists outnumber pessimists.  
 Asia’s developing nations are more reliant on overseas
shipments than the rest of the world, with 60 percent of their
sales abroad ultimately destined for the U.S., Europe and Japan,
according to the Asian Development Bank.  
 China Manufacturing  
 China’s manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, with the government’s Purchasing Managers’
Index declined to 52.1 from 53.9 in May. An HSBC Holdings Plc
manufacturing index slid to a 14-month low. A figure above 50
shows the industry is expanding.  
 Australia’s  manufacturing index  fell 3.4 points from May to
52.9, the Australian Industry Group and PricewaterhouseCoopers
said in a survey released in Canberra today. The HSBC South
Korea PMI fell to this year’s low of 53.3 in June and the
nation’s exports increased 32.4 percent from a year earlier last
month, following a 40.5 percent gain in May.  
 In India, where the central bank has raised  interest rates 
twice since mid-March to curb inflation, the purchasing
managers’ index fell to 57.3 from 59 in May.  
 India’s “manufacturing is hitting a plateau at high levels
but isn’t knocked out just yet,” said  Frederic Neumann , a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC. “Growth momentum remains strong
in India, with consumption and services picking up speed, even
as manufacturing slows because of a fading policy stimulus.”  
 Policy Tightening  
 Economists including Standard Chartered’s Hui say the
slower pace of expansion may not prevent Asian central banks
from tightening monetary policy as domestic demand offsets any
slowdown in overseas sales and as inflationary pressures
increase.  
 Taiwan’s central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since 2008 last week and China
in June pledged to end a currency peg to the dollar. Bank Negara
Malaysia has increased its key rate twice this year.  
 “We’ve moved away from the recession period, which we do
not expect to repeat and therefore, it makes sense for central
banks to move from ultra-loose monetary policy to a much more
neutral position,” Hui said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore   sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        