-- AstraZeneca Antitrust Fine Cut by 13% by EU Court in Generic Drug Case
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-01T12:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/astrazeneca-antitrust-fine-cut-by-13-by-eu-court-in-generic-drug-case.html

          
          
             The European Union’s second-highest
court upheld a ruling that  AstraZeneca Plc  misled patent
officials and flouted antitrust rules to keep a generic
competitor off the market, while reducing the associated fine
against the company.  
 The EU’s General Court today cut the company’s  fine  from 60
million euros ($74 million) to 52.5 million euros. The court
upheld the decision by the region’s antitrust regulator that
AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, had “abused
its dominant position by preventing the marketing of generic
products” of its Prilosec heartburn medicine.  
 Today’s ruling may affect an ongoing EU probe into
pharmaceutical companies’ strategies to keep copies of medicines
off the market. AstraZeneca,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  are among companies the Brussels-based European
Commission has queried as part of its probe. Companies use a
variety of techniques to delay generics, the EU said in a  report 
last July.  
 “It’s a very scary decision that will give a lot of
uncertainty,” said Maria Isabel Manley, an intellectual-
property lawyer at Bristows law firm in London. The court “has
denied pharmaceutical companies in a dominant position the right
to enjoy commercial freedom in navigating the complex regulatory
maze.”  
 Market Abuse  
 AstraZeneca, based in London, had challenged the
commission’s June 2005  decision  to fine it for market abuse and
misleading patent authorities over Prilosec. The court
overturned the commission’s finding that AstraZeneca breached EU
rules by withdrawing market approvals for older versions of the
medicine in Denmark and Norway, which prevented entry by generic
producers and parallel importers.  
 “The company is disappointed that our position wasn’t
confirmed in full,” AstraZeneca spokeswoman  Sarah Lindgreen 
said in an interview. “Obviously, it’s very complex and we need
to review it in detail to comment further.”  
 Today’s is the first case in which the commission, the
antitrust regulator for the 27 EU nations, accused a drugmaker
of violating EU antitrust rules by misusing its dominant
position to shut out rivals.  
 The commission welcomed the decision, spokeswoman  Amelia Torres  told reporters at a regular briefing in Brussels.  
 The decision shows that companies can’t “misuse the patent
system and the system of authorization of medicines,” said
Torres. Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  “is determined
to use competition rules to fight” such behavior, she said.  
 ‘Precedent’  
 “This case is likely to be used as a precedent,” said
 Nicola Dagg , an intellectual-property lawyer in London at Allen
& Overy LLP. “While the specific activities set out in this
judgment will form concrete examples of abusive behavior” where
the commission will likely step in, “the difficulty lies in
recognizing which activities will, in the future, be considered
abusive.”  
 The decision gives the commission and EU nations “a green
flag to press on with cases against originators who are
suspected of gaming the regulatory system to delay generic
entry,” said  Lesley Ainsworth , a partner in EU and antitrust
law at law firm Hogan Lovells LLP in London.  
 AstraZeneca was able to keep generic versions of its ulcer
drug off the market between 1993 and 2000, the commission said
after the six-year investigation that led to the court case.  
 Prilosec was the world’s best-selling drug in the late
1990s and the court upheld the commission’s ruling AstraZeneca
blocked cheaper versions to keep prices high. AstraZeneca
provided the patent offices in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the
Netherlands, Norway and the U.K. with incorrect data to extend
patent protection on Prilosec, said the commission.  
 The case is T-321/05 AstraZeneca v Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        