-- Tate Exits 132-Year-Old Business With Sugar Refinery Sale
-- Thomas Biesheuvel
-- 2010-07-01T16:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/tate-lyle-to-sell-its-sugars-business-to-american-sugar-for-315-million.html

          
          
             Tate & Lyle Plc , once the world’s
biggest sugar processor, is selling its refineries in the
European Union to American Sugar Refining Inc. as the U.K.
company dismantles a 132-year-old industry to focus on more
profitable businesses.  
 In a transaction echoing the sale of Britain’s iconic
Cadbury chocolate brand to Kraft Foods Inc., Tate said today
that it will receive 211 million pounds ($315 million) for the
sites. The British company will be left with Splenda, the
world’s second-largest low-calorie sweetener, and a global
additives and ingredients business.  
 The retreat from an industrial empire founded by Henry
Tate, benefactor of London’s  Tate Gallery , comes nine months
after  Javed Ahmed , 50, took over as chief executive officer.
Ahmed said the company’s priority is to expand in food
ingredients used in Kraft and  Kellogg Co.  products and which
accounted for 66 percent of earnings last year.  
 The sale of Cadbury Plc, founded in 1824, to Northfield,
Illinois-based Kraft in January led to a campaign to “Keep
Cadbury British” by the Mail on Sunday newspaper and saw the
then U.K. Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  describe the
company as an iconic brand.  
 The sale of Tate’s sugar business, which includes its
Golden Syrup brand first tinned in  1885 , is a “different
proposition,” said Investec Securities analyst  Martin Deboo  by
phone from London.  
 ‘Broken Economic Model’  
 Unlike Cadbury, Tate had a “façade of an iconic brand
concealing a broken economic model,” he said. Tate is
“essentially a corn refining business in North America.”  
 Tate  rose 4.7 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 454.4 pence in
London trading, valuing the company at 2.09 billion pounds.  
 Tate has been  selling businesses  and closing plants since
the EU cut sugar-output quotas, focusing more on higher-margin
products including food ingredients and sucralose sweeteners.
Tate sold its Canadian sugar unit to American Sugar Refining in
2007 for 132 million pounds and then in 2008 its international
sugar business to  Bunge Ltd.   
 Tate, which started refining sugar at its  London site in
1878 , is selling its refineries in Portugal and Britain and the
Golden Syrup factory in London.  
 The sale price excludes pension assets and liabilities in
the U.K., and will result in a book loss of about 55 million
pounds, Tate said in a statement today.  
 ‘Sweet Deal’  
 “The transaction is expected to be neutral to the group’s
adjusted earnings per share on total operations in the 2011
financial year,” it said.  
 “It’s a very sweet deal,” said Investec’s Deboo. “We’d
have been happy to see them exit it on a dilutive basis,”
probably by closing the business and selling the land, he said.
“Instead they’re selling it as a going concern for considerably
more than we expected.”  
 Tate now plans to sell its remaining sugar operations,
including its Vietnamese unit and its molasses assets, Ahmed
said. The company’s “clear priority” is to grow its specialty
food ingredients business, “supported by cash generated from
bulk ingredients,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The retreat from an industrial empire founded by Henry Tate, benefactor of London’s Tate Gallery, comes nine months after Javed Ahmed took over as CEO. Source: Reckitt Benckiser via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tate & Lyle sell EU refineries  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Tate & Lyle company logo is displayed at their sugar refinery in Silvertown, London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Tate & Lyle company logo is displayed at their sugar refinery in Silvertown, London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
