-- Gillard Set to Make Announcement on Australian Mining-Tax Talks
-- Iain Wilson
-- 2010-07-01T13:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/australia-s-gillard-preparing-to-make-announcement-on-mining-tax-tomorrow.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is preparing an announcement on talks with mining
companies on a new tax amid reports a compromise has been
struck, ending a dispute that cost her predecessor his job.  
 The prime minister will hold a news conference at 8:30 a.m.
tomorrow in Canberra, a spokesman in Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s
office said in a text message late today. The government and
industry representatives have been locked in talks on the
planned tax on mining companies’ profits for much of the week.  
 The announcement follows reports on the Age and Sydney
Morning Herald newspaper websites today of a breakthrough.
Gillard has vowed to make reaching a compromise on the tax her
priority. She ousted  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister last week
following an opinion-poll slump for the ruling Labor Party after
Rudd clashed with executives from mining companies  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group  over the plan.  
 BHP, Rio, Xstrata Plc and the Australian government have
agreed to key elements of a compromise, including changing the
point at which the tax kicks in, the Herald reported, without
saying where it got the information.  
 Rio and BHP pared losses in Sydney trading after the
report. Rio, which fell as much as 3.8 percent earlier, closed
down 2.3 percent at A$65.10 on the Australian stock exchange.
BHP trimmed its loss from 2.6 percent to 1.4 percent.  
 Trigger Raised  
 The compromise includes pegging the trigger for the tax to
the 10-year bond rate plus 7 percentage points, the Herald and
Age said. The original proposal presented by Swan’s office in
May called for the tax to take effect when return on investment
exceeded that on the 10-year government bond, which is currently
about 5.1 percent.  
 The government may also have agreed to change how existing
operations are taxed, the Herald said. Companies may be able to
inject their existing assets into the revised tax regime at
market value, the report said.  
 Under the original proposal, miners would have had to pay a
40 percent tax on all profits above the return-on-investment
hurdle on their projects in Australia, the world’s biggest
shipper of iron ore and coal. The plan would have taken A$85
billion ($71 billion) from the mining industry during the next
decade, Morgan Stanley estimated.  
 Miners campaigned for the government to exclude existing
projects, reconsider the trigger level and vary the rate for
different minerals. Mining companies suspended anti-tax
advertising campaigns after Gillard was appointed and said she
wanted to negotiate.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Iain Wilson  at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        