-- Australia Building Approvals Fall 6.6% in May From April as Stimulus Wanes
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-01T01:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/australian-building-approvals-fall-6-6-in-may-as-government-stimulus-ends.html

          
          
             Australian home-building  approvals 
fell in May for a second straight month, adding to signs the
central bank’s world-leading round of interest-rate increases is
damping demand for dwellings.  
 The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments dropped 6.6 percent from April, when they tumbled
a revised 11.4 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The median  estimate  of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for no change in approvals.  
 Falling home-building approvals give central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens , who boosted borrowing costs last month for the
sixth time in seven meetings, scope to keep interest rates
unchanged on July 6 at 4.5 percent, as forecast by all 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this week. A separate report
today showed  manufacturing  growth slowed in June for a second
month.  
 “With rising interest rates continuing to squeeze the flow
of finance, we have every reason to believe activity will remain
soft for some time yet,”  Stephen Walters , chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, said ahead of today’s report.  
 Approvals to build private houses rose 1.7 percent to 8,835
in May from April. Approvals for apartments and renovations
declined 18.8 percent to 3,643.  
 Government Grants  
 Approvals have fallen in four of the first five months of
this year after the ruling Labor Party’s government reduced
grants on Jan. 1 to first-time buyers of new homes to A$7,000
($5,893) from as much as A$21,000.  
 Sales of newly built dwellings fell 6.4 percent in May from
April, a separate report published yesterday by the Canberra-
based Housing Industry Association showed.  
 Governor Stevens, who chairs his next monetary policy board
meeting on July 6, signaled on June 15 that the bank’s decision
to return borrowing costs to average levels has given it
flexibility to gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a quarter-point
increase at central bank monthly meetings until next year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        