-- Back-It-Yourself Debt Adds Risk to Munis as Issuers Shun Banks
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/back-it-yourself-muni-bonds-raise-taxpayer-risk-as-credit-guarantees-wane.html

          
          
             After five years of paying  Citigroup
Inc . for bond guarantees that became too expensive to renew,
Massachusetts state debt manager Colin MacNaught issued $538.1
million of notes without bank backing.  
 Pennsylvania’s Turnpike Commission and the  District of
Columbia  also sold a new kind of debt with no bank support this
year, boosting the total 94 percent from 2009 to $2.96 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The securities, called Sifma
index notes, pay interest tied to the weekly average of other
variable-rate debt, 0.31 percent as of June 23, according to the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a New
York-based trade group.  
 The new notes show how municipal finance has entered a
different world following the worst credit crisis since the
Great Depression. Before the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, state and local governments were able to
take advantage of low  interest rates  by selling securities with
adjustable yields and counting on Wall Street firms to buy them
back if investors wouldn’t bid. Now, issuers are depending less
on the banks to be purchasers of last resort.  
 Borrowers are taking that risk to cut costs as  tax revenue 
fell in 34 states in the first quarter, according to the Nelson
A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York. The
$67 billion decline in the 12 months ended June 30, 2009, was
the largest on record, U.S. Census data show.  
 Cash on Hand  
 “The risk is that if you refinance this note in five
years and we’re in a stagnant interest-rate environment, or
possibly a declining one, demand for it will probably fall,”
Kenneth Gambone, head of short-term public-finance banking at  Barclays Capital , said at a Bloomberg Cities & Debt Briefing in
March.  
 The  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  wants to do
without a bank letter of credit and rely on its own cash and
holdings of U.S. government securities as backing for a $500
million commercial paper program, Treasurer Ann Marie Mulligan
said at a  June 22 finance committee meeting .  
 Sellers of securities without guarantees take the risk that
changes in interest rates or their creditworthiness could make
it difficult to refinance. While hundreds of borrowers take that
chance every year, things can go wrong.  
 Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , has weighed bankruptcy because it
may not be able to refund $35 million of three-year debt coming
due this year. The bonds were used for improvements to a trash-
to-energy incinerator that operates at a loss, making access to
capital “uncertain” for the authority that oversees it, a
Moody’s Investors Service report said.  
 ‘Direct Look’  
 In the absence of bank backing to assume some of the risk,
“investors are taking a direct look at the issuers,” said
Joanna Brody, a principal at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  Minneapolis .  
 That’s what Nuveen Asset Management did in buying at least
$8 million of the back-it-yourself debt. Its holdings include an
eight-month District of Columbia note and a two-year
Massachusetts issue for a short-term bond fund, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “Our analysis starts with the borrowers’ credit, just like
other bonds,” said  Paul Brennan , a portfolio manager in  Chicago 
for Nuveen, which holds $65 billion of municipal securities.  
   Peter Hayes , who oversees $106 billion of municipal bonds
at New York-based  BlackRock Inc ., said the floating payments of
the Sifma notes “appeal right now” as investors may benefit
should interest rates rise from near-record lows. He declined to
say if BlackRock holds any of the debt.  
 Less Volatile  
 Prices of the few Sifma floaters that traded since their
initial sale have held close to par. That makes them a
substitute for variable-rate demand bonds, which are in short
supply, Nuveen’s Brennan said.  
 “We can earn a higher tax-exempt yield than a variable-
rate demand bond with less volatility than a fixed-rate bond,”
said Patrick Quinn, senior portfolio manager at Northern Trust
Bank in Chicago, who bought $3 million of District of Columbia
floaters for a short-term bond fund.  
   Massachusetts  will save about $7.45 million on the $538.1
million of Sifma index notes it sold March 11, Treasurer Timothy Cahill said  after the offering . The state may also reduce its
use of interest-rate swaps to further lessen banks’ role in its
borrowing, MacNaught said.  
 The Sifma notes are “a much simpler, straightforward
product,” MacNaught said in a telephone interview from  Boston .
Their maturity is known in advance, so there is time to prepare
for a refinancing, which may consist of new fixed- or floating-
rate debt, he said.  
 $147 Billion  
 The floaters allow issuers to borrow at interest rates as
low as variable-rate obligations without paying for bank
guarantees used to assure money-market funds they can redeem
their holdings on demand. Such funds can buy Sifma-index issues
due in less than a year, while longer-maturity issues are
attracting buyers from short-term bond funds, Gambone said.  
 The high cost of bank guarantees will prompt more municipal
borrowers to use Sifma notes, said Piper Jaffray’s Brody at the
Bloomberg Briefing. At least $147 billion of bank agreements
backing variable-rate demand bonds expire in the next year,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Interest rates on the notes Massachusetts sold change with
the Sifma index’s weekly average for variable-rate demand bonds.
The rate has averaged 1.47 percentage points less than for top-
rated 10-year bonds over the past five years, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Downgrade Risk  
 Yields on one-year Massachusetts Sifma notes are equal to
the index. To compensate investors for the risk that the state’s
credit might worsen, the two-year issue pays Sifma plus 0.24
percentage points, sale  documents  show.  
 The three-year has a yield of 0.38 percentage point over
Sifma and the four-year adds 0.53 percentage point, according to
the documents.  
 While those securities pay more than the $536.7 million of
variable-rate demand bonds they replaced, and Massachusetts will
face underwriting costs when they’re refinanced at maturity, the
state will save money overall by avoiding bank-guarantee fees.  
 Before the March sale, Massachusetts received bids to
replace the expiring Citibank guarantee that were about seven
times higher than the 0.12 percentage point it paid five years
ago, MacNaught said. Prices ranged from an average of about 0.8
percentage point for a one-year agreement to 0.9 percent for
three years, he said.  
 “This refunding was a chance for the commonwealth to
reduce its counterparty risk and to reduce its borrowing
costs,” Cahill said in his March 15 statement.  
 Fewer Swaps  
 The debt is rated AA+ by  Fitch Ratings  and Aa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the companies’ second-highest municipal
grades, and AA at Standard & Poor’s, the third-highest.  
 Massachusetts may also consider doing without interest-rate
swaps, such as those linked to its Sifma-indexed notes and their
variable-rate predecessors, MacNaught said. Those derivative
agreements with banks allowed the state to lock in fixed rates
to protect against rising costs for their floating-rate debt
should interest rates rise.  
 In the future, Massachusetts may use fewer swaps and rely
on increased returns on its short-term investments, which
average between $1 billion and $2 billion, to offset higher
floating-rate debt costs if interest rates rise, MacNaught said.  
 Trying to lock in interest rates with derivatives can be
costly for municipalities because floating-rate debt is cheaper
than fixed-rate bonds “most of the time,” said Robert Brooks,
professor of finance at the University of  Alabama  in Tuscaloosa.  
 The risk of rising borrowing costs “isn’t as great as you
would think” because governments’ cash and taxing authority
produce more revenue as inflation quickens and interest rates
rise, he said.  
 “Excessive avoidance of floating-rate debt is a huge
strategic error for local governments,” Brooks said, “an error
their bankers don’t tell them about.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in Albany,  New York , at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        