-- Banco do Brasil Surges After Raising $5.4 Billion in Local Share Offering
-- Felipe Frisch
-- 2010-07-01T21:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/banco-do-brasil-surges-after-raising-5-4-billion-in-local-share-offering.html

          
          
             Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s
largest bank by assets, led gains in Sao Paulo trading after the
company and shareholders said they’re raising 9.76 billion reais
($5.4 billion) in Brazil’s biggest stock sale in eight months.  
 The stock surged 6.1 percent, the most since Feb. 1, to
26.16 reais.  
 The state-controlled lender is selling 286 million new
voting shares for 24.65 reais each, yesterday’s closing price,
and stakeholders will offer 110 million existing shares,
according to filings with Brazil’s securities regulator. Banco
do Brasil plans to use the proceeds to finance international
expansion and loan growth after lending by Brazilian banks rose
at the fastest pace in 10 months in May.  
 Brazilian companies from  OSX Brasil SA  to  Multiplus SA 
raised less than they sought in initial public offerings this
year and Petroleo Brasileiro SA delayed a $25 billion share sale
by two months as Europe’s debt crisis damped demand for riskier
assets. The benchmark  Bovespa index  dropped 11 percent this year
before today, more than the 7.2 percent decline for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index , and may continue to lag, said  Guilherme Figueiredo , director at M. Safra & Co. in Sao Paulo.  
 “The guy who wants to invest in Brazil is going to invest
in these,” said Figueiredo, who helps manage $1.3 billion.
“The new money will be channeled to these operations. The
volumes of the offerings are so big they create a cap on the
market, keeping it from performing as well as it could.”  
 Canceled Sale  
 Banco do Brasil’s offering is Brazil’s first since  JBS SA ,
the world’s biggest beef producer, priced an additional share
sale in April. Five of Brazil’s seven IPOs this year sold below
the estimated range amid speculation higher  interest rates  and
swelling budget deficits in Europe would slow the global
economic recovery. Food producer  M. Dias Branco SA  canceled an
additional share sale on June 21, citing international market
conditions.  
 Banco do Brasil’s loan holdings grew 26 percent to 306
billion reais in the first quarter after Latin America’s biggest
economy emerged from a recession last year. The portfolio
represents a 20 percent market share, according to an earnings
presentation from the bank.  
 Investor Demand  
 The  stock  gained today in part because the offering was
oversubscribed, said  Daniella Marques , a partner at Rio de
Janeiro-based Oren Investimentos, which manages 206 million
reais.  
 “The placement didn’t meet investor demand, so people had
to buy shares in the market,” said Marques, who said she was
able to buy just 10 percent of the shares she sought.  
 The offering by the Brasilia-based lender is the nation’s
14th this year, compared with six in the first half of 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Previ, the pension fund for Banco do Brasil employees,
plans to buy enough stock to maintain its 10 percent stake in
Banco do Brasil,  Rene Sanda , Previ’s chief investment officer,
said June 17. Brazil’s biggest pension fund will exercise its
preference right to buy all the shares it is entitled to,
according to a June 10 regulatory filing.  
 ‘Lost Momentum’  
 Brazil’s equity market “lost momentum” because of Banco
do Brasil’s offering and the planned sale by Petrobras, Bank of
America Corp. strategists including  Pedro Martins Jr . wrote in a
June 24 note to clients. Petrobras’s capital raising, scheduled
for September, will be the biggest in the western hemisphere in
at least a decade. The  Bovespa  dropped 13 percent in the past
three months, the first quarterly decline since 2008.  
 Petrobras dropped 27 percent this year before today and
Banco do Brasil declined 17 percent. The retreat in Petrobras
shares accounted for 36 percent of the benchmark Bovespa’s drop
in the first half, while Banco do Brasil’s slide contributed 2.9
percent, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 At $25 billion, the sale from Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras would be equal to about 2.2 percent of the $1.12
trillion market capitalization of all publicly traded shares in
Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The Banco do Brasil sale isn’t an indication that the
market for share offerings is improving because smaller
companies may still have difficulty raising money, said  Eduardo Roche  at Banco Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro, which manages 3
billion reais.  
 “You can’t think that share offerings took hold again just
because Banco do Brasil’s worked out,” Roche said. “Petrobras
can end up drying out the market.”  
 Banco do Brasil’s sale is the largest since Banco Santander
SA’s Brazilian unit raised about 14.1 billion reais in October,
a record for Brazilian IPOs.  Lending  by Brazilian banks
increased 2.1 percent to 1.5 trillion reais in May, according to
the central bank.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        