-- Japan Currency Intervention Risk Is Now `Elevated,' Morgan Stanley Says
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-07-01T23:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bank-of-japan-yen-intervention-risk-is-elevated-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             There is an “elevated probability”
that the Bank of Japan will intervene in the currency markets to
sell the yen, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 The chance of intervention by the central bank on behalf of
the Ministry of Finance has risen to 47 percent, the highest
level since November 2004, compared with 40 percent at the end
of May,  Sophia Drossos , co-head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at the U.S. investment bank, wrote in a note yesterday.
The probability is based on a model that takes into account
factors such as exchange-rate momentum and market positioning.  
 “The probability has breached the 40 percent mark twice in
the last six years, with the MOF eschewing intervention on both
occasions,” New York-based Drossos wrote in the note. “While
this does indicate that the hurdle rate for intervention has
increased in recent years, we would not be surprised to see
increased rhetoric around this issue if trends in the underlying
factors continue unabated.”  
 The yen traded at 87.60 per dollar as of 8:01 a.m. in Tokyo
from 87.60 in New York yesterday, when it climbed to 86.97, the
highest level since Dec. 2. Japan’s currency has strengthened
1.9 percent this week, heading for its fourth weekly gain.  
 Morgan Stanley predicts the yen will weaken to 98 per
dollar by year-end, according to the note.  
 Futures traders reversed their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed last week.  
 The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the yen compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 3,630 on June 22
compared with net shorts of 3,680 a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        