-- China's Stock Index Advances, Trimming Biggest Weekly Decline in 16 Months
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T08:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bank-of-china-icbc-sinopec-gemdale-jinduicheng-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  advanced for the first
time in eight days, paring the benchmark index’s biggest weekly
drop in 16 months, as investors speculated recent losses were
excessive.  
 China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. drove gains
by developers, the worst performing stocks in Shanghai this year,
and PetroChina Co. rebounded from its lowest level since January
2009. Stocks earlier fell after Caixin Online reported  Bank of
China Ltd.  plans to raise as much as 60 billion yuan ($8.9
billion) in a rights offer.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  paced losses by
commodity producers after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
Chinese economic growth forecast.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 9.11, or 0.4 percent,
to close at 2,382.90, reversing an earlier 2.3 percent loss. The
 CSI 300 Index  added 0.3 percent to 2,534.10.  
 “Trading is volatile as investors try to work out how bad
the slowdown will be,” said  Wang Zheng , a fund manager at
Jingxi Investment Management Co. in Shanghai. “Declines by
banks and developers have been too extreme given their earnings
still look solid in the short-term.”  
 The Shanghai Composite fell 6.7 percent this week, the most
since the period ended Feb. 27, 2009, after manufacturing growth
slowed more than economists forecast in June and the Conference
Board lowered its April gauge for China’s economic outlook.  
 After the market closed the government raised its 2009
growth estimate by 0.4 percentage point to 9.1 percent.  
 A gauge of property stocks jumped 3.6 percent, climbing
from the lowest level since March 2009 and gaining the most
among the Shanghai Composite’s five  industry groups .  
 Vanke, Poly  
 Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, rose
3.7 percent to 6.93 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest,
added 3.9 percent to 10.51 yuan.  Beijing Capital Development Co. ,
a Beijing-based developer, surged the 10 percent daily limit to
14.54 yuan after saying first-half net income may have gained
150 percent from a year earlier.  
 PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company, added 1.4
percent to 10.33 yuan, trimming its loss this year to 25 percent.  
 The Shanghai Composite is the world’s third-worst
performing equity market this year with a 27 percent loss as
stocks fell after policy makers tightened rules for the property
market and concern grew that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt
demand in China’s largest export destination. Equities also
declined as the nation’s biggest banks announced as much as
$45.6 billion in fundraising after extending  record loans  last
year.  
 Market ‘Oversold’  
 The plunge sent the benchmark gauge’s price-earnings  ratio 
to 17.7, near the lowest level versus the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index in a decade. Yuan-denominated shares, restricted almost
exclusively to local investors, fell below Chinese stocks traded
in Hong Kong last month for the first time in almost four years,
according to the  Hang Seng China AH Premium Index .  
 “Technically, the market looks very, very oversold,”
Morgan Stanley China strategist  Jerry Lou  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “Shanghai’s now trading even at a
discount to their counterparts in Hong Kong. This is really,
really rare.”  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
1.4 percent to 23.02 yuan, a ninth day of declines.  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest maker of the
lightweight metal and also called Chalco, dropped 1.7 percent to
8.76 yuan, the lowest close since February 2009. Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co., the listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest coal miner,
retreated 1.7 percent to 15.53 yuan.  
 Goldman Forecast  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its 2010 forecast for growth
in China’s real gross domestic product to 10.1 percent from 11.4
percent, according to a research report today. The economy
expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the fastest pace in
almost three years.  
 “We’ve yet to see firm signs that the downtrend will end
as fundraising pressure and concerns about slowing earnings
growth continue,” said  Wei Wei , an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Bank of China’s stocks were suspended from trading in the
afternoon session after Caixin Online reported yesterday without
citing anyone that the lender will sell shares in Shanghai and
Hong Kong. Bank of China’s board approved the sale of stock to
existing shareholders on June 30 and the company will make an
announcement today, Caixin said.  
 ‘Damage’ Sentiment  
 The stock added 0.3 percent to 3.40 yuan today before the
suspension. The lender said in a statement it plans to release
“price-sensitive” information, without giving further details.  
 An offering would add to as much as $45.6 billion in
fundraising announced by China’s five biggest state-controlled
banks.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,  the nation’s largest
lender by customers, is seeking to raise as much as $20.1
billion in an initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  
 A sale by Bank of China would “damage market sentiment and
banking shares further because we’ve already been flooded by
share offerings,” said  Tang Yayun , a Shanghai-based analyst at
Northeast Securities Co.  
 Pharmaceutical stocks dropped on concern curbs on medicine
prices will hurt profits.  
 Yunnan Baiyao Group Co., a manufacturer of traditional
Chinese medicines, slumped 4.7 percent to 61.01 yuan.  Shandong
Blue Sail Plastic & Rubber Co. , a maker of disposal medical PVC
gloves, tumbled 7.4 percent to 32.04 yuan. Zhangzhou
Pientzehuang Pharmaceutical Co. fell 9 percent to 35.29 yuan.  
 Government Curbs  
 The National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s top planning body, said on its website today that it
will investigate the ex-factory prices of almost 900 drugs
produced by about the same number of manufacturers. The
commission last month said it will draw up a plan to limit
“substantial” gains in medicine prices and curb profiteering.  
 “These measures will definitely hurt profitability of
drugmakers.” said  Zhang Kun , a strategist at Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “In this sense, the sector doesn’t
deserve such high valuations now.”  
 A gauge of health-care stocks dropped 3 percent today, the
most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups and extending
yesterday’s loss of 3.4 percent.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 China South Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corp.  added 4
percent to 5 yuan after saying its parent company bought 2
million of its shares yesterday. The parent plans to spend up to
1 billion yuan during the next 12 months to increase its stake
in the company by as much as 2 percent.  
 Jiangling Motors Corp.  (000550 CH), the Chinese commercial
vehicle partner with Ford Motor Co., added 2.8 percent to 18.85
yuan after saying it plans to invest 2.13 billion yuan in a
production base in the city of Nanchang.  
 Tonghua Grape Wine Co.  (600365 CH) slid 4.5 percent to
10.63 yuan after saying its largest shareholder sold 4.72
million shares, or 3.37 percent of the company’s total
outstanding stock, from June 22 to June 29.  
 Zhejiang Juhua Co.  (600160 CH), a manufacturer of chemical
products, climbed 4.5 percent to 9.16 yuan after saying first-
half net income may rise more than 200 percent from a year
earlier.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Derek Wong, Woori Financial Group’s director of real estate investment and finance, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's property market.
     Wong also discusses Singapore's property market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
