-- Bank Rossii May Favor Ruble Strength Over Rate Increase as Economy Revives
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-07-01T15:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bank-rossii-may-favor-ruble-strength-over-rate-increase-as-economy-revives.html

          
          
             Russia’s  central bank  may let the
ruble appreciate and tighten reserve requirements before
considering a rate increase as a nascent credit expansion buoys
the recovery, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 Bank Rossii yesterday ended a 14-month easing cycle to keep
the  refinancing rate  at a record-low 7.75 percent and signaled
it will keep rates unchanged in the coming months. The rate
differential with developed economies may deter investors
chasing higher returns, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 The regulator, which previously said it may start raising
rates this half, may delay increases until next year as
inflation remains at the lowest level in 12 years and capital
flows subside. There will be no net inflow this year after $10
billion flowed in from March through May, the bank’s First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said on June 29.  
 “Further rate cuts are unlikely as inflationary risks are
expected to grow at the end of 2010,”  Elina Ribakova  and
 Natalia Novikova , Citigroup economists in Moscow, said by e-
mail. “We expect monetary policy tightening in the first place
will take the form of higher reserve requirements or ruble
appreciation, with rate hikes postponed until late 2011.”  
 The Russian currency gained against the dollar for the
fourth day in five, advancing 0.2 percent to 31.1950 at the
close of trading in Moscow. It retreated 1 percent to 38.6650
per euro.  
 Program Halt  
 The central bank  said  today it will stop its unsecured loan
program for commercial banks on Jan. 1. The credit facility was
introduced at the height of the financial crisis as an emergency
measure to boost liquidity in the industry.  
 Bank Rossii called the current level of interest rates
“neutral in terms of cross-border capital flows,” according to
the  statement  accompanying yesterday’s decision. Its policy
“balances” inflationary risks and access to credit, it said.  
 The ruble is heading for a period of exchange-rate
volatility and the recent period of “rapid strengthening” is
over, Ulyukayev said on June 29.  
 The disparity in interest rates between emerging and
developed economies boosts “carry trades” and complicates
efforts to battle “hot money inflows,” Ulyukayev said at a
conference in Moscow. Carry trades allow investors to make money
by borrowing in countries with low interest rates and investing
where rates are higher.  
 Not Appealing  
 “The rate differential has reached the point when
investments into ruble assets aren’t as appealing for non-
residents,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist at HSBC in
Moscow, said in an interview. “As inflationary risks build,
there are grounds to shift to a policy of raising rates.”  
 The  inflation rate  remained at the lowest level in 12 years
in May, reaching an annual 6 percent and matching the rate in
April. Consumer-price growth reached 4.4 percent in the year to
date through June 28, the Federal Statistics Service says.  
 The central bank, which steers the ruble against its  target 
euro-dollar basket, may have to end its purchases of “excess”
amounts of foreign currency if high oil prices swell the trade
surplus, VTB Capital said by e-mail today. The ruble may be
allowed to appreciate because continued interventions on
currency markets will have an inflationary effect, the bank
said.  
 “The Russian central bank would have to abandon this
policy at the first signs of inflation,” said ,  Aleksandra Evtifyeva  and  Dmitri Fedotkin , Moscow-based economists at VTB
Capital. “Were oil prices to remain at elevated levels and
capital inflows to continue, this would lead to a stronger
ruble.”  
 Offsetting Rates  
 The regulator may also seek to offset record-low rates by
requiring banks to increase reserves after the financial
industry showed signs of sustained revival in recent months.  
 Corporate lending grew in May at the fastest pace since
January 2009 while retail loans advanced the most since October
2008 for a third straight monthly rise, central bank data show  
 Further gains in lending growth should be achieved via a
“revaluation of credit risks” as the economy gathers speed and
“market expectations” stabilize, Bank Rossii said yesterday.  
 Stronger consumer demand and growing bank lending will
increase the risk of faster inflation and a rate increase at the
end of 2010, said  Vladimir Osakovsky , economist at UniCredit SpA
in Moscow.  
 “Inflation will quicken at the end of the year on the back
of a recovery in lending and broader economic activity,” he
said. “This will bring up the question of raising interest
rates at the end of the year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        