-- Barcelona Says It's Passed Real Madrid as Biggest Sports Team by Sales
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-01T12:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/barcelona-vaults-real-madrid-to-become-biggest-global-soccer-club-by-sales.html

          
          
             Barcelona said it became the world’s
biggest sports team by sales, overtaking Spanish soccer rival
Real Madrid.  
 Sales rose 16 percent to 445.5 million euros ($549 million)
for the 12 months through June 30 following its 2009 Champions
League title, the team said on its website. Net income was 9
million euros,  Barcelona said , without providing a year-earlier
figure. Real Madrid hasn’t disclosed its earnings for the same
period, after having sales of 445.3 million euros last year.  
 “We are the team, including American teams, with the
biggest sales on planet Earth,” Barcelona treasurer Xavier Sala
i Martin told the website.  
 Real Madrid has been the biggest soccer club by sales since
2005, when it overtook Manchester United, according to research
by accounting firm Deloitte LP which was last updated March 2.  
 The New York Yankees have the biggest revenue in U.S.
sports, Forbes magazine said in April, pulling in $441 million
during the last Major League Baseball season. The Washington
Redskins are the National Football League’s richest team by
revenue with $345 million, Forbes said.  
 Real and Barcelona get more income from television rights
than leading teams in the English Premier League, which attracts
a bigger worldwide audience, partly because they negotiate
television contracts individually.  
 Barcelona’s sales increase was fuelled by a rise in
marketing income, trading players including  Samuel Eto’o  and the
sale of real estate, the team said, adding the gain was more
notable amid a global economic decline. Barcelona paid out 40
million euros in bonuses to players, the team added.  
 Real Madrid’s sales through June 2009 included real estate
and financial operations not related to its soccer team,
according to accounts presented Sept. 20. It had budgeted to
earn a total of 445.2 million euros for the last 12 months, the
accounts show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        