-- Bargain-Basement CEOs Run Japan as Ghosn, Stringer Buck Trend
-- Jason Clenfield
-- 2010-07-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bargain-basement-ceos-run-japan-inc-while-ghosn-stringer-buck-the-trend.html

          
          
             Japan may be home to the bargain-
basement chief executive officer.  
 Rules introduced this year required Japanese companies to
disclose pay for executives earning more than 100 million yen
($1.1 million) by June 30. While the headlines went to the top
earners -- foreigners  Carlos Ghosn  of Nissan Motor Corp. and
 Sony Inc. ’s  Howard Stringer  -- less than 10 percent of Japanese
business leaders take home a million dollar paycheck.  
 Although Japan’s executive pay has more than doubled in the
past decade, fewer than 300 people at the country’s 3,813 listed
companies earned enough in 2009 to warrant disclosure, according
to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
 Companies listed on Japan’s stock exchanges paid their CEOs
an average of $590,000 in salary and other compensation last
fiscal year, PWC estimates, about 16 times more than the typical
Japanese worker. Average CEO pay at the 3,000 largest U.S.
companies is $3.5 million, including stock options and bonuses,
according to  The Corporate Library , a research group. That’s
roughly 130 times the average worker’s salary, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 5 edition.  
 Low pay for Japanese executives could be a stumbling block
for companies trying to go overseas. Many are likely to find
themselves in the situation of Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., where
the company’s Japanese CEO  Yasuchika Hasegawa  earns half as much
as its American head of sales.  
 That gap makes it difficult to recruit overseas managers,
who often expect to be paid more than the people they’d report
to back at headquarters, said Koji Shirai, a Tokyo-based
director at PWC.  
 Exceptions for Foreigners  
 “Companies are making exceptions to pay their foreign
executives more,” Shirai said. “At a certain point that
compromise is going to stop working.”  
 When  Nomura Holdings Inc.  bought the Asian and European
units of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the brokerage guaranteed
the former Lehman employees their bonuses. Days after paying
them out in March, at least 12 senior people, including deputy
investment banking chief  Christian Meissner , quit for jobs at
rivals.  
 Japan’s system of lifetime employment is one reason
executive pay is so low. With little job-hopping, most CEOs come
up through the ranks and are hired from within the company, said
 Kotaro Tsuru , a corporate governance expert at the Trade
Ministry’s  Research Institute  in Tokyo.  
 ‘No Market’  
 “There’s no market for executives here,” he said. “The
reasonable price for a CEO is decided by each firm separately.”  
 That’s evident in the difference in executive pay at
companies in the same industry.  Nissan ’s Ghosn, Japan’s top-paid
CEO, took home $10 million.  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s entire 31-
person board got $16 million between them, including $1.5
million for Chairman  Fujio Cho . CEO  Akio Toyoda , who as the
founder’s grandson owns about $160 million in Toyota shares,
wasn’t among the four on the board who earned more than the $1.1
million threshold.  
 Sony’s Stringer, Japan’s second-highest paid executive,
made about $9.1 million. At rival  Panasonic Corp. , no one earned
enough to require disclosure.  
 The new rules have claimed a few casualties. Four foreign
executives at  Shinsei Bank Ltd. , a lender 22 percent owned by
the Japanese government, stepped down on June 23 after former
Financial Services Minister  Shizuka Kamei  called their pay
“exorbitant.” None made more than $1.5 million. In the U.S.,
 Robert Benmosche , head of American International Group Inc.
which is now 80 percent owned by taxpayers, gets $10.5 million.  
 CEO Wives  
 Wealth is still considered unseemly in Japan, said  Sakie Fukushima , chairman of recruiting firm Korn/Ferry International
Japan. The most common complaints about the new disclosure rules
came from CEO’s wives who “didn’t want others to know how much
they were making,” Fukushima said. “Some wives were even
worried their children would be bullied in school.”  
 For  Yukio Sakamoto , president of  Elpida Memory Inc. ,
Japan’s largest semiconductor maker, money isn’t the only reward.  
 “My house is small, but I’m happy,” said the 62-year-old,
who lives in a 1,260-square-foot (140-square-meter) house about
30 minutes from central Tokyo. While Sakamoto’s pay didn’t cross
the disclosure threshold, he and two other company executives
have the right to buy 885,000 shares in stock options.  
 “There has to be some equality. Otherwise you get
situations where rich people have to hire security guards to
protect themselves,” Sakamoto said. “I commute by train every
day and have never had a problem.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        