-- BHP, Rio Tinto Bond Default Risk Drops on Australia Mining Tax Compromise
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-02T06:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bhp-rio-credit-default-swaps-drop-after-mining-tax-compromise-announced.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group bonds from default dropped after the
Australian government announced a compromise to its proposed
mining tax.  
 Credit-default swaps on BHP, the world’s biggest mining
company, fell 4 basis points to 88.5 basis points as of 3:49 p.m.
in Sydney, while swaps on Rio fell 5 basis points to 132.5,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Both dropped the most since
June 21, prices from CMA DataVision in New York show.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  today unveiled a new version
of the proposed levy after the mining industry lobbied against
an earlier plan. The mineral resources tax will be 30 percent,
applying to iron ore and coal, while the levy on oil and gas
projects will be 40 percent, the government said.  
 “The agreement between the government and the major
resource companies is a positive development as it removes the
uncertainty associated with the issue,” Deutsche Bank AG credit
analysts  Gus Medeiros  and  Colin Tan  wrote in a note to clients.
BHP and Rio credit-default swaps are fairly priced, they said.  
 The yield on Rio’s $1.5 billion of 9 percent bonds due 2019
dropped 15 basis points to 4.7 percent, according to BNP Paribas
prices as of 3:54 p.m. in Sydney. The company’s  shares  rose 0.3
percent to close at A$65.30, snapping five straight days of
declines. BHP  dropped  0.05 percent.  
 The initial proposal would have made Australia the world’s
highest-taxing nation for mining companies, according to the
Minerals Council of Australia, an industry lobby group.  
 A decrease in the cost of credit-default swaps indicates
improving perceptions of credit quality. The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities if a
borrower fails to meet its debt agreements and a basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        