-- Biggest China Bears Reside in Beijing, MIT's Simon Johnson Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-01T17:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/biggest-china-bears-reside-in-beijing-mit-s-simon-johnson-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             As Group of 20 nations look to China
to underpin global growth, the Chinese anticipate their  economy 
slowing, said Simon Johnson, a professor of finance at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of
Management.  
 In China, bankers and economists expect their economy will
slow after growth accelerated to the fastest pace in almost
three years in the first quarter, Johnson said today in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance. Gross
domestic product rose 11.9 percent the first quarter from a year
earlier, the Chinese statistics bureau said April 15.  
 “The biggest China bears I’ve met recently were in
Beijing,” said Johnson, who said he was in China last weekend.
Johnson said China can’t maintain growth at previous levels.  
 Chinese who fear economic “overheating” worry their
country’s heavy infrastructure investment, overburdened state
sector and focus on objectives such as air quality instead of
economic expansion will slow growth, Johnson  said  in a column
today on the Economix blog on NYTimes.com. They do not agree
with others who claim “China is going to be great,” he said.  
 “They haven’t drunk the same Kool-Aid,” Johnson said
during the radio interview.  
 Toronto View  
 Following the June 26-27 meeting in Toronto, G-20 leaders
pointed to an expected 8 percent to 9 percent growth in China’s
GDP to stimulate the global economy as distressed European
nations enact austerity measures and large countries like the
U.S. face record budget  deficits .  
 China, which makes up about 6 percent of the world economy,
according to Johnson,  grew  at 8.7 percent in 2009 and 9.6
percent in 2008.  
 “G-20 and the industrialized countries are saying: ‘Assume
China will grow fast, and that will help the world economy,’”
Johnson said. “In China, they’re much less convinced they can
continue to grow at these rates.”  
 While the country’s past growth supported the global
economy by creating high demand for commodities, driving prices
higher and fueling emerging markets such as Latin America, China
will not be able to support other countries as its growth slows,
said Johnson, who co-authors  a blog  called The Baseline.  
 Big Banks ‘Won’  
 Johnson, who also co-authored with James Kwak the book “13
Bankers: The Wall Street Takeover and the Next Financial
Meltdown,” said the U.S. financial-regulatory bill, approved by
the House of Representatives yesterday, didn’t go far enough to
restrict bank size, making it “nothing more than mush.”  
 “The big banks have won, and they’ve won hands down, and
they’ve won with a terrific smokescreen,” Johnson said.
“There’s a lot of pretense there’s actually some sort of reform
going on.”  
 While investors and political leaders may have confidence
in proven financial services industry leaders such as  James Dimon , chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., Johnson
said future executives might not be up to the task.  
 Even the best banks will eventually have problems with
“less than fully competent” leadership, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net 
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        