-- Biomass Feedstocks `Scary' to Handle For Financiers, Deutsche Bank Says
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-07-01T11:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/biomass-feedstocks-scary-to-handle-for-financiers-deutsche-bank-says.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG and renewable energy
financiers say the supply and management of wood and other
plant-based fuels is one of the biggest constraints to raising
money for bioenergy power projects.  
 Power stations that burn plants to generate electricity and
heat face potential feedstock price increases as well as
storage, supply and transportation “challenges” that concern
bankers, Paul Battelle, Deutsche Bank’s director of renewable
energy financing, said today in Brussels.  
 “With some bioenergy projects you get 100 truck movements
a day delivering wood,” said Battelle. “For a financier, this
is a scary thought.”  
 Biomass may account for more than half of the increase in
renewable energy use in the European Union as the region
attempts to boost non-polluting sources of power to a fifth of
the total by 2020, thge European Biomass Association says.
Unless landowners and forestry companies grow and use wood more
efficiently, the region may face a shortage of material for
biomass, the Confederation of European Paper Industries said.  
 “Without biomass you can’t write a de-carbonized story,”
said Paul Hodson, a policy officer at the European Commission
who works on sustainable energy. “It’s just not possible.”  
 ‘Immature’ Industry  
 The biomass feedstock industry is still “immature” and
lacks large companies with financial resources to help reduce
risk for banks, said John Bingham, a bioenergy analyst.  
 There is almost no tradition of long-term contracts for
wood or agricultural fuels and pricing is “opaque,” said
Bingham, research director at Hawkins Wright, a London-based
forestry consultancy. In addition, there are almost no
opportunities to protect against price fluctuations, known as
hedging.  
 Prices for wood, still the main fuel used in biomass
heating and power production, will rise as much as 25 percent in
the coming years, Heinz Kopetz, president of the European
biomass association, said in an interview. In some countries
including Austria, the cost of pellets used in domestic furnaces
is 50 percent cheaper than oil, he said.  
 Easy-to-acquire sources of wood have been exhausted and as
demand rises, the production costs of processing wood fuel will
increase as well, resulting in higher prices, Kopetz said.  
 Most of the planned bioenergy plants in the U.K. are
located near coasts in anticipation of the need to import
feedstock from Russia and North America. Security of supply will
be “quite a challenge” as local demand in markets like Canada
and the U.S. rises, reducing the volume available for export to
the U.K. and Europe, Bingham said.  
 In Spain, bioenergy has “significant” potential, but
development is held back by a lack of feedstock, said Emilio
Luis Lopez Carmona, chief executive officer of Gestamp Biomass,
which is investing in 100 megawatts of “mainly small”
bioenergy power stations over the next four years.  
 “Theoretically there is a lot of biomass available, but
there are not many big companies that can supply in the way
financiers would like,” said Carmona.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Brussels via 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        