-- BlackRock's Novick Goes to Washington as Asset Managers Step Up Lobbying
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/blackrock-s-novick-goes-to-washington-as-asset-managers-step-up-lobbying.html

          
          
             BlackRock Inc.’s  Barbara Novick  was
contemplating retirement a year ago when Chief Executive Officer
 Laurence D. Fink  asked her if she would jumpstart lobbying
efforts in Washington.  
 The acquisition of Barclays Global Investors on Dec. 1 had
made BlackRock the world’s biggest asset-management firm. With
$3.4 trillion client assets held in investment vehicles ranging
from money-market funds to hedge funds, Fink realized he
couldn’t rely on industry groups or outside lobbyists as
lawmakers discussed the biggest regulatory overhaul since the
1930s. Novick, one of the firm’s eight founders, accepted.  
 “In the past for capital-markets issues, we used to defer
to Wall Street,” Novick, 49, said in an interview from her
office in New York. “But today, investors need to be included
in the discussion.”  
 Her efforts, only the second time that BlackRock lobbied in
Washington, paid off when House and Senate negotiators on June
25 rewrote  financial-market rules  that would have hurt hedge
funds and restricted the use by pension plans of stable-value
funds, which BlackRock offers. Rivals including  Legg Mason Inc. 
have hired lobbyists over the past year as regulators seek to
tighten rules on everything from the use of derivatives to
mortgage-backed securities.  
 “Players like BlackRock have an enormous impact on the
economy and the financial markets,” said  Burton Greenwald , an
independent fund consultant near Philadelphia. “The recent
history of financial disasters has created an environment of
regulation, and asset managers are very wary of collateral
damage.”  
 Fidelity Spends Most  
 Asset-management firms whose main business consists of
selling mutual funds do most of their lobbying through the
Investment Company Institute, the Washington-based trade group
that represents mutual-fund companies. The ICI is involved in
issues concerning money-market funds, 401(k) and retirement
savings and tax issues,  Ianthe Zabel , a spokeswoman for the
group, said in an e-mail. Hedge funds and private-equity funds
typically go through the Managed Funds Association.  
 Outside of the ICI, Fidelity Investments and Vanguard Group
Inc., the two largest U.S. mutual fund firms, spent the most
money among peers on lobbying last year, data from
 Opensecrets.org  show. Fidelity spent $2.9 million and Vanguard
$1.2 million, compared with $390,000 for BlackRock and $580,000
for Legg Mason, according to the website, which tracks campaign
spending.  
 “There’s a lot of trade associations and each one covers a
slice, but none of them cover what I’d call investor issues on a
broad basis,” Novick said.  
 Timing Scandals  
 BlackRock, started in 1988 in a one-room office in
Manhattan, has lobbied once before, Novick said, in the
aftermath of the mutual-fund market timing scandals disclosed in
2003 by  Eliot Spitzer , who at that time was New York attorney
general. Spitzer targeted firms that permitted hedge funds and
brokers to make improper rapid trades in their mutual funds.
After this scandal, regulators briefly discussed whether the
same manager should be able to sell mutual funds and hedge
funds. BlackRock hired a lobbyist to successfully argue that
they should.  
 More recently, the firm has fostered its Washington ties by
helping the government value illiquid securities during the
financial crisis. BlackRock was picked to evaluate portfolios
formerly owned by Bear Stearns Cos. and American International
Group Inc. Last year, it became one of eight asset managers to
buy toxic assets from banks under the U.S. government’s Public-
Private Investment Program.  
 Fink’s Intervention  
 As head of BlackRock’s government relations and public
policy, Novick spends a couple of days a month in Washington,
preferring to take a high-speed train to the capital rather than
flying. While she doesn’t have a background in politics, Novick
has experience working with investors on virtually every type of
fund that BlackRock sells to clients.  
 Novick started at BlackRock overseeing services for retail
clients and the firm’s closed-end fund investors, responsible
for business development, marketing and other services. She
helped build the firm’s base of institutional investors in the
early 1990s. As BlackRock’s  business  grew, she became head of
the unit that later came to be called the global client group.  
 “Barbara built a magnificent client-service business here
at BlackRock,” Fink said in an interview. “After 20 years with
BlackRock, when she said she wanted to retire, I said ‘I’m not
going to let you’.”  
 A Dozen Issues  
 Rather than hire a lobbyist entrenched in Washington, Fink
said he wanted Novick to lead the effort because she understood
issues that affected BlackRock’s investors.  
 “I did not want a lobbyist who had little understanding of
the asset management business,” Fink says.  
 Novick ticks off at least a dozen issues in the proposed
financial regulation that will have an impact on investors in
BlackRock’s funds, and an additional seven that will affect
financial advisers. Among the items on BlackRock’s list is a
proposal that would have restricted the use of swaps at pension
plans and the so-called Volcker rule that sought to ban
proprietary trading at U.S. banks.  
 Both proposals were rewritten by Senate negotiators in the
final version of the bill that will be presented to the
president. Under the proposal to restrict banks from proprietary
trading, nicknamed after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , lenders will now be allowed to invest in private-equity
and hedge funds, although they will be limited to providing no
more than 3 percent of the fund’s capital.  
 ‘Pretty Reasonable’  
 BlackRock won’t be directly affected by the rule, which
applies only to banks. Still, it could have had an impact on
prices of hedge fund and private-equity securities, Novick says.
BlackRock manages more than $100 billion in alternative
investments including hedge funds.  
 The bill also no longer includes language imposing a
fiduciary duty on dealers that enter into swap contracts with
public entities like municipalities and public pensions. The
measure would have made it impossible for BlackRock and others
to offer stable value funds, which are similar to money-market
funds and use swaps to ensure liquidity, in retirement accounts.  
 “There’s still some uncertainty, but overall, we think
it’s pretty reasonable,” Novick said about the revised bill.  
 Other asset managers have hired executives over the past
year to deal with the government. Baltimore-based money manager
Legg Mason last July hired  Kevin Fromer , the former Treasury
Assistant Secretary, as a senior adviser.  
 ‘We Ran Really Fast’  
 As the financial regulation bill makes its way to the
president’s desk, Novick has set her sights on new issues. She
is concerned about the government’s Home Affordable Modification
Program, or HAMP, which breaks with contract law in benefiting
second loan holders, which in most cases are banks.  
 Fink co-founded BlackRock mainly as a fixed-income
investor. Novick, who had worked with Fink at New York-based
First Boston Corp., came on board to head its account-management
group. Other First Boston executives that joined Fink in
starting BlackRock were  Robert Kapito , now the president of
BlackRock, Chief Risk Officer  Bennett Golub  and  Charles Hallac ,
the head of the firm’s advisory unit.  
 In 2006, BlackRock expanded its equity business with the
purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co.’s money-management unit. In
2008, BlackRock acquired a division of Quellos Group LLC to add
hedge-fund assets. Last year, the firm made its biggest
acquisition so far with the purchase of Barclays Global
Investors, the biggest seller of index-tracking ETFs.  
 BlackRock now has about 12 percent of its assets in retail
mutual funds, about 15 percent in ETFs and the remainder in
institutional funds.  
 Novick said she was thinking of leaving last year without
any specific plans, except that she would slow down.  
 “We ran really fast for 20 years, and I thought I would
regroup and explore other ideas,” says Novick. “I ended up
staying.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barbara Novick, vice chairman of Blackrock Inc., at the company's headquarters in New York. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Barbara Novick, vice chairman of Blackrock Inc., poses over a trading floor at the company's headquarters in New York. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
