-- Blockbuster Receives Forbearance After Skipping $42.4 Million Bond Payment
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-01T23:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/blockbuster-skips-42-million-bond-payment-receives-investor-forbearance.html

          
          
             Blockbuster Inc. , the money-losing
movie-rental chain, said bondholders agreed to let the company
defer a $42.4 million payment on its 11.75 percent notes until
Aug. 13 as the company considers options for recapitalization.  
 The company, which has lost more than $1 billion in the
past three years amid store closings and declining sales, said
in a statement today that  holders  of about 70 percent of the
$675 million in senior secured notes agreed to the forbearance.  
 Blockbuster is working with creditors on a possible
recapitalization as its business loses ground to newer
competition in DVDs, including Netflix Inc. and Coinstar Inc.’s
Redbox kiosks. Dallas-based Blockbuster, which reported a 20
percent drop in sales last year, has about $900 million in  long-
term debt , including the 11.75 percent notes due in 2014.  
 The forbearance today was granted on a $23.9 million
amortization payment and an $18.5 million interest payment, and
can be extended, the company said.  
 In April, Blockbuster said it won more favorable DVD terms
from News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox and Sony Corp.’s film
studio, part of a drive to cut costs. In exchange for the new
payment terms, the studios get a first lien on Blockbuster
Canada Co. assets. Blockbuster Canada will continue to operate
as usual, the company said.  
 Shares Halted  
 Trading in Blockbuster  shares  was halted today and the
company said it will be delisted from the New York Stock
Exchange. The shares were last quoted at 23 cents, giving the
company a  market value  of about $47 million.  
 The company said it extended the contract of Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Keyes , which was scheduled to expire
July 1. Keyes was paid a $750,000 salary for 2009, and given a
$400,000 bonus for helping to negotiate the $675 million bond
sale in September, the company said in proxy documents. The
company didn’t disclose terms of his contract extension.  
 “I have reaffirmed to the board and our management team my
commitment to facilitate the recapitalization and to continue
the business transformation of Blockbuster,” Keyes said in a
statement.  
 Blockbuster also said today that  shareholders  rejected a
proposal for a reverse split of the shares that was needed to
preserve its New York Stock Exchange listing.  
 Fewer than half of the 289.9 million Class A and Class B
votes were in favor of a split, the company said in a statement.
Blockbuster said on June 24 that shareholders had backed the
plan. Shareholders also rejected a proposal to consolidate the
Class A common shares, which have one vote, and Class B common
shares, which have two votes.  
 Blockbuster’s 11.75 percent notes were quoted at 64 cents
on the dollar yesterday, according to Trace, the bond reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        