-- BMW Weaves City Car Out of Carbon Fiber Used in Formula One
-- Chris Reiter
-- 2010-07-02T10:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bmw-weaves-battery-powered-city-car-from-carbon-fiber-used-in-formula-one.html

          
          
             Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  will
cocoon passengers of a battery-powered city car in the same
lightweight material used to protect Formula One drivers.  
 Marking the auto industry’s biggest bet on carbon fiber,
BMW will use the hardened fabric to construct a passenger-safety
cell for the electric vehicle. An amalgamation of carbon fiber
and an aluminum frame will offset as much as 350 kilograms (772
pounds) of additional weight from battery and electronic
components, according to  Klaus Draeger , BMW’s development chief.  
 “The economics will be balanced on a razor blade,” said
 Christoph Stuermer , an analyst at IHS Automotive in Frankfurt,
said in an interview. “The combination of using lots of carbon
fiber and breaking it up into smaller pieces may be the magic
trick to reduce costs and could make the frame only twice as
expensive as aluminium.”  
 The world’s  largest luxury carmaker  is racing to build
battery-powered vehicles as governments and consumers push for
viable alternatives to fuel-burning cars. General Motors Co. and
 Nissan Motor Co.  will introduce electric vehicles later this
year. Investors snapped up shares in  Tesla Motors Inc. , the
California-based electric-car maker, leading to a 41 percent
surge on its first day of trading June 29.  
 Seattle Factory  
 BMW’s carbon fiber for the vehicle will be spun at a $100
million factory near Seattle that the Munich-based manufacturer
is building together with partner  SGL Carbon SE . The fibers,
composed of 50,000 filaments that are each one-seventh as thick
as a human hair, will be made into fabrics and then hardened
into components at facilities in Germany.  
 Munich-based BMW wouldn’t discuss prices for the city car.
Tesla’s Roadster sells for as much as 84,000 euros ($105,000) in
Europe. Nissan priced is mass-market Leaf electric car at just
less than 30,000 euros after incentives. In addition to the
carbon fiber, BMW is also developing the electric motor as well
as the electronics, Draeger said.  
 The manufacturer of BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce models is
turning to carbon fiber, which is 50 percent lighter than steel,
to reduce the size and cost of the battery needed to run the
car. The mega-city vehicle, which will be available in 2013,
will be powered by a 96-cell lithium-ion power pack, compared
with the bank of 5,088 laptop batteries that run the company’s
Mini E test vehicle. The battery cells are being purchased from
a joint venture between Robert Bosch GmbH and  Samsung SDI Co.   
 Daimler, Toyota  
 “Weight in electric vehicles takes on a totally different
dimension, and this weight improvement you can only get through
carbon-fiber parts,”  Herbert Diess , BMW’s purchasing and
logistics chief, said in a May interview.  
 Carbon fiber has been rarely used in automobile
manufacturing because its complex production process limits
large-scale benefits, said  Mohamed Mubarak , an analyst at Frost
& Sullivan in Chennai, India. As weight becomes a bigger factor,
“carbon fiber will play a major role in electric vehicles,
especially for premium carmakers,” which can more easily pass
on the extra costs, he said.  
 Daimler AG  plans to introduce carbon-fiber materials in
Mercedes-Benz vehicles by 2013, after signing a development
agreement with Japan’s Toray Industries Inc. in April.  Toyota
Motor Corp.  used a carbon-fiber body to reduce the weight of its
1/X concept car by 67 percent compared with the Prius hybrid.  
 Webber Crash  
 The BMW model’s passenger cell provides enough space for
four adults and is created by gluing several carbon-fiber
components together. The cell is then glued and screwed onto an
aluminum frame that will house the battery and electric motors,
according to crash prototypes displayed at a presentation in
Garching near Munich this week.  
 “It’ll be the first large-scale vehicle with a passenger
cell out of carbon,” Draeger said. “BMW will bring a
revolutionary vehicle to the streets.”  
 The safety advantages of carbon-fiber materials were on
display at the Formula 1 race in Valencia, Spain, on June 27.
Red Bull’s  Mark Webber   crashed out  after he caught the wheel of
 Heikki Kovalainen ’s Lotus at 190 miles (306 kilometers) per
hour. Webber’s survival may have been linked to the car’s
carbon-fiber safety cell, according to BMW, which exited the
racing circuit last year.  
 BMW’s city car won’t go that fast. Speeds will be limited
to about 100 miles per hour to avoid excessive drain on the
battery. The seating in the vehicle will be higher than a
standard car, because of the battery’s position on the floor.  
 Profit Margins  
 The rear-wheel-drive car, which will be marketed under a
new sub-brand akin to the company’s M performance line, will
also likely have a hatchback, a stubby front-end, and large
wheels, according to sketches displayed by BMW’s design chief
 Adrian von Hooydonk .  
 The car will probably be a drag on profitability for a
company that aims to boost its profit margins on cars to at
least 8 percent by 2012, said  Arndt Ellinghorst , an analyst with
Credit Suisse in London.  
 “If you can make money from a car like this, it would be
revolutionary,” said Ellinghorst, who rates BMW “outperform.”
“You’re trying to make a car from expensive materials for an
urban market, which is typically price-sensitive.”  
 BMW rose  as much as 1 euro, or 2.6 percent, to 39.20 euros
and traded at 38.63 euros as of 12:33 p.m. in Frankfurt. The
stock has climbed 21 percent this year, valuing the company at
24.7 billion euros.  
 The energy equivalent of a 40-liter fuel tank would require
a battery weighing more than 3 tons, BMW’s Diess said. The
automaker’s top-of-the-line 7-Series weighs about 2 tons.  
 With such weights, “you’d never be able to move the car
and would need an even larger battery,” said Diess. “You get
caught in vicious weight spiral that’s dominated by the
battery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BMW’s development chief Klaus Draeger. Photographer: Fabrizio Costantini/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     This is a sketch of the Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) Megacity Vehicle (MCV) electric automobile. Source: BMW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Crash damage is seen during testing of the carbon-fiber passenger safety cell of a BMW Megacity Vehicle.  Source: BMW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Employees test the carbon-fiber passenger safety cell of a BMW Megacity Vehicle electric automobile. Source: BMW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The BMW Megacity Vehicle comes out in 2013  
                       
                         
                           BMW AG via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Employees test the carbon-fiber passenger safety cell of a Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) Megacity Vehicle (MCV) electric automobile. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Employees test the carbon-fiber passenger safety cell of a Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) Megacity Vehicle (MCV) electric automobile. Source: BMW AG via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
