-- Boeing Allies in Congress See Tanker Boost in Airbus Case
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-01T01:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/boeing-allies-in-congress-see-tanker-boost-as-wto-faults-europe-airbus-aid.html

          
          
             Boeing Co. ’s bid for a $35 billion
contract to build aerial tankers may gain U.S. political
momentum after the  World Trade Organization  ruled that European
governments provided illegal aid to Airbus SAS.  
 The WTO’s decision spurred Boeing allies in Congress to
urge the Pentagon yesterday to penalize a tanker bid from Airbus
parent  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co.  Analysts such as
 Dan Solon  of London-based Avmark International also said the
case would make it easier for U.S. lawmakers to oppose Airbus.  
 “Airbus is already scaling a steep slope in bidding for
the tanker -- this makes it all the more slippery,” Solon said.
“The Air Force tanker contract has become one of these God,
motherhood and apple-pie issues.”  
 European subsidies for Airbus’s development of the A380 jet
topped the list of trade violations. A version of the A330, the
plane on which Airbus’s tanker is based, also was cited by WTO,
and Senator  Sam Brownback , a Kansas Republican, said the Defense
Department should take into account any aid deemed illegal.  
 Governments’ assistance in developing new aircraft at
Airbus “distorted the commercial airplane market,” Brownback
said at a news conference in Washington. “We are going to push
for legislation to see that it stops and doesn’t spread to the
military marketplace.”  
 Brownback, whose state would handle some tanker work for
Chicago-based Boeing, has support from five senators for a  bill 
requiring the Defense Department to consider WTO subsidy
rulings. The House approved an identical proposal in May; the
Senate has yet to vote.  
 Refueling Fleet  
 Boeing is pushing a version of its 767 jet to replace an
Air Force refueling fleet in service since the 1950s. Bids are
due next week, and the Air Force is set to pick the winner of
the 179-plane contract in November.  
 The tanker contest was restarted in September after Boeing
successfully protested an award to Paris- and Munich-based EADS
and previous partner  Northrop Grumman Corp.  After Northrop
dropped out of the race in March, EADS decided to go on alone.  
 The A330 was among the Airbus planes receiving so-called
launch aid, allowing the manufacturer to lowball its bid for the
tanker, Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Democrat of Washington, told
reporters yesterday. Boeing plans to build the tanker in
Everett, Washington.  
 The Pentagon spokesman,  Geoff Morrell , said the Defense
Department had no further comment beyond previous statements
that the trade dispute wouldn’t be considered in the tanker
decision.  
 Planemakers Respond  
 Boeing supports lawmakers’ efforts to direct the Pentagon
to consider the effect of government subsidies while evaluating
tanker proposals, spokesman  Dan Beck  said in an e-mail.  Guy Hicks , a spokesman for EADS North America, said in an e-mail
that tying the bid to the WTO case would benefit only Boeing.  
 Boeing fell 29 cents to $62.75 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . EADS fell 14 cents to 16.87 euros  in
Paris .  
 Any Pentagon examination of the financial history of Airbus
planes would have to proceed carefully, said Stephen Kho, a
trade lawyer at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in
Washington.  
 WTO members are prohibited from imposing their own
penalties based on the trade organization’s findings, so the
Defense Department couldn’t “explicitly cite” the Airbus
decision, Kho said. At the same time, the Pentagon could
consider the “financing aspect” of the tanker proposals to
ensure that the bidders have sufficient resources, he said.  
 The European Union has the right to appeal the WTO finding,
and Airbus spokesman  Rainer Ohler  said the case will continue
“for a few more years.” A preliminary WTO judgment is due July
16 on an EU counterclaim that Boeing received illegal U.S. aid.  
 Yesterday’s decision “is going to present challenges for
Airbus,”  Michel Merluzeau , an aviation analyst at G2 Solutions
in Kirkland, Washington, said in an e-mail. “The ruling stands
as a significant overall win for Boeing at this juncture.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sam Brownback, U.S. senator from Kansas, speaks in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Dennis Brack/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
