-- Bonds Beat Stocks by Most Since 2001 as Global Confidence Fades
-- Pierre Paulden
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bonds-beat-stocks-by-most-since-2001-as-confidence-in-global-economy-fades.html

          
          
             Bond returns are exceeding stock
gains by the widest margin in nine years as optimism that
greeted the year evaporates and investors around the world
question the strength of the economic recovery.  
 While the MSCI World Index of 24 developed countries fell
9.5 percent including dividends in the first half of 2010, bonds
gained 4.2 percent, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index shows, reversing the 5.1 percentage point
lead stocks had over debt during the same period in 2009.
Growing budget gaps in Greece, Spain and  Portugal  sent the euro
down 15 percent and commodities posted the biggest loss in
almost a decade as oil dropped 4.7 percent.  
 Concerns that Europe would lead the world into the second
global recession in three years spurred losses in all 10
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index industries and dragged the Shanghai
Composite Index down 26 percent with dividends, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A Labor Department report tomorrow may show the
U.S. lost jobs for the first time this year and President Barack Obama said that the nation faces “headwinds” from Europe.  
 “At the beginning of the year, the consensus was the
economy is going to be strong, stocks are going to easily
outperform bonds,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director at
Chicago-based Neuberger Berman LLC, which manages about $80
billion in fixed-income assets. Investors didn’t “anticipate the
fiscal problems and events that took place in  Europe . During the
last six months, people have downgraded their growth
expectations.”  
 ‘Major Downside’  
 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said yesterday that the U.S. economic rebound isn’t strong
enough to warrant raising  interest rates  or shrinking the
central bank’s near-record balance sheet. Instability in
financial markets poses a “major downside risk” to global
growth and “urgent action” is needed to rein in budget
deficits, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a report last
month to Group of 20 finance ministers.  
 The last time bonds beat stocks by this much to start a
year was in 2001. In the second half of that year, credit
exceeded equities by more than 11 percentage points as the MSCI
World Index sank 7.5 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
U.S. gross domestic product contracted at a 1.1 percent pace in
the third quarter and expanded 1.4 percent in the final three
months of 2001.  
 Economists expect a different scenario this year. The U.S.
grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
according to Commerce Department data released June 25. It’s
forecast to expand 3.2 percent in 2010, the biggest increase
since 2004, according to the median estimate of 66 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
   Spain ’s Rating  
 The biggest drag continues to be in Europe. Moody’s
Investors Service placed Spain’s Aaa credit ranking on review
for a possible downgrade yesterday, citing deteriorating growth
prospects and challenges in meeting fiscal targets. The rating
company cut Greece four grades to junk on June 15, helping send
the cost of protecting its debt from default to a record last
week, according to CMA DataVision, a price-reporting service of
CME Group Inc.  
 The euro weakened 15 percent against the dollar since Dec.
31, reaching a four-year low of $1.1877 on June 7. Its worst
annual performance was a 14 percent decline in 1999, the year it
was created.  
 As concern over  Greece ’s finances spread to other European
countries, investors added $37 billion this year to global bond
funds through June 23 while pulling $19.9 million from equity
managers, data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm EPFR Global show. That compares with outflows of
$2.49 billion from bond funds and $5.24 billion from stocks
during the same period in 2009, EPFR data show.  
 ‘Really Volatile’  
 “People are looking around the world saying equities are
really volatile, global economic growth feels like it’s slowing
a little bit, meanwhile inflation is coming down and the Fed is
on hold indefinitely,” said  Michael Collins , senior investment
officer at Prudential Investment Management Inc. in Newark,  New
Jersey , which has about $240 billion of fixed-income assets
under management.  
 Treasuries returned 5.8 percent in the first six months,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That’s the biggest
rally since 1995, when the  Federal Reserve  cut interest rates.
Denmark, the best performing developed nation for the first six
months of this year, has returned 9.2 percent on its sovereign
bonds, followed by German bunds with a return of 7.1 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Biggest Retreat  
 Those compare with a 6.7 percent loss in the S&P 500
including dividends and a 10 percent retreat in the Euro Stoxx
50 index of countries using the common European currency. China
shares posted the biggest decline among major markets as the
government raised bank reserve requirements to the highest level
in at least three years and curbed real-estate speculation. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 6.1 percent in the first half,
beating the MSCI World Index by almost 3.4 percentage points.  
 “There clearly are concerns in the markets as it relates
to sovereign risk, financial regulation and a potential slowing
of the economy,” said Tom Farina, who helps manage $188 billion
of assets at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management in  New York .  
 Speculation the economy may avoid a recession even as
growth slows helped most bonds post gains during the first half.
U.S. corporate debt has returned 5.8 percent this year after
rising 26 percent in 2009, the largest annual increase since at
least 1997, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Cash at investment-grade companies rose to $668 billion at
the end of the first quarter from $580 billion a year earlier,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  in New York
wrote last week. Debt fell 2 percent to $2.3 trillion.  
 ‘Great Job’  
 “There are still a lot of industrial companies in this
country that are doing a great job managing their overall  credit
quality ,” Prudential’s Collins said. “They’re continuing to pay
down debt. They’re continuing to shore up their liquidity.”  
 While U.S. reports showing new-home sales tumbled to a
record low after a tax credit expired and American employers
hired fewer workers than expected in May suggest the recovery is
slowing, Wall Street expects the S&P 500 to rally. The U.S.
equity benchmark will rise 23 percent through Dec. 31, according
to the average estimate of 13 U.S. strategists.  
 S&P 500 per-share profit will increase 32 percent in 2010,
and 18 percent in 2011, the biggest two-year advance since the
period ended in 1995, according to the average of more than
2,000 analysts survey by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 is trading at
12.7 times projected 2010 earnings, 33 percent below the 10-year
average of 18.8 times the past four quarters’ profits, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 U.S., China  
 “People are making the conclusion that the U.S. and
Chinese economies are slowing while Europe has credit problems,
so earnings aren’t going to be up to what we had expected and
therefore we sell,” said Robert Doll, who helps oversee $3.36
trillion as vice chairman and chief equity strategist at New
York-based BlackRock Inc. “I don’t agree with that. I still
think the recovery is intact, just at a slower rate.”  
 Currencies weakened in countries most dependent on
commodities after prices for metals, crops and fuel posted the
worst first-half return in nine years. The S&P GSCI Total Return
Index of 24 raw materials dropped 11 percent, led by declines in
sugar, zinc and lead.  
 The ruble depreciated 3.1 percent against the U.S. dollar
while  Russia ’s Micex Index of stocks in the world’s largest
energy exporter slid 4.4 percent.  Australia ’s currency weakened
5.7 percent versus the  U.S. dollar  this year.  
 Oil, Natural Gas  
 Crude dropped 8.7 percent to $75.63 a barrel since March in
its first quarterly decline since the end of 2008. Natural gas
futures lost 17 percent in the first half of this year as U.S.
inventories rose amid increasing production from shale wells
from  Texas  to  Pennsylvania .  
 As investor appetite for risk diminished, they bought gold
and dollars to preserve wealth. The metal climbed 13 percent and
reached a record high of $1,266.50 an ounce in New York as
investors accumulated a record amount in exchange-traded funds.
The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against the
euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss
franc, rose 10 percent this year after dropping 1.5 percent in
the same period in 2009.  
 “Getting out of the worldwide recession was always going
to be a long slog,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist
at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington , who forecast oil will average
$65 a barrel in the third quarter and $70 in the fourth. “It’s
always been our view that the second half of 2010 was going to
be a tough period.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Pierre Paulden in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bonds beat stocks as global confidence fades  
                       
                         
                           Chris Rank/ Bloomberg 
                         
                         Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said that the U.S. economic rebound isn’t strong enough to warrant raising interest rates or shrinking the
central bank’s near-record balance sheet. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart said that the U.S. economic rebound isn’t strong enough to warrant raising interest rates or shrinking the
central bank’s near-record balance sheet. Photographer: Chris Rank/ Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
