-- BP Criminal Case in Oil Spill May Be Inevitable, Analysts Say
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-07-01T23:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bp-criminal-case-is-inevitable-commentary-by-paul-barrett-and-justin-blum.html

          
          
             It’s almost a foregone conclusion,
legal experts agree, that the federal investigation of the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill will produce criminal charges. After all,
mere negligence leading to serious oil pollution constitutes a
misdemeanor under the  Clean Water Act .  
 Prosecutors “are very likely to bring criminal charges
against BP and other companies involved,” says  David M. Uhlmann , a former chief of the Justice Department’s
environmental crimes section who now teaches at the University
of Michigan Law School, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
July 5 issue.  
 Whether BP or any individuals will face felony charges --or
even prison time -- is a more complicated question. One hint of
what a broader indictment might look like comes from an unlikely
source: private civil-racketeering lawsuits that have been
brought on behalf of property and business owners in Alabama,
Louisiana, and Florida.  
 One of the suits, filed on June 12 in federal district
court in Pensacola, Florida, by the plaintiffs’ firm, Levin
Papantonio Thomas Mitchell Echsner Rafferty & Proctor, accuses
BP and Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  not only of discrete
instances of pollution; it also alleges the company engaged in
an illegal “enterprise” to mislead regulators over a period of
years.  
 Included in this alleged pattern of wrongdoing was BP’s
failure to improve its safety practices in response to past
incidents, resulting in criminal fines, the suit says. An
explosion in 2005 at BP’s Texas City refinery, which killed 15
workers, and an oil leak in 2006 from a BP pipeline in Alaska
are among the episodes cited in the suit.  
 RICO Law  
 Taken together with the Deepwater Horizon disaster, the
Florida suit alleges, these events show that BP engaged in a
scheme that violated the civil provisions of the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The RICO law was
enacted in 1970 to help prosecutors put Mafiosi behind bars. It
has been used more broadly against corporations and high-profile
individuals, including junk-bond impresario  Michael Milken  in
1989.  
 It allows prosecution of people who operate or oversee an
illegal enterprise, even if they did not commit the main
criminal acts in question. The maximum prison term is 20 years
for each count. In the hands of a bold prosecutor, the facts and
theory that underpin the Levin Papantonio firm’s civil suit
could add up to something more: a criminal indictment.  
 “I would be amazed if the U.S. government didn’t use this
as a road map to some sort of criminal case,” says attorney J.
 Michael Papantonio . An outspoken liberal, he appears frequently
on cable-TV talk shows. “This is not a case of a mistake,” he
adds. “This is an intentional effort to subvert the law.”  
 Minimized Risks  
 In his suit, Papantonio asserts that filings BP made from
2000 to 2009 with the Interior Department’s Minerals Management
Service misrepresented the company’s preparations for a
potential deepwater disaster and dishonestly minimized risks.
One BP  document , an “Initial Exploration Plan” submitted to
MMS in February 2009, claimed that the company had “the
capability to respond, to the maximum extent practicable, to a
worst-case discharge or a substantial threat of a discharge,”
the suit states.  
 Contrary to such written assertions that BP was capable of
remedying a major oil spill, the company and its executives have
conceded since the April 20 rig explosion that they weren’t
prepared, the suit claims. CEO Hayward told the Financial Times
in a June 3 article: “What is undoubtedly true is that we did
not have the tools you would want in your tool kit.” He added
that it was “an entirely fair criticism” to say the company
had not been ready for a deepwater oil leak.  
 The Florida suit argues that BP knew all along that its
tool kit was deficient but assured the government otherwise.  
 Similar Allegation  
 A separate civil racketeering suit filed in Louisiana on
June 21 makes similar allegations. The one in Alabama is
narrower and targets BP’s conduct in responding to damage claims
since the spill.  
 The RICO approach could allow BP’s antagonists -- in either
a civil or criminal context -- to argue that cost-cutting steps
in 2010 contributed to the blowout that killed 11 workers and
led to the environmental crisis.  
 Two days after Papantonio filed his suit, Democratic
Representatives  Henry A. Waxman , of California, and Michigan’s
 Bart Stupak , of the House Energy & Commerce Committee outlined
in a 14-page  letter  to BP five decisions the company made that
allegedly sacrificed safety for cost savings.  
 Cement Bond  
 One example involved a “cement bond log,” in which
acoustics are used to determine whether the cement around the
well had formed a tight bond or whether the cement job was
imperfect, in which case gas could leak out.  
 BP had hired the energy services contractor Schlumberger to
conduct the cement bond test but sent the Schlumberger crew back
to shore the morning of the April 20 explosion. The Waxman-
Stupak letter suggests that BP canceled the test to save itself
$128,000 and an additional nine to 12 hours for a job that was
already way over budget and behind schedule.  
 Gordon Aaker Jr., an engineering consultant hired to advise
the House committee, called the failure to test the cement bond
“horribly negligent.” BP spokesman  Scott Dean  declined to
comment, saying the company isn’t talking about pending
litigation.  
 Andrew Ames , a Justice Department spokesman, also declined
to comment beyond referring to Attorney General  Eric Holder ’s
June 1 statement, in which he said prosecutors would look into
potential civil and criminal infractions under a range of
environmental and other federal statutes.  
 Winning Verdict  
 U.S. courts have narrowed the potential applicability of
RICO in recent years. Winning a criminal racketeering verdict
requires meeting a stiffer standard of proof than the one that
applies in a civil case.  
 Still, the filing of a criminal racketeering indictment
against BP or its employees could have catastrophic effects for
the company. Such charges likely would result in further
reductions to BP’s  credit rating  and increased chances of a
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.  
 Financial instability could endanger the $20 billion escrow
fund BP has agreed to create to pay claims related to the spill.
For that reason alone, the Obama Administration would think long
and hard before going the RICO route.  
 On June 16, President  Barack Obama  said “BP is a strong
and viable company, and it is in all our interests that it
remains so.” On the other hand, if oil continues to spew all
summer, and the slick spreads around the Florida Keys and up the
East Coast, demands for punitive government action could grow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul M. Barrett  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, testifies to a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg Businessweek's Paul Barrett talks about the potential that BP Plc will face criminal charges as a result of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Barrett talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Liebreich, chief executive officer of Bloomberg New Energy Finance, talks about the impact of the BP Plc oil spill on the energy industry and alternative energy.
     Liebreich speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
