-- BP's Gulf Spill to Drive Down Rig Rates, Create Oversupply
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-07-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bp-oil-spill-may-drive-deep-sea-rental-rates-down-20-creating-oversupply.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico will drive down rental prices for deep-sea drilling
vessels by about 20 percent, analysts say, creating an
oversupply of rigs as demand slows.  
 The Deepwater Horizon drilling rig that blew up and sank in
April, causing the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, prompted
President Barack Obama to ban deep-water drilling for six
months. That halted 33 rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and led
Statoil ASA, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and Cobalt International
Energy Inc. to declare force majeure, or suspend terms, on their
rig hire contracts. Falling prices could pressure companies into
making more deals.  
 Rental rates for deep-water rigs may drop about a fifth to
$350,000 a day in the next six months, according to the average
estimate from Citigroup Inc., ODS-Petrodata Inc. and Sanford
Bernstein & Co.  
 “Some rigs are having force majeure declared on them, some
could well be moved out, some could well sit,” said  Gavin Strachan , an Aberdeen-based consultant at ODS-Petrodata, an
energy analytics agency. “There’s potential oversupply.”  
 At the same time, a total of 64 rigs are under construction
worldwide, the biggest expansion since the early 1980s,
according to Bernstein. The combination of the drilling ban and
excess capacity is spurring takeovers.  Noble Corp. , the world’s
second-largest offshore oil driller based on fleet size after
 Transocean Ltd. , this week agreed to buy FDR Holdings Ltd. for
about $2.16 billion.  
 Takeover Candidates  
 Rig owners including  Pride International Inc.  and  Rowan
Cos.  also “appear to be attractive acquisition candidates,”
said  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Bernstein in New York.  
 Pride , the Houston-based oil and natural-gas driller with
rigs working from Brazil to India, owns or manages 27 offshore
units operating mostly in deep water.  
 Rowan, which operates mostly in shallow water, yesterday
agreed to buy control of Norway’s  Skeie Drilling & Production
ASA  for $130.6 million in stock, gaining three rigs that are
under construction.  
 Pride and Rowan are targets based on the combination of
attractive assets, low stock prices, attractive geographic
exposure and the tax benefits for certain international drillers
who might buy them, said Gruber.  
 The global deep-water rig utilization rate may drop by as
much as 10 percentage points to 70 percent, driving down hiring
rates, according to Standard Chartered Plc estimates.  
 “Specialized deep-water rig rates are actually going down,
because there are a lot of them on the market at the moment,”
said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING Wholesale Banking in
Edinburgh. “You can pick up rigs a lot cheaper now that you
could do four or five months ago.”  
 Oil Companies Benefit  
 For  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and other
offshore explorers, costs are likely to fall, mitigating the
expense of additional safety measures expected when a
presidential commission investigating the BP disaster delivers a
report this year on offshore oil operations.  
 A U.S. court ruled Obama’s six-month moratorium on drilling
in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) was illegal. U.S.
Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar has appealed the ruling.  
 Noble’s deal may help other drilling contractors to set
prices on rigs that are up for sale, said  Kurt Hallead , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Austin.  
 “In combination with what’s happening in the Gulf of
Mexico, it could prove to take away some bottlenecks in the
system,” said Hallead, who rates Noble shares “sector
perform” and doesn’t own any.  
 Lost Drilling  
 The ban will have longer-term consequences for drilling
operations in the Gulf of Mexico, said Magne Spillum, vice
president in charge of drilling units at RS Platou ASA, a ship-
and offshore broking company based in Oslo.  
 “A lot of deep-water units are coming off contract and new
building being delivered into 2011, so this may have impact on
the market in 2011,” he said in an interview.  
 Governments in the U.K., Brazil, Mexico, Azerbaijan and
Russia have signaled they’re likely to tighten offshore drilling
regulations in the aftermath of the spill. At the same time,
Australia, Trinidad and Tobago, Tanzania and Norway are moving
ahead with licensing plans to allow new deep-water exploration.  
 “Tougher regulations will mean higher costs to find,
develop and produce oil in the Gulf of Mexico,” said  Mike Wittner , the London-based head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA. “There could be an impact on supply from regions
other than the Gulf of Mexico.”  
 U.S. Oil Needs  
 The U.S., which will import about 14 percent of the world’s
oil this year, may need to shorten the deep-water drilling ban
to maintain supplies and preserve jobs in the industry.  
 Oil output from the region may fall by as much as 300,000
barrels a day in the next five years, the International Energy
Agency has forecast.  
 “The U.S needs its indigenous supply to be drilled and
developed,” Kenney at ING said. “The U.S. has become more
dependent on imported crude, on imported energy supplies and
that has a cost for the U.S.”  
 Some offshore service contractors may see lower earnings
following the drilling ban, according to Evolution Securities
Ltd. Oceaneering International Inc. reduced its 2010 earnings
guidance in June in anticipation of a slowdown in the Gulf.  
 “Deepwater rigs will be moved from the Gulf for the period
of the moratorium and will look for work elsewhere,”  Keith Morris  and  Richard Griffith , London-based analysts at Evolution,
wrote in a report. “Competition for work is likely to put
pressure on day rates.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
 Marianne Stigset  at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The BP Atlantis oil and gas platform, located in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Marc Morrisson/BP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Darrell Issa, a Republican from California, talks about the U.S. government's response to the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Issa speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg Businessweek's Paul Barrett talks about the potential that BP Plc will face criminal charges as a result of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Barrett talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
