-- BP Share Gains Pared After Company Sticks to Schedule for Gulf Relief Well
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-01T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bp-share-gains-pared-after-company-sticks-to-schedule-for-gulf-relief-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  pared gains after the oil
company said it’s sticking to the schedule for the relief wells
in the Gulf of Mexico to be completed in August.  
 Shares closed up 2.8 percent at 327.95 pence in London
after earlier gaining as much as 6.1 percent. Work to contain
the oil spill continues,  Sheila Williams , a London-based
spokeswoman for BP, said by phone.  
 The first relief well may be completed in the first half of
this month, ahead of the company’s schedule, according to
analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in a note published
today. The oil won’t stop flowing from the damaged pipe on the
ocean floor until the at least one of the two relief wells
intersects the leaking well.  
 “The operation could be completed more quickly than BP’s
guidance of three months from the date at which drilling
commenced,” RBS analysts  David Cline  and  Barry MacCarthy  said
in the note. “Given that drilling of the first relief well
commenced on May 2, the company’s guidance implies completion in
early August.”  
 BP last month promised to set aside $20 billion for cleanup
and compensation for the spill, and it said it will sell assets
to raise funds after canceling the dividend for three quarters.  
 Sky News reported that the company is in talks with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. to sell a $9 billion stake in Pan
American Energy LLC, an Argentine producer. Williams declined to
comment on the report.  
 BP  has dropped 50 percent since the April 20 blowout on the
Deepwater Horizon rig that killed 11 and started the worst oil
spill in U.S. history. The company collected 23,080 barrels of
oil yesterday from the leak, which the government estimates
could be spewing as much as 60,000 barrels a day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        