-- Brasil Foods, Ecopetrol, Vivo, Maisa and Sanluis: Latin Equity Preview
-- Eduardo Thomson
-- 2010-07-01T10:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/brasil-foods-ecopetrol-vivo-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes today in Latin American trading. Stock
symbols are in parentheses and share prices reflect the
previous close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  fell 1.5 percent to 3,639.55.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class
of stock.  
 Brazil  
 BRF - Brasil Foods SA  (BRFS3 BS): The world’s largest
poultry exporter said it plans to challenge a recommendation by
a Brazilian government agency that it sell assets before
winning antitrust approval for the takeover of a rival. Brasil
Foods slumped 6.3 percent to 23.7 reais.  
 EDP Energias do Brasil SA  (ENBR3 BZ): The Brazilian unit
of Portugal’s largest power company signed a loan of 135
million reais from  Banco do Brasil SA  which will mature in
2015. EDP will use the funds to capitalize its EDP Escelsa
unit, according to a regulatory filing. EDP was unchanged at
35.8 reais.  
 Vivo Participacoes SA  (VIVO4 BZ):  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA 
investor Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS SA said it voted in
favor of selling the company’s stake in a venture that controls
Brazil’s largest mobile-phone company, Vivo. The shares fell
1.9 percent to 46.4 reais.  
 Chile  
 Masisa SA  (MASISA CC): The Santiago-based wood products
maker had its issuer default ratings downgraded to “BB” from
“BB+” at Fitch Ratings, citing an increasingly negative
operating environment in Venezuela and the risks of operating
in Argentina. Masisa dropped 1 percent to 72.24 pesos.  
 Quintec SA  (QUINTEC CC): The Santiago-based software
company and Brazil’s Politec SA canceled a merger agreement
signed last year, Quintec said in a statement posted on the
website of Chile’s securities regulator. Quintec shares were
unchanged at 165 pesos.  
 Colombia  
 Ecopetrol SA  (ECOPETL CB): The nation’s largest oil
producer may rise after the government announced it would
increase gasoline prices in July. The shares rose 0.6 percent
to 2,755 pesos.  
 Mexico  
 Sanluis Corporacion SAB  (SANLUISA MM): The Mexican auto-
parts maker said its Sanluis Co-Inter SA unit missed a bond
payment of $88.1 million due yesterday because of a drop in
auto-parts demand. Sanluis said its unit expects to present a
debt restructuring plan. The shares fell 0.4 percent to 2.28
pesos.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at   ngill4@bloomberg.net 
or  Eduardo Thomson Correa  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        