-- Bovespa Index Advances for First Time in Four Days on Banco do Brasil Sale
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-01T20:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/brazil-s-bovespa-stock-index-futures-fall-on-global-manufacturing-slowdown.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose for
the first time in four days as banks rallied following Banco do
Brasil SA’s 9.76 billion-real ($5.4 billion) share sale,
overshadowing slowing manufacturing growth from Brazil to China.  
 Banco do Brasil , Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
jumped the most since February, helping lift the MSCI gauge of
Brazil financial stocks 4.2 percent.  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA  rose after billionaire controller Eike Batista
said there’s strong demand for a stake in its oil fields. State
oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  sank to a three-month low as
crude prices tumbled on concern growth is ebbing in the U.S. and
China, the two biggest energy consumers.  
 The  Bovespa  index gained 0.5 percent to 61,236.20, erasing
a drop of as much as 1.4 percent. Thirty-four stocks gained on
the measure while 30 fell. The real strengthened for a second
day, advancing 0.8 percent 1.7903 per dollar.  
 “The operation was between two and three times
oversubscribed, with good demand as much from locals as from
foreigners,” said  Cesar Mezomo , who helps manage 1 billion
reais ($559 million) at Victoire Brasil Investimentos, and who
bought shares in the offering. “The weight of the overhang on
Banco do Brasil is taken off, which helps other banks because
the industry as a whole ends up a bit lighter.”  
 Industrial Production  
 The Bovespa declined in earlier trading after reports
signaled a slowdown by Brazil as well as its two biggest trade
partners, China and the U.S.  
 Brazil’s  industrial production  rose less than forecast in
May and at the slowest annual rate since November. Output
climbed 14.8 percent last month from a year earlier, the
national statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro,
trailing economists’ forecasts for an increase of 17.8 percent.  
 Factory output slowed more than economists forecast in
China, and a similar measure slid for a second month in the 16-
member euro region, surveys showed. Reports today on U.S.
manufacturing, employment and home sales also pointed to weaker
growth, just as government spending to stimulate the economy
begins to wane.  
 “The numbers outside and the numbers here are confirming a
negative outlook,” said Mezomo, a partner at Sao Paulo-based
Victoire.  
 The  Bovespa  yesterday completed its first quarterly loss
since the end of 2008. The gauge fell 13 percent in the three
months before today as investors pulled out of riskier emerging-
market assets on concern Europe’s debt crisis would hinder a
world recovery, while commodities fell as China took steps to
cool growth.  
 Petrobras Drops  
 Petrobras lost 1.5 percent to 26.45 reais today. Crude oil
tumbled to a three-week low on concern economic growth in the
U.S. and China will slow, curbing demand in the two largest
energy-consuming countries. Petrobras, the biggest company in
the Bovespa index by weighting, accounted for 24 percent of the
gauge’s drop in the second quarter on speculation a planned $25
billion share sale will dilute earnings.  
 Banco do Brasil  rose 6.1 percent to 26.16 reais after
saying it’s selling 286 million new voting shares at yesterday’s
closing price, while stakeholders are selling 110 million
existing shares.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA , Latin America’s
biggest bank by market value, advanced 4.6 percent to 33.99
reais. The Brazil/Financials Index was the biggest gainer among
MSCI’s nine industry measures in the country, increasing the
most in more than a month.  
 OGX Gains  
 OGX climbed 4.4 percent to 17.45 reais after Batista said
there’s strong demand for a 20 percent stake in seven oil fields
being sold by the energy company.  
 Vivo , Brazil’s biggest wireless carrier, rose 3.5 percent
to 48 reais. Spain’s Telefonica extended its offer for Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA’s stake in the joint venture controlling Vivo on
optimism the European Union will void Portugal’s power of veto.
Portugal’s government had unexpectedly used its “golden share”
to block the deal, even after it was accepted by a majority of
shareholders.  
 The Bovespa index  trades  for 12.4 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.4 times for the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.9 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        