-- BRIC Women Aspire to Top Jobs More Than in U.S. as Bias Curbs Advancement
-- Alexis Leondis
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bric-women-aspire-to-top-jobs-more-than-in-u-s-as-bias-curbs-advancement.html

          
          
             Women in the largest emerging-market
nations consider themselves more ambitious than do their U.S.
counterparts and are keener to attain top level positions,
according to a report by the Center for Work-Life Policy.  
 At least 59 percent of women in Brazil, Russia, India and
China describe themselves as “very ambitious” compared with 36
percent in the U.S., said the study, which drew on surveys of
4,350 college-educated men and women in the so-called BRICs and
the United Arab Emirates and one-on-one interviews. At least 75
percent of women in Brazil, India, China and the U.A.E. aspire
for a senior job versus 52 percent in the U.S., the report said.  
 Developing economies will expand 6.3 percent this year
while advanced nations grow 2.3 percent, according to April
projections by the International Monetary Fund. The BRIC
economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China contributed almost
30 percent to global growth between 2000 and 2008, compared with
about 16 percent in the previous decade, New York-based Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a December research note.  
 “There’s this sense of ebullience that comes from a rapid
period of change and many of the women feel like they really
have a chance to make a visible impact,” Ripa Rashid, a senior
vice president of the Center for Work-Life Policy, a New York-
based nonprofit group, and a co-author of the report, said in an
interview. “They also have less battle fatigue than women in
the U.S.”  
 26 Million  
 Women in BRIC countries are catching up and sometimes
exceeding male peers in academic credentials, “yet somehow this
rich talent pool -- as many as 26 million in 2006 -- of highly
qualified women has been ignored, overlooked and under-
utilized,” said the study entitled “The Battle for Female
Talent in Emerging Markets,” which was released this week.  
 Females represent 65 percent of college graduates in the
U.A.E, 60 percent in Brazil and 47 percent in China. In India,
50 percent of women surveyed hold graduate degrees, which is 10
percentage points more than the men.  
 The barriers to women’s professional advancement in
emerging markets include the need to care for elderly parents
and concern over travel. With extended family nearby to help
care for children, women in developing nations face more elderly
care responsibilities for their parents, which is a “ticking
time bomb” because of longer life spans, the report said.  
 In terms of travel, 73 percent of Indian and 74 percent of
Chinese respondents reported family and societal disapproval of
women traveling alone on business trips.  
 ‘Victim’  
 “This study contrasts with the narrative we usually hear
of women in emerging markets as the victim,” Rashid said.
“Given the kind of cultural barriers women have already
overcome, these remaining barriers don’t seem insurmountable.”  
 The Center for Work-Life Policy  analyzed surveys taken of a
minimum of 1,000 people in each of the BRIC nations and at least
200 in the U.A.E. in October 2009, as well as surveys of 2,952
college-educated people in the U.S. in February 2010. The study
was sponsored by five multinational companies -- Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News, Booz & Company, Intel
Corp., Pfizer Inc. and Siemens AG.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        