-- BT to Sell Sky Sports at Discount to Wholesale Price to Win Pay-TV Clients
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-01T12:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/bt-to-sell-sky-sports-from-11-99-pounds-per-month-to-win-pay-tv-clients.html

          
          
             BT Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest
phone company, will offer the Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2
channels at a discount to the wholesale price as it seeks to
attract users to its television service.  
 BT will sell both channels for 11.99 pounds ($18) per month
after the regulator forced  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  to
sell coverage of FA Premier League soccer matches to competitors
at lower prices. BSkyB today raised prices for its channels,
increasing its wholesale prices to 19.07 pounds per month.  
 “We’ll be making money over the long term,” BT Retail
Chief Executive Officer  Gavin Patterson  said on a conference
call with reporters today. It will take longer to make money
after BSkyB increased prices, he said.  
 BT signed an agreement with BSkyB to show the channels on
June 28 as it seeks to expand its television offering to counter
declining revenue at its fixed-line retail business. BT which
has 467,000 customers for its service, said four million people
may want to sign up for the Sky channels.  
 BT, will sell the channels through its BT Vision service as
part of a “total sports package” that includes Internet and
voice services, according to a statement today. The London-based
company will sell the channels for 16.99 pounds per month as a
separate deal. BSkyB said today it raised prices of its sports
channels after acquiring the rights to additional soccer
matches.  
 BT is also part of a joint venture with the British
Broadcasting Corp. to bring Internet services to television
through Project Canvas. The venture will build an open,
Internet-connected television platform with common technical
standards by the end of the year.  
 “BT has a natural hedge built in with what is happening
with Canvas,” said  Michael Kovacocy , an analyst at Daiwa
Capital Markets in London. “This is a way for them to try to
provide content via a platform which is here and now and which
higher-value customers want.”  
 BSkyB is appealing regulator Ofcom’s decision to force it
to offer lower prices to rivals. The company reached a temporary
settlement in April where BT will pay the wholesale price for
the channels and put the difference between that and BSkyB’s
higher price into an escrow account.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        