-- Saatchi Gives U.K. His Gallery, $37.5 Million of Art (Update2)
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-01T17:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/charles-saatchi-gives-u-k-his-london-gallery-37-5-million-worth-of-art.html

          
          
             Charles Saatchi  is giving the
British nation his London gallery and more than 25 million
pounds ($37.5 million) worth of art to secure the institution’s
future as a showcase for emerging young artists.  
 The more than 200 works to be donated include  Tracey Emin ’s signature “My Bed” (1998) and Jake &  Dinos Chapman ’s
“Tragic Anatomies” (1996), the Saatchi Gallery said. Opened
at Duke of York Square in Chelsea in October 2008, the gallery
will be renamed Museum of Contemporary Art, London once Saatchi
retires.  
 Saatchi, co-founder of the Saatchi & Saatchi advertising
agency, is the godfather of the so-called Young British
Artists, who include  Damien Hirst  and  Emin . Still an active
talent scout and a buyer and seller of works, Saatchi has shown
new Middle Eastern, Chinese, Asian, U.S. and British art at his
gallery, and lets young artists exhibit on his website.  
 “He’s not retiring anytime soon: He’s fit as a fiddle,”
said  Rebecca Wilson , the gallery’s director of development, in
a telephone interview. “This is really just about making sure
that things are carried on in the way that we’ve been doing.”  
 Wilson said the Saatchi Gallery was, unlike Tate, a
“living museum” that was “very alert to contemporary art,”
rather than being an “archive of art history.” Saatchi wanted
that mission to be continued after him, she said.  
 Gallery Foundation  
 Today’s statement comes less than a month after Saatchi
turned 67. The works will be government-owned, and available to
the public at no cost to the taxpayer. The foundation set up to
run the gallery will have the right to buy and sell art.
Running costs will be met through sponsorship, catering,
retailing and hall hire.  
 Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  thanked Saatchi for “an
incredible act of generosity.”  
 “Philanthropy is central to our vision of a thriving
cultural sector,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “This is
an outstanding example of how Britain can benefit from
individual acts of social responsibility.”  
 Saatchi has said the 200-odd donated works can be loaned
to other institutions by the government. One potential
beneficiary is  Tate , whose curators struggle to expand the
collection given the high price of contemporary art.  
 In a statement, Tate welcomed news that the national
collection would be “enhanced in this way. We look forward to
contributing to discussions about how the collection will be
used by the nation in the long term.”  
 Cadogan Estate  
 Saatchi’s 70,000-square-feet (6,503-square-meter) Chelsea-
based building is rented. Its owner is the Cadogan Estate,
which, together with Saatchi himself, spent 20 million pounds
redeveloping it.  
 Since opening almost two years ago, the gallery has had
auction house  Phillips de Pury & Co.  sponsor its policy of free
admission. Phillips said there was no change to that
arrangement.  
 The gallery “has become the main venue for viewing
contemporary art, and it’s truly exciting to have secured this
for the public for the long term,” Phillips Chairman  Simon de Pury  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Artists and curators welcomed the move.  
 “I’m thrilled,” said Emin in the news release. “I wish
more people had that kind of vision.”  
 ‘Sensation’ Show  
 Norman Rosenthal  -- who until January 2008 masterminded
exhibitions at London’s Royal Academy of Arts, including a 1997
show of Saatchi-owned works titled “Sensation” -- said
Saatchi “is a good thing, and what Charles has done is a good
thing.”  
 “Museums tend to be orthodox even when they’re radical,”
said Rosenthal. “Charles has a different take on things.”  
 “He makes things that don’t usually have so much of a
chance become part of the general discussion of art,” said
Rosenthal.  
 Saatchi will carry on owning “many hundreds of works
privately” which will go to his family when he dies, the
gallery said, though he may donate more before retiring.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This is an undated company photo of Charles Saatchi, co-founder of advertising agency M&C Saatchi. Source: M&C Saatchi via Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "My Bed" by Tracy Emin. The work was among some 200 works worth more than 25 million pounds ($37.5 million) donated to the British nation by Charles Saatchi. Source: Saatchi Gallery via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
