-- Chilean Peso Gains Most in Three Weeks, Reversing Retreat, as Euro Surges
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-01T18:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/chilean-peso-gains-most-in-three-weeks-reversing-retreat-as-euro-surges.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso rose the most in three
weeks, reversing an earlier loss, as the euro rallied against
the U.S. dollar on concern that the U.S. economic recovery is
faltering.  
 The peso advanced 1 percent to 540.55 per U.S. dollar, the
biggest gain since June 9. It earlier dropped to 548.25 per
dollar.  
 The dollar weakened against 12 of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg on growing speculation the world’s largest
economy may be slow to recover after reports showed U.S.
manufacturing grew at a slower pace and unemployment claims
increased. The euro climbed amid signs that funding pressures on
Europe’s financial institutions are easing.  
 The peso “is supported by the weakness of the dollar and
the strength of the euro,” said  Alejandro Araya , a currency
trader at Banco Santander SA in Santiago. “There was quite
strong resistance at 548, which is a technically very strong
level.”  
 Reports on U.S. manufacturing, employment and home sales
pointed to slower growth in the second half as government
spending to stimulate the economy begins to wane.  
 The U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s gauge of
 manufacturing  fell to 56.2 in June from 59.7 a month earlier, it
said today. Economists had forecast the measure would fall to
59. A reading greater than 50 points to expansion.  
 Chile’s interest-rate swap rates fell, extending weekly
declines, as traders pare bets on  rate  increases on concerns
that the global economic recovery may be slower than forecast.  
 The two-year rate in pesos, an indicator of interest rate
 expectations , fell two basis points to 3.60 percent. The five-
year rate dropped two basis points to 4.98 percent.  
 “The Chilean curve was still pricing in a tremendous
recovery, which people don’t believe anymore,” said  German Fritsch , head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Santiago.
“Interest-rate curves have fallen elsewhere and in Chile they
had risen, so no-one understood why the curve in Chile was so
high. It wasn’t consistent with what was going on in the world.
Local bonds are also seeing a flight to quality.”  
 The yield on a basket of Chilean inflation-linked central
bank bonds due in five years fell two basis points to 2.42
percent after reaching five-month highs last week.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        