-- China Manufacturing Slows Again Amid Growth Concern
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-01T05:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/china-manufacturing-slows-for-second-month-adding-to-signs-growth-cooling.html

          
          
             China’s manufacturing growth slowed
more than economists forecast in June, adding to signs that the
world’s fastest-growing major  economy  is cooling.  
 The government’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  declined for a
second month, falling to 52.1 from 53.9 in May. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 12 economists was 53.2.
An HSBC Holdings Plc manufacturing index slid to a 14-month low.  
 Asian stocks fell for a third day as the reports added to
concern that a Chinese slowdown combined with austerity measures
in Europe may undermine the global recovery.  Zhang Liqun , a
researcher for the Chinese cabinet, said the data indicates a
“steady moderation” to a more sustainable pace of growth after
an 11.9 percent expansion in the first quarter.  
 “It’s just a slowdown not a meltdown,” said  Qu Hongbin , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC. Today’s numbers are “more
evidence of a slowing Chinese economy from a cyclical peak in
the first quarter,” Qu said.  
 He sees growth of about 9 percent in the second half,
underpinned by “massive ongoing investment” and “robust”
private consumption.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.6 percent as of 11:59
a.m. in Hong Kong. The  Shanghai Composite Index  swung between
gains and losses after sliding to a 14-month low yesterday.  
 ‘Uneven and Fragile’  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said half of the decline in the
government index may be seasonal, with the June PMI tending to
be lower than May readings.  
 Signs of a slowdown as the Chinese government clamps down
on property speculation and the effects of its stimulus package
fade have unsettled investors. Limited demand in advanced
economies has left the world reliant on emerging markets, led by
China, to drive a recovery that Group of 20 leaders this week
described as “uneven and fragile.”  
 In China, tempering the expansion may aid government
efforts to limit price pressures even after wage rises for Honda
Motor Co. and Foxconn Technology Group workers. In the
government data, a measure of input prices decreased to 51.3 in
June from 58.9 in May, the biggest fall in the 11 sub-indexes,
as demand weakened and the costs of some commodities fell.  
 An output index fell to 55.8 from 58.2, the  Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing said in an e-mailed statement. A
measure of new orders slid to 52.1 from 54.8 and an export-order
index dropped to 51.7 from 53.8.  
 Export Weakness  
 The PMI, released by the logistics federation and the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics, covers more than
730 companies in 20 industries, including energy, metallurgy,
textiles, automobiles and electronics.  
 Economic growth  is moderating, a rebound in  exports  is
weakening, and slower domestic demand is leading to a build-up
of finished-goods inventories, the federation said in a separate
 statement  on its website. Industrial production is entering a
“light season” and the output of heavy energy users such as
metal and oil processers contracted last month, it said.  
 HSBC’s survey, released with Markit Economics, covers more
than 400 manufacturing companies and is weighted more toward
smaller, privately owned business than the government’s PMI,
according to the bank. The HSBC measure declined to 50.4 from
52.7 in May. Output contracted for the first time in 15 months,
according to this survey.  
 On June 29, the New York-based Conference Board corrected
its leading economic index for China to show the smallest gain
in five months in April.  
 Baosteel Target  
 Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
this week scaled back its growth plans, cutting its target for
capacity in 2012 by 38 percent and forecasting a “bumpy,
unpredictable and long” global recovery.  
 In China, policy makers have spent the first half of the
year seeking to prevent  property-price  bubbles and contain
 inflation , which surpassed the government’s full-year target of
3 percent in May. So far, the winding back of stimulus has not
included an interest-rate increase.  
 The government has told banks to set aside more money as
reserves, targeted a 22 percent reduction in  new lending  from
the record $1.4 trillion in 2009, and indicated that the yuan’s
peg to the dollar is over.  
 China’s economy will slow over the second half of this year,
which is welcome news “given the slight uptick in inflation
recently,”  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s Asia chairman, said
in Beijing yesterday. A pace of 8 percent or 9 percent would be
“much more sustainable than the overheated growth rate in the
first quarter,” he said.  
 Damping Sentiment  
 A statistics bureau  commentary  on today’s government data
said small companies’ output contracted for a second month and
their new orders declined “sharply.” It also said that
businesses have become more cautious about buying raw materials
such as metals, timber and items for machinery manufacturing.  
 China’s export outlook is “grim” as shipments may be hurt
by a slowing world recovery, rising trade frictions, Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and cuts to export tax rebates, the bureau
said. Separately, the logistics federation said a more flexible
yuan may affect exports.  
 Today’s data may indicate a “steady moderation” to a more
stable and sustainable expansion,” Zhang, a researcher at the
State Council’s Development and Research Center, said in the
government’s PMI statement. “China’s growth is at a critical
stage of turning from recovery to stabilizing.”  
 Property Crackdown  
 Measures cooling the economy include a government crackdown
on property speculation that has included raising down-payment
ratios and mortgage rates for multiple home buyers. Clamping
down on local-government borrowing to contain risks from last
year’s explosion in debt could also limit growth.  
 Efforts to limit energy consumption and pollution, such as
scrapping export rebates on some steel and metal products from
July 15, may also be a drag on growth.  
 “The biggest uncertainty in the outlook later this year
may be how determined the government is in meeting its energy
and pollution targets and in limiting related industries,”
according to  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-based economist at
Industrial Bank Co.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore and
 Stephen Engle  in Beijing. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Russell Ward .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A textile industry worker sews clothing at a wholesale market in Dongguan, Guangdong province, China, on June 25, 2010.  Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Shaun Rein, managing director of China Market Research Group, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the threat of inflation in China and its potential impact on cost of living expenses.
     At least nine Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages by as much as a third today after Premier Wen Jiabao called for measures to head off growing worker unrest in the world’s third-largest economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
