-- China Economy's `Soft Landing' Roils Global Markets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-01T08:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/china-economy-s-soft-landing-roils-global-markets-searching-for-demand.html

          
          
             China’s success in cooling its
economy is alarming investors concerned that a slowdown in the
engine of the global recovery may help trigger another recession.  
 Manufacturing expanded less than forecast in June, a survey
of purchasing managers compiled by the National Bureau of
Statistics showed today. The Conference Board two days ago
lowered its April leading economic index reading, triggering a
worldwide sell-off in stocks.  
 China’s  growth  is in the midst of a drop of more than 4
percentage points, a “good slowdown” that averts overheating,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That outcome may unnerve
investors when Europe is tightening budgets and the U.S. jobless
rate remains near 10 percent; benchmark stock indexes from the
U.S. to Japan this week hit their lowest levels this year.  
 “From the economics point of view, China’s economy is
cooling towards a healthy soft landing,” said  Ma Jun , chief
China economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Hong Kong. At the same
time, “the uncertain global outlook makes pessimism easy to
prevail” in financial markets, he said.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  closed 1 percent lower at
2,373.79, declining for a seventh day in the longest losing
streak since 2008. The MSCI World Index was at 1,034.17 as of
4:13 p.m. in Hong Kong, its lowest level since August last year.  
 Gap With Government  
 Markets are demonstrating a disconnect with China’s policy
makers, who have sought to rein in an economy that surged at an
11.9 percent annual pace in the first quarter. Regulators have
tightened rules for property purchases in an effort to quell
real-estate  prices  climbing at a rate in excess of 12 percent,
and told banks to restrain lending after a record  credit  boom.  
 China’s economy is moving in the “expected direction,”
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in meetings with businesspeople and
economists this week, according to a statement posted on the
government’s website yesterday. Policy makers will “further
cement and develop the positive economic trend” amid an
“extremely complicated” domestic and global outlook, he said.  
 “There’s nothing new here,” as economists for months have
been forecasting China to slow, said  Sun Mingchun , an economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. “Something very bad must
happen” to justify concern of a return to the slump of 2008-09,
Sun said.  
 Growth in China will be sustained by infrastructure
projects still under way resulting from the 4 trillion yuan
($589 billion) fiscal stimulus unveiled in November 2008, Sun
said. The nation has 28.8 trillion yuan of unfinished projects
in place, amounting to 85 percent of gross domestic product, he
calculates. Sun estimates the expansion will ease to 10 percent.  
 16-Month Low  
 Today’s purchasing manager index for China indicated
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in 16 months,
excluding a Lunar New Year-affected February 2010. The easing
comes after a slide in property sales and erosion in the outlook
for exports given the European crisis.  
 “I get the exit rate for Chinese GDP growth later this
year at 8 to 9 percent on a worse-case basis,”  Stephen Roach ,
Morgan Stanley’s Asia chairman, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Beijing yesterday. “That’s a much more
sustainable outcome than the over-heated growth rate in the
first quarter.”  
 What’s good for China may not be helpful to the immediate
global economic outlook.  
 Krugman Alert  
 Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  this week said the world may be
in the midst of a global depression. Fitch Ratings said
yesterday that renewed financial-market volatility and Europe’s
sovereign debt woes increase the risk of a return to a recession.
Spain’s AAA rating was put on review for a cut by Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday.  
 “People are afraid that sovereign risks may be translated
into financial institutions’ risks and credit contraction,”
said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees $450 million at Tokyo-based
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.  
 Goldman Sachs Asia economists, led by  Michael Buchanan  in
Hong Kong, wrote in a note yesterday that while China’s property
market will probably see a “relatively smooth” transition from
residential to public housing construction, there are risks of a
deeper slump.  
 “The temporary policy-driven slowdown could be offset
subsequently by recalibration of policy,” such as through
guidance to banks on lending, the Goldman economists wrote.  
 Wage Growth  
 Prospects for higher wages may also bolster China’s
domestic demand. At least nine Chinese provinces and cities will
raise minimum wages from today by as much as a third. Beijing is
increasing the lowest monthly salary employers may pay to 960
yuan from 800 yuan. Central China’s Henan, the nation’s most
populous province, is raising its minimum wage by 33 percent to
600 yuan, the local government said on its website.  
 Meantime, foreign companies from  Honda Motor Co.  to  Apple
Inc.  supplier Foxconn Technology Group have boosted paychecks in
addressing labor strife.  
 China may come under pressure to do more to support a
recovery that Group of 20 leaders last month described as
“uneven and fragile.”  
 One way would be through stronger calls for China to allow
exchange-rate gains, which would make imported goods cheaper.
Policy makers ended a fixed yuan peg to the dollar on June 19,
and it’s risen 0.6 percent since then.  
 “They might like domestically to keep the currency where
it is, but when the rest of the world is slowing down while
China still has reasonably positive growth and export
performance,” said Brian Jackson, an emerging-markets
strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada. “The rest of
the world would say: hey you guys need to do more.”  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  yesterday reiterated his desire
for a stronger yuan, days after citing “headwinds” from the
European crisis. A Labor Department report tomorrow may show the
country’s  unemployment rate  rose to 9.8 percent in June,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 -- Li Yanping , with assistance from  Stephen Engle  and Nerys Avery
in Beijing and  Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo. Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China’s economy is moving in the “expected direction,” Premier Wen Jiabao said in meetings with businesspeople and economists this week, according to a statement posted on the government's website. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
