-- Chinese Equities May Advance in Second Half as Inflation Slows, Citic Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-01T03:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/chinese-equities-may-advance-in-second-half-as-inflation-slows-citic-says.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  may rebound in the
second half of the year as slowing inflation and falling
property prices dispel investor concerns of increased tightening
measures, Citic Securities Co. said.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  may climb above 3,000 this
year, Citic Securities strategists led by  Yu Jun  wrote in a
report obtained today. That represents a gain of at least 25
percent from yesterday’s closing level of 2,398.37. The
benchmark equity gauge lost 27 percent in the first half as the
government raised banks’ reserve requirements to the highest
level in at least three years and curbed real-estate speculation.  
 “Investor expectations of interest-rate increases and a
further tightening of liquidity and the property market will
ease as inflation and home prices decline,” the strategists at
the nation’s biggest listed brokerage wrote in the report.  
 Morgan Stanley, BNP Paribas SA and Nomura Holdings Inc. say
stocks will rally as China’s June 19 decision to end the yuan’s
two-year peg to the dollar helps curb inflation and asset
bubbles. Prospects for a stock rebound may be cut as exports
face “strong headwinds” in the second half and loan growth may
slow by the end of 2010, Citigroup Inc. said this week.  
 Real-estate prices  jumped 12.4 percent across 70 cities in
May, the second-fastest pace after April’s 12.8 percent record
gain. Consumer prices rose 3.1 percent in May from a year before,
exceeding the government’s 3 percent target average for 2010.  
 Insurers, Developers  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation will “further cement
and develop the positive economic trend,” in a statement posted
on the government’s website yesterday. He pledged both
continuity and flexibility in policies amid an “extremely
complicated” domestic and global outlook.  
 The brokerage recommended investors buy shares of insurers,
banks, property developers, agriculture producers and machinery
and home-appliance makers.  
 China’s manufacturing expanded at a slower pace for a
second month in June, adding to signs that growth in the world’s
third-largest economy is moderating.  
 China’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index  fell to 52.1 from 53.9
in May, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in e-
mailed statement today, less than the median 53.2 estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.  
 China’s  economic growth  will slow from a 10-year average of
10.2 percent to between 9 percent and 10 percent in the next
“two to three years,” according to the Citic report. The
strategists could not be reached for comment by telephone.  
 The economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter, the
fastest pace in almost three years.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho . With assistance by  Zhang Shidong . Editors:
 Richard Frost , Linus Chua   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        