-- China Stocks at Discount to Hong Kong Look `Oversold,' Morgan Stanley Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-02T01:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/china-s-a-share-stock-market-looks-oversold-says-morgan-stanley-s-lou.html

          
          
             Chinese yuan-denominated stocks,
heading for their worst week in 16 months, will probably rebound
after plunging below counterparts listed in Hong Kong, according
to Morgan Stanley’s  Jerry Lou .  
 “The market looks very, very oversold,” Lou, Morgan
Stanley’s China strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Singapore. The discount for stocks in Shanghai
relative to Hong Kong “is really, really rare,” he said.  
 Yuan shares traded in Shanghai and Shenzhen and restricted
almost exclusively to local investors on June 18 fell below
stocks traded in Hong Kong for the first time in almost four
years, according to the  Hang Seng China AH Premium Index . When
this happened in November 2006, China’s benchmark index  tripled
in 12 months , outpacing a 156 percent gain in Hong Kong’s gauge
and a 58 percent rise in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index .  
 The  Shanghai A-Share Stock Price Index  that tracks yuan
shares traded in the city has tumbled 7 percent this week, the
most since Feb. 27, 2009. China’s shares have retreated this
year as government efforts to tame inflation and Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis stoked concern global growth will slow.  
 The  Hang Seng China AH Premium Index , measuring the spread
between  A shares  and the  H counterparts  of more than 80
companies with listings in Shanghai or Shenzhen and in Hong Kong,
has slid to 97.19 from a record 208.06 on Jan. 16, 2008. Figures
above 100 indicate a premium for yuan shares, and vice versa.  
 China Premium  
 China’s yuan stocks should trade at a 20 percent to 30
percent  premium  to their Hong Kong counterparts due to the
country’s capital controls and lack of investment avenues, Lou
said. He advised investors to “overweight” so-called deep
cyclical stocks including banks, raw materials producers and
property developers.  
 Citic Securities Co., China’s largest publicly traded
brokerage, and Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., voted the
country’s most influential research unit by New Fortune magazine
last year, both predicted stocks will rally in the second half
on expectations the government won’t step up measures to rein in
economic growth.  
 China’s stocks will outperform the nation’s property market
in the next two years as asset values and yields narrow closer
to their historic spread, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Susan Li  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Reinie Booysen ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Jerry Lou, China strategist at Morgan Stanley, talks with Bloomberg's Susan about his investment strategy for Chinese stocks.
     Lou, speaking from Singapore, also discusses China's shift in its currency policy, and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.'s planned initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
