-- China Is New `Axis of Power' for Investment Banking as Europe Income Drops
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-07-01T11:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/china-is-new-axis-of-power-for-investment-banking-as-europe-income-drops.html

          
          
             Global investment banking fee income
more than doubled in China and Hong Kong in the first half of
the year, as the “axis of power” shifted from western Europe.  
 Securities firms’ earnings more than doubled to $2.3
billion in China and Hong Kong from January to June compared
with the same period of 2009, according to a report by New York-
based research firm  Freeman & Co.  East European fee income also
doubled to $1.18 billion, while western Europe fell by 23
percent to $8.83 billion.  
 “The axis of power, as defined by the companies paying the
fees to the bankers, is shifting east within Europe and even
further east globally,” said  Scott Moeller , finance professor
at  Cass Business School  in London. “There can’t be a group of
professionals more mobile than investment bankers, excepting
perhaps airline pilots.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is among firms continuing to expand
into China, the world’s largest market for initial public
offerings in 2009, to compete with rivals including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  and UBS AG. Shares of companies that went
public in Shanghai and Shenzhen gained an average 29 percent in
their first month of trading, Bloomberg data shows.  
 Overall, worldwide fee income rose 7 percent in the first
half to $37.1 billion. The Americas was the biggest region for
investment banking fee income, recording a 17 percent rise to
$18.63 billion, Freeman said.  
 Eastern Europe and the former Soviet republics posted the
second-largest gains in fee income, Freeman said. Fees soared as
countries including Poland embarked on government asset sales
valued at about $10 billion.  
 In western Europe, the collapse of Prudential Plc’s $35.5
billion bid for  American International Group Inc. ’s AIA unit led
to a decline in transactions in the U.K., while mining
acquisitions in Australia tumbled to a more than a four-year low
in the quarter after a proposal to tax the resources industry.
Fee income in Australasia fell 37 percent to $829 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        