-- N.Y. Cigarette Tax Increase Boosts Pack to Almost $11
-- Chris Burritt
-- 2010-07-01T18:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/cigarettes-at-11-a-pack-from-new-york-tax-increase-greets-wary-retailers.html

          
          
             New York  smokers started paying the
highest cigarette taxes in the U.S. today after an increase of
58 percent pushed some prices to almost $11 a pack.  
 The average price in New York City, the largest in the U.S.
by population, rose to $10.80, according to Erik Kriss, a
spokesman for the state Division of Budget. Outside of the city,
which imposes its own tax, the state average price is $8.92.  
 New York led  Hawaii ,  New Mexico ,  South Carolina  and  Utah  in
raising cigarette taxes today. Health advocates cheered the
increases as a means to reduce smoking. Tobacco producers and
retailers said higher taxes encourage black-market sales and
won’t generate anticipated revenue.  
 “A few people will quit smoking, but many more will quit
coming to our stores and instead buy cigarettes from untaxed
sources,”  Jim Calvin , president of the  New York Association of
Convenience Stores , said today by telephone from Albany. The
group represents operators of 7,500 convenience stores.  
 New York lawmakers boosted the state’s portion of the tax
to $5.85 a pack from $4.25 in New York City. Outside the city,
the tax rose to $4.35 a pack from $2.75. The tax increase is
projected to raise $290 million a year from cigarettes, snuff,
cigars and other tobacco products. Collecting taxes on cigarette
sales from Indian reservations would raise another $150 million.  
 ‘Legal Addictions’  
 “It’s the state trying to get money from legal
addictions,” said Joseph Bavaro, 21, who said he’s smoked for
seven years. “It’s for the greater good, but it’s bad to take
advantage of addicts.”  
 New York ranked 14th among U.S. states in pack sales of
cigarettes last year, according to the  Campaign for Tobacco-Free
Kids , an advocacy group in Washington. New Yorkers bought 482.7
million packs, accounting for 2.9 percent of U.S. sales.  
 “I think it’s horrible,” said Randi Gelman, 44, a New
York travel agent. “We know it’s bad for us. People are out of
work, no jobs, now this? It’s not fair. This is just a way for
the government to make back money from working people after
years of stupid decisions.”  
 Nationwide, cigarette tax increases this year will spur
more than 140,000 adults to quit smoking and raise more than
$561 million in annual revenue, according to the Campaign for
Tobacco-Free Kids.  
 “It’ll probably make me quit, I have to quit anyway, it’s
just one more reason,” said Tom Tveter, 49, a salesman who
lives in Rockland County, New York. He said he’s smoked for 16
years.  
 Internet, Reservation Sales  
 New York’s increase will prompt more smokers to buy over
the Internet or from American Indian reservations and lower-tax
states such as New Jersey and Pennsylvania, according to  Altria
Group Inc.  and Reynolds American Inc., the largest U.S. tobacco
companies. They said demand may rise for cigarettes unlawfully
purchased in states with lower taxes and sold on the black
market in New York.  
 “It is going to drive people away from buying cigarettes
where taxes are paid,”  David Sutton , an Altria spokesman in
Richmond, Virginia, said today. “The revenue projection will
fall short.”  
 Starting Sept. 1, New York plans to collect taxes on
cigarettes sold on Indian reservations to people who don’t live
there. The state hasn’t tried to make the collections since the
early 1990s.  
 The tax on other tobacco products, including cigars, loose
tobacco and chewing tobacco, will rise to 75 percent of the
wholesale price, from 46 percent of the wholesale price on Aug.
1, according to Kriss, the spokesman for the Division of Budget.  
 That boost, combined with an increase in the tax on snuff
to $2 per ounce, from 96 cents per ounce, will generate an
additional $30 million, he said.  
 “It’s not fair, but if it wasn’t this, it’d be something
else,” said Richard Battle-Baxter, 28, who said he’s smoked for
four years. “I’m not quitting because of this, though. I’ve got
too much stress.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New York leads Hawaii, New Mexico, South Carolina and Utah in raising cigarette taxes.
Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
