-- HCL Chief Nayar Says He Seeks European Takeovers to Win Government Orders
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-01T09:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/hcl-chief-nayar-says-he-seeks-european-purchases-to-win-government-orders.html

          
          
             HCL Technologies Ltd. , the Indian
software-services provider founded by billionaire  Shiv Nadar ,
may acquire companies that will help it do more business with
European governments as it tries to expand public sector sales.  
 HCL may need to yield to European government preferences
for local companies or existing partners, Chief Executive
Officer  Vineet Nayar  said in an interview in London today. The
company in 2008 bought Axon Group Plc, a U.K. business
management software provider, for $658 million.  
 “If, let’s say, the U.K. government continues to insist on
working with existing vendors, then obviously we have to acquire
an existing vendor,” Nayar said. “We’ve demonstrated that
we’re not shy of those billion-dollar acquisitions, and there
are some wide spaces available to us.”  
 European governments are looking to improve the performance
of ministries and public services as fiscal austerity measures
strain budgets. The U.K.’s Cabinet Office said yesterday it
would  appoint  former  BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  John Browne 
to help lead an efficiency drive.  
 The Noida-based company may take a similar approach in
European countries where “it may be the same for local
vendors,” Nayar added.  
 The CEO declined to comment on whether HCL could be
interested in London-based IT services provider  Logica Plc .
Without saying where it got the information, the Daily Mail
reported May 21 that Infosys Technologies Ltd. was considering
buying Logica. Infosys called the report a “rumor.”  
 ‘Large Deals’  
 Indian computer-services providers such as  Wipro Ltd.,   Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. , and Infosys are targeting growth in
developed markets. In April, Wipro Chairman  Azim Premji  said
that “large deals are very much on the table” for the company
in markets including the U.S. and Europe.  
 Cap Gemini SA , the largest European computer-services
company, is looking at “lots” of possible acquisition targets,
CEO  Paul Hermelin  said in May.  
 HCL has taken an unconventional approach to past deals.
Instead of integrating Axon into HCL, Nayar moved parts of the
parent company’s business into the new unit in what the company
called a “reverse merger.”  
 New acquisitions may be structured in the same way. “When
you acquire something, you take the management team of the
acquired company and say, I trust you and you’re better than
us,” Nayar said. “That’s why you cut the check.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        