-- Colombia Bond Yields Fall to Four-Year Low on Moody's, Inflation Outlook
-- Andrea Jaramillo
-- 2010-07-01T21:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/colombia-bond-yields-fall-to-four-year-low-on-moody-s-inflation-outlook.html

          
          
             Colombia’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to the lowest level in four years, after a government
report showed food prices fell in June and on speculation
Moody’s will raise the South American country to investment
grade, luring foreign investors to the country’s financial
assets.  
 The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due July
2020 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.71
percent at 5:15 p.m. New York time, according to Colombia’s
stock exchange. That’s the lowest level on a closing basis since
April 3, 2006. The bond’s price rose 0.326 centavo to 122.453
centavos per peso.  
 There is “potential” for Colombia to move to investment
grade, Moody’s Investors Service senior analyst  Alessandra Alecci  said in an interview yesterday. Moody’s rates Colombia’s
foreign debt Ba1, or one level below investment grade. It has a
stable outlook on the country.  
 “Moody’s view on Colombia is positive for the market,”
said  German Verdugo , head bond trader at Bogota-based brokerage
Correval SA. “Inflation is under control helped by the strong
peso and the fact food prices haven’t shot up. The market will
probably continue to cut year-end inflation expectations.”  
 Falling Food Prices  
 Food prices fell 0.59 percent in June after declining 1.42
percent in the same month a year earlier, the Agriculture
Ministry said in a  report  today. Annual inflation quickened to
2.23 percent last month compared to 2.07 percent in May,
according to the median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The statistics agency is expected to release the
monthly inflation report on July 3.  
 Economists lowered their expectations for year-end
inflation to 3.11 percent in a central bank survey this month
compared to 3.28 percent in the May survey. The central bank
targets inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent this year.  
 Standard & Poor’s rates the nation’s foreign bonds at BBB-,
the lowest level of investment grade, and the government at BB+,
one step below. Colombia is rated BB+ by Fitch Ratings.  
 The peso gained 0.1 percent to 1,898.60 per U.S. dollar
from 1,900.11 yesterday. It has jumped 7.7 percent this year,
the best performance among 172 world currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  
 The central bank yesterday ended the purchase of $20
million daily in the foreign-exchange market. Policy makers said
March 3 the central bank would buy $20 million a day through
June 30 to curb a rally they say left the peso “misaligned.”  
 ‘Verbal Intervention’  
 Colombia’s central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said policy
makers would consider imposing capital controls if the peso
appreciates due to heavy short-term inflows into the economy,
Reuters news agency reported.  
 The bank isn’t currently planning capital controls to ease
gains in the currency because the peso has strengthened due to
foreign direct investment and high commodity prices, Uribe said
in an interview, according to Reuters.  
 “In spite of intervention comments, we think follow
through is unlikely,” Latin America currency strategist Flavia
Cattan-Naslausky wrote in a report today. “We take Uribe’s
comments as verbal intervention and more so, a response to local
concerns in regards to further currency appreciation following
Moody’s comments on potential ratings upgrade.”  
 “Before resorting to capital controls, we would expect
BanRep to re-introduce the daily dollar purchases as a more
conservative and flexible policy to stem FX appreciation in the
face of such a fluid external environment,” she wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        