-- Congo Wins $12.3 Billion Debt Relief From Creditors Even as Canada Objects
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-01T23:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/congo-to-get-12-3-billion-of-debt-relief-from-imf-world-bank-initiative.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund  and
the World Bank agreed to support $12.3 billion in debt relief
for the Democratic Republic of Congo, erasing obligations almost
the size of central African country’s economy.  
 “This could be a turning point in DRC’s long-troubled
history,” Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly, the World Bank’s country
director for Congo, said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 Congo, which celebrated its 50th anniversary of
independence from Belgium two days ago, has been seeking to have
its debt canceled under the IMF and World Bank’s Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries initiative. Excluding future debt
service obligations, the relief at present value is $7.9
billion.  
 The announcement came after the country’s independence day
because Canada sought a delay in the board discussion, a World
Bank official said. Canada today abstained in the vote,
according to the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  
 Canadian authorities have sought to bring attention to
Congo’s expropriation of First Quantum Minerals Ltd.’s copper
project. The  Vancouver-based company’s mine was shuttered last
year after a two-and-a-half-year government review of Congo’s
mining contracts. The dispute was taken to the International
Chamber of Commerce’s International Court of Arbitration in
Paris on Feb. 1.  
 G-8 Criticism  
 The Group of Eight industrial nations, in a statement
released June 26 after a meeting hosted by Canada in Huntsville,
Ontario, criticized “the illicit exploitation of and trade in
natural resources from the eastern Democratic Republic of the
Congo.”  
 “We take very seriously all of the issues governance,”
 Caroline Atkinson , the IMF’s director of external relations,
said at a press briefing yesterday in Washington. “We have
advised the government, and this is just general advice that we
give, that any contractual dispute should be resolved through
normal channels, through arbitration where needed.”  
 The IMF has advised Congolese officials to let the
arbitration dispute with Canada “take its course before they
move further,” she said.  
 In today’s statement, the Washington-based bank and fund
said they would relieve $2.3 billion in debt owed to the
institutions, with the rest of the cancellation coming from
“bilateral and commercial creditors.”  
 China’s Ties  
 Congo’s gross domestic product this year is estimated at
$12.6 billion, according to the IMF. China is the country’s
biggest trade partner, accounting for 47 percent of its exports,
according to U.S. government figures.  
 “As a result of this relief, the DRC will no longer face a
heavy debt service burden in relation to its revenue and foreign
exchange resources,” the statement said.  
 To get debt relief under the initiative, countries must
meet criteria such as poverty reduction through policy changes
and demonstrate a “good track-record over time,” the IMF said
on its website.  
 Today’s joint statement by the IMF and World Bank said the
country needs to work to rebuild a foundation for economic
growth.  
 “Strengthening the rule of law, improving governance --
especially in the oil and mining sectors -- and improving the
business climate are essential next steps to macroeconomic
policy management and performance following a devastating
decade-long conflict that destroyed the country’s economic and
social infrastructure,” Marie-Nelly said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        