-- Construction Spending in U.S. Falls 0.2% in May
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-declines-for-the-first-time-in-three-months.html

          
          
             Construction spending in the U.S. fell
in May for the first time in three months as homebuilders cut
back and work on factories and transportation structures
decreased.  
 The 0.2 percent drop was less than forecast and brought
 spending  down to $841.9 billion, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The government revised the April
increase down to 2.3 percent, less than previously estimated.  
 New home sales are dropping after the expiration of a
government tax credit that boosted builder confidence and brought
housing starts to the highest level in more than a year in April.
Residential sales and construction will now depend on the state
of the labor market and on foreclosures.  
 “There’s a lot of distortions because of the homebuyer tax
credit and it will take a few months for it to settle out but the
real key will be job growth,” Scott Brown, chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg, Florida, said
before the report. “The commercial side is generally pretty weak
and that’s typical in the business cycle.”  
 Economists forecast construction spending would decline 0.8
percent, according to the  median  of 54 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 3 percent to a 0.5
percent increase.  
 Other reports today showed more Americans unexpectedly filed
claims for jobless benefits last week, and pending sales of
existing homes dropped in May.  
 Claims Rise  
 The number of  applications  for unemployment insurance
climbed by 13,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 26, signaling
the turmoil in financial markets caused by the European debt
crisis may be prompting employers to rein in staff, according to
figures from the Labor Department.  
 The number of  signed contracts  to purchase previously owned
houses plunged 30 percent, more than twice as much as forecast,
reflecting the end of a government tax credit, data from the
National Association  of Realtors showed.  
 Construction spending decreased 8 percent in the 12 months
ended in May.  
 Private construction spending fell 0.5 percent following a
2.8 percent increase for April. Homebuilding outlays dropped 0.4
percent. Private non-residential projects decreased 0.6 percent.  
 Spending on public construction climbed 0.4 percent from the
prior month, led by a 0.6 percent gain in state and local
government outlays. Federal construction spending dropped 1.3
percent.  
 Sales Plunge  
 New home sales plunged in May to a record low after the
government tax credit expired, according to Commerce Department
data released last week. Housing starts for the month, reported
on June 16, fell 10 percent.  
 Los Angeles-based KB Home, which targets first-time buyers,
reported a wider-than-estimated loss for the quarter ended May 31
as new orders declined 23 percent and the average price for its
houses fell 4 percent from a year ago.  
 “Homebuyers who missed the deadline seemed to step out of
the market completely,”  KB Home  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey
Mezger said in a June 25 conference call with analysts. It’s too
early in the third quarter to forecast demand, he said.  
 “It’s a matter of when, not if, things are going to
improve,” Mezger said.  
 To qualify for the government tax credit of up to $8,000,
purchasers had to sign a contract by April 30 and close on it by
yesterday. The bank often requires that a new home be habitable
for it to be closed on, which put pressure on builders to
complete projects by June 30.  
 Tax Credit  
 Senator Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, last month
proposed extending the tax credit’s closing deadline from June 30
to Sept. 30 amid concern that a rush of buyers created too big a
backlog for builders to complete projects in time.  
 Employment gains also are needed to forestall foreclosures,
which jumped to a record for a second straight month in May,
according to RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data
seller. Rising foreclosures pull down prices and are also
competition for builders.  
 The Labor Department is scheduled to release its June
payrolls report tomorrow. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
project the U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month, reflecting a
reduction in the number of temporary federal workers helping
conduct the decennial census. Companies added 110,000 jobs,
according to the survey median.  
 Meanwhile, commercial construction may not pick up until
next year because of high office vacancy rates and excess plant
capacity, Wells Fargo Securities economist Anika Kahn said. The
National Association of Realtors projected May 26 that the
vacancy rate for office space will climb to 17.6 percent in the
first quarter of 2011 from 16.9 percent in the first three months
of this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Courtney Schlisserman in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        