-- Copper Futures Tumble After Reports Signal Slowing U.S., Chinese Growth
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-01T18:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/copper-declines-as-manufacturing-growth-slows-in-china-for-a-second-month.html

          
          
             Copper futures fell to a three-week
low after reports signaled slowing growth in the U.S. and China,
the world’s top metal buyers.  
 Chinese manufacturing in June grew at a slower pace for a
second month, according to the government’s Purchasing Managers’
Index. In the U.S, the Institute for Supply Management’s factory
gauge dropped in June to the lowest level this year, and
construction spending fell for the first time in three months in
May, separate reports showed.  
 “It’s a bloody day for copper after the economic
reports,” said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago. “People are getting more
worried” that demand will dwindle, he said.  
 Copper futures for September delivery dropped 7.35 cents,
or 2.5 percent, to $2.877 a pound on the Comex in New York.
Earlier, the price touched $2.8555, the lowest level for a most-
active contract since June 10. In the second quarter, the metal
tumbled 17 percent, the first drop since 2008.  
 The economic reports combined with concerns that austerity
measures in Europe may derail the global recovery.  
 Copper prices more than doubled in 2009 as global growth
rebounded after the financial crisis. The metal has declined 14
percent this year on signs the pace of expansion is contracting.  
 There is “considerable downside risk in the months
ahead,”  Alex Heath , the head of industrial-metals trading for
RBC Capital Markets, said in a report.  
 Copper for delivery in three months fell $185, or 2.8
percent, to $6,330 a metric ton ($2.87 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange.  
 Aluminum, nickel, zinc, lead and tin prices also dropped.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        