-- Credit-Linked Note Sales Fall 23 Percent in Europe as Debt Spreads Narrow
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-01T11:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/credit-linked-note-sales-fall-23-percent-in-europe-as-debt-spreads-narrow.html

          
          
             Sales of credit-linked notes in
Europe fell 23 percent this year as tighter spreads made the
contracts less appealing to investors.  
 Banks including Barclays Plc and UBS AG sold 266 CLNs this
year with a face value of 8 billion euros ($9.9 billion),
compared with 347 transactions worth 8.7 billion euros in the
first half of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The bond-like securities use credit-default swaps to link
to the performance of a company or country’s underlying debt,
paying a fixed rate of interest based on the price of the
derivatives. Swaps on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
firms with mostly high-yield credit ratings averaged 507 basis
points in the second quarter, compared with 786 in the same
period a year earlier, according to CMA DataVision.  
 “Last year was a big year for CLNs,”  Eric Debray , co-
founder of TFS Structured Products, part of broker Cie.
Financiere Tradition. “One reason was that spreads were higher
than they are today. Also there were far more opportunities to
bet on the basis between cash bonds and CDS.”  
 In basis trades, investors profit from the difference
between the yield premiums on corporate bonds and the cost of
protecting the notes with credit-default swaps.  
 Investors use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses
on corporate or sovereign debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness. An increase indicates deterioration in the
perception of credit quality; a decline, the opposite.  
 A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros of
debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        