-- Korea National Said to Approach Dana About Possible Offer to Buy Company
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-02T06:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/dana-petroleum-talks-with-possible-buyer-after-preliminary-approach-made.html

          
          
             Korea National Oil Corp. , a state
explorer that aims to more than double output by 2012, contacted
 Dana Petroleum Plc.  about a possible bid for the Scottish
company, said a KNOC official with knowledge of the discussions.  
 The South Korean company had a single contact with the
company and has made no progress since, said the official, who
declined to be named, citing internal rules. The approach was
preliminary and didn’t include any price negotiation, he said,
declining to say when the contact was made.  
 The Financial Times newspaper cited people familiar with
the situation saying KNOC may make a $2.3 billion offer for Dana.
Kim Seong Hoon, a vice president at KNOC, declined to comment
when reached by phone in Seoul today.  
 Dana said in a statement yesterday it had received a “very
preliminary approach which may or may not lead to an offer” for
the company. A spokesman declined to identify the bidder.  
 KNOC plans to increase output to about 300,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2012 through exploration and purchases,
Kim said earlier this month. The company expects to spend as
much as $6 billion on acquisitions and projects this year. Dana,
which is  focused  on Europe and Africa, said last year it expects
full-year production of about 39,000 barrels a day.  
 Shares Rise  
 “This would be a good opportunity for Korea National Oil to
boost output, but it still looks like Dana Petroleum is a small
or medium target,” Kang Hee Chan, a chief researcher at the
Samsung Economic Research Institute in Seoul, said by phone
today. “South Korea, which is already far behind China and
India in securing overseas energy assets, needs to step up its
efforts to hunt for bigger assets.”  
 Dana  rose  42 pence, or 3.7 percent, to close at 1,177 pence
in London yesterday, valuing the company at 1.1 billion pounds
($1.7 billion). The stock was the biggest gainer in Europe’s
Stoxx 600 oil and gas industry subgroup.  
 Dana “isn’t for sale,” Chief Executive Officer  Tom Cross 
said last year. He said he planned to boost the company’s market
value by finding more oil and gas. The shares are down about 15
percent in the past year.  
 In June, Dana agreed to buy Suncor Energy Inc.’s Dutch
North Sea assets for 328 million euros ($400 million) in cash in
its biggest purchase to date.  
 The acquisition will boost Dana’s previous production
estimate for this year by as much as 12 percent, the company
said. Output will increase by as much as 9,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2011 and 14,000 barrels in 2012. It will
also add 31 million barrels of proved and probable reserves.  
 Dana, which holds more than 100 interests in exploration
and production licenses in nine countries, reported a
“significant” gas discovery in the U.K. southern North Sea in
April.  
 Last year, KNOC bought Canada’s Harvest Energy Trust for
C$4.1 billion ($3.9 billion) in South Korea’s biggest overseas
energy acquisition.  
 Chinese companies have spent at least $12.6 billion on oil
assets overseas since December 2008, including purchases in
Singapore, Syria and Kazakhstan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        