-- Debenhams Nine-Month Sales Decline as U.K. Retailer Converts to Own Brands
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-01T07:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/debenhams-nine-month-sales-decline-as-u-k-retailer-converts-to-own-brands.html

          
          
             Debenhams Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest department-store company, reported a decline in sales
over the last nine months after replacing areas in its outlets
run by other retailers with more-profitable own labels.  
 Revenue at stores open at least a year fell 0.4 percent in
the 42 weeks ended June 19, the London-based retailer  said  in a
statement today. That’s worse than the 0.3 percent increase
reported in the first half. Disruption caused by replacing in-
store concession areas with the retailer’s own clothing ranges
reduced same-store revenue growth by about 1.5 percent.  
 Gross profit margins  for the year will exceed a previous
forecast for a 0.8 percentage-point gain, helped by growth in
Debenhams labels such as Principles by Ben de Lisi, the company
said. The retailer agreed to buy 115 Faith footwear concessions
in its stores from Faith’s administrators, it said today.  
 “We assume, like other larger mid-market retailers, its
recent trading has been relatively soft, compounded by the
continuing drag from own-label expansion,”  Katharine Wynne , an
analyst at Investec Securities, said in a report before the
release. “The improvement in same-store sales is not expected
to be seen until fourth quarter.” She has a “buy” rating.  
 Debenhams fell 1.75 pence, or 3.2 percent, to 53 pence in
London trading yesterday. The  stock  has lost 32 percent of its
value this year.  
 The retailer said it is refinancing  debt  facilities in the
next few weeks, which will have a “positive impact” on the
interest charge in 2011, without being more specific. Debenhams
will have net debt of 518 million pounds at its August year-end,
according to the average of 12  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        