-- India Shows Off New `World-Class Hub' at Delhi Airport
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-07-01T00:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/delhi-building-airport-terminal-faster-than-beijing-may-spur-india-growth.html

          
          
             Passengers on international flights
to and from New Delhi will soon no longer walk through the
overcrowded building that has been the Indian capital’s gateway
to the world for 24 years.  
 From July 14, they will instead enter a  terminal  designed
by London architects HOK International and encased in sheets of
glass etched with images of Indian dancers. With 78 gates, 97
automated walkways, 95 immigration counters, 20,000 square
meters of retail space, and parking for 4,300 cars, the building
is comparable to the aviation hubs of Dubai, Hong Kong, and
Singapore, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 5 issue.  
 “For the first time, we will have a world-class hub,”
said  Binit Somaia , director for South Asia at the Sydney-based
Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation.  
 The terminal, which with other renovations cost $2.2
billion, is a sign that India may be turning the corner on
solving one of its most intractable problems, its notoriously
poor infrastructure.  
 The facility took only 37 months to build. That’s faster
than the 45 months China took to complete the terminal in
Beijing that opened in time for the 2008 Olympics.  
 “The Delhi airport is going to transform India” as it
will create a benchmark for major projects in the country, said
 T.V. Mohandas Pai , head of human resources at  Infosys
Technologies Ltd.   
 Slow Ports  
 India spends 6.5 percent of its gross domestic product on
infrastructure, compared with 11 percent in China, according to
consulting firm Ernst & Young, and undeveloped facilities have
limited the country’s growth. The average turnaround time for
ships unloading and loading cargo at India’s major ports is 3.8
days; in Hong Kong it’s 10 hours.  
 Improving India’s airports, roads, seaports and utilities
may boost growth and help attract investment, said  Jahangir Aziz ,
India chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “You don’t want foreign investors to get stuck behind
immigration lines for two and a half hours” when trying to
persuade companies to put money into India, he said.  
 New Delhi’s old airport definitely has affected the economy,
said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist in Singapore with Barclays Plc.  
 “Beijing and Shanghai have fabulous airports, and they are
much more linked to the global economy than Delhi is,” he said.  
 Bangalore, Hyderabad  
 The government of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has
focused airport projects on cities investors are most likely to
visit. New airports already are operating in Bangalore and
Hyderabad, the hubs for India’s IT and pharmaceutical industries.
The improvements mean passengers can now more easily fly
directly from Bangalore to overseas destinations. Previously,
travelers usually had to catch connecting flights elsewhere.  
 “The improved connectivity is a very attractive
proposition,” said Manan Bhatt, senior vice president for
external relations at  Avesthagen Ltd. , a Bangalore-based biotech
company. “Foreign companies can come to Bangalore on shorter
notice now.”  
 Due next for an upgrade is Mumbai, the financial capital,
which will get a new terminal in 2012. The  price  tag to expand
and upgrade Indian airports by 2020 is likely to be $20 billion,
according to a Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation report.  
 With India needing to spend more than $1 trillion on ports,
roads, utilities, and other infrastructure, the government plans
to cooperate with private companies for funding and knowhow. The
Delhi terminal was built by a private-public group overseen by
infrastructure builder GMR Group.  
 Bureaucracy, Land Ownership  
 Not all Indian developments are completed as quickly as
Delhi’s new terminal. Of the 618 big infrastructure projects
monitored by the government, 323 were behind schedule as of
March 1, some by as much as 60 months. That’s led to $12.3
billion in cost overruns.  
 Builders face delays from bureaucracy and land-ownership
disputes. Tata Motors Ltd. abandoned construction of a car
factory in Singur, West Bengal state in 2008 after violent
protests from farmers seeking the return of land acquired for
the plant.  
 Plans to privatize other airports in India are also yet to
reach fruition, even as overseas companies, including  Fraport AG ,
the operator of Germany’s busiest airport and part of the group
managing the Delhi terminal, look for investments.  
 “None of those projects has materialized,” said  Ansgar Sickert , head of Fraport in India. “We are not clear where the
opportunities really lie in India.”  
 More projects like Delhi may clarify things.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Manmohan Singh, India's prime minister, attends a news conference in New Delhi on May 24, 2010. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Members of the media walk through the new Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport during a tour in New Delhi on June 23, 2010. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Workers take a break in the new Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi on June 23, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Workers take a break in the new Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi on June 23, 2010. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
