-- Dell Agrees to Buy Server-Software Maker Scalent Systems in Shift From PCs
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-07-01T22:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/dell-agrees-to-buy-server-software-maker-scalent-systems-in-shift-from-pcs.html

          
          
             Dell Inc.  agreed to buy Scalent
Systems Inc., a maker of software for managing server computers,
as the world’s third-largest PC maker pushes to expand sales of
data-center  products .  
 The purchase of Palo Alto, California-based Scalent is
expected to close during the fiscal quarter that ends this
month, Dell said in a statement today. The companies didn’t
disclose financial terms.  
 Dell is seeking to compete with companies such as
International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. in
the market for more complex computer systems and technology
services that yield higher profits than desktop and laptop PCs.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  told analysts at a
meeting in Austin, Texas, last week that Dell plans to almost
double the size of its enterprise computing business to
$30 billion by fiscal 2014 from $16 billion last year, in part
through acquisitions.  
 “We haven’t ruled out any category” of companies to buy,
he said.  
 Dell said on June 23 that it expects  revenue  to rise as
much as 19 percent this fiscal year, which would bring it to
$62.9 billion. The Round Rock, Texas-based company’s sales fell
13 percent last fiscal year, which ended in January.  
 Scalent is closely held and makes software that lets
companies’ information technology departments load new software
onto server computers and allocate additional servers, storage
devices and networking gear to run applications.  
 Dell already sells Scalent’s software under its Advanced
Infrastructure Manager brand. Scalent’s roughly 40 employees
will be retained and more salespeople will be hired for its
products, said Donna Troy, Dell’s vice president of solutions
marketing and sales.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        