-- Delta Sells Regional Carriers to Focus on Main Routes
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-07-01T20:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/delta-air-agrees-to-sell-mesaba-compass-air-to-focus-on-mainline-routes.html

          
          
             Delta Air Lines Inc.  agreed to sell
its Mesaba and Compass regional carriers to  Pinnacle Airlines
Corp.  and Trans States Holdings Inc. to reduce operating costs
and focus on its main jet routes.  
 Delta, the world’s biggest carrier, will sell Mesaba for
$62 million and Compass for $20.5 million. Both airlines will
continue to ferry passengers from smaller cities to Delta hubs
under the Delta Connection name, Atlanta-based Delta said today
in a statement.  
 The sales come three weeks after American Airlines parent
 AMR Corp.  said it was studying the divestiture of the American
Eagle regional unit. Such moves increase competition among
regional carriers, giving the larger airlines lower-cost options
to bring commuters to their hubs.  
 “While the dollar amounts are not material to Delta, we
think over the long term, this will allow Delta to continue to
get cost reductions out of its regional airline operations,”
 Jim Corridore , a Standard & Poor’s equity analyst in New York,
said in a note today. “Delta will eventually pressure these and
its other regional operators for better contract terms with
lower rates.”  
 Regional Partners  
 Major U.S. carriers began shedding regional partners as
long ago as 2002, when  Continental Airlines Inc.  spun off
ExpressJet Holdings Inc. and later sold its remaining stake.
Pinnacle separated from Northwest Airlines Corp. with an initial
public sale of shares in 2003.  Northwest  was acquired by Delta
in 2008.  
 Delta wants “to focus on their mainline business and views
this as a distraction,”  Jeff Straebler , a fixed-income
strategist at RBS Securities Inc., said in an interview. “They
are looking to reduce their regional flying overall.”  
 Mesaba and Compass will retain their headquarters in
Minneapolis-St. Paul and will function as wholly owned units of
Pinnacle and Trans States, Delta said. No changes in flight
schedules or cities served are expected, the carrier said.  
 Pinnacle, based in Memphis, Tennessee, has a fleet of 202
regional jets and 80 turboprop aircraft, and its Colgan Air
subsidiary flies for Continental, UAL Corp.’s United Airlines
and US Airways Group Inc.  
 Flight Agreements  
 Under the purchase agreement, Mesaba will operate 76-seat
Bombardier CRJ-900s for Delta for 12 years and will continue to
sublease its fleet of 57 CRJ-900s from Delta. Pinnacle also
agreed to fly Saab 340B aircraft for Delta until they are
removed from use in late 2011. Pinnacle’s current Delta
Connection agreement runs through 2017.  
 Trans States, based in Bridgeton, Missouri, operates
flights for airlines including United and US Airways. As part of
the purchase, Compass signed a 10-year contract to continue
flying for Delta.  
 Delta fell 3 cents to $11.72 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange  composite trading . The shares have climbed 3 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        