-- Disney Buys Tapulous to Gain Video-Game Maker for Apple's iPhone, iPad
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-01T23:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/disney-buys-tapulous-to-gain-video-game-maker-for-apple-s-iphone-ipad.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  acquired Tapulous
Inc., a developer of music-related video games for Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and iPad, to expand its mobile business.  
 Disney anticipates growth on Apple’s platforms and mobile
devices,  Steve Wadsworth , head of the company’s Internet unit,
said today in an interview. Terms weren’t disclosed.  
 With the deal, Burbank, California-based Disney becomes one
of the biggest developers of games for Apple’s App Store.
Tapulous has 30 million users and is profitable, according to
its  website . “Tap Tap Revenge,” a top-selling download at the
App Store, is played by tapping a screen to the rhythm of a
song. While the software is free, players must buy new songs.  
 “This is an extremely high-growth industry, both mobile
games and mobile media,” Wadsworth said. “We are there and we
want to continue to be there in a very big way.”  
 Tapulous founder and Chief Executive Officer  Bart Decrem ,
operating chief  Andrew Lacy  and the development team are joining
Disney’s mobile-games group, Wadsworth said.  
 “Their ability to effectively monetize, in a very
efficient way, games on these devices is very attractive,”
Wadsworth said. “Their insight into how that works will be very
helpful as we grow on these platforms.”  
 Disney Characters  
 Decrem said in an interview he will be head of Disney’s
mobile division, which will create new titles based on Disney
characters and intellectual property, as well as continue to
distribute the “Tap Tap Revenge” games.  
 The deal came together over the past three to four months,
Decrem said. Tapulous was considering whether to raise another
round of funding from investors when it decided to join Disney
instead.  
 “It’s a huge opportunity,” he said.  
 The acquisition was reported earlier by industry website
TechCrunch.com.  
 Tapulous investors include Salesforce.com Inc. CEO  Marc Benioff  and Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder  Andy Bechtolsheim ,
according to the company’s website.  Steve Jobs , Apple’s chief
executive officer, is Disney’s biggest shareholder and a
director.  
 Disney, the world’s biggest media company, fell 1 cent to
$31.49 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have declined 2.4 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        