-- Dow Chemical, Mitsui Agree on Joint Venture to Build Texas Chlorine Plant
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-01T15:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/dow-chemical-mitsui-agree-on-joint-venture-to-build-texas-chlorine-plant.html

          
          
             Dow Chemical Co ., the world’s biggest
chlorine maker, agreed with Japanese trading company  Mitsui &
Co. Ltd.  to construct a factory in Texas that will produce the
chemical used in vinyl products such as PVC pipes.  
 The companies agreed to form a 50-50 joint venture to
build, own and operate the plant at Dow’s site in Freeport to
make chlorine and caustic soda, known collectively as chlor-
alkali, Dow said today in a statement.  
 The plant will be able to produce 800,000 metric tons a
year of chlorine when operations start in mid-2013, Dow said in
the statement. It will also be capable of making 880,000 tons of
caustic soda, said  Rebecca Bentley , a Dow spokeswoman.  
 Dow is partnering on factories that make commodities such
as ethylene and chlorine to  control costs  while maintaining an
in-house supply of raw materials for higher-end products such as
insulation and automotive plastics. Mitsui is expanding its
chlorine business after establishing a chlor-alkali division in
2009, the Tokyo-based company said on its  website .  
 Mitsui said it will invest $140 million in the project.
Dow’s costs will be less, reflecting its work on a predecessor
known as “Chlorine 7” that was canceled, Bentley said.  
 Dow, which is based in Midland, Michigan, will convert some
of the plant’s chlorine into ethylene dichloride, used to make
vinyl products, for Mitsui to sell. Caustic soda is used to make
pulp, paper and soap.  
 Mitsui said the companies plan to complete the joint
venture by the end of August. The plant will employ 500
construction workers and will have 50 permanent jobs, Dow said.  
 Dow  fell  82 cents, or 3.5 percent, to $22.90 as of 11:26
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Mitsui fell
2.4 percent to 1,029 yen in Tokyo.  
 Dow is the world’s largest chlor-alkali maker, followed by
Occidental Petroleum Corp., Olin Corp. and PPG Industries Inc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        