-- Dubai Rescue Means Stocks Lose to Sukuk in Second Quarter: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-01T07:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/dubai-rescue-means-stocks-lose-to-sukuk-in-second-quarter-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Islamic bonds returned more than
Shariah-compliant stocks for the second straight quarter, helped
by Dubai World’s May accord with creditors to restructure $23.5
billion of loans.  
 Fixed-income securities from the Persian Gulf, “in
particular Dubai, will extend gains in the next three to six
months,” said  Ahmad Alanani , the London-based associate
director for the Middle East and North Africa at Exotix Ltd., an
investment bank specializing in illiquid bonds, loans, equities,
structured finance, capital raising and asset management. “As
Dubai cleans house, the region will continue to attract
investors.”  
 The  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , made up of
Islamic bonds from Indonesia to Saudi Arabia, rose 0.8 percent
in the three months ended June 30 compared with a 12 percent
drop in the  Dow Jones Islamic Market World Index  as global
equities tumbled, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
HSBC index gained 5 percent in the first quarter compared with a
2.4 percent advance in the stock index, the data show.  
 The  average yield  on corporate and government Islamic bonds
dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.29
percent last quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dollar Sukuk
Index .  
 Safe Structure  
 Debt in developing markets gained 1.2 percent in the past
three months, JPMorgan Chase’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index 
shows. The  MSCI World Index , which tracks more than 1,600
stocks, was down 13 percent in the same period.  
 Bonds in the $1 trillion Islamic finance industry are based
on the exchange of assets rather than interest to comply with
the religion’s Shariah principles. Companies in the Dow Jones
index are screened by a board of religious scholars to meet
requirements on debt levels and limited involvement in
industries such as alcohol and tobacco.  
 “The performance of sukuk is relatively better than
conventional debt because their structure is safe as these are
asset-based,”  Muhammad Asad , who manages the equivalent of $210
million as chief investment officer at Al Meezan Investment
Management Ltd., said yesterday in an interview in Karachi,
Pakistan. “They performed better than regular debt even during
the subprime and European financial crisis.”  
 ‘Financial Risks’  
 Shariah-compliant stocks lagged behind bonds as more than
$7 trillion was erased from the value of global equities since
April 15, when markets peaked following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Concern Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
efforts to contain inflation will stifle the economic recovery
may also affect the sukuk market, according to National
Fullerton Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the equivalent
of $160 million.  
 “We have to keep in mind the global financial risks before
investing in conventional or Islamic bonds or stocks,”  Sajjad Anwar , head of NAFA Islamic Multi Asset Fund, a unit of National
Fullerton, said in an interview yesterday in Karachi. “It’s not
just because the Islamic bonds or stocks at any stage have
performed well, they will continue to do well. It really depends
on the market and economic conditions.”  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds have fallen 24 percent to
$6.5 billion so far in 2010 from the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sukuk sales rose to a
record $31 billion in 2007.  
 Bond Yields  
 The  Dow Jones Citigroup Sukuk Index , which measures the
performance of Islamic bonds, closed at 120.87 on June 29, the
highest level since Nov. 30, and leaving it 3.5 percent short of
the record set Nov. 25. The index rallied 1.9 percent in the
second quarter.  
 The difference between the  average yield  for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate widened 41
basis points, or 0.41 percentage point, to 443 in the second
quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index .  
 The average yield  gap  on emerging-market debt and Libor
narrowed 23 basis points to 584 basis points, based on the EMBI+
index from JPMorgan Chase & Co. That is 141 basis points more
than the average spread for sukuk.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 fell four basis points this week to 3.56 percent at
2:52 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to prices from Royal Bank
of Scotland Group.  
 Dubai World  
 Dubai World, one of Dubai’s three main business groups,
said in May that creditors agreed to restructure $14.4 billion
of bank loans and $8.9 billion of government liabilities to
resolve a debt crisis that roiled global markets last year.
Nakheel PJSC said yesterday it began making payments to its
biggest contractors as the property company owned by Dubai World
seeks new terms on $10.5 billion of unpaid bills and loans.  
 The yield on Nakheel’s $750 million fixed-rate Islamic
notes gained seven basis points to 16.8 percent today, according
to Bloomberg composite bond trader prices. The price fell 0.3
cent to 106.825 on the dollar.  
 “The markets in the Middle East look constructive,” said
 Mohieddine Kronfol , a managing director at Algebra Capital Ltd.
in Dubai, who favors Islamic bonds from Malaysia, Dubai and
Indonesia. “We are working through a lot of important credit
issues and will continue to trade cautiously over the next three
months.” California-based Franklin Resources Inc. owns 40
percent of Algebra Capital.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        