-- Dunkin' Donuts Drivers in New England to Resume Talks After Strike Threat
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-07-01T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/dunkin-donuts-drivers-in-new-england-to-resume-talks-after-strike-threat.html

          
          
             A supplier for 2,500  Dunkin’ Brands
Inc.  restaurants in New England and the union representing its
delivery drivers will resume talks today after the workers
threatened to strike.  
 Teamsters Local 25, representing 200 employees, and
Northeast DCP, Dunkin’s largest distributor, will continue
discussions starting at 2:30 p.m. New York time, said  Leigh Strope , a spokeswoman for the Teamsters. The union said this
week it would strike and gave a deadline of tomorrow for talks
to continue. DCP, owned by Dunkin’ Donuts franchises, has
bargained in good faith, said Patty Healy, a spokeswoman.  
 The workers, who make deliveries to Dunkin’ Donuts and
Baskin-Robbins restaurants, joined the Teamsters last August and
have one year to sign a contract with DCP or there may be a
decertification vote. The sides met for a 22nd time on June 28.
The Teamsters are prepared to strike and boycott Dunkin’
locations if negotiations don’t meet expectations, Strope said.  
 “We’re hopeful the company is serious this time, but we’re
not taking any chances,” Strope said. “These workers need a
fair contract and it’s time to get it done.”  
 Closely held Dunkin’ Brands has no role in the negotiations
and hopes an agreement can be reached soon, according to an e-
mailed statement.  
 “We expect business as usual at Dunkin’ Donuts,”  Michelle King , a spokeswoman for Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’
Brands, said in the e-mail. “DCP has taken steps to
ensure that they can service our restaurants.”  
 A strike would affect all of Dunkin’s restaurants in New
England, Strope said today in an e-mail. The action may include
picketing and whatever action is necessary to stop deliveries,
she said. DCP, based in Bellingham, Massachusetts, has
replacement drivers ready and is taking steps to ensure that
deliveries will continue.  
 “Our expectation is it will delay us by a couple of hours
on our routes, but it will not shut down business,” Healy said.  
 Dunkin’ Donuts is a unit of Dunkin’ Brands Inc., which is
owned by Bain Capital LLC, the Carlyle Group and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP. The company has more than 9,000 Dunkin’ Donuts and
6,000 Baskin-Robbins restaurants.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        