-- LeBron James Welcomes Teams to Ohio as Free Agency Begins
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/lebron-james-welcomes-his-nba-suitors-to-ohio-as-free-agent-season-begins.html

          
          
             LeBron James  will meet teams on his
own turf -- in Ohio -- as the National Basketball Association’s
free agency period begins today.  
 As of 12:01 a.m. New York time, the NBA’s 30 teams are
permitted to contact members of the free-agent class that
features James, a two-time Most Valuable Player for the
Cleveland Cavaliers, and All-Stars such as  Dwyane Wade ,  Chris Bosh ,  Amar’e Stoudemire  and  Joe Johnson .  
 “It’s a special time in NBA history with the amount of
great free agents who are out there,” Sacramento Kings owner
 Joe Maloof  said in an interview. “It’s really going to be fun
for the fans to try to figure out where these different players
are going to end up.”  
 James, 25, is the marquee free agent in this year’s class,
having won the NBA’s MVP award the past two years while leading
the Cavaliers to a 127-37 record. James’s business manager
Maverick Carter told ESPN last week that James would visit with
team representatives in Ohio instead of going on a recruiting
tour. Carter didn’t return telephone calls or e-mails seeking
comment.  
 The New Jersey Nets, with new owner  Mikhail Prokhorov  and
with rapper and minority owner  Jay-Z , a 10-time Grammy winner
who is friends with James, will be among the teams to make their
presentations today, Yahoo! Sports reported, citing people in
the NBA it didn’t identify. The Nets are scheduled to move to a
new arena in Brooklyn, New York, for the 2012-13 season.  
 In the Running  
 The New York Knicks, Chicago Bulls and Miami Heat are among
the other teams that have cleared salary-cap space and will make
pitches to James. The Cavaliers, for whom the Akron, Ohio,
native played for his seven NBA seasons, will as well.  
 NBA teams can’t sign free agents to contracts until July 8.
The league’s union contract includes a maximum salary, so teams
have to use other methods to lure players.  
 Some clubs try to convince free agents that their style of
play offers the best chance of success, said  Chris Webber , a
five-time All-Star who played in the NBA from 1993-2008. The
Cavaliers have had the NBA’s best record the past two seasons,
yet James hasn’t won a championship.  
 “I would expect teams to be critical of his game in a
positive way,” Webber, 37, an analyst for  NBA TV , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s to let him know that they’ve been
watching him and that they can make it better for him and easier
for him than it was in the past.”  
 Three Trips  
 NBA rules allow free agents to make three trips to their
city of up to three days each. Clubs can cover the travel,
lodging and meal expenses for a player, his agent and up to
three guests.  
 While free agents such as James could be wined and dined by
the Knicks in New York City’s most exclusive restaurants, or
taken by the Heat to the trendiest spots in Miami’s South Beach,
owners and former players say what matters most are the
opportunities on the court, not off it.  
 “All these big-time free agents, they want to win,”
Maloof, 54, said during an interview last month in New York.
“You can go to the best place in the world, but what good is it
if you’re not going to win? What good is it if you don’t have
the right coaching staff or ownership? That’s why I think
they’re looking, because they want to position themselves in the
best place to win.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     LeBron James, a two-time Most Valuable Player for the Cleveland Cavaliers. Photographer: Jesse D. Garrabrant/NBAE via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
