-- Mediaset Cutting Prices of Pay-TV Product After Rival Sky Italia's Move
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-07-01T08:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/mediaset-cutting-prices-of-pay-tv-product-after-rival-sky-italia-s-move.html

          
          
             Mediaset SpA,  the broadcaster
controlled by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , said first-half
advertising sales in Italy rose 5 percent and that it will cut
pay-television prices after cuts by rival  Sky Italia SpA.   
 “There are some positive signals in the ad market, but it
remains difficult to read,” Vice Chairman  Pier Silvio Berlusconi , the prime minister’s son, said at a presentation
late yesterday. “We’re confident we’ll do much better than last
year. The economic situation is weighing on spending decisions
by investors.”  
 On May 11, Mediaset said advertising revenue in the first
five months was expected to be “essentially in line” with the
trend in the first three months. Gross TV ad sales in Italy
gained 5.2 percent to 679.4 million euros ($830 million) in the
first quarter. Mediaset runs three free-to-air TV channels and
is expanding in digital-terrestrial broadcasting, where it has a
pay-TV offering called Premium, as well as free channels. It
competes with state-owned RAI SpA and  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp.-run satellite broadcaster Sky Italia.  
 Sky Italia, which had 4.7 million clients at the end of
March, is betting on high-definition programming of films and
soccer games in Italy’s Serie A league to attract clients.
Mediasat’s pay-TV unit had 4.4 million active customers as of
yesterday. That number technically fell to 2.4 million today, as
some subscription cards expired on June 30.  
 Movies, Soccer  
 On June 28, Sky Italia said it’s cutting the entry-level
price for packages of movies and soccer and other sports by 26
percent as competition increases. It will offer channel
groupings at 29 euros a month, which compares with the 26-euro
list price, excluding promotions, that Mediaset’s pay-TV service
offers for packages that include soccer channels.  
 Berlusconi said Mediaset is offering a promotion of its
soccer and film package at 14 euros a month until the end of
2010. “The competition between us and Sky is good for
customers, but our offerings remain more competitive than
Sky’s,” he said.  
 He reiterated that the company’s pay-TV business will break
even this year and said that subscribers tripled compared with a
year ago.  
 Sky “will more and more lever on HD standard and on a
superior number of broadcasted channels to preserve its
positioning of premium offer,” Banca Akros analyst  Andrea Devita  wrote in a note.  
 Mediaset is happy with its accord with Promotora de
Informaciones SA, known as Prisa, Berlusconi said. Gestevision
Telecinco SA, a Mediaset unit, agreed in April to buy TV station
Cuatro and a 22 percent stake in pay-TV business Digital Plus
from Prisa. The Digital Plus stake is “a good starting point for
entering pay-TV in Spain,” Berlusconi said, adding that Mediaset
doesn’t plan to raise the holding for the time being.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        