-- Medtronic, Monsanto, Warner Music, Coach, Eaton: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-01T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/medtronic-monsanto-warner-music-coach-eaton-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Medtronic Inc. ’s CoreValve unit
didn’t infringe  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. ’s European patent for
artificial heart-valve technology, a U.K. appeals court ruled.  
 A panel of three judges at the Court of Appeal in London
yesterday upheld a January 2009 trial-court ruling that
determined Edwards’s patent was “valid, but not infringed.”  
 “Following argument, we were able to form a clear
conclusion to the effect that the CoreValve product did not
infringe,” Judge Robin Jacob said in the ruling.  
 Edwards sued Irvine, California-based CoreValve over an
invention for  valve replacement  using blood-vessel catheters,
without open-heart surgery. Minneapolis-based Medtronic acquired
CoreValve in April 2009 for $700 million, after the dispute with
Edwards had already started.  
 “The ruling has no effect on sales” of the Edwards’
Sapien heart valves “in the U.K. or any other country,”
Edwards spokesman Michael George said yesterday in an e-mail.  
 In April, a U.S. jury in Wilmington, Delaware, awarded
Edwards $73 million in damages for infringing a U.S. patent for
the same technology. Medtronic in February said a German appeals
court ruled that the CoreValve system didn’t infringe a related
patent in that country.  
 The lower court rejected Medtronic’s claim that the Edwards
patent is invalid. The appeal court let that finding stand and
didn’t consider it on appeal, since it held that Medtronic
wasn’t infringing.  
 The patent relates to a heart valve mounted on a
cylindrical stent that can collapse and expand. Jacob ruled that
“cylindrical” in the patent implied the stent should have a
consistent diameter. Medtronic’s stent flares at one end.  
 Monsanto Profit Drops on Competition, Corn-Seed Earnings  
 Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest seed company, posted a 45
percent drop in third-quarter  profit  as its Roundup herbicide
lost money and corn-seed earnings fell.  
 Net income declined to $384 million, or 70 cents a share,
in the three months through May from $694 million, or $1.25, a
year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said yesterday in a
statement. Sales fell 6.3 percent to $2.96 billion.  
 The unit that makes glyphosate-based weedkillers including
Roundup, the world’s best-selling herbicide, lost $189 million
after Monsanto cut prices by more than half to compete with
generics. Profit from corn seed, the company’s most valuable
product, dropped 9.5 percent to $570 million on unchanged sales.  
 Increased sales of cotton and soybean seeds, helping to
make up for price cuts in Roundup. SmartStax corn and Roundup
Ready 2 Yield soybeans, Monsanto’s newest seeds, were planted on
fewer acres than the company projected and  DuPont Co. ’s Pioneer
unit gained U.S. market share. Chief Executive Officer Hugh
Grant said in April Monsanto is unlikely to meet his 2007 goal
of doubling company gross profit by 2012.  
 Corn-seed costs rose because of new product launches in the
U.S. and Brazil, Chief Financial Officer Carl Casale said on a
conference call.  
 Profit in the fiscal year through August will be $2.40 to
$2.60 a share, Monsanto said, repeating a May 27 forecast. It
also reiterated that fiscal 2011 profit will grow by “mid-
teen” percentages. Gains will come exclusively from seed sales
and genetic licenses, the company said.  
 Lower crop prices may pressure Monsanto product pricing
next year, Mark Gulley, a New York-based analyst at Soleil
Securities, said by phone.  
 SmartStax, developed with  Dow Chemical Co. , cost 17 percent
more than earlier versions of premium corn seed.  
 Monsanto will halve the premiums it charged this year for
Smartstax and Roundup Ready 2 seeds to encourage trials of the
products, Grant said. The reduction in Roundup Ready 2 comes
largely from making seed treatments optional to growers, he
said.  
 Monsanto planned to charge 42 percent more for Roundup
Ready 2 this year than the original herbicide-tolerant beans
introduced in 1996. The original beans lose patent protection in
2014, after which the company has said rivals may make generic
copies and farmers can replant saved seed containing the off-
patent technology.  
 The Justice Department is investigating whether biotech
seed patents are being abused to extend or maintain industry
dominance, according to Christine Varney, who heads the
department’s antitrust division.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Movie-Piracy Websites Are Shut Down After Raids by U.S.  
 U.S. Customs officials began closing websites that offer
pirated movies, fulfilling a promise to crack down on illegal
downloads that Hollywood executives say cost the U.S. economy
more than $20 billion a year.  
 The Homeland Security Department’s Immigration & Customs
Enforcement arm announced  Operation In Our Sites  yesterday at
 Walt Disney Studios  in Burbank, California. Federal agents
seized nine website domain names, and assets from 15 bank,
PayPal, investment and advertising accounts. They also served
search warrants on four residences.  
 Greater enforcement is a lobbying priority for the
entertainment industry, which has lost sales as consumers gain
access to free music and movies on the Web. The administration
of President Barack Obama is intensifying efforts to rein in
pirated movies and music, Victoria Espinel, the U.S.
intellectual property enforcement officer, told the Senate
Judiciary Committee on June 23, vowing to shut non-U.S. sites.  
 The U.S. sought search warrants to retrieve data from the
hard drives of servers in the U.S. that are used to deliver
movies, a government employee with knowledge of the operation
said before the announcement. Sites located off U.S. shores were
to be blocked, with users re-directed to a U.S. government site,
said the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly on
pending enforcement actions.  
 The targeted domain names include TVshack.net, movies-
links.tv, now-movies.com, planetmoviez.com and filespump.com,
according to a statement from Immigration & Customs.  
 Cases are expected to be referred to the U.S. Attorney’s
office in southern New York and to another unidentified office,
the person said.  
 The federal action was announced by John Morton,
Immigration & Customs assistant secretary, along with Walt
Disney Studios President Alan Bergman and Frederick Huntsberry,
chief operating officer at Paramount Pictures, a unit of New
York-based  Viacom Inc.  Also attending were members of Directors
Guild of America and other trade unions who argue that piracy
harms jobs.  
 Led Zeppelin Accused of Infringing on ‘Dazed and Confused’  
 Led Zeppelin guitarist Jimmy Page was sued for copyright
infringement by a New York musician who says the band’s “Dazed
and Confused” infringes his song by the same name.  
 Jake Holmes, who renewed the registration for his version
of “Dazed and Confused” with the U.S. Copyright Office in
1995, claims the U.K. band “knowingly and willfully” infringed
his copyright.  
 In the complaint filed June 29 in federal court in Los
Angeles, Holmes says the band made unauthorized use of his
material by performing and collecting royalties on several
recordings it made that allegedly infringe.  
 Co-defendant with Page is  Warner Music Group Corp.  and
several of its subsidiaries.  
 Holmes asked the court for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs, and money damages, including the profits the
defendants realized from their alleged infringement.  
 He is represented by Daniel A. Johnson of Sullivan Johnson
LLP of Calabasas, California, and Charles J. Sanders from the
Charles J. Sanders Law Office of Briarcliff Manor, New York.  
 The case is Jack Holmes v. James Patrick Page,
2:10-cv-04789-DMG-PJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Coach Tips Off Customs, Police in Maryland Counterfeit Case  
 Zhi Cheng Lin, the owner of a Glen Burnie, Maryland, store
where $350,000 in knockoff handbags were seized in December,
pleaded guilty to criminal trademark infringement in a Maryland
state court, the Maryland Gazette  reported .  
 The shop, Gift World, had loose Dolce & Gabana Spa, and
Jimmy Choo emblems, even though labels inside many of the purses
indicated they were made in China, and their price tags were a
fraction of the cost of the legitimate items, according to the
newspaper.  
 Law enforcement was tipped off by a shopper who called
 Coach Inc. , which then contacted both local police and U.S.
Customs and Immigration, according to the Gazette.  
 Lin, who was sentenced to pay restitution and to serve two
years’ probation, told the court through an interpreter that he
didn’t know much about U.S. law, and would never do such a thing
again, the newspaper reported.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Eaton’s $1.5 million Sanctions Order Stands, High Court Rules  
 Eaton Corp. ’s Eaton Aerospace unit must pay sanctions of
more than $1.5 million after Mississippi’s Supreme Court
confirmed a lower court’s order, the Clarion-Ledger  reported .  
 The case stems from Cleveland-based Eaton’s allegations
that five former engineers took the company’s trade secrets with
them to Frisby Aerospace, according to the newspaper.  
 The sanctions were for deliberately not providing records,
the newspaper reported.  
 Many of the court records are sealed, and counsel for both
sides declined to discuss further the case that also contained
allegations that Hinds County Circuit Judge Bobby Delaughter
improperly influenced by an Eaton employee, according to the
Clarion-Ledger.  
 Trade Secrets Fee Award Not Dischargeable, Bankruptcy Court Says  
 An attorney-fee award in a trade secrets case is
enforceable, even in a bankruptcy, a bankruptcy judge in Hawaii
ruled.  
 A California state court ruled in 2007 that Nicole Marie
Snegosky took trade secrets from San Francisco’s  Research Data
Group Inc.  and brought them to a competitor,  Zach’s Investment
Research Inc.  of Chicago.  
 A 2008 settlement agreement reduced the judgment to
$350,000 to be paid in installments. Snegosky then filed a
bankruptcy petition and argued that the judgment shouldn’t be
enforced.  
 Research Data Group claimed she should still have to pay
the judgment even after her bankruptcy filing.  
 Judge Robert J. Faris agreed. In his June 29 ruling, he
said that bankruptcy law says debts for fraud, embezzlement or
larceny can’t be discharged.  
 He then looked at California state law and determined that
Snegosky’s trade-secret misappropriation could be considered
larceny and embezzlement, and that she acted willfully and
maliciously.  
 He said he will issue a separate ruling determining that
all the claims made by her former employer can’t be eliminated
by the bankruptcy filing.  
 Research Data Group was represented by  Gregory W. Kugle  of
Honolulu’s  Damon Key Leong Kupchak Hastert ;   William A. Logan 
Jr. of Walnut Creek, California-based  Logan & Giles LLP  and Todd
Y. Hirai of Honolulu.  
 Snegosky was represented by Bradley R. Tamm,  Lissa D.
Shults  and Seth K. Weaver of  Shults & Tamm ALC , and Stuart T.
Ing of the  Law Office of Stuart T. Ing , all of Honolulu.  
 The case is Research Data Group Inc. v. Snegosky, 09-90013,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Hawaii (Honolulu).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        