-- Eisai Will Sell Arena's Hunger-Curbing Obesity Pill in the U.S. If Cleared
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-01T21:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/eisai-will-sell-arena-s-hunger-curbing-obesity-pill-in-the-u-s-if-cleared.html

          
          
             Eisai Co.  will sell a hunger-curbing
pill from  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.  in the U.S. if the obesity
drug is approved. Arena’s shares rose 16 percent on the news.  
 Eisai, maker of the world’s best-selling Alzheimer’s
treatment Aricept, will pay Arena the equivalent of about a
third of the revenue it gets from the drug, lorcaserin,
according to a statement from the San Diego-based company today.
Arena also gets an initial payment of $50 million and $90
million more when the treatment is approved and ready for sale.  
 The deal gives Arena, a 13-year-old company seeking its
first product approval, a partner with significant marketing
ability, said  Jack Lief , Arena’s chairman and chief executive
officer. The drug may compete with new weight-loss medicines
from Vivus Inc. and Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. that also await
regulatory clearance in a country where the number of obese
people has doubled in 30 years.  
 “One-third of adults in the U.S. are obese and another
third are overweight,” Lief said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The market is very large and physicians will figure
out how to use our drug very nicely.”  
 Arena said the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is slated
to decide by Oct. 22 on whether to approve lorcaserin.  
 In exchange for exclusive U.S. marketing rights, Eisai will
pay Arena 31.5 percent of revenue from lorcaserin, and as much
as 36.5 percent on the portion of annual sales exceeding $750
million, according to the statement.  
 Surging Market  
 The U.S. market for weight-loss drugs will probably  expand 
ninefold to $2 billion by 2016, according to Decision Resources
Inc. The worldwide market for those drugs will be worth $2.7
billion by that time, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based drug
research firm said.  
 The deal was seen as favorable to Arena by Phil Nadeau, an
analyst for Cowen & Co. in New York, because “they preserve for
Arena a good amount of lorcaserin’s expected profits, without
requiring Arena to shoulder any of the marketing costs.” Nadeau
expects the company to outperform the Nadsdaq by 15 percent to
20 percent over the next 12 months, he said in a note today to
investors.  
 Eisai  has 500 sales representatives in the U.S. selling
Aricept and Aciphex, a drug for gastric reflux, said  Steve Sembler , chief commercial officer for U.S. operations at the
Tokyo-based company.  
 Arena rose 49 cents to $3.56 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading. The shares have fallen 28 percent in
the past 12 months. Eisai lost 1.9 percent to 2,900 yen in Tokyo
trading today.  
 Feeling Full  
 Lorcaserin stimulates a receptor that responds to the brain
chemical serotonin and can promote feelings of fullness and
reduce food intake, according to a  review  in the online journal
 Formulary . This is part of the same complex of receptors
targeted by fenfluramine, an ingredient in Wyeth’s fen-phen drug
combination that was pulled from the U.S. market in 1997 after
being linked to heart damage and a fatal lung disorder.  
 The difference is that lorcaserin goes after just one
serotonin receptor, known as 2C, and specifically avoids the 2B
receptor that is active in the heart and may cause
cardiovascular risk, said  Dominic Behan , Arena’s chief
scientific officer, in a June 25 telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Eisai Co.  
                       
                         
                           Robert Gilhooly/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Eisai Co. will sell a weight-loss drug. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eisai Co. will sell a weight-loss drug. Photographer: Robert Gilhooly/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ARENA PHARMACEUTICALS  
                       
                         
                           Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Arena Pharmaceuticals' headquarters in San Diego, California. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Arena Pharmaceuticals' headquarters in San Diego, California. Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
