-- Helicopter Company Returns Workers to Offshore Sites as Storm Alex Weakens
-- Barbara Powell
-- 2010-07-01T19:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/helicopter-company-returns-workers-to-offshore-sites-as-storm-alex-weakens.html

          
          
             Bristow U.S. LLC, a helicopter
services company, is returning oil and gas workers to deepwater
rigs and platforms operated by drillers and producers in the
western Gulf of Mexico as Tropical Storm Alex loses power.  
 “This morning, numerous clients started remanning
offshore,” said Kade Monlezun, manager of business development
for Air Logistics LLC, a unit of Bristow Group Inc.  
 About 21 percent of crude-oil production in the Gulf of
Mexico and 14 percent of natural-gas output remained idled
today, the U.S. government said. Eight rigs and 74 production
platforms were evacuated, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement said earlier. About 930 workers were
removed from offshore Gulf platforms yesterday.  
 “Where the weather continues to improve and we are able to
fly to those properties closer to the storm, I anticipate we’ll
begin returning personnel later this afternoon, and for sure,
Friday morning,” said Monlezun, whose company operates more
than 100 helicopters in the region.  
 BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, the Gulf’s biggest oil
producers, said they evacuated hundreds of workers from
platforms in the western and central Gulf. BP said today all its
Gulf platforms are resuming normal operations.  
 Alex, which came ashore overnight in Mexico, forced the
shutdown of a quarter of the U.S.’s Gulf of Mexico oil
production. At its height, Alex reached Category 2 hurricane
status with winds of 100 mph (161 kph), the earliest Atlantic
hurricane since 1995 and the first of the 2010 season.  Flood
warnings  and watches were issued across South Texas, with as
much as 10 inches of rain projected.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        