-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall a Third Day on China's Economic Growth Concern
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-01T21:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/emerging-market-stocks-fall-a-third-day-on-china-s-economic-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
third day, sending the benchmark index to a three-week low, as
sales of existing U.S. homes fell, Chinese manufacturing growth
slowed more than economists predicted and Moody’s Investors
Service said it may downgrade Spain’s credit rating.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 1 percent to 909.30 at
5 p.m. in New York, the lowest close since June 10. Russia’s
Micex benchmark index of stocks fell 4.2 percent, the steepest
decline among major developing-nation benchmark indexes. South
Africa’s rand slid 0.9 percent against the dollar and the
Hungarian forint lost 0.3 percent versus the euro.  
 China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index dropped to 52.1 in June,
missing the 53.2 median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Moody’s said in a statement yesterday it put Spain’s top
credit ranking on review for a possible downgrade. A U.S.
government report today showing more Americans applied for
jobless benefits last week added to concern the global recovery
will falter.  
 The number of contracts to purchase previously owned houses
plunged in May by more than twice as much as forecast after a
homebuyer tax credit expired. The index of pending home resales
dropped 30 percent from the prior month, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed today in Washington.  
 “The latest indicators are pointing to a slowdown,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“The correction is far from over.”  
 The MSCI gauge has retreated 8.1 percent this year, while
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  has tumbled 28 percent to lead
declines in major emerging markets. Currencies in 17 of 26
developing nations tracked by Bloomberg have weakened against
the dollar in 2010.  
 Commodity Stocks Fall  
 The China manufacturing report spurred declines in
commodities including oil, copper and nickel, dragging down
stocks of companies producing those raw materials. Jiangxi
Copper Co., China’s largest producer of the metal, slid 2.6
percent to a 14-month low in Shanghai.  
 Brazil’s  Bovepsa  stock index rose for the first time in
four days as banks rallied following Banco do Brasil SA’s 9.76
billion-real ($5.4 billion) share sale, overshadowing slowing
manufacturing growth from Brazil to China.  
 Banco do Brasil , Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
jumped the most since February, surging 6.1 percent.  
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel dropped 3.7 percent is Moscow
trading. Russia’s  Micex Index  retreated to the lowest since May
25.  
 The rand weakened to the lowest level in three weeks
against the dollar amid concern that workers at Eskom Holdings
Ltd., South Africa’s state power utility, may strike. Eskom
produces about 95 percent of the country’s power.  
 Borrowing Costs  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 3.39
percentage points, the highest since June 8, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Initial jobless claims increased by 13,000 to 472,000 in
the week ended June 26, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists forecast jobless applications would fall
to 455,000 from an initially reported 457,000 for the prior
week, according to the median of 46 projections in a Bloomberg
survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        