-- Emerging Corporate Bond Sales Jump as Yields Drop
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-07-02T08:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/emerging-market-corporate-bond-sales-jump-as-yields-drop-below-governments.html

          
          
             Emerging-market companies are
increasing bond sales this year at the fastest pace in more than
a decade while U.S. and European corporate borrowing slumps as
investors shift to debt from the fastest-growing economies.  
 Companies from  America Movil SAB , Latin America’s largest
wireless carrier, to Citic Bank International Ltd., a unit of
China’s biggest investment firm, raised $79 billion from
international bond sales in the past six months, a 146 percent
increase from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the U.S., corporate bond sales sank 29 percent in
the first half from a year ago and European issuance retreated
33 percent, making the worldwide total the lowest since 2004.  
 Emerging-market companies  are taking advantage of a push by
investors into economies the  International Monetary Fund  expects
to expand about four times faster than the developed world. The
increased demand and a reluctance to lend to governments amid
Europe’s debt crisis drove emerging-market company bond  yields 
below developing-nation  sovereign  notes for the first time in
three years, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  
 “It’s a good moment because the low rates are very good,”
 Carlos Garcia Moreno , chief financial officer of Mexico City-
based America Movil, said in a phone interview. “You have a
combination of substantially bigger growth today in emerging
markets than in developed markets, and the appetite to take on
debt in those emerging markets is very different.”  
 Sberbank, Vnesheconombank  
 The company, which took over holding group Carso Global
Telecom SAB and land-line phone carrier Telmex Internacional SAB
last month in a $23 billion deal, may look to extend the
maturities of the acquired companies’ short-term debt to take
advantage of low interest rates, he said.  
 Russian banks made their biggest foray into international
bond markets in two years this week. OAO  Sberbank , Russia’s
biggest lender, raised $1 billion from the sale of five-year
bonds on June 30. Vnesheconombank, the government’s development
bank, plans to issue the same amount.  
 More corporate issuance is on the way as a lack of bank
lending pushes companies to the bond market, said  Jerome Booth ,
who helps oversee about $33 billion in emerging-market assets at
Ashmore Investment Management Ltd. in London.  
 “Banks aren’t lending and so accessing the bond markets is
becoming much more attractive and governments are pushing it,”
Booth said.  
 Growth Prospects  
 The average yield on corporate notes in the second quarter
slid 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to 6.36 percent,
according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan. That compares with an
average government yield that declined nine to 6.38 percent.  
 Concern the global economic recovery is slowing drove
emerging corporate  bond yields  up 42 basis points from a second-
quarter low of 6.07 percent on May 5, to 6.49 percent yesterday.  
 Emerging-market companies  are increasing their share of
global debt issuance as developing nation economies expand 5.1
percent in 2010, compared with 1.3 percent growth in the
industrialized world, according to the IMF.  
 China, whose economy is growing at annual rate of 11.9
percent, has a budget roughly in balance, while the U.S., the
U.K and Spain have deficits equal to about 10 percent of gross
domestic product, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “These corporates are operating typically in rapidly
growing economies and they are now a bit more sophisticated and
are in a position to look at diversifying their capital
structures -- and debt and capital markets are part of it,”
said  Slim Feriani , chief executive officer at London-based
Advance Emerging Capital Limited, which oversees more than $600
million in funds in emerging and frontier markets.  
 Three-Hour Sale  
 Funds investing in developing country debt received net
inflows of $17 billion in the first half of the year, the most
on record and up from a net $4.5 billion outflow in the January
to June period of 2009.  
 CEZ AS , the largest Czech power producer, raised 500
million euros ($626 million) on June 23 in a bond sale that
received 2.5 times that amount in orders, said  Jan Brozik , the
company’s director of financing in Prague. The bonds were priced
to yield 198.4 basis points more than the benchmark German
bunds. The company sold 750 million euros of 15-year debt on
April 8 at 180 basis points over bunds, Bloomberg data show.  
 “We managed to fill the book in just three hours,” said
Brozik. “Investors have started to regard us as a standard
European utility that happens to be incorporated in the Czech
Republic.”  
 Double Yields  
 The average yield on bonds issued by emerging-market
companies is still about double that for  peers  in western
Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market  corporate bonds  instead
of U.S. Treasuries rose 70 basis points to 360 in the second
quarter.  
 America Movil , the company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , raised $3.1 billion issuing bonds in euros and pounds on
June 17. The company’s 3.75 percent notes due in 2017 yield 3.72
percent, 44 basis points more than similar-maturity securities
issued by Vodafone Plc, the world’s largest mobile-phone
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 America Movil is rated A2 by  Moody’s Investors Service , the
sixth-highest investment grade and two levels above Mexico’s
Baa1 rating.  
 Government Encouragement  
 Emerging-market companies are being encouraged by local
authorities to tap international bond markets to improve
corporate standards, Feriani said.  The China Securities
Regulatory Commission  has urged Chinese companies to issue more
bonds, partly in order to reduce their reliance on bank
financing.  
 Hong Kong-based  Citic  raised $500 million from an issue of
6.875 percent 10-year bonds on June 21.  
 “Having to go to the bond market means you’re competing
with other issuers in a more transparent market and investors in
the bond market have choice,” said  Chris Palmer , who manages $5
billion of assets at Gartmore Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “When it comes to high yield and higher-yielding and
emerging-market debt, they have a world of choice.”  
 -- With assistance from  Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City and
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague. Editors:  Lester Pimentel ,  Gavin Serkin   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'It’s a good moment because the low rates are very good,' Carlos Garcia Moreno, chief financial officer of Mexico City-based America Movil, said. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Anthony Crescenzi, market strategist and portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Crescenzi, speaking from Newport Beach, California, also discusses the outlook for the global economy and financial markets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
