-- Lending Rules Will Push Indian Companies to Foreign Banks as Expenses Rise
-- Suprotip Ghosh
-- 2010-07-01T05:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/lending-rules-will-push-indian-companies-to-foreign-banks-gmr-group-says.html

          
          
             India loan pricing regulations in
effect from today will push up borrowing costs and force some
companies to turn to foreign or non-bank lenders for working
capital, according to GMR Group.  
 Reserve Bank of India rules that banks must not lend below
a published base rate mean the market for short-term financing
“will virtually disappear from the public sector banks,” said
 Subba Rao Amarthaluru , chief financial officer for GMR, the
infrastructure company that owns New Delhi international airport.  
 “Several of us have been borrowing short-term loans at
below what will be the new base rate, between 6 percent and 6.5
percent,” Amarthaluru said in a phone interview from Mumbai.
“What is the choice now? Either you will have to go to non-
banking finance corporations or to foreign banks.”  
 State Bank of India , the nation’s largest, set its minimum
loan rate at 7.5 percent on June 29 and was matched yesterday by
peers including ICICI Bank Ltd. and Axis Bank Ltd. India’s
central bank announced the new system on April 9, seeking to
increase transparency in borrowing costs and to make lending
rates track changes in monetary policy.  
 Banks may set the base rate using any benchmark reflecting
cost and other elements that are common across all categories of
borrowers, according to the RBI. They may change their
calculation methodology until the end of this year.  
 Loan Reform  
 India’s former system of so-called benchmark prime lending
rates, or BPLRs, fell short of the regulator’s transparency
objectives as banks were allowed to lend below them, RBI
Executive Director Deepak Mohanty said last month.  
 That led to a “disconnect” between published rates and
real borrowing costs, First Global Research said in a note to
clients in March. State-run banks offered credit at rates
ranging from 4.25 percent to 18 percent in September while the
BPLRs were 11 percent to 13.5 percent, according to the report.  
 The  base rate rules  don’t apply to non-banking finance
corporations, or NBFCs, according to the RBI’s website.  
 “We will have to see if foreign banks and NBFCs will be
able to cater to the entire market for short-term loans,”  S.S. Ranjan , chief financial officer for State Bank of India, said in
a phone interview from Mumbai.  
 HDFC Bank Ltd. has set its rate at 7.25 percent and the
Indian unit of DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Singapore’s biggest bank,
said it will charge at least 7 percent interest.  
 Non-Indian banks licensed to operate in the country include
Standard Chartered Plc, HSBC Holdings Plc and Citigroup Inc.,
according to the RBI.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suprotip Ghosh  in Mumbai 
 sghosh47@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        