-- Environmentalists Sue U.S. to Stop Genetic-Hybrid Tree Tests in 7 States
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-07-01T21:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/environmentalists-sue-to-block-genetic-hybrid-tree-tests-in-seven-states.html

          
          
             Environmental groups sued the U.S.
Department of Agriculture to block tests of a genetically-
engineered hybrid of the eucalyptus tree in “secret sites”
across the southern states.  
 The groups, including the Center for Biological Diversity
and the Sierra Club, said today in a statement that the
government agency approved the tests at 28 undisclosed sites in
seven states “with minimal environmental review.” The tests
will be conducted by a joint venture that includes  International
Paper Co , the world’s largest maker of white paper used in
offices.  
 The fast-growing “cold-tolerant” genetically-engineered
eucalyptus trees could displace native species of plants and
increase the risk of wildfires, according to the complaint filed
in federal court in West Palm Beach, Florida.  
 ArborGen LLC, the venture that will conduct the tests, also
includes  MeadWestvaco Corp.  and Rubicon Ltd., according to the
statement. ArborGen may use the trees for pulp and biofuels,
said Marc Fink, with the Center for Biological Diversity. The
test sites are in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana,
Mississippi, South Carolina and Texas.  
 In the complaint, the environmental groups ask the court to
order the agriculture department to set aside the test permits
and prepare an impact study. They also seek a court order
barring ArborGen from allowing any of the trees to flower.  
 ‘Safe, Reliable’  
 “We don’t comment on pending litigation,”  Alison von Puschendorf , a spokeswoman for Richmond, Virginia-based
MeadWestvaco, said in an e-mail. “We are a partner of ArborGen
and support the research to develop safe, reliable solutions to
fiber needs for our products, and trials such as the one
ArborGen is leading are an important part of this research.”  
 Patty Neuhoff , a spokeswoman for Memphis, Tennessee-based
International Paper, deferred comment to ArborGen spokeswoman
 Nancy Hood , who wasn’t immediately available.  
 Caleb Weaver , a spokesman for the agriculture department,
said the agency doesn’t comment on “active litigation.” He
described the tests as “limited.” Efforts to reach Auckland, New
Zealand-based Rubicon weren’t successful.  
 The plaintiffs also include the Dogwood Alliance, the
Global Justice Ecology Project, the International Center for
Technology Assessment and the Center for Food Safety. Also named
as a defendant was the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service.  
 The plaintiffs provided a copy of the complaint. It wasn’t
immediately available on the court’s electronic docket.  
 The case is Center for Biological Diversity v. U.S.
Department of Agriculture, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        