-- Merkel Averts Disaster as Wulff Wins German Presidency Vote
-- Brian Parkin
-- 2010-07-01T09:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/merkel-s-candidate-wulff-wins-german-presidential-election-in-third-round.html

          
          
             Chancellor  Angela Merkel  averted an
unprecedented political setback as her candidate for the German
presidency,  Christian Wulff , won the largely ceremonial post
only after three ballots.  
 The secret vote by the 1,244-member assembly of federal
lawmakers and state delegates, stretching over more than nine
hours yesterday, marks “a serious shot across the bow for
Merkel,” said Richard Stoess, a political scientist at the Free
University in Berlin. While the result won’t bring down the
government, it’s “a disaster for her image and her standing.”  
 Prior to Wulff, just two of the 13 German  presidential
elections  since 1949 have gone to three rounds, the last time in
1994. The government-backed candidate won in all cases.
Yesterday’s vote came eight weeks after Merkel’s party suffered
its worst post-World War II election result in the most populous
state, costing her control of the upper house of parliament.  
 The election, called after the surprise resignation on May
31 of the incumbent,  Horst Koehler , was a test of Merkel’s
authority after coalition bickering over policies from health
care to tax cuts sapped public backing for the government as it
grapples with Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Merkel ‘Pleased’  
 “We can be pleased with the result,” Merkel said in an
interview with German public television late yesterday. “The
coalition did its job and will continue to do so. At the end, it
was a convincing result. I’m not going to start following up on
suspicions” about which delegates didn’t support Wulff.  
 While Merkel commanded a  21-seat majority  in the assembly,
Wulff failed to muster enough votes in two earlier rounds. The
rules change in the third round, with the candidate getting the
most votes winning.  
 Wulff, 51, the prime minister of  Lower Saxony  and a deputy
leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, got 625
votes to 494 votes for  Joachim Gauck , 70, a pro-democracy
activist and pastor from former East Germany nominated by the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens.  
 Delegates who snubbed Merkel’s pick “very likely weren’t
just those who simply preferred Gauck, but included dissenters
determined to take a swipe in secret at her record in office,”
 Hans-Juergen Hoffmann , head of Berlin-based pollster Psephos,
said by phone. “It shows there’s serious disgruntlement in the
ranks of the coalition over her leadership.”  
 Economic Rebound  
 The political setbacks for Merkel contrast with the rebound
of Europe’s biggest economy from recession. German  unemployment 
fell for a 12th month in June, the Federal Labor Agency said
yesterday.  Exports  are booming and the Ifo business-climate
index rose to its highest in two years.  The DAX Index  is one of
two euro-area equity benchmarks to avoid a decline this year.  
 The DAX sank 1 percent to 5,906.06 as of 11:06 a.m. in
Frankfurt today, a three-week low.  
 Merkel may yet face fallout from the ballot,  Thorsten Polleit , chief economist for Germany at Barclays Capital, said
in a research note.  
 The election “may spark a debate about the stability of
the conservative-liberal coalition, which could indeed become a
source of  financial market uncertainty ,” Polleit said.  
 The three-round vote “is a sign of weakness” for Merkel’s
coalition, Citigroup Global Markets analysts  Juergen Michels  and
 Tina Mortensen  said in a note. It “implies a risk of a
political stalemate in many policy areas” ahead.  
 Wulff, who is married with one daughter and a son, will be
sworn in tomorrow. Moving into the  Bellevue presidential palace 
in Berlin “with a young family” marks “a change also in terms
of looks and mentality,” Merkel said.  
 The chancellor “needs a breather” after the political
upheaval of recent months, Peter Matuschek, head of political
analysis at the Forsa polling company, said by phone. “There
are signs here and there that she’ll get it as the political
caste in Berlin eases into the summer recess and the classic
indicators on which the government leans --  unemployment ,
exports, consumer confidence -- start to brighten.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Christian Wulff, prime minister of Lower Saxony, who won German Presidency vote. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Philipp Encz reports on the election of Christian Wulff to the largely ceremonial post of German president in a secret vote that turned into a test of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s authority. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
