-- Eskom Electricity Strike to Damage Economy, Soccer World Cup, CEO Says
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-01T13:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/eskom-electricity-strike-to-damage-economy-soccer-world-cup-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s
state-run power utility, said the threat of a labor strike next
week may undermine the soccer World Cup and economic growth.  
 “We can’t afford” union demands, Chief Executive Officer
 Brian Dames  said in Johannesburg today. “A strike will have a
national impact, damage the economy and affect the World Cup.”  
 Eskom’s offer of an 8.5 percent pay increase and 1,000 rand
($130) housing allowance was rejected by the National Union of
Mineworkers and the National Union of Metalworkers. The unions
are demanding a 9 percent increase and 2,500 rand allowance. The
NUM, representing 16,000 of Eskom’s 37,000 workers, said it will
strike, while the Solidarity union is seeking more talks.  
 The company won’t be able to secure supply if all three
unions strike “for more than a few days,” Dames said.  
 South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy and the first
nation in the region to host the World Cup, is carrying out a
460 billion rand expansion project that seeks to avoid a repeat
of power cuts in 2008 that closed mines and smelters for days.  
 “We may face the same impact on the economy that we have
seen when we previously couldn’t supply,” said  Steve Lennon ,
Eskom’s managing director of corporate services.  
 South Africa’s electricity regulator agreed to allow Eskom
to raise tariffs in South Africa by 25 percent this year and 26
percent in each of the following two years, less than the annual
35 percent increase that the company had requested.  
 Eskom doesn’t plan to ask the regulator for an adjustment
of the tariffs to meet union pay demands, Dames said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        