-- Leu Defies Worldwide Selloff on Bets Romanian Central Bank Will Intervene
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-07-01T16:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/leu-defies-worldwide-selloff-on-bets-romanian-central-bank-will-intervene.html

          
          
             Romania’s leu gained for a second
day, defying declines in global assets on speculation the
central bank will increase interest rates to tame inflation and
buy the currency to protect loans in euros.  
 The leu strengthened 0.5 percent to 4.3424 per euro as of
6:23 p.m. in Bucharest, the only gainer among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and the biggest advance among
more than 170 global currencies. It fell to its weakest against
the euro on record on June 28.  
 The Bucharest-based central bank said it would act to limit
the effects of a hike in Romania’s value-added tax and “firmly
anchor inflation expectations at low levels” while seeking to
“avoid excessive exchange rate volatility.” The VAT, which was
increased to 24 percent from 19 percent on June 26 to plug a
budget hole, would “immediately trigger” a surge in inflation,
the policymaker said yesterday.  
 “Given inflationary risks, the National Bank of Romania
turned hawkish,”  Vlad Muscalu , an economist at ING Groep NV in
Bucharest, wrote in a report today. “The probability of a key
rate hike before the end of 2010 is higher and higher.”  
 The Hungarian forint, the world’s worst-performing currency
in the second quarter, and Poland’s zloty weakened 0.9 percent
against the euro today as riskier assets tumbled worldwide after
manufacturing growth in China and U.S. home sales missed
forecasts and Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s
credit rating.  
 Intervention  
 Hungarian, Polish and Romanian central banks may buy their
currencies to stop further selloffs because a large share of
loans are denominated in euros or Swiss francs, Copenhagen-based
analysts at Nordea Bank AB wrote in a report on June 29.  
 The Romanian policymaker’s statement on currency volatility
“basically says they may not allow too much leu weakening from
current levels,” Muscalu said in the ING report. “Given the
volume of forex reserves and volumes on local spot market, the
NBR may easily cap the pair if it wants to do so.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        