-- Europe Naphtha Exports to Asia to Tumble on China Slowdown: Energy Markets
-- Brian Murphy
-- 2010-07-01T11:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/europe-naphtha-exports-to-asia-to-slide-on-china-slowdown-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Naphtha exports from Europe to Asia
may drop to zero this month as demand from Chinese chemical
producers slows, making  forward prices  more expensive than those
for prompt delivery for the first time in eight months.  
 There may be no shipments of the oil product, used to make
gasoline and petrochemicals, in July, compared with 300,000
metric tons in June and 500,000 tons in May, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six Europe-based
traders, who declined to be identified as they aren’t authorized
to speak on transactions. The last time there were no European
exports to the region was in March, the traders said.  
 “The chemical market is still weak and China isn’t
buying,” said  Jinsu Yim , a Singapore-based analyst at Chemical
Market Associates Inc., which advises oil refiners, banks and
manufacturers.  
 The pace of economic growth in China may slow as the
country’s manufacturing sector expands less rapidly. The
government’s Purchasing Managers’ Index declined for a second
month to 52.1 from 53.9 in May, less than economists’ forecasts
in June. The Conference Board revised its leading economic index
for the world’s fastest-growing major economy to the smallest
gain in five months in April. Naphtha is used in everything from
washing-machine casings to plastic bags.  
 Front-month  naphtha swaps traded at $68.80 a barrel in
Singapore today, 10 cents cheaper than the August contract,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the first time
since October that the front-month swap traded at a discount to
the next-month contract for three consecutive days, indicating
current demand is weak, traders said.  
 ‘Massive Growth’  
 Chinese  naphtha imports  have declined in the first five
months of year, according to the country’s Customs General
Administration. They rose to a record 359,554 tons in October
last year, from none in 2005.  
 “China’s massive growth in naphtha demand cannot be
sustained at these levels, which means Asian prices are under
pressure,” said  David Wech , head of research at Vienna-based
consultants JBC Energy GMbH.  
 Naphtha  for delivery in Japan fell 10 percent in the second
quarter to $654.13 a ton, the biggest decline since the three
months ended September 2009, according to Bloomberg data. Prices
closed at $634.50 a ton at the end of trading in Asia today.
Cargoes for prompt delivery in Northwest Europe were trading at
$638 a ton yesterday, the lowest since June 8.  
 Asian and Middle East naphtha production has risen as
refiners resumed operations after maintenance work. Japan’s
Cosmo Oil Co. said it started a crude unit at its Chiba refinery
on June 23 after it was shut on April 14. Kuwait National
Petroleum Co. is scheduled to resume production at refinery
units in Mina Abdulla after maintenance in April and June.  
 Slack Demand  
 The current lower demand for naphtha in Asia is shown by
spot naphtha cargoes from the  Middle East  trading last week at a
premium of about $9 a ton to benchmark Persian Gulf prices,
according to two traders in Asia. This is less than half the
premium Kuwait set in June for term supplies to Asian buyers for
August to July next year, two traders with knowledge of the
company’s negotiations said at the time.  
 European refiners will struggle to make a profit by selling
cargoes to Asia as the price difference between the two regions
is about $13 a ton, compared with the approximate $20 a ton it
costs to charter a tanker to carry 80,000 tons of naphtha,
according to the trader survey.  
 While Asian demand dries up, the U.S. may  absorb  the
European cargoes, with 300,000 to 500,000 tons likely to be
transported across the Atlantic this month as the holiday
driving season raises demand for naphtha to be made into
gasoline, the traders said.  
 European naphtha margins from processing Brent crude oil
also dropped to a 10-week low yesterday, partly as petrochemical
companies favor liquid petroleum gas to produce plastics.
 Naphtha for August  traded at a discount of $4.25 a barrel to
Brent, the lowest level for front-month contracts since April
16, according to PVM Associates Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Murphy  in London at 
 bmurphy74@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        