-- Ex-Lewis Charles Broker Bunn Sentenced to 30 Months
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-01T14:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/ex-lewis-charles-broker-bunn-sentenced-to-30-months-in-prison-in-u-k-case.html

          
          
             A former broker at  Lewis Charles
Securities Ltd.  was sentenced to 30 months in prison today for
making unauthorized trades worth about 38 million pounds ($57
million).  
 Jonathan Bunn pleaded guilty to four counts of false
accounting, the  Crown Prosecution Service  said in an e-mailed
statement. Bunn was banned in May from holding similar jobs by
the U.K. Financial Services Authority for the trades, which
resulted in losses of 2.7 million pounds.  
 Bunn “went well beyond his authority when he gambled with
his employer’s reputation and money in the hope of bumping up
his commission,” prosecutor  David Levy  said in the statement.
“It is clear he knew exactly what he was doing when, motivated
by greed and personal gain, he carried out unauthorized
trades.”  
 The FSA’s enforcement unit has banned or fined at least two
dozen individuals this year as it steps up oversight of the
financial services industry in the U.K. and moves away from the
era of light-touch regulation that preceded the financial
crisis. The regulator referred the case to the  City of London 
police for an investigation.  
 Bunn, who worked on the inter-dealer broker desk, took a
short position of nearly 7 million HSBC Holdings Plc shares
without authorization in July 2009 and concealed the trades when
questioned by Lewis Charles, the FSA said.  
 Gregory Fishwick, Bunn’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  
 Bunn, of Surrey,  England , was employed as a broker at Lewis
Charles between March and August 2009. Prior to that, he worked
at GFI Securities Ltd. and JPMorgan Markets Ltd., according to
the regulator.  
 His action “was both deliberate and dishonest in creating
fraudulent deal-slips to circumvent the firm’s systems and
controls,” said  Margaret Cole , the FSA’s enforcement director.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        