-- Ex-PetroChina Bunker Trader Opens Peninsula in Tokyo
-- Shigeru Sato
-- 2010-07-01T03:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/ex-petrochina-trader-launches-peninsula-branch-in-tokyo-for-fuel-oil-sales.html

          
          
             Kazushi Fujisawa, who joined
PetroChina Co. in April to trade  fuel oil , has left to head a
new Tokyo branch of Peninsula Petroleum Ltd. that will lead  South Korea  and Japan sales.  
 Fujisawa, who worked for Nippon Oil Corp. and  Itochu
Corp .’s group trading firm for about 18 years before he joined
PetroChina, will be responsible for marine fuel in Japan and
South Korea as of today, he said. Fujisawa targets annual sales
at 1 million metric tons, 8 percent of total bunker fuel demand
of the two nations according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 Competition in the North Asia marine fuel market is set to
increase as PetroChina boosts sales of cheaper supplies from
Venezuela, potentially squeezing Japanese refiners’ margins.
Peninsula’s Tokyo office, which adds to branches in Shanghai and  Singapore , will help the Dublin-based company capture a larger
share of the Asian market as it seeks to increase global sales
by 20 percent to 6 million tons this year.  
 “Our advantage is Peninsula’s global network,” Fujisawa
said in a phone interview from Tokyo yesterday. “Ship owners
thirst for global market information when they buy.”  
 Kazuto Ishida, a former bunker fuel trader at Hanwa Co.,
has joined Fujisawa at the Tokyo office.  
 At ports in Japan, 380-censtistoke bunker fuel oil traded
at $510 a ton yesterday, according to two Tokyo-based traders.
Benchmark 380-centistoke fuel in Singapore, the world’s largest
bunkering port, stood at $434.50 a ton, they said.  
 Peninsula mainly sells fuel supplied by  Cia Espanola de
Petroleos SA ,  Spain ’s second-largest oil company, known as CEPSA,
at Gibraltar on the Iberian Peninsula. The Tokyo office is the
11th for Peninsula, which also has branches in Geneva, Dubai,
Athens and Montevideo.  
 “The North American market is another target on our
radar,” Fujisawa said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        