-- Fed Made Taxpayers Unwitting Junk-Bond Buyers
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/fed-s-maiden-lane-made-taxpayers-junk-bond-buyers-without-congress-knowing.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and then-New York Fed President  Timothy Geithner  told
senators on April 3, 2008, that the tens of billions of dollars
in “assets” the government agreed to purchase in the rescue of
Bear Stearns Cos. were “investment-grade.” They didn’t share
everything the Fed knew about the money.  
 The so-called assets included collateralized debt
obligations and mortgage-backed bonds with names like HG-Coll
Ltd. 2007-1A that were so distressed, more than $40 million
already had been reduced to less than investment-grade by the
time the central bankers testified. The government also became
the owner of $16 billion of credit-default swaps, and taxpayers
wound up guaranteeing high-yield, high-risk junk bonds.  
 By using its  balance sheet  to protect an investment bank
against failure, the Fed took on the most credit risk in its 96-
year history and increased the chance that Americans would be on
the hook for billions of dollars as the central bank began
insuring Wall Street firms against collapse. The Fed’s secrecy
spurred legislation that will require government audits of the
Fed bailouts and force the central bank to reveal recipients of
emergency credit.  
 “Either the Fed did not understand the distressed state of
some of the assets that it was purchasing from banks and is only
now discovering their true value, or it understood that it was
buying weak assets and attempted to obscure that fact,” Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat and member of the Senate Banking
Committee, said in an e-mail when informed about the credit
quality of holdings in the  Maiden Lane LLC  portfolio. The
committee held the April 3 hearing.  
 Bear Stearns Purchase  
 Maiden Lane, named for a street bordering the New York
Fed’s Manhattan headquarters, was created to hold the assets the
central bank acquired to facilitate  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
purchase of Bear Stearns.  
 The Fed disclosed the Maiden Lane holdings in March after
Bloomberg News went to court using the Freedom of Information
Act, and the U.S. District Court in New York held that the Fed
should release documents related to Bloomberg’s request.  
 “The Federal Reserve was not straightforward with the
American people regarding the risks they were taking with
taxpayer money, despite my efforts to obtain such clarity at the
time,” U.S. Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the Senate
Banking Committee’s top Republican, told Bloomberg News. “It is
apparent that the Fed withheld from the Congress and the public
material information about the condition of these securities.”  
 Downgraded to Junk  
 When Bernanke and Geithner testified in April 2008, $42
million of the CDO securities the Fed would eventually buy had
been downgraded to junk, data compiled by Bloomberg show. By the
time the central bank funded its $28.8 billion loan to Maiden
Lane 12 weeks later, about $172 million of such securities the
Fed purchased were rated below investment grade, according to
data compiled for Bloomberg by  Red Pine Advisors LLC , a New York
firm specializing in the valuation of complex, illiquid
securities.  
 CDOs bundle assets ranging from mortgage bonds to high-
yield loans and divide them into new slices, or tranches, of
varying risks. High-yield, or junk, bonds are those rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 “As was noted in testimony, all of the cash securities in
the Maiden Lane portfolio were investment grade on March 14,
2008, when the deal was agreed to in order to facilitate the
acquisition of Bear Stearns and to prevent the systemic
consequences of its sudden and disorderly failure,”  Michelle Smith , a spokeswoman for the Fed’s Board of Governors, said in
an e-mail.  
 Recover Principal  
 “The Federal Reserve considered not just credit-rating
valuations, which have varied some over time based on economic
conditions, but also relied on a separate assessment from an
independent investment firm, which advised us that over time, we
would likely fully recover our principal and interest,” Smith
said. “We continue to expect the loan to Maiden Lane to be
fully repaid.”  
 The Fed valued the loan at $27 billion as of the end of
last year, $1.8 billion below the amount that was funded in
2008, according to  financial statements  audited by Deloitte &
Touche LLP.  
 More than 88 percent of Maiden Lane’s CDO bonds and 78
percent of its non-agency residential mortgage-backed debt are
now speculative grade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
based on holdings as of Jan. 29.  
 Securities, Derivatives  
 The nonagency home-loan bonds and CDO securities made up
about 44 percent of the $74.9 billion in face amount of Maiden
Lane’s assets, Fed data show. Maiden Lane also contains
commercial real-estate loans and other mortgage debt. The
central bank hasn’t released how or at what prices it has valued
the securities and derivatives, which are contracts whose values
are tied to assets, including stocks, bonds, commodities and
currencies, or events such as changes in interest rates or the
weather.  
 Being “investment grade” was a requirement for Maiden
Lane’s bonds even after Bernanke and Geithner publicly
criticized inflated ratings for helping to cause the financial
crisis.  
 “The complexity of structured credit products, as well as
the difficulty of determining the values of some of the
underlying assets, led many investors to rely heavily on the
evaluations of these products by credit-rating agencies,”
Bernanke said in a January 10, 2008, speech in Washington.
“However, as  subprime-mortgage losses  rose to levels that
threatened even highly rated tranches, investors began to
question the reliability of the credit ratings and became
increasingly unwilling to hold these products.”  
 Princeton, Dartmouth  
 Members of Congress pressed Bernanke, who received a
doctorate in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and served as chairman of Princeton University’s
economics department, and Geithner, a Dartmouth College graduate
who earned a master’s degree in economics and East Asian studies
from Johns Hopkins University, about the quality of the assets
during the April Bear Stearns hearings.  
 “You’ve got about $30 billion of collateral. And some
comments have been made that you feel comfortable because it’s
highly rated,” Senator  Jack Reed , a Rhode Island Democrat, told
Bernanke, according to a transcript. “But a lot of highly rated
collateral these days is being subject to questions.”  
 “Senator, as was mentioned, it is all investment-grade or
current performing assets,” Bernanke responded. “We do not
know for sure what will transpire,” he said. “But we have
engaged an independent investment-advisory firm who gives us
reasonable comfort that if we can sell these assets over a
period of time that we will recover principal and interest for
the American taxpayer.”  
 Chances for Loss  
 When asked by Shelby during the hearing what the chances
were for a loss,  Robert Steel , then the U.S. Treasury
undersecretary for domestic finance, said the transaction “was
$30 billion, approximately, of collateral, all investment-grade
securities, all of them current in interest and principal.”  
 Steel, who was named deputy mayor for economic development
last month by New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , declined to
comment through  Andrew Brent , a spokesman for the mayor’s
office. The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Bernanke and Geithner didn’t detail during the hearing that
the Fed would expose itself to below-investment-grade assets
through credit derivatives it was also acquiring. The $16
billion of credit-default swaps included bets protecting some
junk-rated asset-backed securities against default, according to
two people familiar with the agreement who declined to be
identified because the terms weren’t made public.  
 ‘Related Hedges’  
 The Fed hasn’t disclosed how much was tied to below-
investment-grade debt. Geithner, who is now Treasury secretary,
said in  an addendum  to the text of his remarks only that the Fed
was assuming “related hedges,” without elaborating.  
 Credit-default swaps are used to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness. The derivatives pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt.  
 “I strongly object to the mischaracterization of the
portfolio,”  Sylvain Raynes , a principal at  R&R Consulting  in
New York, said in an interview. “The ratings that were
purportedly investment-grade had long lost their utility” and
to call several billion dollars of derivatives “related
hedges” is “nonsense” and a “material omission.”  
 So-called hedges aren’t without risk, said Raynes, who is
also co-author of “Elements of Structured Finance,” which was
published in May by Oxford University Press. “You can be on the
wrong side of a hedge, by definition. Which side are they on?”  
 Shrinking Holdings  
 Maiden Lane has been unwinding its credit-default swaps,
according to the people familiar with the agreement. The
holdings shrank to a face amount of $11.8 billion in December
2008 and $7.3 billion at the end of last year, according to its
financial statements.  
 Of the $7.3 billion, $2.45 billion were contracts
guaranteeing debt against default, including $2.1 billion of
junk-rated securities. The bank valued the credit swaps it sold
at a $1.8 billion loss, according to the 2009 statement.  
 Overall, Maiden Lane assumed more bets against securities
than for them, the people familiar with the agreement said. The
market value of its entire swaps book, including more than $3
billion of interest-rate contracts, was $1.13 billion as of Dec.
31, 2009, according to year-end financial statements.  
 The Senate Banking Committee also called JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  to testify on the Bear Stearns
deal on April 3, 2008.  
 Riskier, More Complex  
 “The assets taken by the Fed consist entirely of loans
that are current and rated investment grade,” Dimon said,
according to a transcript. “We kept the riskier and more
complex securities in the Bear Stearns portfolio for our own
account. We did not cherry-pick the assets in the collateral
pool.”  
 If the Fed hadn’t engineered the takeover, “the
consequences could have been disastrous,” Dimon said.  
 JPMorgan didn’t pick the individual securities for Maiden
Lane, Geithner said in an annex to his April 2008 testimony.
Instead, it selected groups of assets that met criteria set by
the central bank, and the Fed and its adviser, New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. , reviewed those assets, according to one of the
people familiar with the agreement. As part of the bailout,
JPMorgan agreed to absorb the first $1 billion in losses.  
 Assets, Liabilities  
 JPMorgan had to weigh how many real-estate assets it could
absorb against its existing inventory, Dimon said, adding that
the New York-based company acquired about $360 billion of Bear
Stearns assets and liabilities in the transaction.  
 JPMorgan spokesman  Justin Perras  declined to comment
further on Maiden Lane.  
 “We certainly had doubts at the time: Why wouldn’t
JPMorgan want a bunch of AAA assets?” said  Mark Calabria , a
former Senate Banking Committee staff member who was present at
the April 2008 hearings and is now director of financial-
regulation studies at the Cato Institute in Washington. “The
answer is it was all borderline junk.”  
 The average CDO security was cut 7.6 grades by Moody’s and
7.3 levels by S&P in the 22 months between the time the Fed
funded the loan and April 2010, according to Red Pine.  
 “That is quite steep,” said  Wade Vandegrift , a Red Pine
partner. “The default rates and the delinquency rates of these
deals were a significant multiple of even the worst-case
projections that rating agencies and other people projected.”  
 Foreclosed Loans  
 WaMu Asset-Backed Certificates Series 2007-HE1 M2, a $4.1
million mortgage-bond position the Fed acquired, was backed by
home loans originated by the subprime-lending unit of Washington
Mutual Inc., the Seattle-based thrift that went bankrupt in
September 2008. As of March 2008, the month Bear Stearns
collapsed, more than 26 percent of the loans were at least 60
days late, in foreclosure or the properties had already been
seized, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Three weeks after the Fed agreed to the Bear Stearns rescue
and four days after Bernanke’s April testimony, Moody’s cut the
security to junk. S&P followed a month later and now rates it D.  
 “It is hardly surprising or particularly newsworthy that
the value of” the Maiden Lane “portfolio deteriorated in the
midst of the worst financial crisis in generations, but it is
unlikely that the taxpayers will lose a dime on the government’s
loan,” Treasury spokesman  Andrew Williams  said in an e-mail.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates the Fed will make $200
million on Maiden Lane from inception through 2020.  
 Demanding Accountability  
 Billions of dollars in Fed loans -- some possibly involving
subsidies for the biggest banks and corporations -- remain
secret, and Congress is demanding more accountability from the
Fed than at any time in its history.  
 House and Senate negotiators agreed on the sweeping  Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  last week,
which requires the Government Accountability Office to audit the
Fed’s emergency loans and forces the Fed to reveal recipients of
such credit by Dec. 1. The House approved the measure 237-192
yesterday. It awaits approval by the Senate and will then go to
President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  
 Vermont Senator  Bernard Sanders  wrote the legislation
requiring an audit of Maiden Lane and other credit facilities.
The act also would make it more difficult for the Fed to provide
emergency loans in the future.  
 “We need to lift the veil of secrecy at the Federal
Reserve,” Sanders, an independent, told Bloomberg News when
informed about the credit quality of Maiden Lane’s holdings.
“We need a complete and independent audit. The American people
have a right to know what the Fed is doing with trillions of
their taxpayer dollars.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net 
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Caroline Salas discusses the credit quality of assets the government purchased in the rescue of Bear Stearns Cos. and the Federal Reserve's secrecy during the financial crisis.
     Salas speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
