-- U.S. Panel Seeks More Money to Investigate Financial Crisis
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-01T20:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/financial-crisis-commission-seeks-more-funds-from-congress-to-finish-work.html

          
          
             The U.S. panel investigating the
financial crisis is seeking funds beyond the $8 million Congress
appropriated for its work.  
 The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  asked for more
money after determining the budget wouldn’t cover everything it
wants to do, such as electronically publishing documents
obtained from banks, spokesman Tucker Warren said today.
Lawmakers may include $1.8 million for the FCIC in a $60 billion
spending bill meant to fund the conflict in Afghanistan.  
 “The commission has requested additional funds to support
and continue our work,” Warren said in an interview. “It does
not mean that if we are not granted funds, we won’t be able to
pay salaries and complete our work.”  
 The 10-member panel today concluded a two-day hearing in
Washington to scrutinize the role derivatives played in the 2008
credit crisis, with a focus on transactions  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  entered into with  American International Group Inc. 
Commissioners and FCIC employees have previously crisscrossed
the U.S., holding a May hearing in New York on credit-rating
companies. Staff flew to Omaha, Nebraska, that same month to
interview billionaire investor  Warren Buffett .  
 The FCIC must report its findings to Congress in December.
“What we would like to do is post documents so that there is
access to files once the commission is done with its work,”
Warren said. “All of those things are expensive.”  
 $1.4 Million in Salaries  
 The commission and its 43 full-time employees as of March
31 are paid salaries totaling $1.4 million, according to its
website. By law it cannot pay any individual staff member more
than $143,500 a year.  
 Some employees are on loan from government agencies and
aren’t paid by the FCIC. Executive director  Wendy Edelberg , for
example, draws her salary from her permanent employer, the
Federal Reserve.  
 Warren declined to provide details on all of the FCIC’s
expenses. He said the panel will disclose such information once
it completes its work.  
 Congress approved legislation creating the FCIC in May 2009
with lawmakers appointing Angelides and Thomas two months later.
The panel is investigating the role banks and regulators played
in a crisis that led to more than $1.78 trillion of write-downs
and credit losses at financial companies worldwide.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        