-- Finland to Build Two Reactors to Wean Itself Off Electricity From Russia
-- Kati Pohjanpalo
-- 2010-07-01T08:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/finland-to-build-two-reactors-to-wean-itself-off-electricity-from-russia.html

          
          
             Finland will build two new nuclear
reactors to wean itself off Russian electricity and cut
emissions of greenhouse gases, lawmakers decided today.  
 The parliament in Helsinki voted 120 to 72 to approve a
permit for  Teollisuuden Voima Oyj , and 121 lawmakers supported
the application of Fennovoima Oy, a venture of Dusseldorf,
Germany-based E.ON AG and 63 companies operating in Finland.  
 The reactors will generate as much as 3,200 megawatts,
eliminating the need for Russian imports that made up 15 percent
of the power Finland used last year. The projects will create
jobs and supply cheap energy to industry in Finland, which uses
more electricity per person than any other European Union
country, according to the government.  
 “This is a big step for the Finnish economy,” Economy
Minister  Mauri Pekkarinen  told reporters after the decision. “It
is clear stimulus that will help jolt the economy out of the
apathy that’s been plaguing Finland and the rest of Europe.”  
 The Nordic nation also plans tax breaks and subsidies for
wood-based fuels and wind power to boost renewable energy use as
Finland tries to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 16 percent to
comply with EU limits.  
 Public opinion echoed that of lawmakers, with 53 percent of
Finns supporting the proposal for two reactors and increased use
of renewable fuels, according to a May poll commissioned by YLE.
A third of the 2,399 respondents rejected expansion of nuclear
power, according to the poll, which had a margin of error of 2
percentage points.  
 Fennovoima’s partners include E.ON, Helsinki-based
 Rautaruukki Oyj , the biggest producer of carbon steel, and
Espoo, Finland-based Outokumpu Oyj, a stainless-steel maker. It
is examining two sites in northern Finland where the government
is trying to create jobs.  
 Nuclear Critics  
 TVO is already building a third reactor at its Olkiluoto
power station in western Finland with France’s  Areva  SA.  
 Critics say Olkiluoto-3 is an example of the complexities
and hazards of nuclear power. Completion of the reactor has been
delayed by four years until 2013, according to a June estimate
by TVO. Areva says costs will exceed the originally estimated 3
billion euros ($3.66 billion). Standard & Poor’s Inc. downgraded
Areva’s long-term debt by two steps this week to BBB+, citing
writedowns related to Olkiluoto.  
 TVO and Fortum Oyj’s nuclear waste repository Posiva Oy was
also approved by the parliament.  
 “I’m disappointed,” said Timo Kaunisto, a Center Party
lawmaker who voted against the permits. “It’s expensive, unsafe
and ties us to outdated technology for a long period of time.”  
 Nuclear Revival  
 Electricity consumption in Finland is the highest in the
European Union per capita, partly because winter temperatures
can drop to minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58 degrees
Fahrenheit). The country also lacks oil and gas supplies and has
harnessed most of its available hydropower.  
 Finland was the second western nation behind the U.K. to
start building nuclear power stations after the meltdown at
Ukraine’s Chernobyl plant in 1986.  
 Finland, which currently has four reactors, isn’t alone in
looking to atomic power to curb carbon-dioxide emissions.
Neighboring Sweden’s parliament voted on June 17 in favor of
replacing old nuclear reactors with new ones, reversing a 1980
decision to phase out nuclear power. The number of reactors in
Sweden will remain at 10.  
 Eight of the European Union’s 10 former communist members,
including Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, are seeking to
tap nuclear energy. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  intends to
promote nuclear reactors without direct subsidies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        