-- Formula One Sues Singapore's Speed Drinks for Selling `F1' Energy Beverage
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-01T01:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/formula-one-sues-singapore-speed-drinks-for-selling-f1-energy-beverage.html

          
          
             Formula One  sued Speed Drinks Pte for
selling a F1 Racing Energy Drink in Singapore, host of the first
night race of the world’s most-watched motor sport, asking for
damages and for the drinks to be destroyed.  
 Formula One Licensing BV accused Speed Drinks of passing
off the beverage bearing a circled checkered “F1” logo and the
slogan “Start Your Engine” as a beverage licensed by it,
according to a lawsuit filed in the Singapore High Court. Judge
Judith Prakash is scheduled to hear the case privately today.  
 Speed Drinks, which imports the beverage from Holland and
distributes it in Asia, denies any wrongdoing and said in court
papers that Formula One was trying to assert a claim to the
generic term “F1.” The logo and other marks used on the drink
can are also legitimately registered in Holland and several
other countries by the Dutch principal and differs from the
trademark owned by Formula One, company director Ashok Murthy
said in his affidavit.  
 Formula One, controlled by  Bernie Ecclestone , said Speed
Drinks’ actions would hinder its future attempts to license the
use of the “F1” mark on beverages, according to court
papers. Speed Drinks, which also directs users to the official
F1 Web site caused “irreparable damage to the reputation and
goodwill” of the brand, Formula One said in the documents.  
 F1 Jeans Stopped  
 The motor sport owner has mounted  several challenges  to
protect its trademark. In 2007, the group failed to win
exclusive rights to the F1 abbreviation after the U.K. Trademark
Registry said the public associated Formula One with a sport
rather than a brand name. A year earlier, Formula One won
a fight in a Beijing court to stop eight Chinese fashion
companies from selling apparel with the “F1 Jeans” trademark.  
 Speed Drinks’ beverage was first sold in Singapore
during Formula One’s own grand prix last year and was the
official drink at concerts including one by Welsh rock band
Stereophonics, Murthy said in his court filing.  
 Murthy didn’t pick up calls made to his mobile phone or
return messages left with his office.  Arthur Loke , who
represents Formula One, didn’t reply to an e-mail or a message
left with his secretary.  
 Singapore is paying about $200 million over five years for
the rights to stage the event to promote itself as a business
and leisure destination. The Southeast Asian city is betting on
the sport to generate S$100 million in  tourism receipts  each
year and draw 80,000 spectators.  
 The case is Formula One Licensing BV vs Speed Drinks Pte Ltd.
S314/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        