-- Former Ahold Executive Wins Reversal of Conviction for Overstating Profits
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-07-01T20:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/former-ahold-executive-wins-reversal-of-conviction-for-overstating-profits.html

          
          
             The former marketing chief of Dutch
grocer Royal Ahold NV’s U.S. unit, who was sentenced to seven
years in prison for overstating earnings, is entitled to a new
trial because the judge made mistakes, an appeals court ruled.  
 Mark Kaiser  was convicted in 2006 of helping U.S.
Foodservice inflate profits from 2000 to 2003 by wrongly
recording promotional rebates as income. The U.S. Appeals Court
in Manhattan today set aside Kaiser’s convictions for securities
fraud, conspiracy and four counts of making false filings with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The appeals panel said U.S. District Judge  Thomas Griesa 
gave incorrect instructions to the jury and shouldn’t have
allowed a hearsay statement attributed to U.S. Foodservice’s
general counsel to be introduced as evidence. The case will be
sent back to Griesa.  
 Of more than a dozen people charged, Kaiser was the only
defendant sentenced to prison in a fraud that cut Royal Ahold’s
market value by $6 billion and cost investors $800 million,
according to prosecutors. U.S. Foodservice’s former finance
chief,  Michael Resnick , pleaded guilty to conspiracy and was
sentenced to six months’ house arrest in December 2006.  
 Prosecutors sought a 30-year prison sentence for Kaiser
after arguing to a jury that he made fraudulent representations
about U.S. Foodservice’s financial condition in a bid to burnish
his resume and succeed  Jim Miller  as chief executive officer of
the Columbia, Maryland-based unit. Ahold sold the unit for $7.1
billion in 2007 to buyout firms Clayton Dubilier & Rice Inc. and
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.  
 ‘Tremendously Pleased’  
 “We’re obviously tremendously pleased with the court’s
decision,” Daniel Brown, a Washington-based lawyer who
represents Kaiser, said in a phone interview. “Mr. Kaiser
maintains his innocence.”  
 Brown said his client has remained free pending appeal of
his case.  
 The appellate court agreed with defense lawyers that Griesa
didn’t properly instruct jurors on what basis they could
conclude that Kaiser had acted knowingly. The panel said the
judge might have confused the jury as to how much awareness of
the fraud was required to find Kaiser guilty.  
 ‘Merely Negligent’  
 “There is some risk that the jury could have convicted if
it concluded that Kaiser was merely negligent,” the circuit
judges wrote.  
 Kaiser contended that cooperating government witnesses who
had plea agreements with the government made him a scapegoat and
that he wasn’t aware of the fraud.  
 The appeals court also said Griesa erred by allowing a
government witness to testify before the jury that he had been
told by the former chief executive of U.S. Foodservice that the
company’s general counsel wanted to expose improperly reported
income by Kaiser to the SEC.  
 While the general counsel didn’t testify, the secondhand
account of his conversation could have led the jury to believe
he “was a knowledgeable and credible source about Kaiser’s
involvement and culpability,” the panel said.  
 Kaiser argued during his appeal last year that his
innocence came to light in a SEC administrative proceeding
against U.S. Foodservice’s auditors. Documents showed that
Kaiser didn’t hide the scheme from KPMG LLP, and that others
were the source of information that KPMG relied upon in
preparing financial statements, Kaiser’s lawyers said.  
 Yusill Scribner , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  
 Ahold, the owner of Stop & Shop stores in the U.S.,
admitted in 2003 that it overstated  profit  by 970 million euros
($1.37 billion), mostly related to fraud involving rebates at
U.S. Foodservice. Prosecutors decided not to charge the
Amsterdam-based company, which in 2004 settled civil claims
brought by the SEC without paying a fine.  
 The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-733, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        