-- Fortis Offers to Buy Parkway Shares for S$3.80 Each, Topping Khazanah Bid
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-01T08:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/fortis-offers-to-buy-parkway-shares-for-s-3-80-each-topping-khazanah-bid.html

          
          
             Fortis Healthcare Ltd. , India’s
second-biggest hospital operator, offered about S$3.2 billion
($2.3 billion) for the rest of Singapore’s  Parkway Holdings Ltd. ,
topping a partial bid by Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund.  
 Fortis said it will pay S$3.80 a share in cash for the
74.73 percent it doesn’t already own in Parkway, Asia’s largest
hospital operator. That’s 0.5 percent more than the S$3.78-a-
share bid by  Khazanah Nasional Bhd. , which sought to more than
double its stake to 51.5 percent. Parkway shares closed at
S$3.57 yesterday and were halted from trading today.  
 Brothers  Malvinder  and  Shivinder Singh , who run Fortis,
are moving to block Khazanah from gaining control of Parkway’s
16 hospitals in Asian countries, where health-care spending is
increasing as much as 17 percent annually. The combined entity
will have 68 hospitals in eight nations across the region,
Parkway Chairman Malvinder Singh said.  
 It’s possible Khazanah will make a counter offer, said  Lim Jit Soon , an equities analyst at Nomura Securities in Singapore.
“There are going to be more twists and turns ahead because this
is only the second shot,” Lim said in a telephone interview.  
 Fortis  gained 1.6 percent to 154.9 rupees as of 1:43 p.m.
in Mumbai trading and has advanced 13 percent this year.  
 Surviving Entity  
 Malvinder Singh said he plans to place Fortis under Parkway
and keep Parkway listed in Singapore. It’s premature to comment
on whether Fortis will remain listed, he said.  
 Fortis, which trails Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. among
Indian hospital operators, said it expects merging with Parkway
will cut costs through coordinated purchases of medical
equipment and drugs.  
 Parkway’s hospitals attract patients from Indonesia and the
Middle East, driving  revenue  from medical tourism, which Fortis
says will reach $1.5 billion globally in 2010. The Gulf states,
China, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Thailand offer growth potential
for the combined company, New Delhi-based Fortis said.  
 “We’ll see ourselves extremely well-positioned for growth
as we move forward,” Malvinder Singh said at a briefing in
Singapore.  
 Fortis is “very comfortable” with the mix of cash, equity
and debt funding it has for the Parkway offer, Singh said,
without giving more specific details.  Macquarie Group Ltd.  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  are advising Fortis.  
 The offer from Fortis values Parkway at about 27 times
estimated 2010  earnings  per share.  Raffles Medical Group Ltd. ,
Parkway’s biggest Singapore-based competitor, trades at 21 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Superior Offer  
 Fortis’s offer appears superior to Khazanah’s, said  Lynette Tan , who follows small and mid-cap companies at DMG & Partners
Securities Pte. in Singapore. Officials at Kuala Lumpur-based
Khazanah declined to comment.  
 “It’s a higher price and secondly it’s a general offer,
compared to a partial,” Tan said. “In a general offer,
shareholders won’t be left with odd lots which they probably
cannot trade for a long time.”  
 Malvinder, 37, and Shivinder, 34, have a net worth of $3.2
billion, making them the world’s 297th-richest people and
India’s 16th-richest, Forbes magazine said in March.  
 In 2008, the Singh family sold their 35 percent stake in
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. , India’s biggest drugmaker, to Japan’s
 Daiichi Sankyo Co.  for about $2 billion. Malvinder remained
until May 2009 as chief executive officer of the company his
grandfather bought in 1952.  
 “I certainly believe our offer is compelling,” Malvinder
Singh said. He declined to comment on a potential bidding war
with Khazanah.  
 “We are giving the flexibility to the shareholders to take
the decision that is in their best interest,” Singh said. “If
they would like to tender in, we are more than happy to take it.
If they would like to stay invested, we’re very happy to have
them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Malvinder Singh, chairman of Fortis Healthcare Ltd., in New Delhi. Photographer: Keith Bedford/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
