-- LG Seeks Sponsor Deals to Attract Women, Balance Formula One's Male Appeal
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-01T05:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/lg-considers-tennis-film-sponsorship-to-balance-formula-one-s-male-appeal.html

          
          
             LG Electronics Inc. , the world’s
third-biggest phone maker, may unveil one or two new global
sponsorship deals to attract more female clients and build
demand for phones, televisions and home appliances.  
 The partnerships would come in the next two to three years
and could involve music, theater, film, or sports such as
tennis, Chief Marketing Officer Dermot Boden said in an
interview in London. LG currently sponsors cricket, Formula One
auto racing, and U.S. college basketball.  
 Consumer electronics companies are looking to strengthen
brand appeal as  Apple Inc.  builds buzz for products such as the
iPad and iPhone.  Nokia Oyj , the world’s largest handset maker,
is pushing application-rich smartphones with advertising in
venues including the Paris metro. LG is also the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal-display televisions.  
 “It would be very interesting to see if there are
partnerships that would allow us to connect more easily with
women, with mothers,” Boden said. “Over the next two to three
years, we’ll continue to review our current partnerships, and if
need be, look at re-opening them.”  
 While LG is happy with its current sponsorship arrangements
and new deals could come in addition to existing ones, “all
good things come to an end,” Boden added.  
 LG, founded during South Korea’s post-war expansion as
GoldStar, has associated itself with prominent sports to develop
brand recognition in Europe and North America similar to that
enjoyed by Japan’s  Sony Corp.  Together, those regions accounted
for about 45 percent of the Korean company’s revenue in 2009.  
 Sponsorships  
 Last year, the Seoul-based company, which doesn’t disclose
its marketing budget, signed on as a corporate partner with the
U.S. National Collegiate Athletic Association. It’s also has
been the shirt sponsor for London’s Fulham Football Club.  
 LG needs to shift marketing spending towards social media
and other online venues, Boden said. The company may increase
the proportion of marketing spending for digital platforms from
between 10 and 15 percent today to about 25 percent over the
next two years, he said.  
 LG said in January it plans to introduce about 20
smartphone models this year. The company returned to profit in
the first quarter, helped by sales of appliances and high-end
televisions.  
 Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        