-- Garuda Nears Debt Renegotiation Deal Paving Way to Share Sale
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-07-01T01:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/garuda-indonesia-nears-debt-renegotiation-deal-paving-way-for-share-sale.html

          
          
             PT Garuda Indonesia, rated the
world’s most improved airline, may finish more than three years
of creditor talks this month with a debt reorganization
agreement that paves the way to an initial share sale.  
 “Garuda is preparing the final documentation of its debt
restructuring with European credit agencies and it’s expected
the final agreement will be very soon,” spokesman Pujobroto
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  
 The airline plans to extend the maturities on some
outstanding liabilities to 2016, he said, without elaborating.  
 Garuda, which resumed flights to  Europe  for the first time
in six years last month after the European Union eased a ban on
Indonesian airlines, is reorganizing its debt ahead of a $300
million initial public offering planned by the end of September.
Money from the stock sale will help the company add aircraft and
expand its route network, Chief Executive Officer Emirsyah Satar
said in an interview in February.  
 European export credit agencies are owed about $325 million
in unpaid loans by Jakarta-based Garuda, according to a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified as
details are private. The loans helped the airline buy six Airbus
SAS A330 aircraft for $1.5 billion in 1995, the person said.  
 Garuda in January won bondholder permission to restructure
$122 million of floating-rate notes and in December agreed with
PT Bank Mandiri to convert 967 billion rupiah ($106 million) of
debt due to the lender into a 10.61 percent equity stake. In
October it restructured $76 million of debt owed to PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state oil and gas company.  
 Garuda, voted the world’s  most improved airline  in a survey
of more than 17.9 million travelers by London-based Skytrax,
received 1 trillion rupiah from the government in 2006 to help
it keep flying and has been negotiating with bondholders since
2007 over notes that weren’t redeemed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        