-- General Dynamics Transport Should Be Reconsidered, Auditors Say
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-02T19:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/general-dynamics-amphibious-transport-should-be-reconsidered-auditors-say.html

          
          
             General Dynamics Corp. ’s $15.5
billion  Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle  program, to build
amphibious transports for carrying Marines ashore, should be
considered for cancellation, according to congressional
auditors.  
 The project is at least five years behind schedule and, at
$24 million apiece, 176 percent over its original per-unit price
tag, according to a  U.S. Government Accountability Office 
report. It faces additional “cost, schedule and performance
risks,” said the  report , released today by Congress’s
investigative arm.  
 The “program’s history of cost growth, schedule slips and
performance failures” -- combined with the increased threat of
anti-ship missiles against Marine Corps vessels -- “raise the
question of whether the case for the program is still sound,”
the report said.  
 General Dynamics spokesman  Peter Keating  said the Falls
Church, Virginia-based company’s land systems unit has delivered
four of seven new prototype vehicles with reliability
improvements to Camp Pendleton, California, for 18 months of
testing. The remaining three transports will be delivered this
month.  
 “We have fixed everything and we are going to demonstrate
performance,” Keating said. “If we can’t prove it in 18 months
of testing, then shame on us.”  
 The transport program has been in development for more than
10 years and was reorganized in 2007, cutting the number to be
purchased and extending the development period, after the
vehicle failed earlier reliability tests.  
 ‘Time To Revisit’  
 Congress, through this fiscal year, has approved $3 billion
of the program’s  $15.5 billion cost . Even with fewer transports
to be purchased, the overall price tag has grown more than 70
percent over an original $9 billion estimate, according to GAO
and Pentagon figures.  
 “This is the time to revisit” the program and reevaluate
“if it is likely to yield the result the Marine Corps needs and
can afford,” the GAO report said.  
 The Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle survived when Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  in April 2009 proposed terminating or
scaling back some programs that were over budget and behind
schedule. Gates agreed to let the expeditionary vehicle
demonstrate improvements while the Marines honed the service’s
case for continuing the project.  
 In a May 3  speech  to a Navy audience, Gates said “we have
to take a hard look” at the program and if it is “necessary or
sensible to launch another major amphibious landing again --
especially as advances in anti-ship missile systems keep pushing
the potential launch point further from shore.”  
 Amphibious Capability  
 “What kind of amphibious capability do we really need?”
Gates asked.  
 The report is likely to get more attention than usual from
Pentagon weapons buyers because “the language is particularly
harsh and echoes Gates,” said  Mackenzie Eaglen , a national
security research fellow at the  Heritage Foundation  in
Washington.  
 “GAO doesn’t typically discuss whether a program’s
underlying rationale is sound,” she said. For that reason, the
report “will add fuel to a long-simmering fire about a program
under pressure and increased scrutiny.”  
 The  transports  are designed to deploy from vessels almost
30 miles (46 kilometers) out and carry 17 Marines, moving them
to shore three times faster than the Corps’ current, 35-year-old
transports.  
 Business Case  
 Gates should “reevaluate the business case and confirm”
the vehicle “remains a required” Marine Corps system and “is
the preferred approach for amphibious assault capabilities,”
GAO said.  
 Marine Corps spokesman Emanuel Pacheco said in an e-mail
that the service is addressing issues from the “exhaustive
review” by the GAO.  
 “We are working diligently to mitigate” the risks and
ensure the program doesn’t proceed in the testing phase without
meeting strict goals, he said.  
 The report was requested last year by the House defense
appropriations subcommittee.  
 First-quarter profit at General Dynamics rose 1.2 percent
to $597 million, or $1.53  per share , from $590 million, or
$1.53, a year earlier.  
 Overlap Questions  
 The GAO report noted the “significant” overlap between
the scheduled start of early production on the expeditionary
vehicle in fiscal 2013 and the completion of reliability and
combat testing in 2016. Under that schedule, the Marines would
have contracted to buy 39 vehicles before the first phase of the
new reliability tests is finished.  
 Buying the vehicles before all testing is complete “risks
a significant  investment  in the acquisition of vehicles that may
require costly retrofits,” the GAO said.  
 The transport is supposed to go 43.5 hours without breaking
down. In 2006 testing, hydraulic leaks, engine overheating,
weapons jams and other glitches occurred every 4.5 hours on
average, according to the Pentagon’s test office.  
 Pacheco said the Marines and General Dynamics “will be
putting these new prototypes through more than 500 hours of
testing between now and January” to demonstrate reliability
improvements before moving into more difficult combat testing.  
 Pacheco said the degree of overlap “is appropriate” and
allows for many chances to modify the vehicles before the
combat-testing phase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at  at
 acapaccio@bloomnberg.net .  
          
          


  


        