-- Gentiva Markets Bonds as Sales Jump to Most Since June 21: New Issue Alert
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-01T09:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gentiva-markets-bonds-as-sales-jump-to-most-since-june-21-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Gentiva Health Services Inc ., the
U.S. home-nursing company that plans to purchase  Odyssey
HealthCare Inc ., is marketing debt as corporate bond sales
jumped to the most in more than a week.  
 Gentiva plans to sell about $305 million of senior
unsecured notes to help finance its $1 billion acquisition of
hospice-services provider Odyssey HealthCare, the Atlanta-based
company said in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying
the timing of the sale.  
 Company debt sales revived yesterday, led by an issue from
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the world’s largest retailer, after a
report showed business activity in the U.S. expanded in June for
a ninth straight month and the European Central Bank said it
will lend less to banks than economists forecast, spurring
investor confidence in the region’s financial industry.  
 “Wal-Mart is a big deal, a big name, especially for money
managers limited in investing in high-quality, A-rated paper,”
said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager who oversees $1.4 billion of
investment-grade debt at First Investors Management Co. in New
York. “There is plenty of money on the sidelines, and high-
quality deals will do well under the current market environment
and find support.”  
 Companies issued $6.68 billion of debt yesterday, the
busiest since June 21, when they sold $10.5 billion of bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global bond sales fell
39 percent to $1.17 trillion in the first half of the year from
the similar period in 2009, the least since 2004, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wal-Mart Bonds  
 Wal-Mart sold $3 billion of bonds in a three-part offering
yesterday, the company’s biggest issue since April 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer’s debt sale was the largest by a non-
financial U.S. company since Discovery Communications issued $3
billion of debt on May 26, Bloomberg data show.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
debt instead of Treasury bonds was unchanged at 209 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index. That compares with the 2010 low of 151
basis points on April 21.  
 Some weak U.S. economic data and Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis “have resulted in a repricing of risk,”  Mark Oline ,
head of corporate ratings at Fitch Ratings in New York, wrote in
a June 29 report. “The markets continue to remain open for
those willing to pay higher coupons.”  
 The spread on high-risk, high-yield debt widened 7 basis
points to 713 basis points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. That’s 171 basis
points from the year’s 542 basis-point low on April 26. Junk
bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-
by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Gentiva’s Purchase  
 Gentiva agreed to purchase Odyssey HealthCare in May to
expand in hospice care to 20 states. The combination will create
the biggest U.S. hospice and home health-care provider, the
companies said in a May 24 statement.  
 Moody’s assigned the company a Ba3 rating, three levels
below investment-grade, and S&P rates it B+, one step lower,
 Bloomberg data  show.  
 S&P’s rating “incorporates prospects for health reform-
related rate cuts over the next few years and Gentiva’s
demonstrated interest in aggressively broadening its operating
base by way of debt financing,” analysts wrote in a June 29
note.  
 Following is a description of at least $4.02 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Following is a description of at least $4.02 billion of pending
sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 VNESHECONOMBANK, the Russian state bank, plans to sell 10-
year loan participation notes denominated in U.S. dollars,
according to a banker involved in the transaction. Barclays
Capital, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe Generale
SA are managing the sale, the banker said.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country, which hasn’t
sold international bonds in six years, is seeking financing for
repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
more than 400 people and caused as much as $30 billion of
damage.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 ARBEJDERNES LANDSBANK may sell three-year debt in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering. BNP
Paribas and Nordea Bank AB will manage the offering, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 POSTMEDIA NETWORK INC. plans to sell $275 million of eight-
year notes, according to a person familiar with the offering.
Proceeds will be used to acquire assets of Canwest LP, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 OXEA FINANCE & CY S.C.A. plans to sell the equivalent of
500 million euros of seven-year bonds in dollars and euros,
according to two people with knowledge of the offering. Proceeds
will be used to repay debt, shareholder loans and a payment to
shareholders, and for general corporate purposes, the people
said.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29.  Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
plans to sell six-year bonds in dollars, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale. S&P affirmed its B counterparty
credit rating on the company in April and revised its outlook to
positive from stable, citing “improved liquidity and
strengthening risk management.”  
 CKE RESTAURANTS INC. may sell $600 million of eight-year
notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
senior secured second-lien notes may be sold next week, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO., the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA, Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds by the end
of the year, according to its central bank. The South Asian
country’s third-ever overseas offering is likely after August,
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena
said in a telephone interview on June 30.  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. hired Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD.  hired Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help it sell subordinated 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. The banks are meeting potential investors in Hong Kong
and Singapore, the person said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from its first Shariah-compliant dollar bond in eight
years on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond next
year to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production
boosts economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy
Finance Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering
a “no-deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds this
year. The southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated
at B+ by S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade.
Moody’s assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  hired BNP Paribas SA and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell dollar bonds backed by Korean
residential mortgages, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The banks will help arrange meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person said. Edaily reported
in April that the company planned to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, without citing anyone. The state-run agency
also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds in the U.S., the
Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may sell dollar bonds if markets stabilize, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said. The European Union
member earlier planned to sell $1 billion in five-year debt
denominated in the U.S. currency as early as April.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield between 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 Kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        