-- Ghana Carries Dreams of `Mother Africa' at World Cup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-02T08:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/ghana-carries-dreams-of-mother-africa-into-soccer-world-cup-quarterfinal.html

          
          
             Ghana, the youngest squad at the
soccer World Cup, is carrying the hopes of a continent into
today’s quarterfinal against Uruguay.  
 Of the unprecedented six African teams at the tournament,
only Ghana made it past the opening round. The Black Stars,
whose average age is 24.1, would become the region’s first-ever
semifinalist by winning at Soccer City near Soweto.  
 “The story of the Black Stars redeemed the image of
Africa,” African National Congress chairwoman  Baleka Mbete  said
yesterday in Johannesburg. “On your shoulders rest the football
dreams of mother Africa.”  
 Ghana’s red, yellow and green horizontally striped flag
with a black star is being sold by street vendors across South
Africa. The government of Gauteng, the country’s richest
province, placed adverts in newspapers asking for locals to get
behind the Ghanaians.  
 “Victory for Ghana is a victory for Africa and will
confirm that it is indeed Africa’s time not only to host the
World Cup but also to win it,” read an advert in The Star, a
national broadsheet.  
 One of the biggest cheerleaders is Kalusha Bwalya,
president of Zambia’s soccer federation.  
 “The whole of Africa will support Ghana,” Bwalya, a
former African footballer of the year, told reporters last week.  
 With the World Cup being staged in Africa for the first
time in its 80-year history, the continent’s six teams had been
seeking to produce its best performance at the most-watched
sports event.  
 Host Flops  
 Instead, it took Australia’s win over Serbia to send Ghana
to the last 16 as a group runner-up, sparing Africa from its
worst World Cup showing for 28 years. South Africa became the
first host to go out in the opening stage and was followed by
Nigeria, Algeria, Cameroon and Ivory Coast.  
 “It’s very bad, very, very bad,” Ivory Coast defender
 Kolo Toure  said in an interview after his team finished third in
its group. “We feel really disappointed. We hope that Ghana can
do something.”  
 Ghana’s youth, lack of high-profile players and progression
under 56-year-old Serb Milovan Rajevac as coach helped the team
to prosper, said Bwalya and former South Africa coach  Jomo Sono .  
 The tournament host fired coach  Joel Santana  in October
after nine straight losses and rehired Brazilian  Carlos Alberto Parreira . Frenchman  Paul Le Guen  joined Cameroon midway through
its qualifying campaign, while Nigeria’s  Lars Lagerback  and
Ivory Coast’s  Sven-Goran Eriksson  had less than four months to
prepare their teams. Rajevac has been with Ghana for two years.  
 ‘Not Ideal’  
 “It’s not ideal,” Eriksson’s assistant, Tord Grip, said
in an interview after Ivory Coast’s 3-1 loss to Brazil on June
20. “We’ve been with our team for five weeks.”  
 Le Guen and Eriksson left their posts following their
teams’ elimination, while Lagerback was offered a contract
extension before Nigeria’s government withdrew the country from
international soccer for two years.  
 Sono said the appointment of foreign coaches may have
contributed to Africa’s failings. Algeria’s Rabah Saadane was
the only man to lead his home nation during the World Cup.  
 Le Guen commuted to Cameroon from his Paris base before
returning to France after matches.  
 “It’s vital that once a coach is appointed he lives in the
country,” Sono said. “He needs to learn the values and
cultures of the country. By just coming to the tournament, he’s
not adding any value.”  
 Top Talent  
 The Ivory Coast squad was laden with talent from Europe’s
top leagues, including Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba , Arsenal
defender  Emmanuel Eboue  and Barcelona midfielder  Yaya Toure . It
finished below Brazil and Portugal in Group G.  
 “There’s too many individuals who want to play for
themselves instead of playing as a team,” Sono said. Ghana,
whose  leading scorer  at the tournament Asamoah Gyan plays for
French club Rennes, made the last eight by “working for each
other,” he added.  
 The Ghanaians opened with a 1-0 win over Serbia, before
tying 1-1 with Australia and finishing group play with a defeat
to three-time champion Germany. Gyan’s extra-time goal lifted
his team to a 2-1 win over the U.S. in the round of 16.  
 That victory set up a first World Cup meeting with two-time
champion Uruguay, which last reached the quarterfinals in 1970.
The match kicks off at 8.30 p.m. local time.  
 “We have the possibility of an African team going beyond
the frontiers never achieved by any other African country,”
 Danny Jordaan , chief executive of the World Cup’s local
organizing committee, said yesterday. “We hope we will see the
first African player dance around the corner flag in the
semifinal and the final of the World Cup.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ghana players run during a training session near Rustenburg. Photographer: Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from Johannesburg on the quarterfinal matches at the soccer World Cup.
     Netherlands plays Brazil in Port Elizabeth and Uruguay takes on Ghana in Johannesburg in matches today, while tomorrow sees Argentina clash with Germany in Cape Town and Paraguay versus Spain in Johannesburg. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
