-- Gillard Reaches Deal With Miners on Australian Tax
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-02T04:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gillard-reaches-accord-with-mining-companies-on-australian-resources-tax.html

          
          
             (Corrects 4 percent to 40 percent in 15th paragraph.)  
 Australian Prime Minister Julia
Gillard reached an agreement with mining companies on a new
resources tax, ending a dispute that cost her predecessor Kevin
Rudd his job and paving the way for an election this year.  
 The mineral resources tax will be 30 percent, applying to
iron ore and coal, while the levy on oil and gas projects will
be 40 percent, the government said.  
 “Today we have a breakthrough agreement that moves
Australia forward with certainty,” Gillard said at a news
conference in Canberra. “We have been stuck on this question
for too long. It will end uncertainty and division.”  
 BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, and
Rio Tinto Group said they were encouraged by the decision. The
companies made the comment in a regulatory filing. Xstrata Plc,
the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, said it will resume
full project activities at its Ernest Henry mine in Queensland.  
 The Australian dollar rose to 85.04 U.S. cents as of 12:11
p.m. in Sydney from 84.34 cents in New York yesterday. BHP
Billiton’s shares rose 0.8 percent to A$37.41. Rio Tinto shares
gained 1.3 percent.  
 The government said the minerals tax will apply to the
profits of iron ore and coal and it extended the current
Petroleum Resource Rent Tax to all onshore and offshore
petroleum and gas projects.  
 The levy’s threshold, effectively the point where the tax
kicks in, will now be based on the 10-year government bond rate,
currently around 5 percent, plus 7 percent. Previously it was to
apply to any profits above the 10-year government bond rate.  
 Gillard’s Victory  
 The agreement is Gillard’s first victory since she ousted
Rudd last week. His slump in opinion polls during a three-month
brawl with mining executives threatened to make the Labor Party
the nation’s first one-term government in 80 years.  
 “Her intervention changed the tone of the debate and led
to this breakthrough,” Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister
Wayne Swan told reporters at the news conference. Larger mining
companies will pay “significantly more tax,” he said.  
 Gillard, who has said she will call an election this year,
will use funds from the new levy to cut the company tax rate to
29 percent from 2013-2014, the government said.  
 “The chances of an election in August-September have
increased significantly as a result,” said Tim Schroeders, who
helps manage A$1.1 billion ($930 million) at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne. It “provides the Gillard government with enormous
impetus during her honeymoon.”  
 Opposition Attacks  
 The accord may defuse attacks from opposition leader Tony
Abbott that the government is damaging an industry that helped
the nation skirt the global recession, and it may prompt Xstrata
and other companies to start work on $21 billion of delayed
projects.  
 “This issue was hanging over the sector for some time so
it’s a welcome relief,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage
about $1.4 billion in Sydney at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
“Hopefully, this was an aberration in an otherwise investor-
friendly policy environment enjoyed in Australia, and that that
is how the investment community looks at things going forward.”  
 The coal seam methane industry will fall under the
Petroleum Resources Rent Tax, with a long-standing tax rate of
40 percent that so far has applied to only offshore petroleum
projects.  
 Highest Taxes  
 Under Rudd’s initial proposal, miners would have paid a 40
percent tax on any profits above a 6 percent return on their
investment on projects in Australia. This would have made the
nation the world’s highest-taxing for mining companies,
according to the Minerals Council of Australia, an industry
lobby group.  
 Rudd’s proposed tax would have raised A$12 billion in its
first two years. Morgan Stanley estimated the levy would have
cost the mining industry A$85 billion in its first 10 years.  
 Some Australian newspapers are indicating Gillard may call
an election as early as August. Labor leads the opposition by 53
percent to 47 percent, according to a Newspoll telephone survey
of 1,142 people between June 25 and 27. About 53 percent of
voters prefer Gillard as prime minister, compared with 29
percent for Abbott, the poll, which had a 3 percentage point
margin of error, showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Scott Barbour/Getty Images 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard looks on during a press conference in Canberra. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard looks on during a press conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
