-- Global Manufacturing Shows Weakening
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-01T14:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/global-manufacturing-shows-weakening-from-china-to-europe-as-exports-wane.html

          
          
             Manufacturing growth from China to
the euro region and the U.S. slowed in June, suggesting the
global export-led recovery is losing strength.  
 In China,  manufacturing growth  slowed more than economists
forecast, and a gauge of  factory output  in the 16-member euro
region weakened for a second month, two surveys showed. The U.S.
Institute for Supply Management’s  manufacturing index  fell more
than economists forecast to 56.2 from 59.7 in May.  
 Asian, U.S. and European stocks fell on concern that a
Chinese economic slowdown combined with deepening budget cuts
from Spain to the U.K. may undermine the global recovery. While
the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  on May
26 raised its global growth forecast for this year, it said that
a “boom-bust scenario cannot be ruled out” in some countries.  
 “We expect data to soften from here,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. “It’s going to raise some question marks
about the outlook, about a double dip. It’s an environment with
significant downside risks.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1 percent today. The
 Euro STOXX 50 Index  was down 1.4 percent at 3:01 p.m. in London.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has shed 4.2 percent over the
past month, bringing its year-to-date decline to 8.1 percent.  
 The economy of the OECD’s 30 members will grow 2.7 percent
this year instead of a previously projected 1.9 percent, the
Paris-based group said on May 26. China may expand more than 11
percent this year compared with growth of 3.2 percent in the
U.S. and 3 percent in Japan, according to the OECD. The  euro-
region economy  may expand 1.2 percent, it said.  
 G-20 Statement  
 Limited demand in advanced economies has left the world
reliant on emerging markets, led by China, to drive a recovery
that Group of 20 leaders this week described as “uneven and
fragile.” Signs of a slowdown as the Chinese government clamps
down on property speculation and the effects of its stimulus
package fade have unsettled investors.  
 Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
this week scaled back its growth plans, cutting its target for
capacity in 2012 by 38 percent and forecasting a “bumpy,
unpredictable and long” global recovery.  
 China’s economic growth will slow over the second half of
this year, which is welcome news “given the slight uptick in
inflation recently,”  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s Asia
chairman, said in Beijing yesterday. A pace of 8 percent or 9
percent would be “much more sustainable than the overheated
growth rate in the first quarter,” he said.  
 ISM Index  
 In the U.S., the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s gauge dropped
beyond the median forecast of 59 in a Bloomberg News survey of
81 economists. More Americans unexpectedly applied for jobless
benefits last week, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington.  
 An index of U.K.  manufacturing  also declined last month.
The gauge by Markit Economics dropped to 57.5 from a 15-year
high of 58, signaling slower expansion.  
 Japan’s Tankan index of  manufacturing sentiment  climbed
more than economists forecast. Bank of Japan board member
 Yoshihisa Morimoto  said in Tokyo today that the economy has yet
to achieve a “full-fledged” recovery and there are still
“many risk factors” at home and abroad.  
 German Investors  
 In the euro region, a recovery is also showing signs of
weakening. German  investor confidence  plunged in June and euro-
region unemployment rose to 10.1 percent in April, the highest
in almost 12 years. In France,  consumer confidence  weakened for
a fifth straight month in June.  
 “Europe has shown signs of life,”  Carl-Peter Forster ,
chief executive officer at  Tata Motors Ltd. , India’s largest
truckmaker and owner of Jaguar, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview yesterday. “The recovery is somewhat brittle.”  
 With households holding back spending and governments
cutting budget deficits, European companies have been reliant on
exports to boost earnings. The euro has shed 14 percent against
the dollar this year, making goods more competitive abroad.  
 Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, on June
29 predicted “continued strong profitability” in its third
quarter on reviving demand.  Pirelli & C. SpA  CEO  Francesco Gori 
said on June 24 that the euro’s weakness against the dollar had
a “moderately positive” impact on the Italian tiremaker’s
second-quarter revenue.  
 An index of euro-area  services , which will be released on
July 5, probably declined to 55.4 in June from 56.2 in the
previous month. A  composite index  of manufacturing and services
probably fell to 56 from 56.4.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China’s economic growth will slow over the second half of this year, which is welcome new 'given the slight uptick in inflation recently,' Morgan Stanley’s Asia chairman Stephen Roach said in Beijing yesterday. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand from abroad cooled. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. Meanwhile, U.S. construction spending fell 0.2 percent in May and the index of pending home resales dropped 30 percent. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Margaret Brenna report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Julia Coronado, a senior economist at BNP Paribas, talks about data on the U.S. and Chinese manufacturing industries.
     Coronado, speaking with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness," also discusses the U.S. housing market and the outlook for jobs data. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, professor of economics at Dartmouth College, discusses the outlook for the global economy.
     Blanchflower talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand from abroad cooled. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. Meanwhile, U.S. construction spending fell 0.2 percent in May and the index of pending home resales dropped 30 percent. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Margaret Brenna report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
