-- GM, Ford Vehicle Sales in June Trail Estimates
-- Jeff Green
-- 2010-07-01T20:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gm-s-june-u-s-auto-sales-gain-of-11-misses-estimates-on-consumer-caution.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. and  Ford Motor
Co. , the two largest U.S. automakers, reported June sales that
fell short of analysts’ estimates as consumers concerned about
unemployment and the economy avoided large purchases.  
 GM’s U.S. sales gained 11 percent, trailing the 16 percent
average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Ford’s
deliveries rose 13 percent, less than the analysts’ 16 percent
average projection.  Toyota Motor Corp. ,  Honda Motor Co.  and
 Nissan Motor Co.  also fell short of forecasts.  
 The results show the auto market may be slowing as waning
consumer confidence keeps buyers out of showrooms. Industrywide
 deliveries  in June reached an annualized rate of 11.1 million
vehicles, according to AutoData Corp. The figure trailed the
average estimate for an 11.2 million-vehicle pace and is a drop
from 11.6 million in May. The rate gained from last year’s
depressed 9.7 million-unit level.  
 “Car sales are in line with the consumer confidence
numbers that came out, which were a huge disappointment,” said
 John Wolkonowicz , an analyst with IHS Automotive, a research
firm in Lexington, Massachusetts. “Traditionally, June is a
good selling month. But there are other overriding circumstances
this June that are causing some disappointment.”  
 The Conference Board said earlier this week that its
 confidence index  slumped to 52.9 this month from a revised 62.7
in May. The private research group’s June figure was less than
the lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Annual auto deliveries averaged 16.8 million from 2000
through 2007 and fell to 10.4 million last year, the lowest in
27 years.  
 GM Brands  
 GM’s Buick brand sales gained 53 percent in June, while
Chevrolet rose 32 percent, Cadillac added 39 percent and GMC
rose 45 percent.  
 Sales of Chevrolet’s Camaro sports car fell 19 percent.
Unlike Ford’s Mustang, GM doesn’t have a convertible version of
its muscle car. It will start selling one later this year, said
 Jim Campbell , vice president of marketing for Chevy.  
 “Recent economic news continues to point to a slow
recovery,”  Steve Carlisle , Detroit-based GM’s vice president of
global product planning, said today on a conference call. He
said GM is maintaining its forecast for the industry to sell
11.5 million to 12 million vehicles in the U.S. this year.  
 Ford Pickups  
 Ford was helped by rising prices on used pickups, which
are pushing some buyers to spend a bit more to buy new trucks,
said  Jessica Caldwell , senior analyst with Edmunds.com, an auto
research website based in Santa Monica, California. Sales of the
company’s large F-Series pickups increased 29 percent in June.  
 Chrysler Group LLC said sales gained 35 percent from a year
earlier, topping six analysts’ average estimate for a 33 percent
increase. Deliveries of the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
company’s Dodge brand rose 67 percent, led by its Caravan
minivan, Charger sedan and Challenger sports car.  
 Sales to buyers such as rental car agencies may have
boosted deliveries of the Chrysler Sebring and Dodge Avenger
sedans, Caldwell said.  
 “Chrysler has done fairly strong fleet sales for the past
few months,” Caldwell said. “The usual fleet suspects showed
big gains.”  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, said its total June
U.S. vehicle sales rose 6.8 percent. The average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was an increase of 9 percent.  
 Nissan’s U.S. sales of its Nissan and Infiniti brand
vehicles rose 11 percent, Brian Brockman, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was an increase of 27 percent.  
 Honda’s sales of Honda and Acura brand vehicles rose 6.2
percent in the nation, said  Christina Ra , a spokeswoman for the
company’s U.S. unit. The average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was an increase of 9 percent.  
 Hyundai Motor Co.  reported U.S. sales of 51,205 vehicles in
June, an increase of 35 percent from the same month of 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM, Ford Sales Trail Estimates  
                       
                         
                           Ed Lallo/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co. Photographer: Ed Lallo/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
