-- Goldman Could Have Managed Reputation Risk Better, Cohn Says
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/goldman-sachs-could-have-done-better-managing-reputation-risk-cohn-says.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  could have
done a better job managing reputational risks as it navigated
the credit crisis and has since reconsidered some decisions,
said President and Chief Operating Officer  Gary Cohn .  
 “We’ve done a good job. Could we have done a better job?
Sure.” Cohn, 49, said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “With hindsight, I know a lot more today than I did
back then.”  
 Cohn spoke after testifying before the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission , where he answered questions about the firm’s
derivatives business and particularly its interactions with
 American International Group Inc. , the insurer that was bailed
out by the U.S. government. Goldman Sachs’s reputation was
marred in April when the Securities and Exchange Commission sued
the firm for fraud over sales of a mortgage-backed security. The
bank has denied wrongdoing.  
 “Based on all our internal data, we are doing fine, we are
doing well with our clients,” Cohn said. “We continue to be at
the center of all flows, we continue to be engaged with clients,
we continuously are winning business.”  
 Financial regulatory reform legislation, which passed the
House of Representatives yesterday and still needs Senate
approval, will require New York-based Goldman Sachs to hold more
capital, to be less leveraged, and to abandon “pure proprietary
trading,” he said. He didn’t rule out the possibility that the
firm could give up its bank holding company status sometime in
the future.  
 When details become clear “we’ll know how to run our
business,” Cohn said. “At this point we are perfectly
comfortable with the way we are structured.”  
 Prices of European sovereign debt indicate that markets
anticipate a growing possibility of a country restructuring its
debt or defaulting, he said.  
 “The market’s reflecting the crisis deepening,” he said.
“If you look at the sovereign spreads in Europe right now, they
are substantially wider than they were six weeks or eight weeks
ago. That means the market is implying a higher probability of
default.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gary Cohn of Goldman Sachs  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., arrives to a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., arrives to a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Cohn, president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about sovereign debt and the firm's risk-management strategy. (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
