-- Goldman Sachs Executives Say Risk Management Drove AIG Dispute
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-01T13:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/goldman-executives-to-tell-crisis-panel-risk-management-drove-aig-dispute.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  executives
repeated their position that disputes with  American
International Group Inc.  over securities prices and collateral
in 2007 and 2008 reflected the firm’s typical risk-management
efforts.  
 Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  and  David Lehman , co-
head of the firm’s structured products group trading desk, are
scheduled to testify this morning before the  Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission  in Washington. Their prepared testimony
replays comments made yesterday by President and Chief Operating
Officer  Gary Cohn  and Chief Risk Officer  Craig Broderick .  
 “We established credit terms with AIG consistent with
those extended to other major counterparts, including collateral
arrangements that we tightly managed,” Viniar said in prepared
remarks. “As we do with many other counterparty relationships,
we limited our exposure to AIG through a combination of
collateral and market hedges.”  
 The FCIC, led by Chairman  Philip Angelides  and Vice
Chairman  William Thomas , today holds its second day of a two-day
hearing into the role that derivatives played in the credit
crisis, with a focus on the relationship between Goldman Sachs
and AIG, the insurer that had to be bailed out by the federal
government. Members of the committee repeatedly questioned
yesterday whether Goldman Sachs marked down the value of its
complex trades with AIG to force AIG to pay collateral. AIG
disputed Goldman Sachs’s marks as too low.  
 Clients Complained  
 The committee released internal  e-mails  yesterday that
showed Goldman Sachs employees discussing other clients such as
Tokyo-based  AIOI Insurance Co.  complaining that Goldman Sachs
was marking mortgage-backed securities at prices that were
“more than twice as bad as the second worst dealer’s.”
Angelides asked Goldman Sachs yesterday to provide information
about how the firm derived the prices it set on its trades with
AIG, and Cohn agreed to do so.  
 Goldman Sachs, whose record profits in 2007 were helped in
part by the firm’s negative bets on subprime mortgage-related
securities, is fighting accusations from regulators, members of
Congress and former clients that the firm designed securities it
knew would fail and bet on their collapse by buying credit-
default swaps, which pay out in the event of a default. Goldman
Sachs has denied any wrongdoing. Cohn said yesterday that the
firm had shorted just 1 percent of the mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized debt obligations the company
underwrote between December 2006 and June 2007.  
 Pricing Sources  
 In his testimony today, Lehman will say that the firm’s
prices were based on two main sources: the marks of comparable
transactions trading in the market and information obtained from
market participants through bid or offer prices for similar
securities or derivatives.  
 “We would collect information generated by these
comparable transactions,” Lehman says in his testimony. “Then,
we would perform a variety of analyses on the collected
comparables in order to gain a sense of the market value of the
Goldman/AIG swaps from the pricing reflected in actual market
transactions in similar derivatives.”  
 Viniar and Lehman will testify today alongside former AIG
Chief Financial Officer  Steven Bensinger  and other AIG
executives.  
 Lawmakers appointed the 10-member FCIC last July to
investigate the causes of the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression. The panel has until December to report its
findings to Congress.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Financial Officer David Viniar. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
