-- Goldman Sachs Pressed for Derivatives Data
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-07-01T21:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/goldman-sachs-pressed-by-u-s-financial-crisis-panel-for-derivatives-data.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  refused a
request from the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  to reveal
how much it  makes  trading derivatives, saying the bank doesn’t
separate the figure from other businesses.  
 “Some other firms have provided us with that data when
we’ve asked for it and Goldman Sachs hasn’t,” Commissioner
 Brooksley Born  said today in Washington on the second day of a
hearing investigating the role of derivatives in the 2008 credit
crisis, which sparked the worst recession since the 1930s. “It
makes one wonder why Goldman has the incentive or impetus to not
release this information.”  
 Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest
derivatives dealer, have provided estimates to investors. The
top five U.S. commercial banks, including Goldman Sachs,
generated an estimated $28 billion in revenue from privately
negotiated derivatives in 2009, according to company reports
collected by the Federal Reserve and people familiar with banks’
income sources.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable Wall Street firm in
history, is being questioned about credit-default swap trades
with  American International Group Inc. , the insurer bailed out
by the U.S. government after AIG was unable to meet collateral
demands from trading partners on the contracts. The swaps, used
by Goldman Sachs and other banks to hedge against declines in
the value of mortgage-linked debt, caused losses at AIG as
housing prices collapsed.  
 ‘It’s Integrated’  
 Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar 
testified today that the firm has no way of separating out its
derivatives data from trading in cash securities.  
 “We don’t have a separate derivatives business,” Viniar
told the panel. “It’s integrated into the rest of our
business.”  
 Commissioner  Byron Georgiou  said he doubted Goldman Sachs
was unable to provide the information.  
 “When you tell us that you don’t know how much you make in
your derivatives business, nobody here really believes it,”
Georgiou told Viniar. “Nobody here believes that you don’t know
how much money you’re making on the various aspects of your
business, it doesn’t make any sense.”  
 $49.1 Trillion  
 Goldman Sachs held a gross amount of $49.1 trillion of
derivatives contracts as of March 31, according to an Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency report last month. The bank
reported total trading revenue of $7.65 billion during the first
quarter. That follows total trading revenue of $23.2 billion in
2009, according to a filing with the Federal Reserve.  
 “It’s kind of dangerous, don’t you think, to claim to the
FCIC that you don’t know the profitability of a major line of
business,” said  Craig Pirrong , a finance professor at the
University of Houston. “How can you rationally allocate
capital, for instance, if you don’t know the return to that
capital?”  
 Under a March 2008 amendment to derivatives accounting
standards, companies are exempt from breaking out gains or
losses on derivatives used as part of a trading book that also
includes cash securities, if other information on the trading
activities is provided, according to the Financial Accounting
Standards Board’s  Statement No. 161 .  
 Goldman Sachs is “definitely capable of providing the data
that was asked for, but I can understand their fear of doing
so,” said  Brian Yelvington , head of fixed-income strategy at
broker-dealer Knight Libertas LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut, and
a former credit swaps trader.  
 Derivatives Revenue  
 “There is a potential for such a number to vastly
overstate the amount of profit or loss captured by a particular
business because much of that business may be symbiotic with
another,” Yelvington said. “They may have made money on the
derivatives leg of a trade, for example, and lost it on the cash
leg.”  
 JPMorgan said in February 2009 that about 8 percent of its
total revenue from 2006 to 2008 came from derivatives in its
investment-banking unit, according to a presentation made to
investors.  
 That breakdown and revenue figures from regulatory filings
imply that half of JPMorgan’s $31.2 billion in trading revenue
those years came from derivatives, according to  Alexander Yavorsky , a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in New
York.  
 ‘Highly Imprecise’  
 “Reporting a revenue number, just the profit on
derivatives without looking at cash positions associated with
hedging those, is going to be a highly imprecise exercise,”
Yavorsky said in an interview today.  
 Goldman Sachs was subpoenaed by the commission last month
after the New York-based firm sent more than a billion pages of
documents to the panel, a shipment so sizable that panel members
called it an attempt to hinder their probe.  
 “We did not ask them to pull up a dump truck to our
offices and dump a bunch of rubbish,” Chairman  Phil Angelides ,
who previously served as California’s treasurer, said June 7.
“This has been a very deliberate effort over time to run out
the clock.”  
 The commission, which will report its findings to Congress
and President  Barack Obama  by December, said June 29 that the
bank had been more responsive to information requests since
being subpoenaed. Separately, Goldman Sachs faces a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission fraud suit over sales of a
mortgage-linked security. The bank has said the SEC suit is
unfounded.  
 Born’s Warning  
 Born had warned in 1998, as chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, that the unregulated over-the-
counter derivatives market posed a danger to the global
financial system. She moved to address changes in how swaps
based on interest rates, commodities or currencies were traded
and was stopped by then-Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ,
SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt  and Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin ,
who all argued the market could regulate itself.  
 Born said last year that the banks that caused the crisis
were trying to stop the congressional overhaul of the market.  
 “Special interests in the financial-services industry are
beginning to advocate a return to business as usual,” Born said
in May 2009 as she accepted a Profile in Courage award from the
John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A member of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission Brooksley Born. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Joshua Rosner, managing director at Graham Fisher & Co., talks about efforts to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system. 
     Rosner speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
