-- Google's China Plan May Stoke Exodus to Baidu, Clients Say
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-01T00:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/google-s-changes-to-china-website-may-stoke-exodus-to-baidu-clients-say.html

          
          
             Google Inc. ’s modifications to its
website in China will probably encourage more Web surfers and
Chinese advertisers to switch to Baidu Inc. in the world’s
largest Internet market, advertizing agents said.  
 Officials at EmporioAsia Leo Burnett and Zenith Optimedia
said yesterday their customers will be more likely to market
their products on Baidu after Google disclosed its plans to
keep an Internet license in the country. The search-engine
operator said on June 29 it will point users to an unfiltered
Hong Kong site instead of redirecting them automatically on
concern authorities wouldn’t renew the permit.  
 “Advertisers will have more reservations about Google, as
the uncertainty has now increased,”  Steven Chang , chief
executive officer for China at Zenith Optimedia, the media unit
of  Publicis Groupe SA , said in an interview.  
 As Google awaits its fate, Baidu’s  stock  has gained 66
percent this year, making it the best performer on the Nasdaq
100 Index. The Chinese Internet-search company stands to gain
the most should the standoff lead to the shutting of Google’s
engine in the country, according to Samsung Securities Co.  
 Google  shares  have fallen 28 percent this year, compared
with the Nasdaq Composite Index’s 7 percent slide.  
 Vincent Kobler, managing director at EmporioAsia Leo
Burnett in Shanghai, said Google’s so-called landing page is
less convenient because it forces users to click to a link to
the Hong Kong web page instead of being redirected automatically.
The advertising agency has been advising most online search
clients to use  Baidu ’s services, he said in an interview.  
 Return on Investment  
 “Marketers in China are feeling more certain of their
return on investment with  Baidu  now than with Google as a result
of this situation,” said Emporio’s Kobler. “We have seen
Baidu’s market share growing and growing, and that means other
search players are shrinking.”  
 Mountain View, California-based Google said yesterday some
Web search features have been partially blocked in China. can
keep providing Internet services there.  
 The blockage affects the “suggest” tool, which helps
users refine queries as they are typed, according to an e-mailed
statement. Traditional searches are unaffected, it said.  
 Google ’s share of the China search engine market declined
to 30.9 percent by the end of March from 35.6 percent three
months earlier, the first drop in three quarters, according to
data from research firm Analysys International. Baidu’s share
increased to a record 64 percent, according to Analysys.  
 Not All Lost  
 Zenith Optimedia’s Chang said the drop-off in Google’s
business in China hasn’t been as bad as initially feared.  
 “It certainly hasn’t been the case that all clients had
fled and the company has lost all business,” said Chang.  
 In March, the U.S.  company  closed its Chinese search engine
and began directing users to the unfiltered Google.com.hk site.
The offshore move allowed Google to avoid local rules for
websites to self-censor content deemed unacceptable by the
government.  
 Google proposed the changes after government officials
indicated they won’t renew the company’s Internet license if it
continues to redirect users automatically, Chief Legal Officer
 David Drummond  said in a blog post this week.  
 The “landing page” switch allows Google to “stay true”
to a commitment not to self-censor search results in China while
adhering to local law, according to Drummond’s blog.  
 Stay or Go?  
 Opinions are mixed whether the changes will work.  Danny Sullivan , who runs the search-analysis website Search Engine
Land said he doesn’t see why China would be any “happier” with
Google’s latest proposal.  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper
Jaffray Cos. said he expects Google to remain in China.  
 “We were as surprised by this turn of events as anyone,”
Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “But
we respectfully decline to speculate on how uncertainties around
Google’s future in China may or may not impact our business.”  
 The “semi-exit” of Google benefited Baidu,  Robin Li ,
chief executive officer at the Beijing-based company, said in
April. Second-quarter  sales  will rise to between 1.83 billion
yuan ($270 million) and 1.87 billion yuan, Baidu forecast at the
time, exceeding analysts’ estimates. The company’s first-quarter
profit more than doubled.  
 “Google won’t speculate on traffic but will be monitoring
how users respond to the landing page experiment,” said  Jessica Powell , Google’s Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  
 Sales in China  
 Google would generate $600 million in sales this year in
China, according to estimates by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in January.
That’s less than  3 percent  of the company’s projected total
revenue this year, according to the average of 28 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China had 384 million Internet users at the end of 2009, the
government estimates. That’s more than the total U.S. population.
The number may grow to 840 million, or 61 percent of China’s
population, by 2013, according to EMarketer Inc. in New York.  
 “That Google has proposed ending the auto redirect for
Chinese users demonstrates a willingness to compromise,” said
Nick Fawbert, managing director of Third Space Consulting, a
media consulting company in Singapore. “I believe it’s a closer
and more positive reflection of their desire to do business in
China.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Google.cn "landing site" is displayed on a computer in Beijing on June 29, 2010. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Aiken, an analyst at Majestic Research LLC, talks about the outlook for Google Inc. keeping its Internet license in China.
     Google said some Web search features have been partially blocked in China as the company awaits a decision from the country’s government on whether it can keep providing Internet services there. Aiken speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Google Inc. said some Web search features have been partially blocked in China as it awaits a decision from the country’s government on whether it can keep providing Internet services there. The blockage affects the “suggest” tool, which helps users refine queries as they’re typed, Google said in an e-mailed statement. Bloomberg's Cris Valerio reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
