-- Greenspan Tells CNBC U.S. Economy Undergoing `Typical Pause' in Recovery
-- Caroline Salas
-- 2010-07-01T15:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/greenspan-tells-cnbc-u-s-economy-undergoing-typical-pause-in-recovery.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the U.S. economic recovery is undergoing a
“typical pause” that will be shaped by the performance of
stock markets.  
 “While ordinarily we’re seeing the stock market driven by
economic events, I think it’s more the reverse,” Greenspan said
in an interview today on CNBC. “What we do know is stock prices
are a leading indicator.”  
 Investors are questioning the strength of the global
economic recovery with bond returns exceeding stock gains by the
widest margin in nine years. U.S. data this week showed
confidence among consumers sank more than forecast in June as
they became distressed over the outlook for jobs and incomes.  
 “People don’t want to hire because they’re concerned they
may have to let them go,” Greenspan said, calling it a “short-
term fear factor.” Joblessness also won’t decline “until you
get output-per-hours slowing down,” he said.  
 A Labor Department report tomorrow may show the jobless
rate rose to 9.8 percent last month from 9.7 percent in May,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Unemployment reached a 26-year high of 10.1 percent
in October.  
 Unlike in typical recoveries, small businesses are not
proving an engine for growth, leaving the U.S. economy reliant
on banks and wealthy individuals to drive the recovery,
Greenspan said. He advised against raising the capital gains tax
in the U.S.  
 Recovery Pace  
 While Greenspan didn’t specify what he meant by a “typical
pause,” the U.S. economy expanded at an average pace of 2.5
percent in the three quarters after the 2001 recession, before
slowing to an average of 0.9 percent in the following two
quarters. After a recession ended in 1991, quarterly growth
averaged 4.3 percent in 1992 before slumping to an average of
1.8 percent in the first nine months of 1993.  
 The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Bear
Stearns Cos. in 2008 showed that banks need to hold more
capital, according to Greenspan.  
 “We undercapitalized the system,” Greenspan said. “That
there would be a lot of increased regulation is something which,
from my point of view, is probably appropriate.”  
 Greenspan called the sovereign debt crisis in Europe
“pretty bad” and said “competitive imbalances” may change
the makeup of the euro zone.  
 “I don’t know where the end game is but something has got
to give here,” he said. “One possibility is there are fewer
members of the monetary union.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Tobias Levkovich, chief U.S. equity strategist at Citigroup Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about the outlook for the U.S. stock market and the potential implications of the country's mid-term elections for the economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
