-- Gross Tells Old Story in Return `Mediocrity' Call: Chart of the Day
-- David Wilson
-- 2010-07-01T15:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gross-tells-old-story-in-rate-of-return-mediocrity-call-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             “Global financial market returns
stand at the threshold of mediocrity,” according to  Bill Gross ,
who oversees the world’s biggest bond fund. Investors have been
there before.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows the annual rates of return from
investing 60 percent of assets in stocks and 40 percent in bonds
over five-year periods. The percentages are a typical benchmark
for asset allocation. MSCI Inc.’s  All Country World Index  and
the Barclays Capital  Global Aggregate Bond Index , two of the
broadest market gauges, were used in the calculations.  
 Last year’s figure was 4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Five-year returns fell short of this
threshold four times earlier in the decade. They hit bottom at
1.1 percent for the period ended in 2002, the same year that the
1990s Internet bubble finished bursting.  
 Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co. and manager of its flagship Pimco Total Return
Fund, made the “mediocrity” reference in a monthly  commentary 
posted yesterday on Pimco’s website.  
 Investors ought to expect “low single digit” percentage
returns on stocks annually, he wrote. As for bonds, yields of
less than 3 percent on global indexes are a harbinger of their
future performance, in his view. The Barclays Capital index had
a 2.54 percent  yield  as of yesterday.  
 Five-year returns averaged 11.7 percent during the second
half of the 1990s, as the chart depicts. Since then, they have
exceeded 10 percent only once: in 2007, the end of a five-year
bull market for stocks.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        