-- Gross Joins Cruz in Hunt for High-Yield Debt as Treasuries Soar
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gross-joins-cruz-with-funds-to-hunt-for-high-yield-debt-as-treasuries-soar.html

          
          
             Put  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, and ex-Morgan Stanley President Zoe Cruz in the camp that sees investor demand for low-rated
corporate debt even as super-safe U.S. Treasuries rally on
concerns that the economy is slowing down.  
 Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co. and Cruz’s Voras
Capital Management LP were among at least eight firms telling
regulators in June they are starting funds that may buy junk
bonds and distressed securities. High-yield debt returned 1.32
percent last month, trailing the 1.81 percent gain for
Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  
 U.S. government bonds have surged amid signs the economic
recovery is losing momentum, pushing yields on 10-year
Treasuries below 3 percent for the first time since April 2009.
That’s making average junk-bond yields of about 9 percent
attractive to investors willing to bet the U.S. isn’t heading
into another recession.  
 “In the high-yield sector, you don’t really need an
economic recovery,” said David Breazzano, who co-founded DDJ
Capital Management LLC after co-managing distressed and high-
yield assets for Boston-based  Fidelity Investments . “You just
need the economy to stay where it is, and you can get double-
digit returns and you have less interest-rate sensitivity” than
with Treasuries.  
 Concerns that the economic recovery is slowing were
reinforced this week by a larger-than-expected decline in U.S.
consumer confidence in June and smaller gains in  China ’s leading
economic indicators during April. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year government bond fell as low as 2.92 percent on June 29.  
 Spreads Widen  
 Investors pulled a record $6.3 billion from high-yield
mutual funds during May, according to data from Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. Treasuries are considered ultra-safe because
they are backed by the government’s ability to print money to
repay its debts.  
 The spread between yields on U.S. bonds and corporate high-
yield debt has widened as investors demand a higher premium to
hold the riskier securities. Yields on the lower-grade corporate
bonds are 7.06 percentage points higher than those on the 10-
year U.S. bond, up from a 52-week low of 5.42 percentage points
on April 26, according to the Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index.  
 Investors who are bullish on risky debt note that Moody’s
Investors Service reported on June 6 that the global default
rate for high-yield issuers declined to 7.5 percent in May from
a peak of 13.5 percent in November, a sign that highly leveraged
companies are weathering the economic turbulence. The New York-
based rating firm expects the rate to fall below 2 percent by
June 2011.  
 ‘Oversold’ Market  
 The spread between Treasuries and noninvestment-grade
bonds, those rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s, would normally coincide with a much higher default rate,
said  Kingman Penniman , president of KDP Investment Advisors, a
high-yield research firm based in Montpelier,  Vermont .  
 “When you look at where spreads are today, there is no
question that the high-yield market is oversold,” Penniman
said. “Unless you are predicting a double-dip recession to
happen pretty quickly, it would be pretty hard to get that
default rate up there.”  
 Pimco, the  Newport Beach ,  California , firm that Gross co-
founded and helps run, filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on June 15 to register the Pimco High Yield
Spectrum Fund. It will be managed by Andrew Jessop, former co-
head of the high yield at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s asset-
management unit.  
 Jessop will have more latitude than managers of older Pimco
high-yield funds to invest in emerging-market debt and the
lowest-rated  junk bonds , according to the  SEC filing .  
 Pimco Total Return  
 Gross has been buying  U.S. government debt , increasing it
to 51 percent of his $227.9 billion Pimco Total Return Fund in
May from 36 percent the previous month. For his personal
portfolio, Gross disclosed in securities filings that he spent
$8.1 million during May to buy shares in three Pimco funds that
invest in bonds or bank debt issued by high-yield companies.  
   Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, declined to comment.  
 Cruz’s firm filed with the SEC on June 15 for the startup
of Voras Global Liquid Opportunities Fund LP and Voras Credit
Opportunities Fund LP. Once viewed as a possible successor to  John Mack  as Morgan Stanley’s chief executive officer, Cruz, 55,
formed her New York-based firm to make macroeconomic bets and
invest in distressed assets after being ousted as the bank’s co-
president in November 2007.  
 She didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  
 Shenkman, Millstreet  
 Also filing for new high-yield funds last month were
Shenkman Capital Management Inc. of  New York , Millstreet Capital
Management LLC in Quincy, Massachusetts, and Crestone Capital
Advisors LLC in Boulder,  Colorado . Firms starting credit
opportunity funds, which can hold all types of debt, include III
Offshore Advisors of  Boca Raton , Florida, and 400 Capital
Management LLC, a New York-based firm run by Chris Hentemann,
who stepped down in October 2007 as head of global structured
products at Bank of America Corp.  
 “It’s actually a pretty good time for some of these
leveraged credits to outperform over the next several years,”
said Craig Kelleher, co-manager of MillStreet Credit Fund LP,
which disclosed in a June 25 filing that it’s seeking to raise
as much as $100 million. “There are some good credit stories in
the mid-tier segment of the market.”  
 LBO Debt  
 In contrast, companies acquired through leveraged buyouts
may continue to struggle because they have too much debt,
according to Kelleher and his partner, Brian Connolly, both of
whom previously worked at Regiment Capital Advisors LLC, a
Boston-based firm that manages high-yield debt for  Harvard
University ’s endowment.  
 “The market has come to be dominated by some of the large
LBO names that are teetering on the edge,” Connolly said,
adding that some of these companies have avoided default by
exchanging debt for equity or stretching out maturities. “It’ll
be difficult for them to generate enough free cash to delever
meaningfully.”  
 That’s one reason some money managers have begun raising
money for new distressed funds. These funds often buy high-yield
bonds and bank loans that are about to default or have already
done so, and then swap the debt for equity in these companies
when they seek to cut their borrowings through a restructuring.  
 Breazanno’s firm, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts , said in
a June 15 SEC notice that it had received $56 million in
commitments for the DDJ Distressed & Special Situations Fund LP,
while New York-based GoldenTree Distressed Debt Fund LP reported
June 25 that it had obtained about $31.7 million.  
 Distressed Opportunities  
 “A lot of the transactions we look at are these leveraged
buyouts that occurred a few years ago,” said Breazzano.
“Either their refinancing is attractive as a high-yield
opportunity or they are unable to get the refinancing done, so
it becomes a potentially attractive distressed opportunity.”  
 Doug Bonnette, a principal at Crestone, which filed
documents for the Kenosha High Yield Fund III LP with the SEC on
June 17, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment. Scott
Wyler, III Offshore’s general counsel, declined to comment on
the III Credit Opportunities Fund LP.  
 Robert Matza, president of GoldenTree Asset Management, and
Hentemann at 400 Capital didn’t return telephone calls.  
 Shenkman Capital Management filed June 14 for the Brevis
High Income Fund LP. Richard Weinstein, an executive vice
president at the firm, said the fund will seek to buy high-yield
debt that has a short duration, meaning it is less sensitive to
changes in  interest rates .  
 “With money-market rates near zero, people are very
concerned about prospects for higher interest rates,” Weinstein
said in a telephone interview. “They are looking to hedge their
bets by taking a short duration,” he said, adding that Brevis
is the Latin term for short.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
