-- Gulf Debt Market to Gain as Dubai `Cleans House,' Exotix's Alanani Says
-- Shanthy Nambiar
-- 2010-07-01T08:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/gulf-debt-market-to-gain-as-dubai-cleans-house-exotix-s-alanani-says.html

          
          
             Ahmad Alanani , the London-based
associate director for the Middle East and North Africa at
Exotix Ltd., comments on bonds in the Gulf.  
 Alanani spoke in a telephone interview yesterday. Exotix is
an investment bank specializing in illiquid bonds, loans,
equities, structured finance, capital raising and asset
management.  
 On Gulf Cooperation Council bonds:  
 “GCC fixed-income markets, in particular Dubai, will
extend gains in the next three to six months. The region still
compares very favorably to the rest of emerging markets and
certainly to Europe. As Dubai cleans house, the region will
continue to attract investors, including new investors who will
bring fresh money to the market.  
 “Fixed-income markets in the region will continue to
outperform equity markets. At the micro level, company earnings
will disappoint in the next three to six months and particularly
in the United Arab Emirates. There is a sense of retrenchment on
the part of corporates, they are boosting their cash reserves
and paying down their debt, which means any outstanding debt
they have will start looking more and more attractive.  
 “The region’s fixed-income market really compares very
favorably to the rest of emerging markets. It is a region that
still has very healthy fundamentals, substantial cash reserves
and strong fiscal positions.  
 “The sort of yields we see in this region are better than
what we see in Brazil, China and Russia. We are seeing on the
trading side more and more new foreign money coming into the
fixed-income markets in the region. There is still value and
yields of 5 percent plus from some healthy and solid credits.”  
 On Sukuk:  
 “Sukuk products will perform in-line with general fixed-
income markets in the region. In the next three to six months,
fixed-income markets in the region will outperform equity
markets and that includes sukuk. But, sukuk will probably trail
a bit back from conventional fixed-income markets in the region.  
 “There is legal and operational risk associated with
investing in sukuk. We still don’t have a standardized format
for sukuk issuance. Investors, particularly foreign, have their
doubts about enforcement under the various structures. The sukuk
market remains largely untested in the event of a default. That
will hold it back, and until there is a standardized framework
for issuing sukuk that everyone agrees on, investors will demand
a risk premium to hold sukuk.  
 “There is also a lack of issuance in the sukuk market. A
lot of the recent issuances have been from sovereign or quasi-
sovereign entities with very rare exceptions, such as Dar Al
Arkan. It is still much easier for GCC companies to issue a
conventional bond because of the wider appeal and the better
pricing. Those two issues will hold back the sukuk market in the
near to medium-term.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shanthy Nambiar  in Dubai at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        