-- IDT's Jonas Turns to Oil Shale to Fuel Stock After Phone Services Slump
-- Peter Coy
-- 2010-07-01T17:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/idt-s-jonas-turns-to-oil-shale-to-fuel-stock-after-phone-services-slump.html

          
          
             Howard S. Jonas  holds a jagged rock
that smells like the floor of an auto-repair garage. It’s oil
shale and he considers it the future of  IDT Corp. , the Newark,
New Jersey-based telecommunications company he founded in 1990.  
 IDT’s stock fell 99 percent from January 2004 to December
2008, bottoming at 66 cents a share, as the industry soured and
the company lost half a billion dollars. It has since rebounded,
closing at $12.75 yesterday, on enthusiasm for IDT’s attempt at
a new direction to produce oil in a clean way in western
Colorado.  
 “This is the richest shale in the world,” Jonas, 54, said
in Bloomberg Businessweek’s July 5 edition.  
 Oil shale has broken many hearts. It doesn’t contain oil
but kerogen -- a low-energy solid that must be heated to 600 to
700 degrees Fahrenheit (316 to 371 degrees Celsius) before it
turns into oil and bleeds from the rock. Mining and heating
shale are costly and energy-consuming and leave piles of waste.  
 Companies are experimenting with heating the shale while
it’s underground and then pumping the oil to the surface, though
that increases the risk of groundwater contamination.  
 Jonas, whose company offers phone cards and services, said
his exploration approach is clean and energy-efficient: Capture
combustible gas that comes from the earth with the heated oil,
inject it back into the ground and burn it. That should heat up
and crack more shale, yielding additional oil and gas in what
Jonas said will be a self-sustaining process.  
 Beneath Aquifers  
 He plans to extract oil only from a layer of shale 2,000
feet (610 meters) below the earth’s surface. That’s beneath the
water-rich layers known as aquifers, minimizing the risk of
drinking-water contamination, Jonas said.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc , which plans to seek oil in the
aquifer layer, has devised a complex method of freezing the
ground around the heated shale to keep water away from oil.  
 The IDT technology comes from EGL Oil Shale LLC of Glenwood
Springs, Colorado. IDT acquired 75 percent of EGL in 2008 and
renamed it American Shale Oil LLC. Last year, Jonas brought in
France’s Total SA as a 50 percent partner.  
 The venture will test the extraction method on a 160-acre
(65 hectare) plot of U.S. government land in northwestern
Colorado. The Bureau of Land Management is giving the company 10
years to show what it can do. It will take that long to know if
Jonas’ latest venture will pay off.  
 “It’s hopeful but never for sure,” said M. Nafi Toksoz, a
Massachusetts Institute of Technology geophysicist and adviser.  
 David Abelson, a policy adviser to environmental group
Western Resource Advocates in Boulder, Colorado, said shale oil
is a “looking-in-the-rearview-mirror fuel source,” and the
U.S. should focus on clean renewables.  
 Jonas, an avid supporter of Israel, is developing shale oil
there through a separate venture chaired by  Michael Steinhardt ,
who made his fortune in hedge funds. Steinhardt said his
investment is a way to do good and make money.  
 “On those kinds of investments,” Steinhardt said with a
laugh, “I have a near perfect record -- of failure.”  
 That’s not what Jonas was hoping to hear.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        