-- Tiger Woods Trails AT&T Leaders Atwal, Ogilvie, Day, Watney by Seven Shots
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-07-01T22:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/tiger-woods-trails-at-t-leaders-atwal-ogilvie-day-watney-by-seven-shots.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  is seven shots off the
first-round lead after playing his final five holes in 4-over
par at the U.S. PGA Tour’s AT&T National, the tournament he
hosted the previous three years.  
 India’s  Arjun Atwal , Australia’s  Jason Day  and Americans
 Nick Watney  and  Joe Ogilvie  are tied for the lead after opening
with rounds of 4-under 66 today at Aronimink Golf Club in
Newtown Square, Pennsylvania.  
 Woods, winless in five PGA Tour events this year since
returning to golf after an almost five-month hiatus, was 1-under
through 13 holes before stumbling at the finish and ending the
day at 3-over 73.  
 “‘I hit it good all day and just let my round get away
from me,” Woods, the tournament’s defending champion, said in a
televised interview.  
 The No. 1 golfer in the Official World Rankings, Woods
bogeyed the 218-yard, par-3 14th hole and dropped another shot
at the par-5 16th. He double-bogeyed the par-3 17th after his
tee shot rolled back off the green and into a pond.  
 Woods missed a chance to get a stroke back when he lipped
out a birdie putt from inside six feet at the 18th hole. After a
birdie on Aronimink’s opening hole, Woods made only one more
during the first round.  
 “I putted awful,” Woods said. “My speed was good, but I
couldn’t get anything to go in.”  
 Woods and his foundation hosted the AT&T National from
2007-09 at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland.  
 AT&T Inc ., the largest U.S. phone company, ended its
endorsement agreement with Woods on Dec. 31 after details about
his admitted marital infidelity emerged. Woods no longer carries
the AT&T logo on his bag or serves as the event’s official host,
though it still benefits his foundation.  
 Woods, No. 5  Jim Furyk  and No. 14  Robert Allenby  are the
only players in the top 20 of the world rankings in the field
for this week’s tournament. The winner receives $1.1 million.  
 Sweden’s  Carl Pettersson  and Americans  John Mallinger ,
 Brian Gay ,  Brett Quigley ,  Ryan Moore  and  Michael Letzig  are one
shot off the lead at 3-under par.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in Newtown Square, Pennsylvania at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        