-- Rupee Touches Three-Week Low as India's Current-Account Deficit Balloons
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-01T12:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/indian-rupee-falls-to-three-week-low-as-current-account-deficit-balloons.html

          
          
             India’s rupee weakened after a
central bank report showed the nation’s  current-account deficit 
widened to a record.  
 The currency touched a three-week low after the  Reserve
Bank of India  said the current account, a measure of trade and
investment flows, posted a $13 billion shortfall last quarter,
more than double the $5.75 billion median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index  dropped 1.2 percent as reports suggested
manufacturing growth slowed last month in China, South Korea and
Taiwan, fanning concern a global recovery is stalling.  
 “We expect the rupee to underperform other Asian
currencies,”  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based economist at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a research note. “The current account
again surprised on the downside. We expect smaller balance of
payment surpluses, which are likely to result in a weaker rupee
over the medium term.”  
 The rupee slid 0.3 percent to 46.58 per dollar as of the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It earlier touched 46.783, the weakest level since June 11. The
currency dropped 3.3 percent in the second quarter, a decline
second only to South Korea’s won among Asia’s 10 most-used
currencies.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47.08 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 46.91 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy
or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  
 The central bank yesterday said India’s external debt
totaled $261.4 billion at the end of March, 16.5 percent more
than a year earlier. The debt rose on account of a “significant
increase” in International Monetary Fund liabilities, it said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        