-- India May Raise $535 Million From Coal Tax Meant to Encourage Alternatives
-- Natalie Obiko Pearson
-- 2010-07-01T11:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/india-to-raise-535-million-from-tax-on-coal-output-this-year-ramesh-says.html

          
          
             India expects to raise $535 million
from a levy on coal producers starting today, the first step by
Asia’s third-largest energy consumer to charge companies for
fossil fuel pollution.  
 “This will give 25 billion rupees ($535 million) this year
alone,” Environment Minister  Jairam Ramesh  said in Mumbai,
calling it “a carbon tax that will be used for clean energy.”  
 The European Union, South Korea and Japan are considering
taxing carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fuels such as coal
and oil to slow climate change. Australia’s new prime minister
 Julia Gillard  said June 24 she would “re-prosecute the case for
a carbon tax” at home and abroad after her predecessor shelved
plans for an emissions-trading plan.  
 A domestic tax should come before a global carbon tax, and
India has imposed one while others debate the issue, Ramesh told
reporters June 28.  
 Coal, used to fire more than half of India’s electricity
generation, will be taxed at 50 rupees a metric ton to help fund
clean-energy projects. Coal producers nationwide will be charged
the tax starting July 1, the Central Board of Excise and Customs
said in a  notice  on its website after the levy was proposed in
the federal government budget in February.  
 “It’s putting a price on pollution for the first time” in
India, Ashutosh Pandey, chief executive officer of  Emergent
Ventures India Pvt. , which has worked on carbon projects with
the government and World Bank, said by telephone from Gurgaon
near New Delhi.  
 Imported Coal  
 The clean-energy levy will also apply to imported coal,
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said in his budget  speech .
Coal emits more carbon dioxide per unit of energy than other
fossil fuels, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  
 India’s total coal production is  estimated  to reach 571.87
million tons in the year ending March, the government said on
Feb. 24. In addition,  Coal India Ltd.,  the world’s largest
producer, expects the country will import close to 100 million
tons this year, Chairman Partha Bhattacharyya said May 19.  
 Chief executive officers including  Rex Tillerson  of  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  and  Paolo Scaroni  of Italy’s  Eni SpA  have advocated
a flat tax over carbon-trading systems like the European Union’s,
saying a levy allows companies to plan for a simpler, more
stable cost of pollution.  
 EU permits for December, the allowances in the  European
Union’s  emissions trading system, declined 0.5 percent to 15.19
euros per metric ton of carbon dioxide today on London’s
European Climate Exchange.  
 Carbon Intensity  
 India has set a voluntary target to cut its carbon
intensity, or the amount of carbon dioxide released per unit of
gross domestic product, by as much as 25 percent from 2005
levels by 2020.  
 The South Asian nation is also exploring market-based
solutions to combat global warming. The government plans to
introduce a domestic market starting this year for trading
environmental credits. Businesses will face renewable energy and
energy-savings targets and be issued credits that will trade on
the country’s two power exchanges.  
 The coal tax was announced on Feb. 26 along with a decision
to impose duties on crude and oil products that were withdrawn
after record oil prices and the global recession.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        