-- India's Gold Imports May Fall 36% as Price Damps Demand, Association Says
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-07-01T00:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/india-s-gold-imports-may-fall-36-as-price-damps-demand-association-says.html

          
          
             Gold imports in India, the world’s
biggest consumer, may fall as much as 36 percent this year as
higher prices and volatility slows demand, the  Indian Bullion
Market Association  said.  
 Purchases may be about 350 tons to 400 metric tons in the
year ending March 31, 2011, compared with about 550 tons a year
earlier, the association’s President  Anjani Sinha  said yesterday
in a phone interview in Mumbai. Imports are down by about half
in the last three to four months, he said.  
 Gold, which reached a record $1,265.30 an ounce on June 21,
is headed for a 10th straight annual increase as investors seek
to guard their wealth from the prolonged financial crisis in
Europe. Higher prices have started to hurt jewelry consumption
in India, Citigroup Inc. said in a report last month.  
 “For the next two-to-three months we feel that the demand
will be on the lower side,” Sinha said. “One problem is higher
price levels, and secondly is the volatility.”  
 Immediate-delivery bullion was little changed at $1,241.65
an ounce at 7:55 a.m. in Singapore. The metal had its biggest
quarterly advance since the end of 2007.  
 India’s gold imports slumped to between 16 to 17 tons in
May, from 34 tons in April, Citigroup economists  Rohini Malkani 
and Anushka Shah said in a report June 21. Jewelry accounts for
about 75 percent of the nation’s gold demand, the analysts said.  
 “When there is stability in gold prices, consumers start
to buy,” Vinod Hayagriv, the chairman of the All India Gems &
Jewellery Trade Federation, said by phone from Bangalore. “When
it is fluctuating up and down very much, they hold back.”  
 Domestic Demand  
 Domestic demand may be met by recycling old jewelry should
bullion prices continue to rise, Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri Pvt.,
the nation’s oldest-gold jewelry retailer, said this week.  
 “We also observed that a lot of resale gold comes into the
market” because of higher prices, bullion association’s Sinha
said. “That also meets a part of the demand.”  
 Gold futures on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.,
the world’s second-biggest bourse for bullion, have advanced 30
percent in the past year and reached a record 19,198 rupees per
10 grams on June 8.  
 “Over a period of time because of the European crisis,
problems in the international market, and also the problems
linked to the dollar, prices will firm-up further,” Sinha said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        