-- Indonesia Inflation Rate Climbed for a Third Month as Harvest Season Ends
-- Novrida Manurung
-- 2010-07-01T04:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/indonesia-inflation-rate-climbed-for-a-third-month-as-harvest-season-ends.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s inflation rate climbed
for a third month in June as the end of the harvest season
crimped food supplies, an increase that may not be sufficient to
trigger an interest-rate increase next week.  
 Consumer prices rose 5.05 percent last month from a year
earlier after gaining 4.16 percent in May, the Central Bureau of
Statistics said in Jakarta today. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists was for a 4.46 percent
increase.  
 Indonesia’s central bank, which will review its monetary
policy on July 5, has lagged behind Malaysia, India and Taiwan
in raising borrowing costs this year. The rupiah has risen 12
percent against the dollar in the past year as investors poured
money into an economy where the benchmark interest rate is 6.5
percent, compared with Japan’s 0.1 percent, helping cap import
prices and contain inflation.  
 “Inflationary pressures in the coming months remain low,
giving no reason for the central bank to increase interest
rates,”  Helmi Arman , an economist at PT Bank Danamon Indonesia
in Jakarta, said in a telephone interview before today’s report.
“Bank Indonesia hasn’t yet demonstrated any strong concern over
inflation and we don’t expect them to do so anytime soon.”  
 Policy makers in Southeast Asia’s largest economy will
probably keep the country’s benchmark rate unchanged at 6.5
percent next week, according to all 14 economists in Bloomberg
News survey. The measure is at the lowest level since it was
introduced in July 2005.  
 Rupiah, Harvest  
 Bank Indonesia has left the rate unchanged since August
last year to support the economy, even as neighboring Malaysia
and Australia raised borrowing costs to avert asset bubbles and
tame inflation amid a global rebound from last year’s slump.
That’s helped support demand for goods and services including
homes built by  PT Bakrieland Development , Indonesia’s second-
largest property developer by assets.  
 Indonesian consumer prices rose 0.97 percent in June from
the previous month after rising 0.29 percent in May.  
 The end of the harvest season in the main rice-producing
regions in Java island in May caused the price of rice to
increase, Arman said.  
 The cost of rice, the staple for Indonesia’s 235 million
people, rose 5 percent to 8,500 ($0.93) a kilogram on June 29
from June 1, according to data from PT Food Station Tjipinang
Jaya, Indonesia’s biggest market for the grain.  
 Indonesia’s exports rose 36 percent to $12.52 billion in
May from a year earlier after gaining 42.6 percent in April, the
statistics office said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aloysius Unditu  in Jakarta at 
 aunditu@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        