-- IPhone Users Look to Livestrong Bands for Cheaper Antenna Fix
-- Connie Guglielmo
-- 2010-07-01T23:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/iphone-users-find-cheap-fix-for-antenna-flaw-armstrong-s-livestrong-bands.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  fan sites have found a
cheaper fix for iPhone 4 users than the $29 rubber case that the
company is selling to minimize antenna-reception problems:
Livestrong bracelets that sell for about $1 each.  
 The iPhone Guru,  The Unofficial Apple Weblog  and  CrunchGear 
are recommending that users take a pair of scissors to cyclist
 Lance Armstrong ’s Livestrong yellow bracelets or other
inexpensive plastic wristbands; cut out holes for the phones’
dock connector, headphone jack and silent-mode toggle switch;
and stretch the bands around the phone.  
 After Apple began selling the iPhone 4 on June 24, users
reported reception problems and dropped calls when they held the
lower-left corner of the device in a certain way. The company
advised them to hold it differently or buy a case.  Apple  sells a
case called  Bumper  that surrounds the outer rim of the phone and
is available in white, black, blue, green, orange and pink.  
 “Apple sells the Bumpers in six colors for a wince-inducing
$29 each,” Aurich Lawson, a writer on the Ars Technica
technology blog, said in a posting today. “For this kind of
quality and utility you should get all six colors for the
price.”  
 While the Bumpers seem to do the job, even users accustomed
to paying premium prices for Apple gadgets might feel the cost
is “a rip-off,” Lawson wrote.  
 Livestrong Band  
 Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman, reiterated the
company’s comments that users should buy one of the cases
available for the phone or avoid gripping it in the lower left
corner “in a way that covers both sides of the black strip in
the metal band.” The company sold 1.7 million iPhones in the
first three days.  
 Livestrong bands are available from Livestrong.org, part of
a non-profit foundation started by Armstrong  in 1997 to help
people fight cancer. The group sells a 10-pack of the wristbands
for $10, with proceeds used to fund its cancer survivor and
support programs, according to the  foundation’s website .  
 Livestrong.org said it has seen an increase today in
visitors to the wristband page on its site. “This glitch is our
gain by getting our message of social change to more people,”
foundation President Doug Ulman said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Armstrong sent a  message  to his roughly 2.5 million
followers on social-networking site Twitter.com today, saying
“Wow. Cool,” to describe the new use for the Livestrong bands.
Armstrong, 38, is in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, to participate
in his final Tour de France cycling race, which begins this
weekend.  
 Lawsuits  
 Users who order an Apple Bumper today can expect it to ship
within five to seven business days, with mailing costs starting
at $4, according to the Cupertino, California-based company’s
 website . IPhone cases are also available from accessory makers
including Hard Candy Cases and Belkin International Inc.  
 Apple was sued yesterday in San Francisco over reception
problems with the new iPhone by customers who accused the
company of unfair business practices and false and misleading
advertising. A separate complaint was filed in Maryland today,
alleging that Apple and U.S. wireless service provider AT&T Inc.
were negligent in marketing the phone.  
 Apple fell $3.05 to $248.48 at 4 p.m. New York time in
 Nasdaq Stock Market   trading . The shares have advanced 18 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lance Armstrong  
                       
                         
                           Darren Stewart/Gallo Images/Getty Images 
                         
                         Lance Armstrong gives a speech during the Livestrong Global Cancer Campaign Launch visit to cancer survivors at Groote Schuur Hospital on March 11, 2010 in Cape Town. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lance Armstrong gives a speech during the Livestrong Global Cancer Campaign Launch visit to cancer survivors at Groote Schuur Hospital on March 11, 2010 in Cape Town. Photographer: Darren Stewart/Gallo Images/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
