-- IPhone-Haters With Big Paws May Love Droid X: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-07-01T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/iphone-haters-with-big-paws-may-love-droid-x-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. ’s new-product launches
tend to suck the oxygen from anyone else who dares unveil a
gadget around the same time. Such is the fate of the Droid X,
the sequel to the phone that launched  Motorola Inc. ’s comeback
effort last year.  
 The Droid X, which  Verizon  Wireless and Motorola introduced
the same week as the iPhone 4 and goes on sale July 15, probably
hasn’t received as much attention as it should. While it lacks
the iPhone’s polish and buzz, it’s definitely worth a look if
you find yourself repelled rather than attracted by Apple’s
gravitational-distortion field.  
 And as long as you have a big enough place to stash it. The
 Droid X  is huge -- one of the largest smartphones I’ve ever
used. Its 4.3-inch screen is 16 percent larger than the  original
Droid , known outside the U.S. as the Motorola Milestone, which
was itself a hefty chunk of hardware. It’s 23 percent bigger
than the 3.5-inch display on the iPhone.  
 Yet for all its girth, the Droid X is both thinner and
lighter than its predecessor and not at all uncomfortable to
hold, at least if your hand is large enough. Mine is, and I
found a natural place for my index finger to grasp it, just
where the rear of the case flares out to accommodate the 8-
megapixel, dual-flash camera.  
 No Keyboard  
 Motorola accomplished the reductions in weight and
thickness by jettisoning the original Droid’s slide-out physical
keyboard in favor of an onscreen one that, especially when in
landscape mode, is a pleasure to use thanks to all that display
real estate.  
 Like all Motorola smartphones, the Droid X runs  Google
Inc. ’s Android operating system; the former king of wireless,
which saw its fortunes tumble when it wasn’t able to come up
with a successor to its smash-hit Razr line, scrapped its own
operating-system development efforts a year or two ago.  
 Android  continues to improve in terms of usability and the
number of applications available -- now a claimed 70,000. And
the Droid X can do some cool things the iPhone can’t. One is to
act as a Wi-Fi signal for nearby laptop computers or other
devices. The Mobile Hotspot feature costs an extra $20 for up to
2 gigabytes of data per month; that’s on top of the cost of the
phone itself -- $199 after a $100 rebate -- plus a voice plan
and $29.99 for unlimited data.  
 Loved or Loathed  
 The Droid X also makes use of Motorola’s  MotoBlur  software,
which lets you combine content from Facebook, Twitter and other
social-networking sites into a single stream. It’s a handy
feature, much less obtrusive here than it is on Motorola’s Cliq
phone, whose users seem split between loving it and loathing it.  
 The Droid X has a couple of advantages over the  iPhone 4 .
It comes with 24 gigabytes of storage -- the comparably priced
iPhone has 16 -- and you can expand the capacity to 40
gigabytes, where the more expensive iPhone 4 tops out at 32. The
Droid also has a removable battery; a spare will come in
particularly handy if you make much use of the power-sucking
Mobile Hotspot.  
 Perhaps the Droid X’s biggest advantage over the iPhone is
that it runs on Verizon Wireless, which enjoys a higher
reputation than the  AT&T Inc.  network the iPhone is, for now at
least, tethered to. Still, the iPhone 4 benefits from a larger
universe of software -- Apple now claims more than 250,000 apps
-- a sharper screen and a front-facing camera that allows for
video calling over Wi-Fi. And it remains the smartphone gold
standard for user-friendliness.  
 Flash-Friendly  
 Not all the battle lines between the Droid X and iPhone 4
have yet been drawn. Google and Motorola are promising that an
over-the-air upgrade this summer will allow the Droid X to run
videos using  Adobe Systems Inc. ’s Flash software, which Apple
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  has famously banished from
the iPhone.  
 Verizon, which controls the Droid name, has slapped it on a
number of phones, including several made by Motorola rival  HTC
Corp.  Still, the Droid X provides more than enough features and
performance to vault it to the head of the Droid line, at least
for the meaty-pawed.  
 The original Droid was the first smartphone to really
challenge the iPhone, and while Verizon’s huge marketing
campaign helped make it a hit, it did little to dent Apple’s
hegemony. That’s likely to be the Droid X’s fate too. In today’s
much broader field of Android-based devices, it does a lot of
things well -- but no one thing well enough.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        