-- IPO Filings Hit Post-2007 High Amid Losses; LBO Firms Seek Cash
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/ipo-filings-hit-post-2007-high-as-losses-mount-while-lbo-firms-seek-cash.html

          
          
             U.S. companies are getting set for
the biggest wave of initial public offerings since the last  bull
market  at the same time that IPOs get canceled at the fastest
pace since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 HCA Inc., Zipcar Inc. and 89 other companies filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission last quarter to sell $23.6
billion of shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The last
time more companies announced such plans was in 2007. In the
past three months, 50 IPOs globally were shelved, the most in
six quarters.  
 Investors in U.S. IPOs lost 7.2 percent so far this year as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to an almost nine-month
low. Leveraged-buyout firms, which spent $2 trillion on
takeovers during the credit-market bubble, announced the biggest
stock sales and accounted for at least 50 percent of the deals
filed with the SEC in April through June.  
 “Beggars can’t be choosers to a certain extent,” said
Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee $19 billion at Fifth Third
Asset Management in  Minneapolis . LBO firms are “going through
their portfolios going, ‘What is something I can go monetize to
get some equity out?’” he said.  
 The second quarter began with 17 companies completing
initial sales in April, the most this year, as the S&P 500
rallied to a 19-month high.  Metals USA Holdings Corp ., owned by  Leon Black ’s New York-based Apollo Global Management LLC, and  PAA Natural Gas Storage LP  of Houston priced their IPOs above
the forecast range.  
 Stock-Market Slump  
 Gains then evaporated on concern the end of government
stimulus and widening budget gaps from  Greece  to  Spain  will curb
the global economic recovery. The S&P 500 fell as much as 15
percent from its 2010 high in April, while the  MSCI World  Index
of 24 developed nations lost 16 percent.  
 Price declines led companies from Ron Burkle’s Atlanta-
based Americold Realty Trust to Swire Properties Ltd. in  Hong
Kong  to pull $13.2 billion of initial offerings last quarter.
IPOs backed by LBO firms, which take controlling stakes in
companies and use borrowed money to finance most of the
purchase, accounted for four of the five biggest sales announced
in the U.S., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “In volatile markets like this, sponsors want to be ready
to launch to capitalize on what may be short windows of
opportunity to get deals done,” said Pete Chapman,  New York- 
based co-head of equity-capital markets for the Americas at Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. investment banking unit.  
 Client Distributions  
 Private-equity owners are using initial offerings to pay
down debt and return money to investors after the collapse of
New York-based Lehman in September 2008 halted dealmaking and
froze credit markets. Distributions to clients last year
decreased to the lowest since at least 2000, according to data
compiled by London-based Preqin Ltd.  
 HCA, the hospital chain bought four years ago in a $33
billion LBO led by KKR & Co. and Boston-based Bain Capital LLC,
filed with the SEC in May to sell $4.6 billion of shares. The
IPO would be the largest in the U.S. since  Visa Inc . of San
Francisco raised $19.7 billion in March 2008.  
 The hospital operator will get about 54 percent of the
proceeds, which will be used to pay back some of its $25.7
billion in debt. HCA’s owners, who used borrowed money for more
than 80 percent of the purchase price, will get the rest.  
 HCA posted net income of $1.05 billion last year, 26
percent less than in 2005, the year before the Nashville,
Tennessee-based company was taken private.  
 ‘The Tsunami’  
 “The smart ones are trying to get ahead of the tsunami”
of debt coming due, said David Weild, New York-based senior
adviser at accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP. “The unsettled
economic outlook has created a real roller coaster for IPOs.”  
 Nielsen Holdings BV, the New York-based television-audience
rating company owned by KKR and  Blackstone Group LP  of  New York ,
Washington-based  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP of  Boston , filed last month to raise as much as $1.75 billion.  
 Toys “R” Us Inc., the toy-store chain acquired by KKR,
Bain and Vornado Realty Trust of New York in 2005, said in May
that it plans to raise $800 million. The Wayne, New Jersey-based
retailer has $5 billion in long-term debt.  
 Companies supported by venture capital firms are also
tapping equity markets.  
 Zipcar, the car-sharing company that rents vehicles by the
hour, will seek $75 million in an IPO to reduce debt and expand
its fleet, according to its SEC filing.  
 Venture Capital  
 While sales rose almost 10-fold in the past five years, the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company hasn’t earned a profit
since its founding in 2000, and expects to lose money this year.
Zipcar is backed by Steve Case’s Washington-based Revolution and
Benchmark Capital of Menlo Park,  California .  
 InvenSense Inc., which makes the motion sensors for Kyoto-
based Nintendo Co.’s Wii MotionPlus remote video-game
controller, filed this week to raise $100 million. The
Sunnyvale, California-based company became profitable this
fiscal year for the first time since at least 2005.  
 Venture capital firms Artiman Ventures of  Palo Alto ,
California, Partech International in  San Francisco  and Menlo
Park-based Sierra Ventures own a combined 54 percent stake.  
 “You go public whenever you can, because you don’t know
when you’re going to be able to go public again,” said Steven Kaplan, professor of finance at the University of Chicago’s
Booth School of Business. “They’re filing now with the hope
that the economy or stock markets will hold or improve, and then
they’ll be able to go public.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Zipcar is raising as much as $75 million in an initial public offering. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
