-- Liquidity Worsens for High-Yield Companies for the First Time in 15 Months
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-01T16:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/liquidity-worsens-for-high-yield-companies-for-the-first-time-in-15-months.html

          
          
             An index that measures the difficulty
of borrowing for companies issuing high-yield, high-risk debt
climbed in June for the first time since March 2009, Moody’s
Investors Service said today.  
 The Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which falls when more
cash is available in the corporate bond market, was 5 percent in
June, up from 4.8 percent in May, Moody’s said in an e-mailed
report. The index has declined each month since its peak at 20.9
percent in March 2009 until flattening in May, Moody’s said.  
 “Attracting new financing is proving increasingly
difficult for issuers and we’ve seen a number of deals put on
hold because of tighter market conditions,” a team of analysts
led by  Tom Marshella  wrote. “A long period of improving
liquidity for speculative-grade issuers may be drawing to a
close amid a tentative U.S. recovery, high unemployment,
persistent concerns over sovereign debt troubles in Europe, and
forthcoming maturities.”  
 Moody’s assigns liquidity ratings to companies that sell
speculative-grade debt, using a scale of 1 to 4. Companies rated
4 rely on external sources of financing that Moody’s considers
“highly uncertain.” The Liquidity-Stress Index indicates the
percentage of companies with a 4 ranking.  
 “The slight rise could also be an early warning of the
pressure that the wave of speculative-grade maturities due
between now and 2014 would create if the U.S. economy were to
experience renewed weakness,” the analysts wrote.  
 More than $800 billion of junk debt will mature through
2014, with more than $700 billion coming due between 2012 and
2014, Moody’s analysts led by  Kevin Cassidy  wrote in a Feb. 1
report.  
 The amount coming due will probably cause a wave of
distressed exchanges, in which companies try to swap out their
debt at a discount to face value to avoid bankruptcy, Moody’s
analysts  Lenny J. Ajzenman ,  Daniel Greszta  and  John Diaz  wrote
in a report in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        