-- Israeli, Turkish Ministers Meet to Discuss Relations After Flotilla Deaths
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-01T14:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/israeli-turkish-officials-meet-after-clash-over-gaza-flotilla-hurts-ties.html

          
          
             Israeli and Turkish ministers held
talks aimed at repairing ties between the countries that were
ruptured when Israel’s military killed nine Turkish activists
aboard an aid ship bound for the Gaza Strip.  
 Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  and Israeli
Industry and Trade Minister  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer  met in Brussels
yesterday at the Israeli side’s request, and discussed “the
state of relations and their future course,” Turkish Foreign
Ministry spokesman Burak Ozugergin said by phone from Ankara
today. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office said earlier
today that Ben-Eliezer had met unspecified Turkish officials.  
 Davutoglu reiterated the steps Turkey expects Israel to
take, including a formal apology and financial compensation, and
consent to an international inquiry into the incident, Ozugergin
said. He said that there would have to be progress toward
meeting those conditions for the talks to continue.  
 The May 31 Israeli raid was the latest in a series of
flashpoints between the longtime allies, and led Turkey to
withdraw its ambassador from Israel and cancel joint military
exercises. Israel says its soldiers were attacked by activists
aboard one of six aid ships in a flotilla, after it ignored
warnings not to breach a three-year blockade of Gaza.  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called the Israeli raid
“barbaric” and said relations between the countries would
suffer. Turkey has been Israel’s closest ally in the Islamic
world, with the two countries sharing defense technology and
cooperating over military training. Trade between them was worth
about $2.5 billion last year.  
 Obama Talks  
 Erdogan discussed a “road map” to restore Turkish-Israeli
relations with President  Barack Obama  when the two leaders met
at the Group of 20 summit in Toronto last week, the Istanbul-
based  HaberTurk  newspaper reported.  
 Turkey’s demand for an international inquiry into the
Israeli raid has been backed by United Nations Secretary-General
 Ban Ki-moon . Israel last month set up its own inquiry panel,
which includes two international observers who don’t have voting
rights.  
 Israel last week pledged to allow more food and building
materials into Gaza, relaxing a blockade it has enforced since
2007, when the Hamas movement seized full control of the
territory after winning Palestinian parliamentary elections the
previous year.  
 Israel, along with the U.S. and European Union, classifies
Hamas as terrorists, and it says the embargo is necessary to
prevent the group from obtaining more weapons. Turkey, Russia
and the EU have called for an end to the blockade.  
 Davos Row  
 Other incidents that have strained the Turkish-Israeli
alliance in recent years include the row between Erdogan and
Israeli President  Shimon Peres  at Davos last year over Israel’s
December 2008 military operation in Gaza; a dispute over a
Turkish state television series that showed Israeli soldiers
killing unarmed Palestinians; and Israel’s televised dressing-
down in January of a Turkish diplomat who was seated in a chair
several inches below his interlocutors.  
 Yesterday’s Brussels talks have also triggered a row within
Israel’s government, after Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman 
said he had not been informed of the meeting by Netanyahu, a
move he called “unreasonable” in an interview on Israel Radio.
Lieberman also said that Israel had received a letter from
Turkey with a list of “unending demands” regarding the
flotilla raid.  
 Netanyahu’s office said there were “technical reasons”
for the failure to notify Lieberman.  
 Ben-Eliezer is a member of Defense Minister  Ehud Barak ’s
Labor party, the third-largest faction in the coalition.
Lieberman heads Yisrael Beitenu, the second-biggest faction,
which is more opposed to concessions to the Palestinians and
Arab states.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Turkey's Foreign Affairs minister Ahmet Davutoglu. Photographer: John Thys/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
