-- Israel's Mofaz Says Allow Palestinians to Form State, Deal With Gaza Later
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-01T06:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/israel-s-mofaz-says-allow-palestinians-to-form-state-deal-with-gaza-later.html

          
          
             Former Defense Minister  Shaul Mofaz 
said Israel should let Palestinians establish a state and hand
over most of the West Bank as soon as possible, leaving the fate
of the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem to be decided later.  
 Mofaz, who plans to challenge  Tzipi Livni  for control of
Kadima, Israel’s biggest opposition party, said U.S.-backed
indirect peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians are going
nowhere. He spoke as Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  prepared
for a July 6 White House meeting with President  Barack Obama .  
 “My advice to Prime Minister Netanyahu is to bring a plan
that will implement the vision of a two-state solution,” Mofaz,
61, said in an interview in Tel Aviv yesterday. “We are very
close to agreeing about borders and security arrangements” and
the prospect of Palestinian statehood “would change the
atmosphere.”  
 Obama’s Middle East envoy,  George Mitchell , is back in the
region this week mediating “proximity talks” between Netanyahu
and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas . Mofaz,
Israel’s former military chief of staff, said seizing the
initiative by proposing a workable peace plan would prevent the
U.S. and other world powers from trying to impose a solution
unfavorable to Israel.  
 Mofaz said he envisions an interim agreement that would
give Palestinians a state in 60 percent of the West Bank,
covering areas that contain 99.2 percent of the Arab population.
That would take about 18 months and lead to further negotiations
on Gaza, Jerusalem and other issues that have proved insoluble
over the past 17 years of talks, he said.  
 Land Swaps  
 In the end, the Palestinians would have territory equal to
that captured by Israel in 1967, with adjustments to the borders
through land swaps that would put most West Bank Jewish settlers
inside Israel, he said.  
 Failure to produce an Israeli plan this year will probably
lead the U.S. to make its own proposal for resolving the
conflict, which would “not fit Israeli security goals,’‘ Mofaz
said.  
 Mofaz narrowly lost a Kadima party leadership contest to
Livni in 2008 and said he will challenge her again. The former
defense minister said if he won the party leadership he would
try to form a new coalition with Netanyahu’s Likud party and
negotiate his peace plan with the Palestinians.  
 While Kadima won more parliamentary seats than Likud in
the 2009 general election, Livni was unable to form a ruling
coalition. Netanyahu then cobbled together allied parties to
form a government and win his second term as prime minister.  
 Mark Regev , a Netanyahu spokesman, declined to comment on
Mofaz’s proposal.  
 Since Oslo  
 Ghassan Khatib, a spokesman for the Palestinian Authority,
said Mofaz’s proposal on land swaps mirrored Palestinian ideas.
He rejected Mofaz’s two-stage structure, saying Palestinians
have been living under a temporary arrangement since the 1993
Oslo Accords, which granted limited sovereignty in the West Bank
and Gaza.  
 ‘‘We’ve already gone through an interim period and now it’s
time for a final agreement that solves all the outstanding
issues and creates a Palestinian state,”  Khatib  said in a phone
interview from the West Bank city of Ramallah.  
 Trying to solve all the disputed issues at once --
including Jerusalem, Palestinian refugees, Gaza borders and
security arrangements -- means “we will wait another 20
years,” according to Mofaz.  
 Born in Tehran  
 Mofaz was born in Tehran in 1948, the year Israel was
established, and migrated with his family to the Jewish state
when he was nine years old. As an army paratrooper, he fought in
the 1967 war -- when Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza and
east Jerusalem -- and participated in the 1976 hostage rescue
operation in Entebbe, Uganda.  
 He was named commander of Israeli forces in the West Bank
in 1993 and appointed chief of staff five years later, directing
Israel’s response in 2000 to the Palestinian uprising known as
the second intifada. Former Prime Minister  Ariel Sharon  named
him defense minister in 2002 and he later split from the Likud
and joined Sharon’s new Kadima party.  
 Mofaz, who speaks Persian, was Israel’s representative in
an annual strategic dialogue with the U.S. administration until
Kadima went into opposition last year. He said discussions
largely focused on Iran and how to stop it from developing
nuclear weapons.  
 “A nuclear Iran is a global threat,” Mofaz said.
“Besides pushing and trying to stop the nuclear plan by
sanctions, the U.S. and European countries should prepare for
all options.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Tel Aviv at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        