-- Israel May Approve ETN to Trade Biomed Companies, TASE Chief Levanon Says
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-01T10:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/israel-may-approve-etn-to-trade-biomed-companies-tase-chief-levanon-says.html

          
          
             Israel  may soon approve an exchange-
traded note that will allow investors to wager on an index of
biomedical companies, said  Ester Levanon , chief executive
officer of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange.  
 “Investing in a basket of companies is the best way to
take part in biomedical investments and hedge your investment,”
Levanon said in an interview in London yesterday. “That’s why
we would like to see ETNs on the biomed index. It’s going to
happen probably quite shortly.”  
 The  Tel Aviv Biomed Index , which consisted of 26 companies
as of June 30, according to the TASE website, has dropped 24
percent since its launch in March, Bloomberg data show. Levanon
said more companies in the industry are planning initial share
sales this year and may be included in the ETN. The notes, which
are issued by banks and trade on exchanges, mimic the returns of
benchmark indexes and allow investors to bet on gains or losses
in the underlying index.  
 New sector indexes and exchange-traded products may bolster
Levanon’s goal of turning the Tel Aviv exchange into a hub for
technology companies in Europe and the Middle East. The Israeli
government is offering tax breaks to tech companies that list in
Tel Aviv and the exchange plans to help pay for a group of
analysts to produce research on the industry for investors.  
 “My goal is to turn the  Tel Aviv Stock Exchange  into a
center for high-tech companies,” Levanon said. “I certainly
want to be a European hub, not only that but there’s a huge
interest from Asia.”  
 The average cost of maintaining a listing on the Tel Aviv
exchange is about 10 percent of the cost on America’s Nasdaq
Stock Market, Levanon said. About 130 technology companies trade
on the Israeli exchange, of which 47 are in the biomedical
industry.  
 “We have a brand name for high-tech in Israel,” Levanon
said. “It’s become a natural place for those companies to raise
money.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        