-- Isramco, Oil Well Developer, Is Sued by Shareholder Alleging Mismanagement
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-01T15:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/isramco-oil-well-developer-is-sued-by-shareholder-alleging-mismanagement.html

          
          
             Isramco Inc. , which formerly explored
for oil and gas in Israel and now develops wells in the U.S.,
was sued by a shareholder contending some officials including
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Haim Tsuff  mismanaged the
company.  
 In a lawsuit filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court,
investor Yuval Lapiner contends Tsuff, company director  Jackob Maimon  and some other directors violated duties to shareholders,
wasted corporate assets and should pay damages to the Houston-
based company.  
 Lapiner cites “numerous self-dealing transactions engaged
in” by Tsuff and Maimon “at the expense of Isramco and its
shareholders.” Tsuff owns more than 57 percent of Isramco stock
and is the controlling shareholder, according to court papers.  
 Isramco, which reported a $13.5 million net loss on $31.7
million in revenue last year, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg , said in February 2008 that it paid $102 million to
buy rights to 590 wells in Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico.  
 The lawsuit includes allegations that valuable assets of
Isramco were transferred to entities controlled by Tsuff and
Maimon “at bargain-basement prices.”  
 They also benefitted from leasing of a cruise ship, sale of
undeveloped land, loans made by Isramco, and consulting
agreements, according to court papers.  
 Directors “are required to use their utmost ability to
control and manage the company in good faith,” said Lapiner,
who filed the lawsuit in behalf of the company.  
 Tsuff and  Edy Francis , Isramco chief financial officer,
didn’t immediately return voice and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the lawsuit.  
 Isramco shares, which have fallen 29 percent this year,
rose $3.31 to $50.49 at 10:33 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  
 The case is Lapiner v. Tsuff and Isramco Inc., CA5612,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        