-- Israel Says It Will Triple Capacity at Kerem Shalom Crossing to Gaza Strip
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-01T16:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/israel-will-triple-capacity-to-handle-goods-at-gaza-crossing-ayalon-says.html

          
          
             Israel plans to expand the Kerem
Shalom crossing to almost triple its capacity to handle goods
entering the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, Deputy Foreign
Minister  Daniel Ayalon .  
 “The only bottleneck is the Palestinian side, to the
extent that they do what they need to do as far as their
equipment and infrastructure,” Ayalon told journalists at the
crossing, one of two used for the transfer of goods between
Israel and the Palestinian enclave.  
 In less than a month, shipments will return to the
“quantities and qualities” seen before 2007, when Israel
imposed a blockade of Gaza, he said today. The number of trucks
entering Gaza will be increased to 450 daily from 160, which was
yesterday’s tally, he said.  
 Israel has been under increased international pressure to
relax the blockade since its May 31 commando raid on a flotilla
of aid ships bound for the territory left nine Turkish citizens
dead on one of the vessels. The Israeli government said last
month that it will loosen its road blockade so that all food
will be let in and only weapons and items that have a military
use are kept out. A naval embargo remains in place.  
 “The new Israeli measures at the crossing of Kerem Shalom
are just an Israeli media maneuver to mislead international
public opinion and thwart all the efforts that were exerted in
order to end the siege.” Yousef Rezqa, an adviser to Hamas
leader Ismail Haniya, said in a telephone interview.  
 Struggle With Fatah  
 Israel closed its border with Gaza and restricted imports
after Hamas seized full control of the coastal strip in 2007
following a violent struggle with the secular Fatah movement,
once its partner in a power-sharing agreement.  
 Israel says its restrictions are necessary to prevent arms
smuggling into a territory ruled by Hamas, which refuses to
recognize the Jewish state or any agreements signed with it.
Only strawberries, flowers and containers of cooking gas are
allowed to be exported from Gaza, said Ami Shaked, Kerem
Shalom’s director.  
 “Israel must stop talking about numbers and deal with the
urgent needs of the population,” said  Ghassan Khatib , spokesman
for the Palestinian Authority, which rules the West Bank. The
focus must be on the export of Gaza-made products and the import
of essentials, while Palestinian Authority officials and
international inspectors should be present at the crossings, he
said in a phone interview.  
 Human rights groups including Amnesty International say
Israel’s embargo has devastated local industries and caused
widespread suffering. Israeli officials have said there is no
humanitarian crisis in Gaza.  
 Fewer Products  
 The blockade had limited imports into Gaza to no more than
150 products, according to Raed Fattouh, the Palestinian
Authority’s liaison officer at Kerem Shalom. Before the
restrictions, some 8,000 products flowed into Gaza, he said.  
 Israel’s expansion of Kerem Shalom is intended to
eventually allow the closing of the northern Karni crossing,
which Ayalon said was the harder of the two to defend because it
is adjacent to a densely populated Gaza area. “It will also
better streamline the process if we move goods from one place,”
he said.  
 Waiting to enter Gaza at the Kerem Shalom crossing today
were fuel tankers and trucks loaded with crates of timber,
diapers, rolls of twine, and plastic spoons and straws.  
 Israel fought a three-week war in Gaza starting in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop Hamas and other militant
groups from firing rockets into its territory. More than 400
rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel since
the end of the operation, killing a foreign worker, the army
said.  
 Home Destroyed  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the war
destroyed more than 3,000 homes across Gaza, the United Nations
said, and Israel’s restrictions on construction materials have
prevented Palestinians from being able to rebuild. Israel’s army
says Hamas has used materials such as cement and iron pipes to
build rockets and bunkers.  
 Peace talks with the Palestinian Authority stalled with the
outset of the fighting. Under U.S. mediation, indirect
negotiations were started in May.  
 Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
the European Union and Israel. Hamas’s charter calls for the
destruction of the Jewish state.  
 Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        