-- Liverpool Names Fulham's Roy Hodgson as Manager to Replace Benitez
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-01T14:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/liverpool-names-fulham-s-roy-hodgson-as-manager-to-replace-benitez.html

          
          
             Liverpool named Fulham’s  Roy Hodgson 
as manager to replace  Rafael Benitez  as the club seeks to
rebound from its worst Premier League finish in 11 years.  
 Hodgson joins Liverpool on a three-year contract, the club
said on its  website  today. Benitez left the 18-time English
soccer champion by “mutual consent” on June 3.  
 “The ambitions of Liverpool Football Club should be at the
very highest level and that’s what we’re going to be aspiring
to,” Hodgson said at a televised news conference. “I’m here to
do the job that needs to be done, hopefully winning trophies
very, very quickly.”  
 The 62-year-old led Fulham to the final of the Europa
League last season, where it was beaten 2-1 by Atletico Madrid.
He was named manager of the year by his Premier League peers
after the London club’s first major European final.  
 Benitez left after Liverpool came seventh in the Premier
League last season and failed to qualify for the Champions
League. While he won the 2005 European Cup in his first season,
he wasn’t able to end a 20-year league title drought. Benitez
has since joined Champions League winner Inter Milan, succeeding
 Jose Mourinho , who joined Real Madrid.  
 Hodgson was linked with the England job after the national
team’s elimination from the World Cup on June 27. He said he
never thought of waiting after the Football Association said
manager  Fabio Capello ’s future would be decided over the next
two weeks.  
 Chosen Man  
 “There was never a question of should I hold out and hedge
me bets for something different because this is where I want to
be,” Hodgson said. “My only question was when Liverpool
completed their due process was I the man they chose. When that
moment came and they said you are the man we’ve chosen, all
other thoughts went out of my mind.”  
 Liverpool’s American co-owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett 
are trying to sell the five-time European Cup winner amid its
rising debt. The ownership uncertainty and Benitez’s departure
led to U.K. media reports that players including captain  Steven Gerrard  and star striker  Fernando Torres  might also leave.  
 “‘We needed someone to steady the ship at this stage and I
think Roy has all of the talents that we were looking for,”
Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton  said.  
 Gerrard today backed the hiring and called Hodgson “the
right man for LFC.”  
 Gerrard’s Backing  
 “Rafa left a few weeks ago and I know the club were
determined to take their time and get the right man for the
job,” Gerrard told the team’s  website . “I think it’s been
worth the wait and I’m sure that he’s just keen now to get on
with it and start to quickly put in place his plans for the new
season.”  
 Hodgson said he and the club would do “everything we can”
to make certain Gerrard and Torres stay at Anfield.  
 “I personally can’t nail their feet to the floor,” he
said. “What I can do is try to persuade them that if they stay
here, we can have a good season and it’s going to be a good club
to play for.”  
 Hodgson won 50, lost 46 and tied 32 of 128 games as Fulham
manager since being hired in December 2007. The Cottagers
finished 12th in the Premier League last season.  
 Fulham said in a  statement  on its website that assistant
 Ray Lewington  will take over team matters until a successor is
found.  
 Hodgson had coached in the Premier League at Blackburn
Rovers. His career also includes spells at Inter Milan, Bristol
City and Udinese as well as managing the national teams of
Switzerland -- guiding the country to the 1994 World Cup --
Finland and the United Arab Emirates.  
 “I’ve had quite a few jobs in my time with big
challenges,” Hodgson said. “I’m looking forward to the
challenge but can’t deny that it’s a big one and I can’t deny
that the task isn’t going to be an easy one.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        