-- Topix Falls for Eighth Day After Moody's Reviews Spain; Shinsei Declines
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-01T01:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/japan-stocks-fall-for-eighth-day-as-moody-s-reviews-spain-shinsei-drops.html

          
          
             Japan’s  Topix  index fell for an
eighth consecutive day, its longest losing streak in almost a
year, as concern about government debt was revived after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s credit rating.  
 Nippon Sheet Glass Co., a glassmaker that counts Europe as
its biggest market, lost 1.4 percent.  Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s
second-biggest carmaker, dropped 2.7 percent. Shinsei Bank Ltd.
tumbled 4 percent after receiving a business-improvement order
from the nation’s financial regulator. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
Ltd., the country’s third-largest shipping line, slumped 2.7
percent after cargo rates dropped for a 24th day yesterday.  
 “The market is holding a pessimistic view of the global
economy,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $450 million at
Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “People are
afraid that sovereign risks may be translated into financial
institutions’ risks and credit contraction.”  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1 percent to 9,288.85 as
of 9:29 a.m. in Tokyo. The broader  Topix  lost 0.9 percent to
833.63, with almost four stocks retreating for each that
advanced. All but 2 of the Topix’s 33 industry groups declined.
Both gauges were set for their lowest close since Nov. 27.  
 The Topix has slumped 17 percent from its 52-week high on
April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese steps to
curb property prices will hurt global growth. This year the
index has dropped 8.3 percent, cutting the average price of
stocks in the gauge to 16.2 times  estimated earnings , the lowest
level since November 2008.  
 The Nikkei 225 fell the most among equity benchmarks in the
Asia-Pacific region, even as Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey of
sentiment at the largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high.  
 Spain’s Credit Rating  
 In New York, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1 percent
yesterday to its lowest level since October after the Moody’s
report, snuffing out an earlier rally. Gains were limited after
a private report based on payrolls showed that companies in the
U.S. added fewer workers in June than forecast.  
 Spain’s top credit ranking was placed on review for a
possible downgrade by Moody’s as the country prepares to sell as
much 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of five-year notes today.
Moody’s analysts yesterday said “deteriorating” growth
prospects and challenges in meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s
Aaa classification may be lowered by as much as two grades.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        