-- Japanese Bonds Set for Biggest Weekly Gain Since November on Safety Demand
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-02T04:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/japan-bonds-to-rise-set-for-steepest-weekly-gain-in-2010-on-safety-demand.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  headed for the biggest
weekly gain since November as signs the global recovery is
slowing boosted demand for government debt.  
 Benchmark  yields were near the lowest level since August
2003 before reports that economists said will show U.S. payrolls
fell for the first time in six months and Japanese machinery
orders declined. Bonds were little changed today on speculation
some investors sold the securities to prepare for 2.8 trillion
yen ($31.9 billion) of debt sales next week.  
 “Risk aversion is back in play as a series of economic
data cast concerns about the sustainability of a rapid
recovery,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
banking group. “Bond yields will stay low amid increased
uncertainties about growth prospects.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 7.5 basis
points this week to 1.07 percent as of 1:31 p.m. in Tokyo, at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The 1.3 percent bond due June 2020 gained 0.681 yen to
102.068 yen. The yield, which climbed half a basis point today,
has dropped the most since week since the five days to Nov. 13.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.71
this week to 141.77 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Nikkei 225 
Stock Average has lost 5.6 percent this week, the biggest
decline since the period ended May 21.  
 Payrolls Decline  
 U.S. payrolls fell 130,000 this month, the first drop this
year, and the jobless rate climbed to 9.8 percent from 9.7
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor
Department report today. Japan’s machinery orders, an indicator
of business investment in three to six months, dropped 3.5
percent in May following a 4 percent gain the prior month, a
separate Bloomberg survey showed ahead of the July 8 report.  
 This week’s gain in bonds was tempered before the  Ministry
of Finance  sells 10- and 30-year debt next week. The government
will auction 2.2 trillion yen in 10-year securities on July 6
and 600 billion yen of 30-year bonds two days later.  
 “The coupon on 10-year bonds may be lowered to 1.1 percent,
which is the lowest since 2003,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , senior
economist in Tokyo at Okasan Securities Co. “A lower coupon may
throw cold water on investor demand for new bonds.”  
 Primary dealers, companies that are required to bid at
government debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before an
auction in case prices decline before they can pass on the
securities to investors.  
 ‘Bubble Signs’  
 Ten-year  yields  may surge to 1.75 percent by year-end as
the nation’s economic recovery proves resilient, according to
Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  
 “I’m seeing bubble signs increasingly,”  Shinji Nomura ,
chief debt strategist in Tokyo at the unit of Japan’s third-
largest banking group, said yesterday. “The economy continues
to recover gradually, but yields have dropped as if taking into
account a new recession. That’s widened a gap between yields and
the economic outlook.”  
 The Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey, released
yesterday, gained 15 points to plus 1 in the second quarter,
meaning optimists outnumbered pessimists for the first time in
two years.  
 “Judging from the Tankan’s results, I see no need for the
BOJ to move toward additional easing,” Nomura said.  
 The BOJ in December unveiled a credit program that it
doubled to 20 trillion yen. Last month, Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board introduced a 3 trillion yen
program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses.  
 The central bank has held its benchmark interest rate at
0.1 percent since December 2008.  
 ‘Better Opportunities’  
 The difference in  yield  between 10- and 20-year bonds
narrowed to 66.5 basis points, the least since July 2009, as
investors bought longer-maturity debt.  
 “We see better investment opportunities in longer-dated
bonds, which have lagged behind the recent rally at the shorter-
end of the yield curve, said  Akio Kato , team leader of Japanese
debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management Co., which runs the
$38.5 billion Global Sovereign Open fund.  
 Twenty-year yield dropped 14 basis points this week to
1.735 percent.  
 A yield curve is a chart that plots the yields of bonds of
the same quality and different maturities. It steepens when
yields on shorter-maturity notes fall, those on longer-dated
bonds rise, or both happen simultaneously.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        