-- Judge to Rule Within Month on Virginia Lawsuit to Block Health Reform Bill
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-01T20:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/judge-to-rule-within-month-on-virginia-lawsuit-to-block-health-reform-bill.html

          
          
             A federal judge is considering
whether to throw out Virginia’s lawsuit challenging the health-
care overhaul signed by President  Barack Obama  after hearing
arguments over whether the state has jurisdiction to sue.  
 U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  today in Richmond said he
would decide within 30 days on the federal government’s request
to dismiss the case. Virginia claims that a requirement for
people buy health insurance exceeds Congress’s powers under the
Constitution, while the U.S. counters that provision is allowed
under its commerce powers because of the $43 billion in unpaid
medical bills absorbed by the market each year.  
 Taxpayers are “left holding the bag,” Ian Gershengorn, an
attorney for the U.S. Justice Department, told Hudson in court.
“The uninsured are being asked to bear their own costs.”  
 The U.S. argues that Virginia doesn’t have standing to sue
and that no one has suffered any injury, because the insurance
requirement doesn’t take effect until 2014.  
 Duncan Getchell, an attorney for Virginia, said the state
should be allowed to pursue its case now because a legal clash
is “inevitable, and therefore it is ripe.”  
 During the two-hour hearing, Hudson questioned the reach of
the legislation, wondering whether the government could go so
far as to force citizens to join a health club.  
 “If you allow this under the necessary and proper clause,
are there any boundaries to the necessary and proper clause?”
he asked.  
 Hurting Economy  
 Congress has a right to regulate people who hurt the
economy when they become sick or injured and seek health care
without insurance, Gershengorn said. Because the federal
government covers part of the cost-shifting, it has authority to
require health-care coverage of the uninsured even if they don’t
want it.  
 “You can’t guarantee you can opt out,” he said. “You
can’t guarantee you won’t be hit by a bus.”  
 Many of the changes enacted by the bill, included
requirements for most people to have health insurance and for
employers to provide coverage, will take at least two years to
go into effect.  
 Part of the courtroom debate today hinged on whether the
health-care law falls within the government’s power to tax.
Getchell said the law’s purpose is to ensure people buy health
care and not to raise revenue, so it shouldn’t be classified as
a tax.  
 Taxable Commerce?  
 Hudson questioned whether people who don’t buy health care
can be considered to be actively participating in commerce and
can be taxed for it. The U.S. said the possibility of being
injured and an inability to pay one’s medical bills are enough
to draw a link between commerce and taxation.  
 “This is an attempt to regulate beyond the outer bounds of
the commerce power,” Getchell told Hudson, referring to such a
person who declines to buy insurance. “You cannot draft him
into commerce so you can regulate him.”  
 Allowing Virginia to opt out of federal law would set a
precedent that could lead to refusing to follow U.S. tax law,
the USA Patriot Act or any other law the state may not favor,
the U.S. claims.  
 “Congress wouldn’t want to create such a gaping hole,”
Gershengorn said. There should be “no pre-enforced restrictions
on gathering of revenue. This would turn it on its head.”  
 Florida, joined by 19 other states, filed a separate
lawsuit claiming the health-reform law is unconstitutional and
that the legislation places a fiscal burden on its cash-strapped
budget by expanding state-run Medicaid programs. Virginia’s
suit, brought by Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , is only on
behalf of itself. The lawsuits were filed moments after Obama
signed the legislation in March.  
 Americans Divided  
 Public sentiment on the health-care legislation remains
divided. In a USA Today/Gallup Poll taken from June 11 to June
13, 49 percent of the 1,014 respondents said it was good thing
that Congress passed the measure, while 46 percent said it was a
bad thing and 5 percent were unsure.  
 Cuccinelli, a Republican, attended today’s hearing without
participating in arguments.  
 Arguments were made before a packed courtroom, with dozens
more watching through closed-circuit television monitors.
Protesters planted signs outside claiming they were “Denied
Healthcare By Cuccinelli.”  
 If the lawsuit survives jurisdictional arguments over
Virginia’s right to bring the suit, Hudson scheduled an Oct. 18
hearing on the merits of the case.  
 “If I find no subject matter jurisdiction, I say no
more,” Hudson said.  
 The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius,
10-cv-00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        