-- Kaczynski Foes May Miss Bigger Threat to Polish Budget as Lawmakers Balk
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-01T13:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/kaczynski-foes-may-miss-bigger-threat-to-polish-budget-as-lawmakers-balk.html

          
          
             Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s foes say his
election as Poland’s president would slow efforts to cut the
budget deficit. The bigger impediment may be parliamentary
elections next year that will keep lawmakers from acting
regardless of who wins the presidency, economists say.  
 Kaczynski’s showing against Acting President  Bronislaw Komorowski  in the first round of voting, when he ran stronger
than polls predicted, raised investor concern about his go-slow
approach to the euro and pledges to boost spending. In fact,
legislators seeking to avoid displeasing voters may postpone
action on deficit reduction until after next year’s election
even if Komorowski wins the presidency on July 4.  
 “A Kaczynski victory won’t plunge Poland into a crisis
overnight,” said  Michal Dybula , an economist at BNP Paribas in
Warsaw. “On the other hand, a Komorowski win wouldn’t prompt
immediate reforms as upcoming elections mean a real risk that
fiscal consolidation will be scaled down.”  
 Poland’s  budget deficit  widened to 7.1 percent of gross
domestic product last year, more than double the European Union
limit. Almost 75 percent of expenditures, including subsidies
for local government, social insurance and debt service, can’t
be altered without special legislation, so any government needs
a strong majority to make cuts.  
 Komorowski won 41.5 percent of the vote in the first round
on June 20 to Kaczynski’s 36.5 percent. The mean of 17 polls
conducted in June showed a margin of 11 percentage points.  
 The zloty has fallen 2.5 percent against the euro since
June 18, the third worst return among 26 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty traded at 4.1461 per
euro at 3:45 p.m. in Warsaw, down from 4.132 late yesterday.  
 Long-Term Focus  
 “A victory for Komorowski, still the most likely outcome,
would be zloty- and generally market-positive in the short-
term,” said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at
RBC Capital in London. “Longer term, whoever wins, Poland will
still face significant challenges, particularly on the fiscal
and reform fronts.”  
 The candidates squared off in televised debates on June 27
and June 30. While Komorowski, 58, won the first contest by 52
percent to 28 percent, his lead narrowed to 41 percent to 37
percent after the second, the daily Rzeczpospolita reported
today, citing a poll of 1,000 adults by GFK Polonia.  
 “The zloty will fall, bond yields will rise” if the 61-
year-old Kaczynski wins, said  Ryszard Petru , chief economist at
BRE Bank in Warsaw. “The short-term reaction of the financial
market is less important than longer term prospects for the
Polish economy, which needs reforms.”  
 Political Rivals  
 The presidential race is the latest episode in the five-
year rivalry between Poland’s two largest political parties --
Komorowski’s Civic Platform, led by Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ,
and Kaczynski’s Law & Justice.  
 Law & Justice defeated Civic Platform in the 2005 general
elections. The same year, Tusk lost his presidential bid after
leading the first round by 3 percentage points. Kaczynski’s twin
brother, Lech, won the runoff by 8 points. Two years later,
Civic Platform won early elections after Law & Justice lost its
majority in parliament.  
 Since then, Civic Platform has said its efforts to
modernize the country were blocked by  Lech Kaczynski , who was
killed in April plane crash in Russia. That rhetoric has
continued during the presidential election.  
 ‘Cassandra-Like Prophecies’  
 Law & Justice’s spending programs “are rash enough to
trigger a sharp collapse in our public finances,” Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said in a June 22 interview with Radio
Tok FM. Rostowski’s deputy,  Dominik Radziwill , said the plunge
in Hungarian markets after the new government drew parallels to
the Greek crisis showed that reckless comments “can have a
disastrous impact.”  
 “Instead of Cassandra-like prophecies by the finance
minister, which only worsen the situation, Civic Platform should
immediately come up with an emergency plan,” said Slawomir
Sowinski, a political scientist at Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski
University in Warsaw. “That may mean calling early
parliamentary elections to build a majority that’s able to
overturn a presidential veto.”  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned by a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 Tired of Excuses  
 The government has yet to present its 2011 budget or
publish concrete measures for meeting deficit target.  
 “Market players are tired of the excuse about an
unfriendly president,” Dybula said. “There is no time left for
postponing the reforms.”  
 The government forecasts  Poland’s economy  will expand about
3 percent this year, after growing 1.7 percent in 2009, the
slowest pace in almost a decade.  
 Law & Justice last year called for increased spending to
offset the impact of the global economic crisis. Kaczynski has
campaigned to boost benefits for older people and boosting
minimum salary.  
 “Poland has to be fair to every Pole,” he said June 24 in
the city of Rzeszow. Civic Platform intends to “make richer
regions that are already rich,” he said.  
 The country also struggled to articulate a unified euro
policy while Lech Kaczynski was alive. The late president and
his brother opposed the government’s 2012 target for joining the
euro, which was abandoned after the credit crisis.  
 Euro Policy  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski has urged Poland not to surrender the
zloty too quickly. He argues the country must first strengthen
its economy and boost wages, which are a fourth of the EU
average, to reduce the impact of the switch on the poor.  
 Twenty-five percent of Kaczynski’s supporters favored
adopting the euro, compared with 68 percent of those who backed
Komorowski, according to an April survey of 1,056 people by
Warsaw-based researcher CBOS.  
 “A Kaczynski victory would add another risk factor,” said
 Janusz Jankowiak , an economist at the Polish Business Council in
Warsaw. “In the case of a Komorowski victory, the markets will
want to see budget savings, which no longer can be avoided as
the only alternative is market turmoil in the autumn.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, former prime minister of Poland, pauses during an interview at his office in Warsaw, on May 12, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
