-- Kagan Says Justices Aren't Umpires in Departure From Roberts
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/kagan-says-justices-aren-t-umpires-in-departure-from-roberts.html

          
          
             Elena Kagan  contrasted herself with
the U.S. Supreme Court’s Republican appointees as she finished
her Senate testimony, saying judges aren’t “robotic” umpires
and must interpret the Constitution with an eye toward changing
conditions.  
 In her second and final day answering questions from the
panel considering her  Supreme Court  nomination, Kagan distanced
herself from an analogy made by now-Chief Justice  John Roberts 
during his 2005 confirmation hearing, when he likened judges to
baseball umpires who simply call balls and strikes.  
 “The metaphor might suggest to some people that law is a
kind of robotic enterprise, that there’s a kind of automatic
quality to it,” Kagan said. “Judges do, in many of these
cases, have to exercise judgment. They’re not easy calls.”  
 Kagan also made clear that she doesn’t share the
“originalist” approach of Justices  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas , who say the Constitution should be interpreted in line
with the meaning of its provisions when they were adopted.  
 Kagan said originalism can’t answer every constitutional
question, in part because justices today confront issues that
the framers of the Constitution didn’t envision.  
 “The Constitution does not change, but the court must
apply it to changing conditions,” said Kagan, whom President
 Barack Obama  nominated last month to succeed Justice  John Paul Stevens , who retired this week.  
 Possible Counterweight  
 Kagan finished her testimony yesterday amid words of
support from the panel’s Democrats and skepticism from its
Republicans. Of the seven Republicans, only  Lindsey Graham  of
South Carolina suggested he might vote for her, telling Kagan,
“I think you’ve acquitted yourself very well.”  
 Senator  Pat Leahy  of Vermont, the Democratic chairman of
the  Judiciary Committee , predicted that Kagan will be confirmed.
Arizona’s  Jon Kyl , a Republican leader, said he doubted his
party would try to block a vote.  
 Kagan’s testimony offered a glimpse at how she might serve
as a counterweight to the court’s conservative wing, filling
what some progressive scholars and advocates say is a needed
role on a court that has rolled back campaign finance
regulations, bolstered gun rights and trimmed civil rights laws.  
 “Kagan has done a terrific job of separating the wheat
from the chaff of the conservative portrait of a model judge,”
said Doug Kendall, president of the  Constitutional
Accountability Center , a Washington-based advocate for civil
rights, the environment and voting rights. “She will call balls
and strikes, but she has added the need for wisdom and good
judgment back into the job of being a good justice.”  
 Three Women  
 Senate confirmation of Kagan would for the first time give
the high court three female members.  
 The potential impact of that change at times lurked near
the surface of the hearings, as when Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma said the country is less free than it was 30
years ago.  
 Minutes later, Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat
and one of two women on the 19-member panel, asked Kagan how
many women were on the Judiciary Committee and the Supreme Court
in 1980. The answer to both questions, Klobuchar said, was zero.  
 “So as I think about that question about if people were
more free in 1980, I think it’s all in the eyes of the
beholder,” Klobuchar said.  
 “I think there’s no question that women have greater
opportunities now, although they could be made greater still,”
Kagan said.  
 ‘Good Faith’  
 Kagan took pains not to directly criticize the Roberts
court, even for its decision this year striking down federal
campaign finance restrictions that she had defended. “I’m sure
that everybody up there is acting in good faith,” she said.  
 She suggested that Roberts’s umpire analogy had value, up
to a point. Like umpires, she said, judges “should realize that
they’re not the most important people in our democratic system
of government.”  
 Kagan repeatedly declined to discuss issues that she said
might come before the court, including gay marriage. On several
occasions she said high-profile rulings by the Roberts court,
including its decisions this year to overturn corporate campaign
spending restrictions and to extend constitutional gun rights
nationwide, represented “settled law.”  
 Kagan said she had “no thought, no agenda, no purpose” to
reverse those rulings.  
 ‘Empathy’ Revisited  
 She was more willing than Obama’s first high court nominee,
 Sonia Sotomayor , to align herself with his  suggestion  that
judges should have “empathy” for the litigants before them.
While Sotomayor said she wouldn’t use the president’s standard,
Kagan instead tried to add a gloss to it.  
 “The judge is required to give consideration to each party
to try to figure out what the case looks like from that party’s
point of view,” she said. “But at the end of the day what the
judge does is to apply the law. And as I said, it might be hard
sometimes to figure out what the law requires in any given case,
but it’s law all the way down.”  
 Her testimony left most of the panel’s Republicans voicing
concern about the type of justice she would become.  
 Kagan “did distance herself from President Obama’s view
that there should be something other than law that decides
cases,” said Senator  Jon Kyl , a Republican from Arizona. “She
was very clear that she intended to decide cases based on the
law. But that’s still a fairly general standard.”  
 Senator  Jeff Sessions  said he wasn’t sure she would be true
to the Constitution. “A combination of record and statements
leaves me uneasy,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elena Kagan, nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, testifies on the second day of her confirmation hearing by the Senate Judiciary Committee in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
