-- Kenya Inflation Slows to 3.2%, Third Drop in 4 Months
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-01T10:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/kenya-inflation-slows-for-third-month-in-four-rates-to-stay-at-record-low.html

          
          
             Kenya’s inflation rate fell for the
third time in four months, reaching 3.2 percent in June and
raising the prospect of further interest rate cuts.  
 Inflation in  East Africa ’s biggest economy slowed from 3.9
percent the month before, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National
Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. Prices
fell 0.4 percent in the month.  
 “There is scope for the central bank to continue lowering
their benchmark rate,” Ben Nyamweya, an independent financial
analyst, said by phone from Nairobi today.  
 The  Central Bank of Kenya , which targets inflation of 5
percent, kept its key rate at  6.75 percent  on May 20, after
commercial banks slashed their lending rates and the outlook for
the economy picked up. The bank has cut rates five times since
the start of last year. The bank’s monetary policy committee
will probably hold its next meeting this month.  
 Policy makers may “continue to keep low rates,” Robert Bunyi, managing director of Nairobi-based Mavuno Capital, said
before the rate announcement. “Inflation is likely to stay
fairly benign through the second quarter.”  
 Price growth has fallen from 17.9 percent in September
after the statistics bureau changed the way it’s calculated.  
 Kenya ’s economy will grow about 4.5 percent this year and
5.7 percent in 2011 as agricultural production picks up
following good rains, Finance Minister Uhuru Kenyatta said
during his budget speech on June 10.  
 Kenya is the world’s largest exporter of black tea.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        