-- Kenya Economic Growth Accelerated to 4.4% in First Quarter as Drought Ends
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-01T13:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/kenya-economic-growth-accelerated-to-4-4-in-first-quarter-as-drought-ends.html

          
          
             Kenya’s economic growth accelerated
to an annual 4.4 percent in the first quarter after good rains
ended a drought and provided a boost to agriculture, the
statistics agency said.  
 Expansion compared with 3.3 percent in the previous three
months, the Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics 
said in an e-mailed statement today. Seasonally adjusted, growth
accelerated to 3.4 percent from 1.5 percent.  
 “This is a strong first quarter and well above
expectations,” Aly-Khan Satchu, an independent financial
analyst, said by phone from the capital, Nairobi, today. “It
all comes down to good rains. We may expect growth to go above
the 4 to 5 percent projection for this year.”  
 The farming industry grew an annual 4.6 percent, the first
expansion since the third quarter of 2007 and the single-biggest
contributor to gross domestic product, the agency said. Growth
was also helped by falling interest rates and stable commodity
prices, it said.  
 Kenya’s central bank  has cut the benchmark lending rate
five times since last year to a record low of 6.75 percent to
encourage borrowing and fuel economic growth.  
 Growth in agriculture was supported by improved production
of tea, corn, beans, potatoes and milk, while horticultural
products, coffee and sugar declined, the agency said.  
 Increased food production helped to reduce the inflation
rate to 3.2 percent in June, the third decline in four months,
the statistics bureau said today.  
 The government aims to boost growth to 4.5 percent in 2010
and 5.7 percent the year after, from an estimated 2.6 percent in
2009, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said on June 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        