-- Putin Party Attacks Finance Minister Kudrin for Seeking Older Pension Age
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-01T10:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/kudrin-s-pension-proposal-attacks-putin-s-united-russia-party-isayev-says.html

          
          
             Russian Finance Minister Alexei
Kudrin’s proposal to raise the retirement age is an attack on
the United Russia party that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
chairs, a senior party official said.  
 “Kudrin, with fatal insistence, is advocating increasing
the pension age,” said Andrei Isayev, the party’s first deputy
secretary of the presidium, according to  comments  posted on the
United Russia website today. “He is making an active play
against the party, causing the electorate’s outrage.”  
 The government must raise the pension age to maintain
“respectable” levels of compensation for retirees, Kudrin said
on June 29. The age should be raised “gradually” and the
government must make the decision within five years, he said.  
 Russia will need more than 12 million immigrants in the
next 20 years to offset a demographic decline “unless major,
unforeseen changes occur in the structure of the main population
groups,” the World Bank said in a March 24 report. The working
population will shrink by between 800,000 and 1.1 million people
a year until 2013, the government said in June.  
 The number of working adults will equal that of pensioners
by 2030, Kudrin said. There are 128 working adults for every 100
pensioners in the country today, he told the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum last month. Russia’s demographic
problem is “worse than in other countries,” he said.  
 United Russia disagrees with Kudrin’s proposal, which would
have “unacceptable moral consequences,” Isayev said. The age
at which Russians can retire shouldn’t be increased until the
average life expectancy goes up, he said.  
 Life expectancy  reached 61.8 years for men and 74.2 years
for women in Russia, according to the Federal Statistics
Service. The retirement age is 60 years for men and 55 years for
women.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        