-- NRA Opposes Kagan Nomination, Saying Her Second Amendment Support Unclear
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-07-01T22:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/national-rifle-association-opposes-kagan-nomination-citing-87-clerk-memo.html

          
          
             The National Rifle Association said
it opposes  Elena Kagan ’s  U.S. Supreme Court  nomination, taking a
position that may make it harder for her to pick up Republican
support as she moves closer to confirmation.  
 Kagan said in Senate testimony this week that she considers
two recent high court rulings backing gun rights to be “settled
law.” She said she had “absolutely no reason” to question the
majority’s analysis in the 2008 District of Columbia v. Heller
ruling, which said the Constitution’s Second Amendment protects
individual rights.  
 Those statements weren’t enough for the NRA, which said in
a press release that Kagan “refused to declare support for the
Second Amendment.” The group said it would take the vote on
Kagan into account in deciding whether to endorse senators for
re-election.  
 The NRA pointed to a 1987 memo Kagan wrote as a law clerk
to Justice  Thurgood Marshall  in a pending gun case. Kagan said
she was “not sympathetic” to an individual’s claim that the
District of Columbia’s firearms law violated his constitutional
right to keep and bear arms.  
 The gun lobby also faulted Kagan, now President  Barack Obama ’s top Supreme Court lawyer, for not filing a brief in
McDonald v. Chicago, a firearms case decided by the court this
week. The court ruled 5-4 that the Second Amendment limits gun
control laws by states and cities, as well as the federal
government.  
 ‘Clear Hostility’  
 “Throughout her career, she has repeatedly demonstrated a
clear hostility to the fundamental, individual right to keep and
bear arms under the U.S. Constitution,” the NRA said.  
 Ben LaBolt , a White House spokesman, said Kagan “made
clear during the hearings that Heller and McDonald are the law
of the land and therefore that the Second Amendment guarantees
an individual, fundamental right to bear arms.”  
 Kagan, 50, today picked up the support of the Brady Center
to Prevent Gun Violence.  
 “Her testimony has provided ample reason to think that she
will interpret and apply the Second Amendment consistent with
the urgent need to keep dangerous weapons out of the hands of
dangerous people,” the gun-control group’s president,  Paul Helmke , said in a statement.  
 Republicans and Democrats alike have said Kagan probably
will be confirmed. Republican Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas
yesterday referred to her as “soon-to-be Justice Kagan.”
Democrats control 58 of the 100 Senate seats with one vacancy.  
 Military Witnesses  
 Kagan completed her testimony before the Senate Judiciary
Committee yesterday. The panel heard testimony from witnesses
for and against her nomination today.  
 Those testifying included Captain Flagg Youngblood, an Army
veteran who criticized Kagan for restricting military
recruitment when she was dean of Harvard Law School because of
the Pentagon’s ban on openly gay troops.  
 “Dean Kagan’s actions deem the military not worthy so much
as to gather up the crumbs under Harvard’s table,” he said.  
 Kurt White, who attended Harvard Law School while Kagan was
dean, said she made him and other veterans feel welcome from
their first day, when she singled them out in her speech to the
new students.  
 “She did so much to make us feel welcome and appreciated,
and, as she mentioned earlier in her testimony, indeed revered
while she was the dean,” said White, who serves as president of
the Harvard Law Armed Forces Association.  
 The NRA also opposed Obama’s first Supreme Court nominee,
 Sonia Sotomayor , who won confirmation last year 68-31. Nine
Republicans joined 59 Democrats and independents in the
majority.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        