-- Nazi Controversy Stirred as Liebermann Heirs Slam Auction Sale
-- Catherine Hickley
-- 2010-07-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/nazi-controversy-stirred-as-liebermann-heirs-slam-auction-sale.html

          
          
             The Hamburg auction house Hauswedell
& Nolte sold a  Max Liebermann  sketch that was in the artist’s
possession at his death, after receiving a claim that the
drawing was probably seized by the Nazis or sold under duress.  
 The drawing, a study for a painting of boys bathing in the
sea, fetched 4,500 euros ($5,575) at auction, according to
 Hauswedell & Nolte’s website .  Georg Castell  of WilmerHale in
Berlin, the lawyer representing Liebermann’s two great-
granddaughters, had written to the auction house two days
earlier saying that his clients were opposed to the sale before
the provenance of the sketch was examined.  
 “I would never have imagined that a German auction house
would act like that in such a case,” Castell said in his Berlin
office. “I find it scandalous.”  
 The drawing is one of several thousand works on paper from
Liebermann’s estate that Castell and the heirs are trying to
trace. An impressionist painter, Liebermann was the honorary
president of the Prussian Academy of Art before being forced to
resign under Nazi rule because of his Jewish ancestry in 1933.
He died in 1935, leaving everything to his widow.  
 That year, together with her husband’s biographer, Martha
Liebermann stamped all the unsigned paintings, pastels and
drawings by the artist in her possession, the Liebermann
collection heirs say. Under postwar laws crafted by the western
allies, and later West German laws, any art sales by Jews after
1935 are presumed to be made under duress, and can be subject to
restitution claims.  
 Nazi Seizure  
 Martha was later forced to give up her homes and sold
artworks to pay the rent and buy food and medicine. She ended
her own life with an overdose in 1943 to avoid being deported to
a concentration camp. Whatever art remained in her apartment
after her death was seized by the Nazis.  
 Ernst Nolte, the owner of Hauswedell & Nolte, described the
letter from the heirs’ lawyer as “completely groundless.” He
said in a telephone interview that the consignor of the drawing
proved her legal ownership before the sale. The only provenance
given in the catalog for the sale was “a Hamburg private
collection.”  
 “There is no proof that the drawing was looted,” Nolte
said. “One can assume lots of things, but it can’t be proven.
We think we acted absolutely correctly.”  
 Under German law, the statute of limitations for property
claims expires after 30 years. The theft victim has no legal
recourse beyond that period, particularly if the purchaser can
prove that he bought the items in good faith.  
 Expired Statutes  
 “Legally speaking, there is not much we can do -- the
statutes have expired,” Castell said. “Private people cannot
be held to national accords like the Washington Principles.”  
 In 1998, 44 countries including Germany endorsed the non-
binding Washington Principles, pledging to restitute or reach a
settlement with the heirs regarding art in public collections
that was looted by the Nazis or sold under duress, and to carry
out provenance research in museums.  
 In a follow-up declaration agreed to in the Czech Republic
last year, 46 states said that they would encourage private
institutions and individuals to apply those principles as well.  
 There have been other incidents of German auction houses
selling disputed art works. The Cologne company  Kunsthaus
Lempertz  sold an Italian baroque painting to New York dealer
 Richard Feigen  in 2000. After it emerged last year that the
painting had been auctioned -- also by Lempertz -- in a Nazi-
forced sale in 1937, Feigen returned it to the heirs of Max
Stern, a Jewish gallery owner who fled prewar Germany.  
 Castell informed Hauswedell & Nolte that he is registering
the sketch with  Lost Art , a German government database of stolen
and missing art. The auction house’s lawyers, Heuking Kuehn
Lueer Wojtek of Hamburg, responded to say they had informed the
drawing’s new owner that he can file suit for damages resulting
from the listing. The auction house didn’t name either the
consignor or the buyer.  
 ( Catherine Hickley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Max Liebermann  
                       
                         
                           Max Liebermann Stiftung via Bloomberg 
                         
                         German artist Max Liebermann. The Hamburg auction house Hauswedell & Nolte sold a Liebermann sketch that was in the artist's possession at his death in 1935, dismissing his heirs' warnings that the drawing was probably seized by the Nazis or sold under duress. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     German artist Max Liebermann. The Hamburg auction house Hauswedell & Nolte sold a Liebermann sketch that was in the artist's possession at his death in 1935, dismissing his heirs' warnings that the drawing was probably seized by the Nazis or sold under duress. Source: Max Liebermann Stiftung via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
