-- Netanyahu Prepared to Free 1,000 Palestinians for Israeli Soldier Shalit
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-01T17:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/netanyahu-prepared-to-free-1-000-palestinians-for-israeli-soldier-shalit.html

          
          
             Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said Israel is ready to release 1,000 Palestinian security
prisoners to free  Gilad Shalit , an Israeli soldier held in the
Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip for more than four years.  
 The Palestinians, deemed by Israel to be “dangerous
terrorists,” won’t be allowed to return to their homes in the
West Bank, and prisoners involved in murders of many Israelis
won’t be released, Netanyahu said in a televised address in
Jerusalem today.  
 “The state of Israel is prepared to pay a heavy price to
free Gilad Shalit, but it cannot say -- at any price,”
Netanyahu said.  
 Shalit was seized by Hamas militants in an attack on an
Israeli army outpost on the border with Gaza in June 2006, and
Egypt and Germany have been trying to broker a prisoner
exchange. Shalit’s father, Noam, started a protest march this
week to call for the release of his son and has been invited by
Netanyahu to meet when he reaches Jerusalem.  
 Netanyahu said he agreed to release the Palestinians as
part of a deal proposed by the German mediator. Hamas hasn’t
responded to the offer, the Israeli leader said.  
 ‘Media Maneuver’  
 Hamas hasn’t received “any information or clarifications”
on Shalit, said Salah el-Bardawil, a spokesman for the group,
calling Netanyahu’s statement today a “media maneuver.”  
 “If we receive any new offers through the mediator we will
carefully study them and then we will give our comment,” el-
Bardawil said in a phone interview.  
 The only contact between Shalit, who holds Israeli and
French citizenship, and the outside world during his captivity
has been three letters, an audio tape, and a DVD that Israel
received on Oct. 2 in return for releasing 20 female Palestinian
prisoners.  
 “The decision to free terrorists is a difficult and
complicated decision for every government,” Netanyahu said. “It
involves not just saving lives, but also endangering lives,
encouraging additional kidnappings and murders by those who are
freed, and the creating of a leadership of terror against the
citizens of Israel.’’  
 Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
the European Union and Israel. Hamas’s charter calls for the
destruction of the Jewish state.  
 Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 ‘Sound Flexible’  
 “This is not an issue that the prime minister can afford
to appear indifferent to,”  Jonathan Spyer , a political
scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel,
said in a telephone interview. “He is keen to sound flexible.”
At the same time, “it doesn’t look like Hamas will be flexible,
so I don’t think this will have a practical effect on the Gilad
Shalit situation,” he said.  
 Shalit’s captivity has been an emotional as well as a
political issue in Israel, where the army pledges to make every
effort to leave no soldier in enemy hands. A prisoner deal is
also a sensitive issue for Palestinians in the West Bank and
Gaza Strip because thousands of families have relatives in
Israeli jails.  
 March to Jerusalem  
 “Netanyahu is responding to what the media are saying
about what the people are thinking and about the march that is
coming to Jerusalem,”  Mark Heller , principal research fellow at
Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies,
said in a telephone interview. “He had to say something.”  
 Israel has agreed to prisoner exchanges in the past. In
July 2008, Israel released five Lebanese prisoners in return for
the bodies of two soldiers captured by the Lebanese Shiite
Hezbollah movement two years earlier in a cross-border raid by
the group that sparked a 33-day war between the two sides.  
 In a 2004 prisoner swap with Hezbollah, Israel exchanged
about 400 Palestinian detainees and the bodies of 59 Lebanese
for one Israeli businessman and the bodies of three soldiers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Israel’s Netanyahu Ready to Release 1000 Palestinians  
                       
                         
                           Dan Balilty/AFP/Getty Images) 
                         
                         Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Photographer: Dan Balilty/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
