-- Neutered Watchdog Dreams of Its Missing Parts: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-07-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/neutered-watchdog-dreams-of-its-missing-parts-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             Now that the Supreme Court has said
the auditing profession’s main regulator can continue to exist,
here’s a knottier question: Should it?  
 The case for preserving the  Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board  in its current form just got much weaker. This
week the court ruled that, for the board’s structure to be
constitutional, the Securities and Exchange Commission must be
able to fire its members at will. Previously, under the statute
that created the board, the SEC could remove them only for good
cause once it had appointed them to their five-year terms.  
 The  ruling  in effect transforms the board into a wholly
controlled, off-balance-sheet subsidiary of the SEC. Before, the
commission mainly had the authority to reject the PCAOB’s
decisions. Now it has the power to tell the board what it must
do, as well. As Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote in the court’s
opinion, “the power to remove officers at will and without
cause is a powerful tool for control of an inferior.”  
 While the court’s decision may be sound constitutionally
under the separation of powers, it probably doesn’t make for
good public policy when it comes to regulating auditors. If the
board in substance will be nothing more than a division of the
SEC, it’s hard to justify why it shouldn’t be one in form, too.  
 Congress established the PCAOB when it passed the  Sarbanes-
Oxley Act  in 2002, stripping the auditing profession of the
authority to regulate itself. The board’s duties include setting
auditing  standards  for firms that certify the books of companies
with U.S.-registered securities. It  inspects  audit firms to see
if they are complying with those standards. The board also has
an  enforcement  division that can issue subpoenas and bring
disciplinary actions against auditors for misconduct.  
 Government Interference  
 Ideally, the one PCAOB function that should be largely free
from government interference is the responsibility for setting
auditing standards, although it wasn’t that way in practice even
before the court’s ruling.  
 The SEC requires that accounting standards, for instance,
be set by an independent body. That’s the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, whose members are picked by a private,
nonprofit foundation. Auditing standards should get similar
treatment. Both processes need to be insulated from political
meddling as much as possible to ensure they result in fair and
objective standards based on expert analysis.  
 Back in February 2008, shortly after  Kayla Gillan , one of
the PCAOB’s inaugural members, left the board after a five-year
term, she gave an interview to the trade paper  Compliance Week 
in which she blasted the SEC for pressuring the board to gut its
standard for auditing companies’ internal controls. The SEC,
then chaired by  Christopher Cox , “pushed, pushed, pushed and
really tried very hard to get something different than what”
the board ended up producing, she said.  
 Do as You’re Told  
 Now the commission simply can fire board members who refuse
to do as they’re told. (Gillan joined the SEC as a senior
adviser last year.)  
 One reason the PCAOB was established as a private nonprofit
corporation was so it could pay salaries to its members and
staff far above the government pay scale, although practically
speaking it functions like a federal agency. Bowing to pressure
from the accounting profession, Congress also required that the
board conduct much of its business in secret.  
 Its internal records aren’t subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act. Disciplinary hearings are closed to
the public; the proceedings become public knowledge only after
an auditor has been sanctioned. And when the board releases
inspection reports on individual firms, it keeps most of the
contents confidential, including the names of companies where it
found the firms’ audits were deficient.  
 Little Work  
 Open government, this is not. That’s reason enough to
shutter the board’s enforcement division, which merely
supplements the SEC’s own efforts. The board has issued just 31
disciplinary  orders  since its formation. Only one was against a
Big Four accounting firm,  Deloitte & Touche , which paid a $1
million fine in 2007 over its audit work at a small company
called  Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc.   
 As for the board’s inspections, maybe they’ve helped
improve audit quality, maybe not. Because the inspection reports
are shrouded in secrecy, there’s no way for the public to tell.  
 Here’s my suggestion for Congress: Disband the PCAOB --
this neutered watchdog won’t be growing back what it just lost.
Create a foundation independent of the accounting industry to
oversee a new private-sector board that would set U.S. auditing
standards. And put the PCAOB’s other units inside the SEC, along
with the fees the board now collects to fund their budgets.  
 Multiple Failures  
 The quality of the firms’ inspections might suffer if the
inspectors were paid less. Yet the same argument could be made
for employees at other agencies who do important work, such as
inspecting nuclear power plants. There’s been no rush to take
them off government pay scales. Accountants are no more special
than those people.  
 For all the PCAOB’s efforts, we still had what seemingly
must have been massive audit failures at Ernst & Young, which
audited Lehman Brothers; PricewaterhouseCoopers, which audited
Freddie Mac; Deloitte, which audited Fannie Mae; and KPMG, which
audited Citigroup. Those companies and many others blew up in
2008 sporting clean audit opinions. Yet there hasn’t been any
explanation by the PCAOB or anyone else in government of whether
their auditors did their jobs appropriately.  
 If the PCAOB can’t even do that, it’s time for a do-over.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        