-- New York Lawmakers Delay Vote on Revenue Plan to Next Week as Talks Go On
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/new-york-lawmakers-delay-vote-on-revenue-plan-to-next-week-as-talks-go-on.html

          
          
             New York  lawmakers expect to adjourn
without considering a $1 billion package of tax and revenue
measures needed to pay for spending bills they passed two days
earlier, Senate Democratic leader  John Sampson  said.  
 The delay is needed to develop a contingency plan should as
much as $1 billion in extra federal Medicaid money fail to
arrive, Sampson told reporters yesterday at the state Capitol.  
 “In order to have a fair and responsible budget, we have
to deal” with the possibility that the additional federal money
doesn’t show up, Sampson said. The Senate will return “one day
next week” to allow time for negotiations with Governor  David Paterson , he said.  
 The package on hold included a sales tax on some clothing
purchases and a new levy on hedge-fund managers to help close a
$9.2 billion deficit. The state’s estimated $136.5 billion
budget will be completed before August, Sampson said. The
spending plan for the year that began April 1 is the most
delayed since 2004, when the budget wasn’t passed until August.  
 The announcement came two days after Democrats in the
Assembly and Senate approved spending bills that assumed the
federal money would be paid in full. Paterson, a Democrat, said
the Legislature’s plan was out of balance by $400 million to
$1.5 billion. He vetoed $419 million of education spending
lawmakers added to his earlier $135 billion budget proposal.  
 Paterson said he will veto more elements in the
Legislature’s plan, including $193 million in about 6,800 so-
called member items that lawmakers can give to not-for-profit
groups and others in their districts. He also intends to veto
$91 million of spending for higher education and other items,
said Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the Division of Budget.  
 Agenda for Negotiations  
 Negotiations with Paterson and Assembly Speaker Sheldon
Silver will include proposals to cap annual increases in local
school and government  property taxes , Sampson said. A plan to
give the state and city  university systems  more flexibility to
increase tuition and operate independently from the Legislature
is also on the agenda, he said. Silver opposed both measures.  
 Silver couldn’t be reached immediately for comment.  
 “The Legislature’s revenue  bill  provides enough to balance
the budget,” assuming lawmakers don’t override the governor’s
vetoes and the additional Medicaid money is received in full,
Kriss said before Sampson’s announcement.  
 A measure to provide extra subsidies for the health-care
program for the poor failed to move forward in the U.S. Senate
last week as Republicans balked at the cost. The additional
subsidies, which would have been extended by six months, were
raised as part of last year’s economic-stimulus package and are
set to expire in December.  
 Spending to Rise  
 Under the state Legislature’s plan, spending will increase
from last year by about 2 percent. The proposal needs the
measure to raise revenue and taxes to be complete, said Austin
Shafran, a spokesman for Senate Democrats. “This would be only
the fourth time in the last 30 years that spending rose less
than inflation,” he said.  
 There is no danger of a state shutdown, as budget talks
continue, because most appropriations for the government have
been passed in weekly emergency spending bills, Sampson said.  
 New York law requires the governor to propose a balanced
budget, though there isn’t any requirement that the budget
passed by the Legislature be balanced, said  Robert Ward , deputy
director of the Albany, New York-based  Rockefeller Institute of
Government .  
 Relying on Hope  
 If the Legislature’s budget isn’t balanced, “you just
cross your fingers and hope there’s no problem,” Ward said.  
 Other analysts aren’t sure spending will match revenue.  
 “More work may need to be done to balance this year’s
budget,”  Elizabeth Lynam , deputy research director at the
 Citizens Budget Commission , said on its website. A $2.4 billion
deficit is possible, if Congress doesn’t approve the added
Medicaid funds and other spending and revenue assumptions prove
inaccurate, she said. The independent group monitors the state
budget.  
 Before Sampson’s announcement, Paterson said he may call
lawmakers back to Albany later this year if the budget they
presented falls out of balance. Sampson said he didn’t want that
to happen.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        