-- New Jersey's Senate Democrats May Skip Christie Pitch on Property-Tax Cap
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-01T16:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/new-jersey-senate-democrats-may-skip-christie-s-pitch-on-property-tax-cap.html

          
          
             Democrats who control the  New Jersey 
Senate plan to skip Governor  Chris Christie ’s scheduled address
opening a special legislative session on property taxes, Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney  said.  
 Sweeney, 51, said he’ll call the Senate to order at 3 p.m.,
the same time that Christie plans to address a joint session in
the Assembly chambers on the other side of the capitol building
in Trenton.  
 Christie, 47, who came to office amid voter ire over the
highest property-tax bills in the U.S., called lawmakers into
special session over his plan for a constitutional amendment
capping real-estate tax growth at 2.5 percent a year.  
 “The purpose of this was not for him to lecture us,”
Sweeney, a Democrat from West Deptford, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re going to debate his cap. That’s what he
called us here for and that’s what we’re going to do.”  
 Democrats control the Assembly 47-33 and the Senate 23-17.
Lawmakers in a party-line vote approved a higher tax cap of 2.9
percent that would become part of state law through legislation.
Christie has said he won’t approve any plan that isn’t written
into the constitution, which is more difficult to change than a
law.  
 Sweeney and Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan  of Union
have said writing the tax-ceiling into the constitution would
make it almost impossible to reverse if it proves a hardship for
towns and schools.  
 New Jersey has the highest average tax bills of any U.S.
state at $7,281 in 2009, according to state  data . The levies,
which increased 72 percent since 1999, are the prime source of
revenue for the state’s 566 municipalities and more than 600
school districts.  
 Daily Sessions  
 Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said the governor
will call daily sessions through the three-day holiday weekend
and was undeterred by the Senate action.  
 “We’re going to be there at 3,” he said. “Hopefully for
such an important matter of public policy all of the legislators
will attend.”  
 Christie’s proposed “hard cap” on property-tax increases
could be exceeded only to cover debt payments or with the
approval of 60 percent of voters in a public referendum.  
 The proposed amendment needs to be approved by three-fifths
of the Legislature by early July for the issue to appear on the
November ballot, Christie has said. Adoption requires a simple
majority of the popular vote.  
 The proposal would go beyond a 4 percent cap approved in
2007 under Governor  Jon Corzine . That limit was imposed after
tax bills increased on average 7.2 percent in 2005.  
 “I think this is like a great theater improvisation,”  Ben Dworkin , director of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey
Politics at Rider University in Lawrenceville, said in an
interview yesterday. “Everyone’s trying to play off the other
to get the greatest applause from the audience.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        