-- New York Liberty Development Sells $650 Million as Tax-Exempt Supply Drops
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/new-york-liberty-development-sells-650-million-as-tax-exempt-supply-drops.html

          
          
             New York Liberty Development Corp.,
issuer of $2.6 billion in debt to help rebuild the World Trade
Center, sold $650 million in tax-exempts, the most this week, as
the supply of municipal securities fell to a 12-week low.  
 States and municipalities plan to sell about  $8.6 billion 
of fixed-rate bonds in the next 30 days, about 25 percent less
than the  daily average  of $11.4 billion for the last 18 months,
according to the Bloomberg Visible Supply Index. Sales of about
$4.6 billion are scheduled this week, the  lowest  for a non-
holiday period since April 9.  
 That trend may further depress yields in coming months,
said  Tom Dalpiaz , who oversees about $250 million in municipal
holdings for Monument, Colorado-based Advisors Asset Management
Inc.  
 “We could be facing this maybe throughout the summer,”
said Dalpiaz, who’s based in Melville, New York. “Municipal
yields are low for understandable reasons: strong demand and
limited supply.”  
 New York Liberty, an arm of the state-controlled Empire
State Development Corp., was established to encourage
redevelopment of lower Manhattan after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks through the sale of Liberty Bonds.  
 The corporation raised $2.58 billion in December with bonds
initially priced to yield 0.5 percent to aid Larry Silverstein,
the World Trade Center leaseholder and developer who plans to
construct three office towers. The sale was timed to meet a
year-end deadline to keep federal tax exemption on the interest.
Proceeds were to be held in escrow until construction began. The
yield was unchanged June 15, according to Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board data.  
 Three Classes  
 The latest issue is split into three classes, reflecting
the priority of debt service payments. Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings assigned AA, third-highest; A, sixth-highest; and
BBB-, the lowest investment grade, to the respective classes.  
 The Class 3 securities, which mature in 2049, were priced
to yield 6.38 percent, 97 basis points below a Bloomberg Fair
Market Value index of  30-year, BBB rated  obligations. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The New York Liberty 39-year debt received four times more
bids than securities offered, according to  Fred Yosca , head of
fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC in New
York.  
 “There still is a strong demand for municipal paper
because people expect tax increases down the road,” Advisors
Asset’s Dalpiaz said.  
 Proceeds from the New York Liberty sale will help refinance
debt on the Bank of America building at One Bryant Park, the
first refunding deal for Liberty Bonds, according to  Elizabeth Mitchell , an Empire State Development spokeswoman.  
 Yields Fall  
 Yields on top-rated tax-exempts due in 10 years fell
yesterday for the  seventh straight day , to 3.07 percent, the
lowest since  March 23 , according to a daily survey by Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  
 Ten-year Treasuries fell to  2.94 percent , the lowest since
April 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That decline has
boosted the municipal yield ratio to about  102 percent  as of
June 29, the highest since May 2009, Bloomberg data show.  
 “When you look at the alternatives out there, you
understand why high net-worth individuals are looking at
municipal bonds, even with the yields where they are,” Dalpiaz
said. “It’s a nice total return.”  
 Top-rated tax-exempts returned 3.2 percent through the
first half of the year, with BBB rated bringing in 4.9 percent,
according to Merrill Lynch indexes. Taxable Build America Bonds
provided a return of 10.1 percent, while AAA rated long-term
corporate obligations returned 11.3 percent.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS, whose rum shipments to the mainland in
2009 reached 8 million “proof gallons,” a measure for
calculating federal excise tax, plans to offer about $396
million of tax-exempt debt through its public finance authority
as soon as next week. About $308 million of the issue is senior
obligations rated BBB+ by Fitch, third-lowest. The remaining
subordinate bonds are rated BBB, second-lowest. Underwriters led
by Jefferies & Co. will market the securities to investors.
(Added June 30)  
 MISSISSIPPI DEVELOPMENT BANK , created in 1986 by the state
legislature to issue bonds on behalf of local governments and
counties, plans to offer about $165 million in tax-exempt
municipal bonds as early as next week to refinance existing
debt. The bonds, rated AA by S&P and Fitch, third-highest, will
be marketed by a group led by Morgan Stanley. (Added July 1)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        