-- New York City Voters Oppose Mosque Near Ground Zero, Poll Says
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-01T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/new-york-city-voters-oppose-mosque-near-ground-zero-by-2-to-1-poll-shows.html

          
          
             New York City voters, by an almost 2-
to-1 ratio, oppose a plan by a Muslim group to build a mosque
and cultural center two blocks from the site of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  
 New Yorkers, by 52 percent to 31 percent, don’t want the
 Cordoba Initiative , a group that seeks to improve Muslim
relations with Western societies, to build a community center
near Ground Zero in Manhattan, the survey said. Opposition was
strongest on Staten Island, where respondents were against the
plan by 73 percent to 14 percent in favor. In Manhattan, support
for the project led, with 46 percent to 36 percent opposed.  
 “Is it because we’re still nursing the wounds from the
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center or is it more like
bigotry?” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the  Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute  in Hamden, Connecticut, in a
statement about the results. The poll was released today.  
 “Opponents suggest that the mosque would dishonor the
memory of the attack’s victims,” Carroll said. The cultural
center plans include a 500-seat auditorium, swimming pool,
restaurants, bookstores and space for art exhibitions, according
to the organization’s website.  
 While a majority opposed the center, 55 percent of those
questioned said “mainstream Islam” is a “peaceful religion.”
To 22 percent of respondents, the religion “encourages violence
against non-Muslims.” Another 23 percent were undecided.  
 The survey of 1,183 registered voters in New York,
conducted from June 21 to June 28, has a margin of error of plus
or minus 2.9 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ,  
          
          


  


        