-- New York Exits Fourth-Warmest June on Record, Greets July With Heat Wave
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-01T16:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/new-york-exits-fourth-warmest-june-on-record-greets-july-with-heat-wave.html

          
          
             The pleasant weather that ended New
York City’s fourth-warmest June on record will give way to one
of the worst heat waves for the Northeast in years as the first
full week of July unfolds, forecasters said.  
 Temperatures are expected to reach into the 90s in New York
starting this weekend, the National Weather Service predicted.
Yesterday’s high in Central Park was 79.  
 “I am very confident that the worst heat wave we have seen
in years is getting ready to set up over the big cities of the
Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast,”  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said
today. “These heat waves are going to kill a lot of people and
overload a lot of the energy grid systems.”  
 Natural gas rose on the New York Mercantile Exchange on the
forecast and on a government report that inventories were lower
than analysts expected. Natural gas for August delivery
increased 10 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $4.716 per million
British thermal units at 11:19 a.m.  
 The average temperature in Central Park was 74.6 degrees
Fahrenheit (23.6 Celsius) in June, according to the  National
Weather Service  in Upton, New York. The record was set in June
1943, which posted an average temperature of 76.2 degrees.  
 Temperatures Up  
 High temperatures will rise about 15 degrees or more from
today through this weekend in Washington, Baltimore,
Philadelphia and New York, according to the weather service. The
degree days cooling values for those cities may be 30 or more.  
 Cooling degree days, calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 “It could get up to that level where we would need to put
out an advisory, but it is too soon to say yet,” said Lauren
Nash, a weather service meteorologist in Upton. “On Tuesday, we
will possibly start looking at it.”  
 The temperature may go higher than the weather service
forecasts and reach into the 100s for many cities, said  Joe Bastardi , chief meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc . in State
College, Pennsylvania.  
 “I think the U.S.-generated models are under-doing the
heat,” Bastardi said by telephone. “You could maybe have three
days of 100 degrees busting on the power grid. ”  
 An official heat wave is three consecutive days of
temperatures in the 90s. Rouiller predicts the U.S. Northeast
will easily achieve that because of a “Bermuda high” pressure
system setting up in the national weather pattern.  
 “One of the things about getting old is that you have
pattern recognition, and I have seen this before,” Rouiller
said. “Once these things set up, they are very resilient things
and tough to push away.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        