-- Nigeria Left With `Egg on Its Face' as FIFA Investigates Soccer Team Ban
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-01T14:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/nigeria-central-bank-chief-says-nation-has-egg-on-face-after-world-cup.html

          
          
             Nigeria ’s central bank governor
blamed the national soccer team’s early World Cup exit on
players who were too old, a day after the president reacted to
the flop by withdrawing the country from international matches.  
 The country has “egg on its face” after the Super Eagles
failed to advance beyond the first round of the tournament in
South Africa,  Lamido Sanusi  said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television in London.  
 “That was the wrong selection in the first place,” Sanusi
said. “We had a number of very young players that should have
been given the opportunity. They were not. We took a bunch of
old people that are on the bench in their clubs. We lost. What
did we expect.”  
 Nigeria was eliminated June 22 after failing to win any of
its group games. A 1-0 loss to Argentina was followed by a 2-1
defeat by Greece and a 2-2 draw with South Korea. Midfielder
Sani Kaita received death threats after being red-carded in the
first half of the match against Greece.  
 Only seven of the 23 players in Nigeria’s World Cup squad
were younger than 25, according to the  website  of FIFA, soccer’s
governing body. The oldest player,  Nwankwo Kanu , turns 34 in
August, according to FIFA.  
 President  Goodluck Jonathan  yesterday said Nigeria won’t
play in international competitions for two years to ensure the
“embarrassing outcome of the World Cup in South Africa won’t
repeat itself,” said Ima Niboro, Jonathan’s spokesman.  
 The ban applies to all Nigerian representative soccer
teams, a spokesman for the presidency said today. The first to
be affected are the women’s squads preparing for this month’s
under-20 world championship in Germany and September’s under-17
tournament in Trinidad and Tobago.  
 Deep Problems  
 Efan Ekoku , who played 20 times for Nigeria, criticized the
government’s decision. The Super Eagles’ performance over the
past 15 years had been “one of the few positive things” to come
out of the West African country, the former striker said.  
 Nigeria, which is  ranked  21 in the world by FIFA, has
qualified for four World Cup tournaments, making it past the
group stages in the 1994 and 1998 tournaments.  
 “The problem goes much deeper than the Nigerian Football
Federation, it goes as deep as how the country is run,” Ekoku
said in a phone interview. “There’s a huge level of incompetence
throughout the government. Maybe the guys sacking people need to
look at themselves.”  
 Jonathan acted on the recommendation of a presidential task
force set up to facilitate the team’s participation in the World
Cup, its chairman, Rotimi Amechi, said at yesterday’s briefing.  
 ‘Heart Attacks’  
 “The nation has been punished enough,” Amechi said of
Nigeria’s performance at the World Cup. “People have had heart
attacks because of Nigerian football.”  
 FIFA, which opposes government intervention in the affairs
of national soccer federations, said it was examining the
government’s decision.  
 “I can confirm that we have been officially informed and we
are looking at this case,” FIFA spokesman  Nicolas Maingot  said
at a news conference in Johannesburg today. “It’s too early to
speak about potential sanctions.”  
 According to FIFA’s  statutes , member associations are
obliged “to manage their affairs independently and ensure that
their own affairs are not influenced by any third parties.”  
 Maingot said the ultimate sanction for government
interference could be to expel the association involved. FIFA is
also investigating the French government’s probe into that
country’s first-round exit at the World Cup.  
 Blatter Warning  
 “Political interference will be dealt with by FIFA,
notwithstanding the sort of interference and the size of the
country,” FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said two days ago.  
 The Super Eagles last won a World Cup match in 1998. They
exited with two losses and a draw in 2002 and didn’t qualify for
the tournament in Germany four years ago. In January, the team
made it to the semi-finals of the Africa Cup of Nations.  
 The Nigerian Football Federation fired its former coach,
Shabiu Amodu, in February and hired  Lars Lagerback , who stepped
down as Sweden coach in October after failing to help that
nation qualify for the World Cup.  
 The late appointment may have contributed to the team’s
performance in South Africa, according to Isaac Ibhafidon, a
former spokesman for the  Nigerian Premier League .  
 “They didn’t appoint Lars Lagerback until very late,”
Ibhafidon said in a telephone interview. “The coach only met the
players three weeks before the World Cup and they didn’t
organize friendly matches” to prepare the team, he added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Johannesburg at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria Sanusi Lamido Sanusi said the country has 'egg on its face' after Nigeria was eliminated from the World Cup after failing to win any of its group games. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
