-- Norway's Pension Fund to Boost Investment in Asia as Region Leads Recovery
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-07-01T08:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/norway-s-sovereign-fund-to-increase-assets-to-almost-900-billion-by-2020.html

          
          
             Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the
world’s second largest, will increase investments in Asia, as
the region leads the global economic recovery, said Norges Bank
Governor  Svein Gjedrem .  
 The fund is currently underweight in Asia, said Gjedrem,
who is in Singapore as part of yesterday’s opening of Norges
Bank Investment Management’s second Asian office. He declined to
say how much more investments the fund will make in the region.
The central bank’s asset management unit already has an office
in Shanghai.  
 The Singapore office, which will start with five to 10
employees, will be responsible for portfolio management and
securities trading, he said. The fund has about S$1.5 billion
($1.1 billion) invested in Singapore, Gjedrem said.  
 Sovereign wealth investors including Temasek Holdings Pte
and Qatar Investment Authority are boosting their investments in
Asia as the region’s recovery outpaces the rest of the world.
The Asia-Pacific region accounted for the largest number of
investments by sovereign wealth funds last year, with 32
transactions, according to the Monitor Group in London.  
 “The stronger growth in Asia means Asian companies are
doing well,” Gjedrem said. “The distribution between different
regions may be considered for a change in the future given the
fact that Asia’s growth is stronger versus Europe.”  
 About 10 percent of the  fund  is currently invested in Asia
and about 15 percent of its equity investments are in the
region’s companies, according to a statement on its website. The
fund is overweight in Europe and underweight in America, the
central bank governor said today.  
 “Asian products in the real economy are more and more
important for European countries, and that should over time
increase our equity share here in this growing part of the
world,” Gjedrem said, declining to say how much more the fund
plans to invest in the region.  
 Norway invests the country’s oil and gas revenue abroad in
a fund called the Government Pension Fund Global. The fund gets
its investment guidelines from the government and is run by the
central bank.  
 The fund will almost double in size to about $900 billion
by the end of 2020, Gjedrem said. The fund, which currently has
assets of about $450 billion, will cover 15 percent to 20
percent of Norway’s state spending by 2020, he said.  
 The country needs to build up its financial funds to meet
the challenge of falling output, Gjedrem said. Norway’s oil and
gas production will fall “quite rapidly” over the next 10
years to 20 years, he said in a speech at the Singapore
Management University today.  
 Production Outlook  
 The world’s sixth-largest oil exporter and second-largest
gas exporter discovered petroleum in the North Sea four decades
ago.  
 In a bid to boost returns, the fund has increased its
equity holdings to 60 percent, is raising its investment in
emerging markets and will add real estate to its holdings after
getting approval from the Finance Ministry earlier this year to
invest as much as 5 percent of its value in property.  
 Market Rebound  
 The fund, Europe’s largest equity investor, reported a 3.9
percent return in the first quarter as stocks rose at the start
of the year, sustaining last year’s record performance. A plunge
in global stocks in 2008 wiped out gains since it started
investing in 1996. The fund recouped most of the losses in 2009
and gained 103 billion kroner ($15.8 billion) in the first
quarter.  
 Only Abu Dhabi has a larger sovereign wealth fund,
according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute  in California.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        