-- Norway Changes Rules to Attract Hedge Funds as U.S., EU Step Up Regulation
-- Vibeke Laroi
-- 2010-07-01T14:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/norway-bids-to-lure-hedge-funds-as-u-s-european-union-step-up-regulation.html

          
          
             Norwegian regulators have received
eight applications to start or market hedge funds in the country
as it lifts a ban today on sales to institutional investors.  
 Five Norwegian firms are seeking to set up hedge funds
while three foreign companies want to market funds in the
country,  Eirik Bunaes , deputy director general of the  Financial
Supervisory Authority , said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.
He declined to name the companies.  
 “I expect gradual growth,” said Haavard Gulbrandsen,
chief executive officer of KLP Kapitalforvaltning AS, which
plans to shift its 1 billion-kroner ($154 million) hedge fund
business to Norway from Ireland. “We could see a few dozen
funds in a year’s time.”  
 Norway’s bid to lure hedge funds comes as the U.S. and
European Union step up regulation of an industry blamed by
lawmakers for exacerbating the financial crisis. While Norway
won’t allow sales to retail investors, there aren’t many
restrictions on what hedge funds can invest in, Bunaes said.  
 “There is a limited market for hedge funds in Norway,
especially when there are restrictions,” he said. “Too many
restrictions on investments would be a handicap when competing
internationally with other hedge funds.”  
 KLP Kapitalforvaltning, which manages assets of about 170
billion kroner and is part of KLP, or  Kommunal
Landspensjonskasse , a Norwegian life insurer, expects its
application to set up hedge fund operations to take three to six
months to process and aims to start selling within two months of
getting approval.  
 No Explosion  
 “I don’t think we’ll see a huge explosion of hedge funds
in Norway” as local firms have set up operations overseas, said
Lasse Ruud, CEO of the  Norwegian Fund and Asset Management
Association .  
 Orkla Finans Kapitalforvaltning AS, the asset management
arm of  Orkla ASA , will keep its two hedge funds that together
manage about 1.5 billion kroner in Ireland, said CEO Bjoern
Slaatto. He estimates that there as many as 15 Norwegian
companies with hedge funds overseas, mostly in Ireland and
Luxembourg.  
 “We want to gather all our hedge fund business in
Luxembourg and further expand the business there,” said  Torkild Varran , CEO of DnB NOR Kapitalforvaltning AS, the asset
management arm of Norway’s largest bank  DnB NOR ASA . The firm
currently manages hedge fund assets of about 2.5 billion kroner.  
 EU finance ministers approved draft rules in May to tighten
hedge-fund regulations. In the U.S., hedge funds that manage
more than $100 million will have to register with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, subjecting them to audits,
and to provide information on trades so authorities can assess
systemic risk.  
 Hedge funds are private pools of capital whose managers can
buy or sell assets, bet on falling as well as rising asset
prices and participate in profits from money invested.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vibeke Laroi  in Oslo at   vlaroi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        