-- Obama's South Korea Trade Agreement Push Collides With Ford, Auto Union
-- Mark Drajem
-- 2010-07-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/obama-s-south-korea-trade-agreement-push-collides-with-ford-auto-union.html

          
          
             When heads of state gather, leaders
sometimes cut through their own bureaucracies and get something
done. U.S. President  Barack Obama  and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  did just that on June 26 when they announced at the
Group of 20 summit in Toronto that they intended to revive a
trade agreement signed in 2007 and never approved by either
country’s legislature.  
 Both sides aim to rework the deal by November, when the G-
20 next meets in Seoul. With almost $68 billion in two-way
trade, it would be the U.S.’s largest free-trade pact since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994 and could help Obama
make good on a March pledge to double American exports in five
years.  
 Obama hasn’t sent the existing deal to Congress because of
labor opposition. U.S. unemployment doesn’t help, with 15
million people jobless as of May. A more intractable obstacle
involves trucks, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 5
issue.  
 Ford Motor Co.  and the United Auto Workers union want
Washington to keep a 25 percent U.S. tariff on pickup truck
imports. Ford’s F-series truck is America’s best-selling
vehicle. The deal with the South Koreans would require the U.S.
to phase out that tariff over the next decade.  
 Hyundai Motor Co.  and  Kia Motors Corp. , the two largest
Korean automakers, don’t make trucks now that could compete with
the American brands. “It would be relatively easy for Korean
manufacturers to ramp up production for export to the U.S,” the
UAW said in a September filing to the U.S. Trade Representative.
Barbara Somson, the UAW’s top official in Washington, said, “A
lot of damage could be done to our jobs in pickup plants.”  
 Prying Open Market  
 Ford makes a different case: By agreeing to cut tariffs,
the U.S. is trading away its best bargaining chip to pry open
the Korean market to American-branded vehicles, something the
U.S. has tried and failed to do since the 1990s. This deal
“represents the last, best chance to open the Korean market,”
Ford said in a statement.  
 “There certainly is a problem in Korea,” said  Daniel J. Ikenson , associate director at the Cato Institute’s Center for
Trade Policy Studies in Washington. He said the Detroit
automakers ultimately are “more concerned with market
competition in the U.S. than in gaining Korean market share.”  
 South Korea’s passenger-carmakers have already made inroads
in the U.S., which imported $8.4 billion worth of autos and auto
parts from Korea in 2009. That could increase by as much as $1.7
billion a year as a result of the free-trade deal, the U.S.
International Trade Commission estimates. The U.S. sent only
6,140 autos to Korea last year, a total Ford blames on a variety
of taxes, customs, and regulatory standards that discriminate
against foreign competition.  
 Korea’s Stance  
 The agreement would eliminate an 8 percent South Korean
tariff on U.S. passenger cars and a 10 percent truck tariff, and
includes provisions to deal with non-tariff barriers in Korea,
Han Duck Soo, that country’s U.S. ambassador, said in a speech
on May 12.  
 “Korea’s auto market is open and competitive, and the way
to increase exports to Korea is to implement the” trade pact,
Han said in Washington. “Korean consumers are happy to buy
foreign cars that fit their needs.”  
 Stephen J. Collins , president of the American Automotive
Policy Council, which represents Ford, General Motors Co., and
Chrysler Group LLC, called Korea “the classic example of bad
trade policy: keeping everyone else out while going on a
worldwide export binge.”  
 ‘This One Flunked’  
 “We are open to looking at a good trade agreement, but
this one flunked,” Collins said.  
 GM, which has a South Korean unit,  GM Daewoo Auto &
Technology Co. , is sitting out the debate, he said. GM makes and
sells cars in the Korean market and uses the Daewoo unit to sell
to China as well.  
 One skeptic Obama will have to bring around is House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat
whose suburban Detroit district is home to thousands of
autoworkers.  
 Levin offered a proposal in 2007 to match the number of
Korean and U.S. car imports. The 25 percent truck tariff? It
would stay in place.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        