-- Obama Pledges to Push for Immigration System Overhaul
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-01T19:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/obama-says-his-administration-won-t-delay-push-for-immigration-overhaul.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said he will
press for an overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws, calling
the system “fundamentally broken” and urging Republicans to
abandon “election-year politics” and join the effort.  
 “What we have made clear is that this administration will
not just kick the can down the road,” Obama said in a speech at
the American University School of International Service in
Washington. “Immigration reform is no exception.”  
 Obama said passing comprehensive overhaul would be
impossible without Republican support. He needs at least 60
votes in the Senate to overcome Republican opposition and ensure
a floor vote on legislation. Democrats control 58 seats.  
 “Reform that brings accountability to our immigration
system cannot pass without Republican votes,” Obama said.
Lacking bipartisan support, “we cannot solve this problem.”  
 Other major hurdles facing any overhaul effort this year
are the midterm elections in November and a congressional agenda
crowded with priorities such as confirming  Elena Kagan  as a
Supreme Court justice, passing budget and spending bills, and
final action on financial regulation overhaul.  
 Obama has repeatedly pledged to tighten border security and
revamp immigration laws to deal with the millions of immigrants
in the U.S. illegally. He reiterated that vow in May during a
state visit by Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  and earlier
this week in a meeting with immigration groups, which Democrats
can’t afford to alienate in this election year.  
 ‘System Is Broken’  
 “The system is broken, and everybody knows it,” Obama
said today.  
 Senator  John Cornyn , a Republican from the border state of
Texas, criticized the president for not making immigration a
priority during his first year in office as he had promised.  
 “Eighteen months into his presidency, he continues to
deliver words, but no action,” Cornyn said in a statement.  
 Darrell West  of the Brookings Institution, who has written
a book on immigration, called it an “agenda-setting speech,”
though he said it will be difficult, if not impossible, to pass
legislation this year.  
 The message, West said, to supporters and critics alike was
to “moderate and compromise” on their views.  
 ‘Critical Time’  
 Groups in favor of immigration legislation, such as the
 National Council of La Raza  and the  Center for American
Progress , applauded the speech. La Raza President  Janet Murguia ,
said in a conference call with reporters that it came at a
“critical time.”  
 “The president demonstrated great courage and
conviction,”  Angela Kelley , vice president for immigration
policy at the Washington-based Center for American Progress,
said. “We hope his words of wisdom are heard on Capitol Hill.”  
 Obama said “reform has been held hostage to political
posturing and special-interest wrangling and to the pervasive
sentiment in Washington that tackling such a thorny and
emotional issue is inherently bad politics.”  
 Mexico’s Calderon lobbied Obama for an immigration overhaul
after Arizona passed a law cracking down on illegal immigrants.
The law prompted nationwide demonstrations in the U.S. on both
sides of the issue, and the Justice Department is reviewing the
measure and may challenge it in court.  
 Obama said the Arizona law has “the potential of violating
the rights of innocent American citizens and legal residents,
making them subject to possible stops or questioning, because of
what they look like, or how they sound.”  
 ‘Wildly Expensive’  
 He rejected the idea of rounding up illegal immigrants,
saying it would be “logistically impossible and wildly
expensive.”  
 Obama said the legal immigration system “is as broken as
the borders” because of backlogs, and it “takes years” to
process applications. Crimes go unreported because victims and
witnesses fear coming forward, making it harder for police to
catch violent, drug-smuggling criminals, he said.  
 The government loses, too, because billions in tax revenue
go uncollected each year as many undocumented workers are paid
under the table, he said.  
 The politics of “who is allowed” in the U.S. have always
been contentious, Obama said. “Our borders have been porous for
decades” because we “don’t do a very good job” of tracking
who is coming in.  
 Making ‘a Mockery’  
 “The 11 million who broke these laws should be held
accountable,” he said, adding that the presence of so many
undocumented people “makes a mockery of all those who are going
through the process legally.”  
 He said the U.S. has “more boots on the ground” at the
southwest border than ever, with a doubling of enforcement
agents and a tripling of intelligence forces. The result has
been the seizure of more guns, cash and drugs than in past
years, Obama said.  
 “Contrary to some of the reports that you see, crime along
the border is down,” Obama said, without citing a specific
figure.  
 The administration in May announced it would deploy as many
as 1,200 National Guard troops and seek $500 million more in
funding to help with security measures on the U.S.-Mexico
border.  
 Noah Pickus , an immigration expert at Duke University in
Durham, North Carolina, said the answer lies in a step-by-step
program, beginning with verification of immigrants in the
workplace, before tackling border issues.  
 “It’s like nuclear arms negotiations -- how do we take
some steps to trust but verify?” Pickus said in a telephone
interview. “Saying that we just need Republicans on board and
have the courage to do this -- when people don’t trust, the last
thing you need to do is say they’re cowardly.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama Says He Won’t Delay Immigration Overhaul  
                       
                         
                           Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama speaks during a town hall event in Racine, Wisconsin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama speaks during a town hall event in Racine, Wisconsin. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
