-- Obama Will Extend Homebuyer Tax-Credit Deadline, White House Official Says
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-07-01T15:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/obama-will-extend-homebuyer-tax-credit-deadline-white-house-official-says.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  plans to
extend a deadline for first-time homebuyers to complete
purchases and qualify for an $8,000 tax credit, a White House
official said.  
 Obama may sign the extension as soon as today, the person
said, declining to be identified before the White House receives
the bill from Congress. Qualified homebuyers who signed purchase
contracts before April 30 will have until Sept. 30 to complete
paperwork and settle on the house. The original settlement
deadline was June 30.  
 “They’re cheering out there, they’re really rejoicing,”
Lucien Salvant, a spokesman for the  National Association of
Realtors , said of homebuyers. The group sought the extension.  
 The House voted 409-5 on June 29 to extend the deadline,
and the Senate approved the measure on a voice vote last night.
Republicans, including Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, had
tried to block the extension, calling the tax-credit program
flawed.  
 “We only created a bubble, which will eventually burst,”
DeMint said on the Senate floor late yesterday as the deadline
was about to expire. “For the people who haven’t closed on
their homes by today, it’s not that they won’t get their house,
only that they won’t get a taxpayer subsidy for having bought a
house now rather than later.”  
 The incentive, enacted last year as part of an economic
stimulus package, offered an $8,000 tax credit to first-time
homebuyers.  
 Backlog of Paperwork  
 To qualify, homebuyers had to sign a purchase contract by
April 30 and finish the deal by June 30. A jump in sales
produced a backlog of paperwork that kept some homebuyers from
completing transactions by the June 30 deadline. As many as
180,000 home buyers might be helped by the extension, Salvant
said.  
 The tax credit may have fueled a temporary increase in home
sales, which fell after the April deadline passed. Sales of new
homes dropped 33 percent to a record low of 300,000 in May, the
Commerce Department reported. Sales of previously owned homes
fell 2.2 percent that month, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Applications  for loans to purchase
properties fell at the end of May to the lowest level since
1997, according to a  Mortgage Bankers Association  report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        