-- Hogs Gain on Bets Dollar's Skid Will Boost U.S. Pork Exports; Cattle Drop
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-01T20:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/hogs-gain-on-bets-dollar-s-skid-will-boost-u-s-pork-exports-cattle-drop.html

          
          
             Hog futures rose for the second
straight day on speculation that U.S. pork exports will increase
as the dollar drops. Cattle fell, erasing earlier gains.  
 The  greenback  slumped to the lowest level since mid-May
against a basket of six major currencies. In the four months
ended April 30, pork exports were 1.5 percent higher than a year
earlier, according to the most-recent U.S. Department of
Agriculture data. The U.S. sold 21 percent more beef to overseas
buyers in the four weeks ended June 24 than a year earlier,
according to the USDA.  
 “One of the good things going on today is the dollar is
lower,” said  Lawrence Kane , a market adviser at Stewart-
Peterson Group in Yates City, Illinois. “For the countries that
do have some money, the cheaper dollar makes our meat look a
little more viable.”  
 Hog futures for August settlement rose 0.2 cent, or 0.2
percent, to 81.85 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Yesterday, the price gained 0.9 percent. In the second
quarter, the commodity declined 1.5 percent, snapping a six-
month rally.  
 Cattle futures for August delivery fell 0.075 cent to 89.95
cents a pound. In the second quarter, the most-active contract
dropped 3.8 percent, the first decline in more than a year.  
 Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement slid 0.45 cent,
or 0.4 percent, to $1.126 a pound.  
 Cattle eased on speculation that U.S. meatpackers will slow
livestock purchases as they reduce slaughtering before the
Independence Day holiday on July 4. Some grocers may wait until
next week to restock meat, Kane said. Wholesale  choice beef  fell
0.1 percent at midday to $1.5536 a pound, the first drop this
week, according to the USDA.  
 “With the long weekend, packer activity is diminishing
rapidly,” Kane said. Food retailers “bought already for the
Fourth of July, so everybody is waiting and seeing what
disappears, before they look next week to see what they need to
buy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        