-- Martha Stewart Carpet Replaces Stainmaster in Home Depot's U.S. Stores
-- Chris Burritt
-- 2010-07-01T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/home-depot-adds-martha-stewart-carpeting-as-stainmaster-pulls-out-of-chain.html

          
          
             Home Depot Inc. , the largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, is adding Martha Stewart Living
carpet to its almost 2,000 U.S. stores after Stainmaster dropped
the chain.  
 Home Depot  will no longer offer the Stainmaster brand
starting today and will finish installing Martha Stewart
displays in stores during the first week of July, executives
said in interviews. Home Depot already sells paint, patio
furniture and closet organizers through an agreement with  Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.   
 “We have a big plan for our brand at Home Depot,” said
 Robin Marino , Martha Stewart Living’s president and chief
executive officer in charge of merchandising. “Our goal is to
provide the consumer with everything that they need to decorate
their home.”  
 Martha Stewart Living  is expanding at Home Depot after
ending a partnership with Kmart that accounted for 10 percent of
last year’s  sales . The New York-based company, which is
unprofitable, will also start selling cabinets and countertops
at Home Depot’s U.S. stores in September, followed by gardening
supplies and holiday decorations, according to Marino.  
 Home Depot, Lowe’s  
 For Home Depot and Lowe’s Cos., carpet sales are at the
center of intensifying competition as customers pinched by
 unemployment  and sinking home values cut back on more-expensive
tile and wood flooring. Invista, a fiber maker owned by closely
held Koch Industries Inc., said in February that Lowe’s would be
the only major home-improvement retailer for carpets treated
with the Stainmaster stain-blocking chemicals.  
 “We wished they had chosen us, but they chose Lowe’s,”
said  Gordon Erickson , Home Depot’s senior vice president of
décor. “We were a bit surprised. It gave us the chance to
refresh our whole carpet program.”  
 The Atlanta-based retailer plans national advertising for
the Martha Stewart Living brand before Labor Day on Sept. 6.  
 Martha Stewart Living  declined 20 cents, or 4.1 percent, to
$4.72 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares have slumped 4.5 percent this year. Home Depot
slipped 15 cents to $27.92.  
 Marino declined to discuss Home Depot sales or projections.
The retailer has the potential to be Martha Stewart Living’s
largest source of merchandising sales, she said in September
when the companies announced their alliance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina,
at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        