-- Hong Kong's Annual July 1 Anti-Government Protest Draws Crowd of Thousands
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-01T11:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/hong-kong-s-annual-july-1-anti-government-protest-starts-in-victoria-park.html

          
          
             Thousands of people marched through
Hong Kong’s center on the 13th anniversary of the city’s return
to Chinese rule, an annual protest used to voice concerns to the
city’s government.  
 Demonstrators walked in 32 degrees Celsius (89.6 degrees
Fahrenheit) heat to government headquarters in the Central
business district from Victoria Park. One of the organizers put
the turnout at 52,000, Radio Television Hong Kong reported. Hong
Kong police wasn’t immediately available to give an estimate.  
 The rally comes a week after Hong Kong lawmakers approved a
package that sets the pace for expanding democracy in the city.
Some lawmakers said the package doesn’t provide a clear road map
to a one-person, one-vote system for Hong Kong.  
 Some protesters walked the 4-kilometer (2.5 mile) route
with placards reading “the reform proposal is all wrong” and
“the Democratic Party has betrayed Hong Kong people,”
referring to that group’s vote in favor of government proposals.  
 Chief Executive  Donald Tsang   said  in a speech the passage
of the package of electoral changes is “the best gift” to
celebrate the reunification with China, according to a statement
from the government today.  
 Tsang visited a parade organized by pro-government groups
in Happy Valley attended by about 2,000 people, RTHK said.  
 Reform Vote  
 Hong Kong’s  Legislative Council , or LegCo, approved Tsang’s
proposal for expanding the size of the lawmaking body by 10
seats to 70 in a 46-12 vote on June 25, a day after approving a
plan for selecting Tsang’s successor in 2012.  
 The democracy package passed after the government agreed to
changes proposed by the opposition Democratic Party.  LegCo  now
has 60 lawmakers, 30 chosen by so-called functional
constituencies picked by business and professional groups.  
 LegCo voted 46-13 on June 24 on a measure that will see the
number of people who choose the chief executive, the city’s
leader, increased to 1,200 from 800. The members of the Election
Committee are appointees sanctioned by China.  
 Among those fighting the package were lawmaker  Leung Kwok- hung , who was ejected from the LegCo chamber before the vote as
he shouted “this is fake universal suffrage.”  
 Hong Kong will have universal suffrage for the chief
executive in 2017 and all lawmakers in 2020, Tsang said in
November, citing a decision by the Chinese National People’s
Congress Standing Committee in December 2007. The pro-democracy
camp in Hong Kong is seeking a swifter timetable.  
 Basic Law  
 The Basic Law, Hong Kong’s China-drafted constitution,
promises eventual democracy. The city has been run under the
“One Country, Two Systems” principle since Britain returned
the territory to China in 1997, ending 155 years of colonial
rule. Under the Basic Law, Hong Kong people enjoy more freedoms
than mainland Chinese.  
 On June 4, about 113,000 people attended a candlelight
vigil to mark the 21st anniversary of the crackdown on pro-
democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, the largest number
since 1989, according to police estimates. The vigil is the only
commemoration of the event on Chinese soil.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        