-- Longevity Genes May Predict Who Has the DNA to Live
-- Arielle Fridson
-- 2010-07-01T18:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/longevity-genes-may-predict-who-has-dna-to-live-past-age-100-study-finds.html

          
          
             Testing for a genetic pattern found
in centenarians may predict with 77 percent accuracy which
people are among the 3 in 1,000 Americans with the DNA to live
past age 100, a study found.  
 Research on 1,055 people older than 100 identified 150 gene
variations that were the most predictive of who was long-lived,
according to the study from Boston University and Italy. Most of
the centenarians were grouped into 19 clusters of genetic
signatures linked to the age of onset of such diseases as
dementia, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease, the
researchers said.  
 The prediction of longevity was imperfect, confirming that
diet and exercise are among the environmental factors also
contributing to survival, according to the study. Still, the
analysis of longevity genes may prove useful in screening for
age-related diseases and tailoring the use of medicines, the
authors said today in the journal  Science .  
 “These findings could point toward drugs that would mimic
the effects of the gene signatures that delay the onset of age-
related diseases,” said  Paola Sebastiani , the paper’s lead
author and a professor of biostatistics at Boston University
School of Public Health.  
 Such treatments may still be years away as the researchers
don’t understand yet the role played by 150 genetic markers of
longevity in the centenarians, Sebastiani said.  
 Life Expectancy  
 Average life expectancy in the U.S. is 78.3 years for a
person born in 2010, according to U.S. Census  data . The census
 estimated  that 3 of every 1,000 Americans, or 104,754 among
309.6 million, were centenarians as of Nov. 1, and the number
will increase by more than fivefold by 2050.  
 The centenarians didn’t differ from the 1,267 people in a
comparison group in terms of the large number of genes
associated with common diseases, the study showed. It is
possible that the centenarians’ genetic signatures cancel out
the effect of the disease-linked genes, said the researchers.  
 “These are all hypotheses that have to be tested,” said
Sebastiani. “We have created a long list of homework for a lot
of investigators.”  
 Participants in the study were Caucasian and the analysis
didn’t find differences in the genetic signatures of different
European ethnicities, Sebastiani said. The researchers hope that
the findings inspire scientists in other countries to do similar
studies on other races, the author said.  
 Understanding the genes that influence longevity in humans
will be a fertile area for research in human biology,  Misha
Angrist , assistant professor at the Duke Institute of Genome
Sciences and Policy, whose DNA was decoded as part of Human
Genome Project two years ago, said in a telephone interview.
Angrist was not involved in the study released today.  
 “Our research and our health-care paradigm have been very
disease-centric because we want to alleviate human suffering,”
Angrist said. “But to alleviate suffering I would argue that
it’s just as important to study humans who have seemingly done
very well in the game of life.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arielle Fridson  in New York at 
 afridson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        