-- Monsanto Withdraws Argentine Soybean Suit, Settles With Cefetra, Toepfer
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-01T21:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/monsanto-withdraws-argentine-soybean-suit-settles-with-cefetra-toepfer.html

          
          
             Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest
seed company, said it withdrew a patent complaint seeking to bar
imports of Argentine soybean meal into Europe after settling
with Cefetra Ltd. and Alfred C. Toepfer International.  
 Monsanto withdrew the claim from the District Court of The
Hague, the St. Louis-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  
 The European Court of Justice, the European Union’s top
court, was scheduled to rule  July 6  on whether Monsanto could
use European patents to block imports of soybean meal from
Argentina. Monsanto hasn’t received royalties for its Roundup
Ready soybeans in Argentina since the country disallowed seed
patents, said  Jim Tobin , the company’s vice president of
industry affairs.  
 “We continue to work in Argentina to find a solution,”
Tobin said in a telephone interview.  
 Monsanto’s decision to settle the EU case was prompted by a
preliminary ruling in March, he said. The European  patent  for
the trait that makes soybeans resistant to the company’s Roundup
herbicide doesn’t extend to soy meal made from the patented
seeds, Advocate General  Paolo Mengozzi  of the EU court said in
his legal advice, which the court follows in a majority of
cases.  
 Argentine growers planted about 43 million acres of
soybeans containing Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait last year,
making the country the company’s second-biggest soybean market
after the U.S., according to an Oct. 7 Monsanto  report . About 95
percent of soybeans grown in Argentina contain Monsanto’s
Roundup Ready trait, Tobin said.  
 Shipments Impounded  
 Monsanto ended unsuccessful attempts to collect soybean
seed royalties at Argentina grain handlers in 2003, he said.  
 During 2005 and 2006, Monsanto had shipments of soy meal
from Argentina impounded in Amsterdam. Tests showed they
contained some of the patented seed traits and Monsanto sued the
importers for infringement. The Hague court sought the EU
tribunal’s guidance on a number of questions in 2008.  
 Toepfer is a unit of Archer Daniels Midland Co., the
Decatur, Illinois-based commodities processor.  Roman Blahoski ,
an ADM spokesman, declined to comment on the settlement. No one
answered calls placed after regular business hours to  Cefetra 
units Cefetra BV, Cefetra Feed Service BV and Cefetra Ltd.  
 The EU court case is C-428/08 Monsanto Technology LLC v.
Cefetra BV, Cefetra Feed Service BV, Cefetra Futures BV and
State of Argentina and Monsanto Technology LLC v. Vopak Agencies
Rotterdam BV and Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        