-- Morgan Stanley Names Cravath, Swaine's Frank Barron as Chief Legal Officer
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-07-01T14:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/morgan-stanley-names-cravath-swaine-s-frank-barron-as-chief-legal-officer.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, hired  Frank Barron , a litigation partner at
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, to replace  Gary Lynch  as chief
legal officer.  
 Barron, 59, will join the firm in New York after more than
30 years at Cravath, Morgan Stanley said today in a statement.
Lynch, 59, who announced in February that he would step down
from his post, will remain vice chairman and a member of the
firm’s operating and management committees.  
 Eric Grossman , the bank’s general counsel for the Americas
and global head of litigation, was appointed to Morgan Stanley’s
management committee, the New York-based firm said. Grossman was
a candidate for the chief legal position, a person briefed on
the matter said in February.  
 “The partnership between Frank and Eric will provide
tremendous leadership on the legal and regulatory fronts in this
challenging period for the securities industry,” Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  said in an internal memo obtained
today by Bloomberg News. Morgan Stanley spokeswoman  Jeanmarie McFadden  confirmed the memo’s contents.  
 Barron was among Cravath lawyers who advised Morgan
Stanley’s board on its conversion to a bank holding company and
on  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ’s $9 billion investment
in the firm as its stock plunged after  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s bankruptcy in 2008, according to the  law firm’s website.   
 Represented Banks  
 Barron also represented National City Corp.’s board in its
2008 sale to  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  and CSX Corp.,
the third-largest U.S. railroad, in its defense against activist
hedge funds seeking seats on its board. Barron has also served
banks including Citigroup Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and UBS
AG, according to the statement.  
 Barron, a Boston native, graduated from Harvard University
in 1973 and Harvard Law School in 1978. He joined Cravath that
year, rising to partner in 1985.  
 Lynch headed the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s
enforcement division from 1985 to 1989 and led insider-trading
investigations of  Ivan Boesky  and  Michael Milken . Former Morgan
Stanley CEO  John Mack  hired Lynch to work at Credit Suisse First
Boston in 2001 and then at Morgan Stanley when Mack moved there
in 2005. Mack stepped down as CEO at the beginning of this year
and remains chairman.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        