-- Morgan Stanley May Hire 500 Bankers in Lending Push
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-07-01T17:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/morgan-stanley-may-hire-500-private-bankers-in-lending-push.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, hired 100 bankers to offer more products such
as jumbo mortgages and structured loans to Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney clients and may quintuple their numbers by the end of
2011, a person with knowledge of the strategy said.  
 The firm is building a private bank to squeeze more  revenue 
from clients and encourage them to hold deposits at the company.
Morgan Stanley’s wealth management group had $191 million of
interest income in the first quarter, a fraction of the $1.1
billion at  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit. Private
bankers offer loans, savings products and sometimes investment
advice to a bank’s wealthiest clients.  
 “There is always this hidden opportunity of cross-sell,”
said  Steve Stelmach , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in
Arlington, Virginia. “Merrill Lynch has been successful in
offering mortgage products to their retail customers, so the
precedent is there.”  
 Morgan Stanley joins Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in trying to do more business with wealthy customers as the
weak economy and new regulations make it harder to earn money
from loans and investment banking. Bankers have pushed cross-
selling for decades, often with little to show for it, to expand
their business without having to sign up new customers.  
 Fed Approves Application  
 “Every major financial firm has decided they are going to
grab a piece of wealth management, whether it’s private banking
or advisory,” said  Jeanne Branthover , head of the financial-
services practice at Boyden Global Executive Search in New York.
“The combination of financial advisers working with the private
bankers is becoming more common. Ten years ago, they were
totally separate.”  
 Private bankers are usually paid a salary and a bonus,
while financial advisers’ compensation is based on commissions,
Branthover said.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York today approved Morgan
Stanley’s application to create Morgan Stanley Private Bank N.A.
It’s headed by  Cece Stewart , 52, whom Morgan Stanley hired in
2008 from Wachovia Corp., where she had risen to executive vice
president from branch manager over three decades. The firm
started hiring the private bankers last year.  
 Boosting Loan Balances  
 The private bank plans to as much as triple its loan
balances to between $50 billion and $60 billion by the end of
2014, said the person, who declined to be named because the
plans haven’t been made public. The bank now has about $19
billion in loans largely from its previous lending efforts,
which mostly focused on agency mortgages, the person said.  
 The private bank will also offer deposit products to
clients who hold more than $1.6 trillion of assets in the
brokerage. Morgan Stanley considered buying a banking franchise
before deciding to build its own private bank in the first half
of 2009, the person said. That was the same year that Morgan
Stanley formed its brokerage, which has more than 18,000
advisers, when it  bought  a controlling stake in the joint
venture with  Citigroup . Merrill Lynch, by comparison, has about
15,000 financial advisers.  
 JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, said
today it named  Barry Sommers  to lead an effort to boost the
share of assets it holds for its wealthiest client to more than
the current 5 percent. Sommers was named CEO of Retail Affluent
and Investment Services, giving him responsibility for the
bank’s 2,700 financial advisers.  
 Citigroup’s Hires  
 The initiative could increase pretax profits by $500
million to $1 billion annually,  Charlie Scharf , JPMorgan’s head
of retail financial services, said in a statement.  
 Citigroup has hired about 15 private bankers since March
and will add another 115 over the next several years, spokesman
 Mark Costiglio  said in an interview last month.  
 Bank of America is trying to persuade its 12 million
customers to move funds from rival brokers to Merrill Lynch and
wants Merrill Lynch clients to transfer some of the $500 billion
they have at other banks, according to a May 10 presentation.
Wells Fargo is focused on 3 million customers who keep more than
$250,000 for investments at other companies, according to Senior
Executive Vice President  David Carroll .  
 It’s often difficult to gauge how successful efforts to
sell clients new products are because banks rarely provide data
on their cross-selling efforts, said Stelmach, the FBR analyst.  
 Jumbo Mortgages  
 Morgan Stanley is now offering jumbo mortgages, home-equity
lines and securities lending, said Armando Cabo, a private
banker who joined from JPMorgan this year. The bank plans to
offer some commercial loans to clients later this year, Cabo
said. It’s offering mortgages of up to $5 million and home-
equity lines up to $2.5 million, spokesman  Jim Wiggins  said.  
 The private bankers will work with financial advisers to
arrange lending options for clients, with the advisers remaining
the primary contact. Cabo said he’s working with about 80 to 90
advisers.  
 The firm has been offering “aggressive” interest rates to
win clients, said  Shawn Rubin , a Morgan Stanley Smith Barney
financial adviser in New York. Lending and managing clients’
liabilities will probably be the highest-growth revenue source
of his business this year, Rubin said.  
 “The markets have been very challenging for a while, and
clients are sort of used to the markets not doing a whole lot
for their net worth,” Rubin said. “So they are really focused
on the other avenues of wealth management, whether that’s risk
management or liability management.”  
 Home-Loan Rates  
 Record low home-loan rates may prompt some clients who had
loans with other banks, including Citigroup’s private bank, to
refinance, providing a chance for Morgan Stanley to gain market
share, Rubin said.  Rates  for 30-year fixed loans declined to
4.69 percent in the week ended June 24, mortgage-finance company
Freddie Mac said last week. That’s below the previous record of
4.71 percent, set in the week ended Dec. 3.  
 Jumbo mortgages  are larger than the ones that government-
supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can finance, now from
$417,000 to $729,750 in high-cost areas. About 10.3 percent of
U.S. prime jumbo mortgages which backed securities were at least
60 days late in May, according to Fitch Ratings. That’s up from
10.2 percent in April, marking the 36th straight increase for
“serious delinquencies.”  
 Compensation Ratio  
 Morgan Stanley’s wealth-management unit had revenue of
$3.11 billion in the first quarter, down from $3.14 billion in
the fourth. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , who led the
unit before succeeding  John Mack  in January, said in a  letter  to
shareholders this year that the joint venture will play “an
increasingly important role in our growth and profitability.”  
 The effort is likely to lower the wealth-management unit’s
compensation ratio over time, according to two people briefed on
the matter. The division’s ratio of compensation costs to
revenue was 64 percent in the first quarter, compared with 41
percent in the institutional securities business, which includes
the trading and investment banking units.  
 “We’re making huge investments on the lending front,
because Morgan Stanley did not do things like non-conforming
mortgages and structured or tailored loans, and we had that
through Citi’s private bank,”  Charles Johnston , president of
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, said in an interview in April.
“There’s a huge opportunity there, and we’ve got that now,
we’ve built that.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest brokerage, hired 100 bankers and may quintuple their numbers by the end of 2011 to offer more products such as jumbo mortgages and structured loans to Morgan Stanley Smith Barney clients, a person with knowledge of the strategy said. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
