-- Moscow Wins IBM Commuter Pain Poll With `Whopping' 3-Hour Jams
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-07-01T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/moscow-tops-global-ibm-commuter-pain-poll-with-whopping-three-hour-jams.html

          
          
             Moscow  drivers suffer the longest
traffic jams of major cities, making for a “grueling”
atmosphere that inhibits commerce,  International Business
Machines Corp.  said.  
 The average Muscovite motorist spent a “whopping” 2 1/2
hours stuck in traffic at least once in the last three years,
IBM said in its first global study on the “emotional and
economic toll of commuting,” which was e-mailed today.  
 More than 40 percent of drivers in the Russian capital
reported jams exceeding 3 hours, or three times the average for
the 20 cities in the Commuter Pain report.  
 “The daily commute in some of the world’s most
economically important international cities is longer and more
grueling than before imagined, reflecting the failure of
transportation infrastructure to keep pace with economic
activity,” Armonk, New York-based IBM said.  
 Traffic has become so clogged in parts of Moscow that
Sheremetyevo Airport, the hub of flagship carrier OAO Aeroflot,
issued a public plea for help yesterday, saying that hundreds of
passengers and pilots have missed flights this week. Aeroflot is
losing 400,000 euros ($495,440) a day because of the “transport
collapse,” Interfax reported, citing Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Andrei Kalmykov.  
 ‘People Are Complaining’  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  addressed the issue on state
television today, asking Deputy Prime Minister  Sergei Ivanov  to
work with municipal authorities to expedite road repairs that
have quintupled the average time it takes to reach the airport
from the city center to as much as five hours.  
 “People are complaining, you can’t reach Sheremetyevo,”
Putin told Ivanov on Rossiya 24. Russia’s Transportation
Ministry estimates that traffic delays in and around Moscow cost
the economy 400 billion rubles ($12.8 billion) a year, or 6
percent of gross product. The city needs to add 400 kilometers
of roads to ease the 650 traffic jams that occur on average
every day, according to the ministry.  
 Public spending on transportation in Russia will fall to
1.9 percent of gross domestic product this year from the
“already low level of” 2.5 percent in 2009, the World Bank
said in a  report  published on June 16. The quality of the
country’s road infrastructure is ranked 111th in the world,
according to the Washington-based bank.  
 Beijing, New York  
 Half of the 8,192 motorists on five continents surveyed by
IBM said gridlock has worsened in the last three years. Beijing
and New Delhi showed the most improvement, while Johannesburg,
Moscow and Toronto showed the least. Beijing and Moscow led the
world with the most road trips canceled due to anticipated
traffic jams.  
 Beijing won the title of most “onerous” commute overall,
when factors such as traffic predictability, gasoline prices and
emotional stress are included. Mexico City was second worst,
followed by Johannesburg, Moscow and New Delhi. Stockholm,
Melbourne and Houston have the “least painful commutes.”  
 More than half of the motorists polled, or 57 percent, said
traffic stress has harmed their health, led by Mexico City and
Sao Paolo, while drivers in Beijing and Moscow reported being
the angriest.  
 New Yorkers reported less anxiety than drivers from any
other city, with just 34 percent feeling “traffic stress” on a
regular basis, followed by Houston, Melbourne and Toronto.
“These are all cities with well-developed transportation
systems,” IBM said in the report.  
 The global poll, conducted in April and May, has an overall
margin of error of 2 percentage points. It follows similar
surveys carried out in the U.S. in 2008 and 2009, IBM said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Russian traffic policeman works in a street with a huge traffic jam in Moscow. Photographer: Viktor Drachev/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
