-- Toyota May Shift Some Car Production to Thailand From Japan
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-07-01T04:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/toyota-may-shift-some-car-production-to-thailand-from-japan.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s
biggest carmaker, may move production of some cars to
Thailand, reducing its reliance on Japanese factories.  
 “We are starting consulting with Toyota Motor Japan,
but things are not finalized yet,” about moving some
production to Thailand, Kyoichi Tanada, president of  Toyota
Motor Thailand Co. , said in an interview in Bangkok. He
declined to say which models are being considered and said a
final decision may take as long as two years.  
 Automakers including  Nissan Motor Co.  and  Ford Motor Co. 
are moving production to Thailand as manufacturing costs rise
in other regions. Nissan plans to produce 90,000 March
compact cars in the Southeast Asian nation this year, the
company said yesterday. Ford, which has cut its U.S.
workforce 47 percent since 2006, plans to make its Focus
model at a new $450 million factory in Thailand by 2012.  
 Toyota, the largest automaker in Thailand, assembles its
one-ton Hilux Vigo pickup truck and Fortuner sport-utility
vehicle in the country for export. Lower costs and a strong
supplier base are among Thailand’s advantages, Tanada said.  
 The automaker, whose Vios is the best-selling car in the
country, has raised its sales forecast for Thailand to
270,000 vehicles this year from an earlier estimate of
250,000, as the nation’s economy recovers following the
global recession, Tanada said.  
 Thai Success Story  
 “Thailand is the success story of Southeast Asia,”
said  Tim Armstrong , Paris-based managing director at
consulting company IHS Global Insight. “They’ve got the
right policies to attract carmakers.”  
 Toyota fell 1.1 percent to 3,045 yen in Tokyo at 12:56
p.m. in Tokyo. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped
2.1 percent.  
 A stronger Japanese currency makes exports from Japan
less competitive. It also increases the attractiveness of
other nations, such as Thailand, as production sites. The yen
today advanced to 88.08, its highest since May 6. The
currency rose to 107.32 per euro on June 29, the strongest
since November 2001.  
 Auto output in Thailand doubled in the first five months
of the year, and the Finance Ministry raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for the second time in three months
yesterday as soaring exports offset the impact of recent
political unrest.  
 Mazda Motor Corp. has not been able to produce vehicles
quickly enough in Thailand to meet demand, Chief Executive
Officer  Takashi Yamanouchi  said today.  
 550,000 Vehicles  
 Toyota, which operates three assembly plants in the
nation, has the capability to make up to 550,000 vehicles
each year there, according to its  website .  
 The carmaker, based in Toyota City, Japan, has no
immediate plans to roll out a new car under the country’s
eco-car program. Under the scheme, which benefits Nissan’s
March, Thailand’s government offers tax incentives for
carmakers that produce small and fuel-efficient cars.  
 Toyota is taking a wait-and-see approach and won’t take
part in the program in the next three years, Tanada, 55, said.  
 The carmaker will increase its focus on selling hybrids
in Thailand, Tanada said. Toyota,  which offers a hybrid
version of its Camry sedan in Thailand, plans to introduce a
new gas-electric model soon, he said without elaborating.  
 Toyota aims to cut production capacity in Japan by
about 20 percent within five years as it shifts output to
other countries, particularly emerging markets, the company
said on May 12.  
 The carmaker plans to reduce domestic capacity to about
3.2 million vehicles by 2015 from 3.9 million currently,
company spokeswoman  Ririko Takeuchi  said.  
 ‘New Concept Vehicles’  
 Factories in Japan will specialize in “new concept
vehicles,” cars with new technology and innovative low-cost
production systems, Executive Vice President  Atsushi Niimi 
said.  
 Nissan, Honda Motor Co. and Ford have also built plants
in Thailand, Southeast Asia’s second-biggest economy, as a
global economic recovery boost exports and domestic demand
grows in the nation of 67 million people. Automakers may
produce a record 1.6 million vehicles in the country this
year, 60 percent more than in 2009, according to Kasikorn
Research.  
 “Everything the government has done to facilitate
investments has done great results,” Nissan’s Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said yesterday. “Thailand is
a big export country for all the car industry, and the cars
exported from Thailand are extremely competitive in the world
car market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mazda Motor Corp. has not been able to produce vehicles quickly enough in Thailand to meet demand, Chief Executive Officer Takashi Yamanouchi said today. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
