-- Palm Oil Drops as Investor Demand Wanes on China Economic Growth Concerns
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-01T08:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/palm-oil-drops-as-investor-demand-wanes-on-china-economic-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             Palm oil fell as signs that economic
expansion in China, the largest edible oil user, may be cooling
damped investor appetite for the commodity.  
 September-delivery futures lost as much as 1 percent to
2,349 ringgit ($723) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange before trading at 2,354 ringgit at 3:49 p.m. local
time. The contract yesterday touched 2,338 ringgit, the lowest
price for the most-active contract since Nov. 17.  
 China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index declined for a second
month, falling to 52.1 from 53.9 in May. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was 53.2. An HSBC
Holdings Plc manufacturing index slid to a 14-month low.  
 “There were some worries about slowing economic growth,
especially in China,”  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC
Investment Research, said by phone from Singapore today.
“Speculators are staying out of the market.”  
 Spain’s top credit ranking was placed on review for a
possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service as the country
prepares to sell as much 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of
five-year notes today.  
 “Deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in
meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be
lowered by as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts including
Senior Vice President  Kristin Lindow  in New York said yesterday
in a statement. The review will be concluded within a three-
month period, the ratings company said.  
 Concerns that the Europe debt crisis may spread, derailing
economic growth in the world’s biggest biodiesel market, also
placed pressure on palm oil, used as a feedstock for the
alternative fuel, OCBC’s Wong said.  
 Investors are waiting for “some clarity on the economic
outlook because the issue in the EU could potentially have a
knock-on impact on the rest of the world,” he said.  
 Slower economic growth may also prompt governments in
Europe to cut down on subsidies for biodiesel production,
curbing demand for vegetable oils, Wong said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        