-- New York's Paterson Retreats From Taxing Out-of-State Hedge-Fund Managers
-- Michael McDonald
-- 2010-07-01T21:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/paterson-retreats-from-taxing-hedge-fund-managers-who-commute-to-new-york.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson  is
retreating from a plan to tax hedge-fund managers who commute
into the state, which was projected to raise $50 million a year
to help balance an overdue budget.  
 Paterson, a Democrat, said today he no longer supports the
levy because investment companies could avoid it just by moving
to neighboring states.  Connecticut  Governor  Jodi Rell  yesterday
sent a letter to the New York Hedge Fund Roundtable urging its
members to relocate to her state to escape the proposed tax.  
 “That is one that is worth revisiting,” Paterson said in
an  interview  on radio station WOR in Manhattan. “This is not in
my original budget. We were not favorable to this. We did it
because we couldn’t get the Legislature to do the other revenue
raisers that we thought were far more constructive.”  
 The Democrat-controlled Senate adjourned today without
voting on the  bill  that includes the tax, part of a proposed
$136.5 billion budget for the fiscal year that began April 1.
The nation’s third-most populous state has been shuffling funds
between accounts and delaying payments for the past three months
while running on emergency spending bills in the absence of a
budget.  
 Under the  proposal , “carried interest” paid to hedge-fund
managers who work in New York and reside elsewhere would be
subjected to New York income taxes. Carried interest is the
percentage of profits received by investment managers at
partnerships.  
 Congress Considered  
 Dan Weiller , a spokesman for Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , said today in a telephone interview that the proposal
was originally made by the governor last year. He said it re-
emerged in a recent three-way budget agreement between Paterson,
Silver and Senate President  Malcolm Smith .  
 “What this measure does is to place the same tax burden on
out-of-state residents that’s already on state residents,” said
Weiller. “This has been a very tough budget requiring many
tough choices.”  
 The state’s top income-tax rate is  8.97 percent .
Connecticut’s highest rate is 6.5 percent. Congress separately
has considered increasing the federal levy on carried interest
by treating it like ordinary income. The earnings are currently
taxed at the usually lower capital-gain rate.  
 Relocation Specialists  
 In her letter yesterday, Rell, a Republican, said
Connecticut economic-development officials and relocation
specialists stand ready to help hedge-fund managers and their
families who want to move to her state from New York.  
 “As lawmakers in Albany consider a proposal to vastly
increase the tax liability of hedge-fund professionals who work
in New York -- many of whom have already wisely decided to live
in Connecticut -- I would like to convey a simple, yet
heartfelt, message: Connecticut welcomes you,” she said in the
letter addressed to  Timothy Selby , president of the Hedge Fund
Roundtable. On its  website , the group says it has more than
1,200 members who help each other develop knowledge and methods.  
 Selby said in a telephone interview today that the state
“should spend more of its efforts focusing on what it can do to
attract and maintain existing businesses.”  
 Speaking on WOR, Paterson said that “based on
conversations” he had yesterday with other elected officials,
including Rell, “it might be far more responsible for us to
revisit that issue.”  
 “What Governor Rell said is right and she’s trying to take
advantage of it,” Paterson said. “Just make Connecticut the
main office and they don’t have to pay the taxes.”  
 Morgan Hook , a spokesman for the governor, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        