-- Pending Sales of Existing U.S. Homes Decreased 30% in May
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-01T14:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/pending-sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-fell-30-in-may-on-tax-credit-s-end.html

          
          
             The number of contracts to purchase
previously owned houses plunged in May by more than twice as
much as forecast after a homebuyer tax credit expired.  
 The  index  of pending home resales dropped 30 percent from
the prior month, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in Washington. The drop was the biggest in
records dating to 2001 and compared with a 14 percent decrease
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 The decline shows that the industry at the center of the
financial crisis remains vulnerable in the absence of government
support. A stabilization in housing will depend on gains in
incomes and  employment  that may stem foreclosures and give
Americans the confidence to start buying again.  
 “Demand will be pretty depressed in the next few months,”
 Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in St. Petersburg, Florida, said before the report. “We’re
still going to have a big overhang of foreclosures. There’s
potential for prices to slow down a lot more.”  
 Stocks fell following the report and other data today
showing that manufacturing expanded less than forecast and
claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly increased. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 index dropped 1 percent to 1,020.86 at 10:27 a.m.
in New York.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge
fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. A reading greater
than 50 points to expansion, and the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 59. Initial jobless
claims increased by 13,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 26,
Labor Department figures showed.  
 April Gain  
 Forecasts for the decline in pending home sales ranged from
4 percent to 25 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
36 economists. Sales rose 6 percent in April.  
 All four regions saw decreases in May, today’s report
showed, led by a 33 percent plunge in the South. Sales also fell
32 percent in both the Midwest and Northeast and 21 percent in
the West.  
 Compared with May 2009, nationwide pending sales were down
16 percent.  
 The tax credit, worth as much as $8,000, helped fuel a
rebound in demand last year and was extended and expanded in
November. The credit required buyers to sign contracts by the
end of April and close by June 30. The House of Representatives
voted this week to push back the deadline for closing to Sept.
30.  
 Leading Indicator  
 Pending home resales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Closings typically occur a
month or two later, and are tallied in the Realtors’ existing-
home sales report.  
 Sales of  existing  homes, which account for about 90 percent
of the housing market, fell 2.2 percent in May from the prior
month, the Realtors’ group said last week.  New-house purchases ,
which make up the rest of the market and are tabulated when a
contract is signed, plunged 33 percent to the lowest level on
record in May, according to the Commerce Department.  
 KB Home , Lennar Corp. and  Toll Brothers Inc.  are among
builders facing sales declines after the end of the tax credit.
Los Angeles-based KB Home, which targets first-time buyers,
reported a wider-than-estimated loss for the quarter ended May
31 as new orders dropped 23 percent and the average price for
its houses fell from a year ago.  
 Stepped Out  
 “Homebuyers who missed the deadline seemed to step out of
the market completely,” KB Home Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey
Mezger said in a June 25 conference call with analysts. It’s too
early in the third quarter to forecast demand, he said.  
 “It’s a matter of when, not if, things are going to
improve,” Mezger said.  
 Demand will hinge on the pace of improvement in the labor
market. The economy lost 125,000 jobs in June, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Labor
Department report, reflecting a drop in federal census workers.
Private payrolls rose by 110,000, economists estimated.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Decline in sales of existing U.S. homes shows that the industry at the center of the financial crisis remains vulnerable in the absence of government support. Photographer: Kari Goodnough/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand from abroad cooled. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. Meanwhile, U.S. construction spending fell 0.2 percent in May and the index of pending home resales dropped 30 percent. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Margaret Brenna report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand from abroad cooled. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing gauge fell to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. Meanwhile, U.S. construction spending fell 0.2 percent in May and the index of pending home resales dropped 30 percent. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Margaret Brenna report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
