-- Peru Consumer Prices Rose More Than Forecast in June (Correct)
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-01T14:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/peru-s-june-inflation-accelerates-to-0-25-fastest-pace-since-march.html

          
          
             (Corrects comparative basis to May in second paragraph.)  
 Peru’s consumer prices rose more than
economists forecast in June.  
 Consumer prices climbed 0.25 percent last month from May,
according to a government report published today in the official
gazette. Economists predicted monthly inflation of 0.2 percent,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  
 Robust economic expansion in the South American country may
require the central bank to continue increasing the benchmark
lending rate to keep growth and consumer prices under control,
said Roberto Flores, an economist at Lima-based Inteligo SAB.  
 “Consumer prices are rising as companies increase output,
although many firms are still below their maximum capacity,”
Flores said in a phone interview. “Annual inflation will
gradually move toward 2.5 percent at the year’s end.”  
 South America’s sixth-largest economy expanded 9.3 percent
in April from a year earlier, faster than analysts had
estimated. Unemployment fell to a six-month low of 7.7 percent
in May.  
 Central bank President Julio Velarde said June 18 there are
no signs the economy is overheating as growth remains below
potential. Internal demand, forecast to grow 8.8 percent this
year, has space to rise without stoking inflation, he said.  
 Central bank policy makers raised the benchmark lending
rate by a quarter percentage point to 1.75 percent on June 10,
the second straight monthly increase.  
 Peru’s sol closed yesterday at 2.8255 per U.S. dollar, down
less than 0.1 percent from the previous day´s close. The sol has
strengthened 2.2 percent in 2010, more than any other major
Latin American currency except Colombia´s peso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        