-- Peterson's $1 Billion Bet Shows Return as Deficit Concerns Rise
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/peterson-s-1-billion-investment-shows-returns-as-deficit-concerns-mount.html

          
          
             Wall Street financier  Peter G. Peterson  got a decent return on his investment last
week when Senate Republicans ended the Democrats’ third attempt
to push though an extension of unemployment benefits and
President  Barack Obama  failed to persuade his European
counterparts at the Group of 20 meeting in Toronto to maintain
economic stimulus programs.  
 “I haven’t seen anything like this kind of concern in the
30 years I’ve been talking and writing about this,” says the
84-year-old fiscal hawk.  
 Peterson has committed $1 billion of the fortune he made as
co-founder of the New York-based private-equity firm  Blackstone
Group LP  to his personal crusade: raising the alarm about the
$13 trillion national debt, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its July 5 issue.  
 He is paying the bills at a  foundation  that bears his name,
supports a network of like-minded advocacy groups, backs The
Fiscal Times, an online newspaper, formed a  commission  of
experts, and organizes conferences with marquee guests such as
former President  Bill Clinton . The crusade appears to be in sync
with the concerns of most voters, with a June 4  Gallup poll 
showing that the federal debt and terrorism were tied for first
place (at 40 percent each) as the biggest threats to Americans’
future well-being.  
 His influence is raising some hackles, even among those who
agree the  national debt  is a long-term worry.  
 ‘Buy the Debate’  
 “Everywhere you look, he’s trying to buy the debate,”
says  Roger Hickey , co-director of the  Campaign for America’s
Future , a self-described progressive advocacy group in
Washington. He calls Peterson-backed organizations, such as the
 Concord Coalition , nothing more than “front groups” used to
help “stampede” lawmakers into cutting  Social Security  and
 Medicare .  
 Some congressional Democrats criticize what they see as
Peterson’s single-minded emphasis. House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, says
acting to narrow the  deficit  must be balanced against the need
to “make sure we don’t slip into another recession.”  
 To his supporters, though, Peterson is the patron saint of
fiscal responsibility.  
 “He has devoted more personal wealth to reducing the
deficit than anybody in the history of the world,” says
Tennessee Representative  Jim Cooper , a fiscally conservative
Democrat who voted against the jobless benefits measure.  
 ‘Boring People for Decades’  
 Peterson’s interest in fiscal rectitude has deep roots: The
one-time commerce secretary for President  Richard Nixon  has
devoted four books and countless op-eds and speeches to the
subject. “I’ve been boring people with it for decades,” he
said in a  speech  in April. Two years ago, he kicked the campaign
into high gear, vowing to devote a substantial portion of his
$1.8 billion payout from Blackstone’s 2007 initial public
offering to the cause.  
 As the son of Greek immigrants, he says his goal is to
ensure that future generations aren’t deprived of similar
opportunities by a national debt his group estimates at $ 61.9
trillion , or $200,000 per American, including the cost of fully
funding Social Security.  
 He has been careful to emphasize that he understands the
“urgent need to create  jobs .” At the same time, he says, tough
choices lie ahead, including  tax increases  and cuts in spending
that could target entitlement programs. He supports a “well-
targeted stimulus” so long as “it is accompanied by meaningful
action on the longer-term structural debts and deficits.”  
 Peterson had disbursed $300 million of the $1 billion
pledge by March 31 of last year, according to tax records. His
foundation says its next filing will show that those numbers
have increased in the current fiscal year.  
 One of the groups that receives funding from Peterson,
 AmericaSpeaks , on June 26 organized public meetings on the
deficit in 19 sites across the U.S. that its website says drew
3,500 participants.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Max Berley  in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter G. Peterson, billionaire philanthropist and co-founder of Blackstone Group LP, speaks in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
