-- Petrobras' $25 Bln Share Sale is on Track for September, Minister Says
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-07-01T21:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/petrobras-25-billion-share-sale-is-on-track-for-september-minister-says.html

          
          
             Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s planned $25
billion share sale and swap of stock for oil will go ahead in
September and won’t be derailed by presidential elections the
following month, Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said.  
 “Brazil can’t stop because of elections,” Zimmermann said
today in an interview in Brasilia. “This is not a joke.”  
 Petrobras postponed the sale planned for this month as it
awaits a decision from the oil regulator on how much it will
need to pay to tap 5 billion barrels of government-owned oil.
The crude will be exchanged for new stock in Petrobras. The
delay raised  investor  concern the company would fail to complete
the sale this year amid October polls to elect a successor to
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva.  
 “The election is the cut-off point,”  Anisa Redman , an oil
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said in a telephone
interview on June 22. “After that, it will be more difficult.”  
 Petrobras plans to sign an agreement to swap new  shares  for
rights to tap government-owned reserves by the end of August and
transfer the stock by the end of September.  
 “It’ll be a rush, but it’s doable,” said Zimmermann, who
turned 54 today. “Infrastructure investments are done in a long
term. You must meet deadlines to avoid bottlenecks.”  
 The swap and public offering are part of plans to fund $224
billion of investment through 2014 to develop reserves including
Tupi, the largest discovery in the Americas since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976.  
 Reserves Price  
 Brazil may sell the oil reserves to Petrobras at between $5
and $10 per barrel, Zimmermann said.  
 Crude oil fell to a three-week low today on concern growth
in the U.S. and China will slow, curbing demand in the two
largest energy-consuming countries. Oil for August delivery
declined $2.68 to $72.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest settlement price since June 8. Futures are
down 8.1 percent this year.  
 Petrobras  shares slid 1.5 percent in Sao Paulo trading to
27.45 reais, the lowest closing price since March 9, 2009. It
has slumped 9.1 percent since the company announced the delay on
June 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net 
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        