-- Petronas Profit Slumps 23%, Declining for Second Year on Lower Oil Prices
-- Jane Lee
-- 2010-07-01T06:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/petronas-profit-falls-for-a-second-year-on-oil-price-decline-high-costs.html

          
          
             Petroliam Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
state oil company, posted a second year of declines in earnings
as crude and natural gas prices fell amid the global recession
while production costs stayed high.  
 Net income in the year ended March 31 dropped 23 percent to
40.3 billion ringgit ($12 billion), said Petronas, as the
company is known, in a statement in Kuala Lumpur today. Sales
slipped 18 percent to 216.4 billion ringgit.  
 “Last year was an extraordinarily difficult year for
everyone,” Shamsul Azhar Abbas, who took over from  Hassan Marican  as chief executive officer in February, told reporters.
“World oil demand went back to what it was five years ago.”  
 The worst recession since the 1930s sapped energy demand as
consumers reduced travel and factories cut production. The
outlook is improving, and the International Energy Agency on
June 10 raised its forecast for global oil demand this year as a
recovery in the U.S. bolsters fuel consumption.  
 Worldwide oil use will rise by 1.7 million barrels a day,
or 2 percent, in 2010 to a record 86.4 million barrels, the
Paris-based IEA said in its monthly market report. The increase
of 60,000 barrels from last month’s estimate is driven by
accelerating North American demand.  
 “Margins were squeezed because the pace of decline in oil
prices weren’t matched by operating costs,” Andrew Wong, a
credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s in Singapore, said by
telephone.  
 Dividend Stays  
 Crude in New York averaged $70.71 a barrel in the year
through March 31, down from $86.61 a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Petronas traditionally  contributes  more than one-third of
the Malaysian government’s revenue through dividends and taxes.
It maintained a dividend payment of 30 billion ringgit to the
Malaysian government during the financial year even as its
profit fell. That accounted for 74 percent of the company’s net
income, up from 57 percent a year earlier.  
 It also subsidized 18.9 billion ringgit in natural gas for
use by power producers and manufacturers in Malaysia, down 3.1
percent from a year earlier.  
 Capital spending is estimated to rise to 40 billion ringgit
this financial year from 37.1 billion ringgit, Shamsul said.  
 Petronas’s total reserves increased 0.5 percent to the
equivalent of 27.1 billion barrels of oil in the on Jan. 1, and
the company replaced its reserves at 1.1 times, down from 1.8
times a year earlier.  
 Domestic Focus  
 The company plans to focus on domestic production to
increase its holdings of crude and gas this year, which may pull
its reserves ratio higher, Shamsul said.  
 “We’ve been neglecting the domestic side in the last
couple of years,” he said. “We now have a fairly aggressive
domestic exploration strategy.”  
 Petronas’s oil and gas reserves in Malaysia were
replenished 1.6 times last year, compared with 0.4 times for
fields abroad.  
 “It was necessary to go international, but for operators
in this region, they tend to be successful in domestic fields
because they understand the terrain,” S&P’s Wong said. “There
is time for them to explore the basins domestically.”  
 Total oil and gas output for the group fell 2.5 percent to
the equivalent of 1.75 million barrels a day during the
financial year. Crude oil and condensate production dropped 6.2
percent to 714,000 barrels a day, while gas output rose 0.3
percent to the equivalent of 1.04 million barrels of oil a day.  
 Largest LNG Producer  
 Production in Malaysia fell 4.8 percent to the equivalent
of 1.11 million barrels a day in the year to March 31. That
accounted for 68 percent of the nation’s daily output. Its
domestic refineries ran at 85.7 percent of their capacity, down
from 97.3 percent a year earlier.  
 The company produced 22.8 million metric tons of liquefied
natural gas during the financial year from its Bintulu plant on
Borneo Island, and 1.9 million tons from its Egyptian unit.
Malaysia is the world’s largest producer of the fuel after Qatar.  
 Japan purchased 12.7 million tons, or 56 percent, of
Malaysia’s LNG, South Korea bought 25 percent, Taiwan took 13
percent and China 3.1 percent.  
 Petronas plans to sell shares in its petrochemical unit and
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering Sdn. and list them on the
Kuala Lumpur stock exchange by the end of the year, said George
Ratilal, executive vice president of finance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jane Lee  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        