-- Philadelphia Newspapers Union Fund Asks Judge to Halt Exit From Bankruptcy
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-01T20:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/philadelphia-newspapers-union-fund-asks-judge-to-halt-exit-from-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             A pension fund for Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC employees asked a judge to halt the company’s
exit from bankruptcy while the fund appeals the reorganization
and sale of the Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily News.  
 The Teamsters Pension Trust Fund of Philadelphia & Vicinity
asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stephen Raslavich  to prevent the
newspaper company from completing its reorganization while the
fund asks a higher court to overturn his approval of the plan.  
 The Teamsters Pension faces a “financial calamity” once
the plan is consummated and the newspapers are sold for $139
million to a group of lenders, according to papers filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Philadelphia. The lenders
have said they don’t plan to maintain the pension once they gain
control of the company.  
 Under the reorganization plan, a group of lenders including
hedge fund Angelo Gordon & Co. and a unit of  Credit Suisse Group
AG  has until Aug. 31 to complete the purchase of the company and
take control of the newspapers. The group is still negotiating
with the unions representing newspaper employees, including
reporters, editors and truck drivers.  
 Should the company and the new buyers cancel the pension as
planned, it would create a $42.4 million deficit in the fund
that Philadelphia Newspapers would be obligated to pay, the
Teamsters Pension claimed in court papers.  
 Raslavich scheduled a July 8 hearing on the issue. In
approving Philadelphia Newspapers’ reorganization plan,
Raslavich ruled that the new buyers aren’t obligated to take
over the pension. The Teamsters Pension is appealing that
ruling.  
 The case is In re Philadelphia Newspapers LLC, 09-11204,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
Or  schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        