-- Pimco's Kiesel Says Energy-Company Bonds Make Sense After BP-Led Decline
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-01T20:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/pimco-s-kiesel-says-energy-company-bonds-make-sense-amid-bp-led-price-drop.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co. ,
the world’s biggest bond-fund manager, says select energy
company bonds make “increasing sense” after prices on the debt
dropped following the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 “Near-term liquidity and financial flexibility are strong
because of the proactive measures taken by” companies affected
by the spill,  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolios at Pimco, wrote today in a  note  on the firm’s
website. To survive such a crisis, companies can cut dividends
and spending, sell assets, tap bank lines and raise new debt or
equity, he wrote.  
 The spill in the Gulf of Mexico began April 20 after an
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig owned by Transocean Ltd.
and leased by  BP Plc . London-based BP’s 8.62 percent notes due
2012 yield 7.59 percentage points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries as of 9:40 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  
 BP’s spread is wider than junk-rated corporate bonds, which
yield 7.13 percent points more than Treasuries as of June 30,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Junk, or
high-yield, debt is ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. BP is  rated  A2
by Moody’s and A by S&P.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own bonds of companies
involved in the oil spill has risen on “uncertainty and fear of
Washington political interventions rather than bottom-up credit
fundamentals,” wrote Kiesel, who oversees $300 billion of
credit investments at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco.  
 ‘Significant Uncertainty’  
 “Some in the nation’s capital are indeed seen to be
aggressively pursuing big business and in the process are
creating significant uncertainty for investors in the credit
markets,” he said.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  ordered a six-month moratorium
on all drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet after the Gulf
spill began.  
 On June 22, U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  ruled the
ban, which sought to give a presidential commission time to
study offshore safety improvements, was overly broad and
prohibited federal regulators from enforcing it. Four days
later, the U.S. government asked a federal appeals court in New
Orleans to delay the enforcement of that order.  
 BP officials, after a June 16 meeting at the White House,
announced the company will deposit $20 billion in an
independently managed account to cover cleanup costs and
compensation claims.  
 ‘Like That Space’  
 Oil service, pipeline and “selective” drilling companies
are attractive investments, said  Michael Donelan , who oversees
$3.5 billion of bonds at Ryan Labs Inc. in New York. “We like
that space a lot.”  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.’s 5.95 percent bonds due in 2016
rose 1 cent to 87 cents on the dollar, a spread of 6.9
percentage points, Trace data show. The Woodlands, Texas-based
 company  owns 25 percent of the BP well that is spewing oil and
was cut to Ba1 by Moody’s June 18. The bonds traded at 111.3
cents, the highest this year, on April 22.  
 “Energy companies rated between BB and B by S&P that were
not involved in the oil spill accident now yield roughly the
same as investment-grade-rated energy companies that were
involved in the spill,” Kiesel wrote.  
 “The market has started to price in significant ratings
downgrades that our bottom-up credit analysis currently finds
unwarranted,” he said. “For this reason, we believe a handful
of select corporate bonds offer investors attractive risk-
adjusted return potential.”  
 Transocean’s 6.8 percent bonds due in 2038 were unchanged
at 89 cents on the dollar today, a spread of 3.91 percentage
points, Trace data show. That compares with the high this year
of 114.5 cents on April 21.  Transocean  is based in Vernier,
Switzerland.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- John Brynjolfsson, chief investment officer at Armored Wolf LLC, talks about Federal Reserve monetary policy and municipal debt.
     Brynjolfsson speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness with Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
