-- Poland, Germany, Slovakia Delay Submitting Green Energy Programs to EU
-- Anna Czajkowska
-- 2010-07-01T10:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/poland-germany-slovakia-delay-submitting-green-energy-programs-to-eu.html

          
          
                  July 1 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- Poland, Germany
and Slovakia are among the nations that missed yesterday’s
deadline for submitting plans to the European Union on how
they’ll comply with laws to encourage renewable energy.  
 Poland’s Ministry of Economy said in an e-mailed statement
that it informed the European Commission it needs to have
another meeting about the plan before filing it. Juraj Novak, an
official at the renewable energy section of the Slovak Ministry
of Economy, said in an interview that details about the nation’s
biomass program caused the delay.  
 Failing to submit proposals by yesterday’s deadline is a
breach of EU law requiring a National Renewable Energy Action
Plan to be submitted by June 30, a spokeswoman for the
commission said. She said EU officials will deal with non-
compliance the same way it treats other infringements of EU law.
The earliest the commission could act is in September.  
 “The commission lacks the teeth to back up its control
over implementation of European Union law,” said  Angus McCrone ,
an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “Many plans will
only reach the Commission this summer, or even later. It seems
that most of the governments are actually taking their plans
seriously. It is because of this that the delays are happening,
rather than a lack of will.”  
 Political Delay  
 In Slovakia, parliamentary elections on June 12 contributed
to the delay. The nation also is refining rules about its use of
biomass, formerly living matter converted into fuel. Novak said
no changes are planned to feed-in tariffs paid to electricity
producers using renewable energy.  
 “The National Action Plan is focused on the use of biomass
in electricity and heat generation,” Novak said. “The
currently existing feed-in tariffs will remain unchanged and
there will be a specific incentive mechanism for renewable
heat.”  
 The German Environment Ministry said last week that its
program would be delayed, though it declined to comment on the
cause. The CDU-FDP coalition parties are working to resolve
internal differences about extending the life of the nation’s 17
nuclear plants, which were slated for closure under the previous
government.  
 Each of the 27 EU member nations were required to submit
their plans under the European Renewables Directive, which sets
out targets for clean energy use by 2020. The measures they take
to fulfill their plans will be monitored by the commission on a
two-yearly basis.  
 Parliament’s Concern  
 Earlier this month, the European parliament urged the
commission to exercise stricter control over the implementation
of EU law at the national level.  
 “A number of MEPs felt that the European Commission should
take on a more active role in supervising the policies of EU
members,” the parliament said in a statement.  
 Sweden, Spain, Malta and Greece submitted their programs on
time. Britain’s plan is ready for submission, an official at the
Department of Energy and Climate Change said without providing
further details.  
 Spain, which is finishing its custody of the rotating
presidency, had its draft plan in place by June 11. Its program
included support for clean energy such as wind and marine
technologies aimed at ensuring it gets 20 percent of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020. Hydro power will
account for 8.3 percent of electric production, solar thermal
3.8 percent and solar thermal 3.6 percent.  
 Sweden’s Plan  
 Sweden’s Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications
said in an e-mail it submitted its plan to the EC yesterday,
confirming its intention to exceed the EU’s mandate for the
nation to generate 49 percent of its energy from renewable
sources.  
 The country plans to hit 50.2 percent by 2020. It achieved
44 percent in 2008, the highest proportion of renewables in the
EU, according to the Swedish Energy Agency. Biomass, hydro power
and wind account for the majority of its clean energy supply.  
 Malta, which currently is sourcing less than 1 percent of
its energy from renewable sources, must raise that portion to 10
percent by 2020. It aims to get 3 percent of its power from
waste-to-energy programs, 4 percent from offshore wind and 1.2
percent from solar energy, a spokeswoman at Malta’s National
Resources Authority said in an e-mailed statement. Biofuels will
account for 2 percent.  
 Greece’s official 2020 target is 18 percent of energy to
come from renewable sources. The country, however, is targeting
a 20 percent share of renewable energy sources and a 40 percent
share in electricity generation by 2020.  
 In order to do this it will concentrate on developing
existing capacity in hydro, wind, solar thermal, biomass and
solar photovoltaics, which it hopes to advance at a faster
growth rate, the government’s Centre for Renewable Energy
Sources said in an e-mailed statement.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top renewable energy, environment page: GREEN <GO>
Most-read wind stories: MNI WIND <GO>
Power news page: PTOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        