-- Rafael Nadal Stands Between Britain's Murray and Historic Wimbledon Final
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/rafael-nadal-stands-between-britain-s-murray-and-historic-wimbledon-final.html

          
          
             Andy Murray  is trying for the second
straight year to become the first British man in the  Wimbledon 
singles final since 1938. All he has to do is beat the world’s
best player,  Rafael Nadal .  
 British men have had a run of nine losses in the Wimbledon
semifinals since Henry “Bunny” Austin made the championship
match in 1938, where he lost to  Don Budge  of the U.S.  Fred Perry , whose statue stands outside Centre Court, remains the
last man from the British Isles to have won the title, in 1936.  
 “It’s obviously been a huge, huge wait for us,” Murray
said in a news conference after he beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of
France in the quarterfinals two days ago. “It’s something
that’s kind of joked about amongst players and people within
tennis about how long it’s been since someone British has won at
Wimbledon.”  
 Murray was the only British competitor, out of eight
entries in the men’s and women’s singles draws, to advance to
the second round of the grass-court Grand Slam event. That’s the
worst result for U.K. players in Wimbledon history.  
 Murray, who lost last year’s semifinal to  Andy Roddick ,
faces Nadal, No. 1 in the ATP World Tour rankings, for the
second time in a Grand Slam event this season. The Spaniard quit
with a knee injury during their quarterfinal match at the
Australian Open at the start of the year. Murray went on to make
the finals in Melbourne, losing to  Roger Federer , the six-time
Wimbledon champion who was ousted by  Tomas Berdych  in the
quarterfinals.  
 Nadal Edge  
 The fourth-ranked Briton trails Nadal 7-3 in career
meetings. Murray lost in straight sets in their only previous
match on grass, in the quarterfinals in 2008, when Nadal went on
to win his first Wimbledon title by beating Federer in a five-
set championship match.  
 “I am going to have a difficult match against Andy in the
semifinals, but I am ready to try my best and to try for sure to
be in this final,” Nadal said in a news conference, after he
beat  Robin Soderling  in the quarterfinals. “It’s going to be
difficult, but I am playing well.”  
 Novak Djokovic , the only other man in the semifinals with a
major title, will meet Berdych for a place in the Wimbledon
final on July 4.  
 The Serb, who will move to second from third in the tour
rankings next week, leads Berdych 2-0 in career meetings and has
yet to drop a set against the No. 12 seed from the Czech
Republic. The two haven’t played each other for over a year and
have never met at a Grand Slam event, or on grass.  
 Aussie Champion  
 Djokovic will be contesting his second Wimbledon semifinal,
and his seventh Grand Slam semifinal overall. He’s trying to
reach his first championship match at the All England Club, as
well as his first major final since winning the 2008 Australian
Open.  
 “Right now I think I’m raising my confidence level and
performance level match after match,” Djokovic said in a news
conference after beating Yen-Hsun Lu of Taiwan in straight sets
in the quarterfinals. “This is something that is very
encouraging in this stage of the tournament.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andy Murray of Great Britain hits a backhand to Jo-Wilfred Tsonga of France during their quarter-final match at Wimbledon. Photographer: Clive Brunskill/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
