-- Treasuries Advance for Fifth Day as Stock Losses Boost Demand for Safety
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-01T06:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/treasuries-advance-as-asian-stocks-fall-boost-demand-for-safety-of-debt.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose for a fifth day, the
longest winning streak in nine months, as Asian stocks fell and
economists said U.S. reports today and tomorrow will show the
nation is struggling to add jobs.  
 The U.S. inflation rate is headed toward zero, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report. The  difference  between rates
on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected  Securities , a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices, narrowed to
1.85 percentage points from this year’s high of 2.49 percentage
points in January. The spread was about two basis points above
an eight-month low.  
 “The U.S. may fall into deflation in the next two years,”
said  Hideo Shimomura , who helps oversee the equivalent of $56.5
billion in Tokyo as chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of Japan’s biggest bank. “Global
economic momentum has reached a peak.” Shimomura said he bought
Treasuries in June. Deflation is a general drop in prices.  
 The 10-year yield fell one basis point to 2.93 percent as
of 7:01 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
3.5 percent security maturing May 2020 rose 3/32, or 94 cents
per $1,000 face amount, to 104 7/8.  
 MSCI’s Asia Pacific  Index of shares dropped 1.3 percent,
falling for a third day and feeding demand for the relative
safety of government debt.  
 Mortgage Rates  
 Ten-year rates, a benchmark for consumer and company
borrowing costs, were at levels not seen since April 2009. U.S.
30-year fixed  mortgage rates  declined to a record 4.69 percent
in June, according to mortgage-finance company Freddie Mac in
McLean, Virginia.  
 The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields narrowed to
2.31 percentage points, the least since October. Two-year rates
tend to track the Federal Reserve’s target for overnight lending
because of their shorter maturity. Yields on longer-term bonds
are more influenced by inflation.  
 Treasuries also gained after Moody’s Investors Service said
yesterday it may cut Spain’s Aaa debt, adding to concern
European efforts to rein in government spending will slow the
global recovery.  
 Moody’s analysts including Senior Vice President Kristin
Lindow in New York said in a statement that Spain’s Aaa
classification may be lowered two grades. The review will be
concluded within three months, the company said.  
 U.S. central bankers can keep their target rate at the
current range of zero to 0.25 percent without worrying it will
lead to inflation, Goldman economists including  Jan Hatzius  in
New York wrote in their report yesterday.  
 ‘Bubble Risk’  
 “The ‘bubble risk’ associated with an easy monetary policy
is currently low,” according to Goldman, one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade directly with the central bank.  
 The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.3 percent in May from a year earlier. The figure
was 1.2 percent in April, matching the least since 2001. Fed
policy makers last week repeated a pledge to keep interest rates
near zero “for an extended period.”  
 Initial  jobless claims , a gauge of firings, have been in a
range of 440,000 to 490,000 per week this year. Claims fell to
455,000 last week from 457,000 in the prior seven days,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department
report today.  
 The U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month, a separate Labor
Department report tomorrow will show, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  
 Previous Payrolls  
 Ten-year yields tumbled 16 basis points after the last
employment report on June 4, which showed the U.S. added fewer
positions that economists predicted. The drop in yields was the
biggest since March 18, 2009, when the Federal Reserve surprised
investors with plans to purchase as much as $300 billion in
government debt.  
 Two-year notes yielded 0.61 percent, versus the record low
of 0.5856 percent set yesterday. The yield is 36 basis points
more than the upper end of the Fed’s target range for its
benchmark rate, near the narrowest  spread  since 2008.  
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, and
ex-Morgan Stanley President  Zoe Cruz  are among investors that
see demand for low-rated corporate debt as Treasuries rally.  
 Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co. and Cruz’s Voras
Capital Management LP were among at least eight firms telling
regulators in June they are starting funds that may buy junk
bonds and distressed securities.  
 High-yield debt was little changed last quarter, trailing
the 4.7 percent return for Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  
 “In the high-yield sector, you don’t really need an
economic recovery,” said  David Breazzano , who co-founded DDJ
Capital Management LLC after co-managing distressed and high-
yield assets for Boston-based Fidelity Investments. “You just
need the economy to stay where it is, and you can get double-
digit returns and you have less interest-rate sensitivity” than
with Treasuries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        