-- Record Bullishness on US Airways Options Driven by Traffic, Oil Dropping
-- Mary Schlangenstein
-- 2010-07-01T12:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/record-bullishness-on-us-airways-in-options-market-driven-by-demand-oil.html

          
          
             Options traders betting US Airways
Group Inc. shares will rally more than 39 percent in two weeks
have helped boost bullish wagers  to a record  as greater travel
demand lets the carrier boost fares and oil prices fall.  
 The ratio of  outstanding  calls, which give the right to buy
shares, versus puts to sell jumped by almost two-thirds last
month to 5.8 and reached 5.9 on June 21, the highest since the
shares began trading in 2005. July $12 calls saw the fastest
growth in new positions during June, and there are now more of
those calls than any others -- 71,110 contracts out of total
open interest of 215,233, Bloomberg data show. The smallest U.S.
full-fare carrier has risen 78 percent to $8.61 in 2010.  
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said yesterday the industry is in an “up cycle.” Oil
lost 4.7 percent since Dec. 31 for the first drop in the
January-through-June period in seven years, helping US Airways
because it’s the only major U.S. carrier that stopped hedging
against higher jet-fuel costs. US Airways planes were 82.9
percent full in May, a record for that month.  
 “People are looking for the stock to go substantially
higher in the next two weeks,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , a trader
and head of client services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-
based provider of options market data and analytics. “It’s
extremely rare to see calls so far out of the money where the
open interest is so large relative to the rest of the open
interest.”  
 The surge in shares of Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways this
year has given it the best performance among  12 stocks  in the
Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  
 Not Since 2008  
 Open interest for July $12 calls on US Airways has jumped
from three on May 27, when the first contracts were created.
January 2011 $10 calls are the second most-owned, with 27,077
existing positions. Calls account for 8 of the 10 largest open
interest levels. US Airways July $12 calls trade for 9 cents,
meaning the shares must rise to $12.09 before expiration on July
16 for an options purchase to break even. US Airways hasn’t
closed above $12 since March 2008.  
 Jim Olson , a spokesman for the US Airways, said the company
doesn’t comment on the trading of its securities.  
 “They have little to no hedging and higher oil prices
haven’t come to pass, so that’s a tailwind to earnings,” said
 Blaze Tankersley , who is recommending the shares to clients as
chief market strategist at Bay Crest Partners LLC in New York.
“We’re in the midst of an industry upturn. You’ve had a return
of business and leisure travel over the past year.”  
 ‘Buy’ Ratings  
 James Higgins , a Soleil Securities  analyst , started
coverage of the carrier with a “buy” rating and $12 share-
price forecast on June 29. Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst  Hunter Keay  initiated the company with a “buy” rating and $15 share-
price forecast on June 10, saying the company “is poised to
return to solid profitability in 2010.” JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Jamie Baker  upgraded US Airways to “overweight” in May.  
 US Airways will post earnings excluding some items of $2 a
share in 2010, ending two years of losses, according to the
 average  analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. US Airways
reported an increase of as much as 18 percent in revenue for
each seat flown a mile for May.  
 “The revenue environment continues to improve,” US
Airways President  Scott Kirby  said at a conference on June 15.
“We’ve seen dramatic recovery in the business travel.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery dropped 0.4 percent to $75.63
a barrel in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement price
since June 14.  
 US Airways hasn’t entered into any fuel hedging
transactions since the third quarter of 2008 and doesn’t have
any existing hedges, the company said after its last earnings
report on April 27.  
 “We feel pretty good about that decision,” Kirby said
June 15. “We might change it at some point but at least in the
near-term expect to remain unhedged and exposed to fuel. And
recently, that’s been a very good thing for us to do.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        