-- Kirk Raises $2.3 Million in Second Quarter in Bid for Obama's Former Seat
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-07-02T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/republican-kirk-raises-2-3-million-in-bid-for-obama-s-former-senate-seat.html

          
          
             The Illinois Republican seeking the
U.S. Senate seat once held by President  Barack Obama  posted his
strongest fundraising yet, even as he dealt with exaggerations
and misstatements about his biography.  
 Representative  Mark Kirk ’s campaign said yesterday that he
raised $2.3 million during this year’s second quarter, April 1
through June 30.  Alexi Giannoulias , the Democratic nominee for
the Senate seat, hadn’t reported his total as of late yesterday.  
 “Thank you so much for your incredible support,” Kirk
said in an e-mail to supporters. “Because of you, we had the
best fundraising quarter in Kirk campaign history.”  
 Giannoulias, 34, the Illinois treasurer, raised $1.2
million during the first quarter of 2010. Kirk, 50, a five-term
House member from Chicago’s northern suburbs, raised $2.2
million during that quarter.  
 Kirk’s campaign said it raised $1 million in June -- its
largest fundraising month -- during the time when he was dealing
with questions about his service as a Navy reservist. At a June
29 news conference, Kirk apologized for the exaggerations and
said he had been “careless.”  
 He has about $3.9 million in the bank for his Senate race,
after raising almost $9 million so far this election cycle,
according to a statement from his campaign.  
 Bank Closure  
 Giannoulias also faced challenges during the second quarter
fundraising period. Since April 23, he has dealt with the
political fallout from closure by regulators of the Chicago bank
that his family owned.  
 Broadway Bank had been operating since January under terms
of a consent order with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
because of  commercial real-estate  loan losses.  
 Giannoulias had fundraising help from the White House in
June, when his campaign hosted events that featured Vice
President  Joe Biden , Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  and  David Plouffe , who was Obama’s presidential campaign manager.  
 The Senate seat is held by Democrat  Roland Burris , who
isn’t seeking a full term. Republicans are trying to take
advantage of ethical problems experienced by Illinois Democrats,
including a public corruption trial of former Governor  Rod Blagojevich , who appointed Burris to complete Obama’s term
shortly after the 2008 presidential election.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        