-- Republicans Stumble Where Byrd Grew on Race: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-07-01T01:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/republicans-stumble-where-byrd-grew-on-race-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             Americans are angry, pollsters and
cable television hosts tell us. Really they are depressed,
deeply discouraged and feeling helpless as they watch oil
spewing into the Gulf of Mexico, their unemployed neighbors
paying too much attention to the lawn, and banks escaping the
tight regulation called for after bringing the economy to a
screeching halt.  
 Tomorrow brings a more uplifting event: President  Barack Obama , our first black president, eulogizing Senator Robert Byrd, once a member of the Ku Klux Klan.  
 Byrd predicted, rightly, that what he called his “biggest
mistake” would remain such an “albatross around his neck”
that we would read of it in his obituary. It took his many years
in the Senate, on his way to becoming its longest-serving
member, for Byrd’s good deeds to overtake his racist past.  
 Only hours after Byrd’s death on June 28, Republicans in
the Senate decided one way to tar Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan was to link her with former Justice Thurgood Marshall --as
if Marshall’s rise to the  Supreme Court , through a carefully
calculated legal assault on segregation, was a bad thing.  
 Senator Jeff Sessions of  Alabama , the ranking Republican on
the Senate Judiciary Committee, cited Marshall in criticizing
Kagan for having “associated herself with well-known activist
judges who have used their power to redefine the meaning of our
Constitution.” Better than associating herself with Sessions,
who, as a U.S. attorney in the 1980s, was accused of behaving in
such a bigoted fashion that the Judiciary Committee with a
Republican majority wouldn’t confirm him as a judge.  
 Judge’s ‘Proper Role’  
 Most of Sessions’ Republican colleagues on Judiciary seemed
to share his Marshall strategy. Charles Grassley of  Iowa  said
Marshall’s behavior did not “comport with the proper role of a
judge.”  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona  -- a state that refused to
acknowledge Martin Luther King Day until protests threatened its
economy -- disapproved of the fact that Kagan had praised
Marshall’s vision of the courts as the organ to “protect the
people who went unprotected.”  
 This is an odd tack to take and assumes only the hard-core
base is tuning in. The rest of the country seems pretty happy
with its progress on civil rights and not in the mood to debate
a pre-Marshall world of Jim Crow laws, segregated schools and
whites-only drinking fountains.  
 Airport and Stamp  
 Marshall may be the second-most-revered civil-rights icon,
after that guy that even Arizona now recognizes.  Michael Steele ,
now chairman of the  Republican National Committee , helped
christen the Baltimore  airport  named for Marshall. There’s also
the Thurgood Marshall  postage stamp , a Broadway play -- which
Kagan attended in its run at Washington’s Kennedy Center -- and
near-sainthood, according to the Washington Post’s Dana Milbank,
who pointed out that Marshall was added to the Episcopal
Church’s list of “Holy Women and Holy Men” this year.  
 To argue that Marshall was a dangerous radical whose former
clerk shouldn’t be on the court is as anachronistic as
introducing legislation to allow smoking on airplanes.  
 Republicans are not a racist party. By revisiting and
revising Marshall’s legacy, however, they flirt with playing one
on TV.  
 It’s been many years since the GOP openly tried to tap into
residual segregationist sympathies. (See  Richard Nixon ’s
Southern Strategy, or  Ronald Reagan ’s 1980 appeal for states’
rights in Philadelphia,  Mississippi .)  
 These days, retrograde impulses like that -- often shrouded
in nostalgia for the Confederacy -- are usually stifled by
Republicans who read the census and don’t want to become a
regional party of men in Civil War costumes on the weekend.  
 Virginia ’s Proclamation  
 A nationwide outcry followed the decision by Republican
Governor Robert F. McDonnell to revive Confederate History Month
in Virginia. Within 24 hours, McDonnell had  apologized  for not
finding slavery significant enough to warrant mention in the
proclamation. He thought that citing the very reason the war was
fought would put a dent in revenue from reenactments in period
dress at Appomattox.  
 What remains of an explicit Republican Southern Strategy
seems confined to its Tea Party faction, which produced Rand Paul. After winning the GOP primary for the Senate in  Kentucky ,
he expressed doubt about our long-settled civil rights laws,
saying discrimination is not acceptable by government
institutions but is for private businesses, who should be able
to decide who to serve.  
 In other words, would-be-Senator Paul favors a country in
which the president and his family would walk into a restaurant
uncertain they would be served a burger and fries.  
 Byrd’s Journey  
 Byrd, a child of the Depression, joined the Klan in 1942,
when he was 24, back from the war working at menial jobs. He
renounced it a few years later and grew with America.  
 Paul is 47, the son of privilege -- his father is
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , who sought the Republican
nomination for president in 2008 -- and an ophthalmologist,
though his  board certification  turns out to be from an
organization that is little more than a post office box in
 Bowling Green , Kentucky, where he happens to live.  
 As Obama puts Byrd to rest in  West Virginia , Paul could use
the Kagan hearings as a teachable moment. He could renounce his
remarks about civil rights, embrace Marshall and endorse his
acolyte. He could grow, as Byrd did.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        