-- Retail Sales Growth in Australia Weakened in May, Building Approvals Drop
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-01T03:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/retail-sales-in-australia-rise-for-third-month-on-department-store-sales.html

          
          
             Australian retail sales growth
weakened in May to the slowest pace in three months and building
 approvals  fell, triggering a drop in the currency as investors
boosted bets the central bank won’t resume raising borrowing
costs until 2011.  
 Sales  increased 0.2 percent from April, when they rose 0.6
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
bureau also said the number of permits granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments dropped 6.6 percent, confounding
the median  estimate  of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
for no change in approvals.  
 Weaker household spending and a slump in building approvals
add to evidence the central bank’s  six interest-rate increases 
from October to May are cooling domestic demand. A separate
report published today showed manufacturing growth slowed in
June for a second month on weaker growth in new orders.  
 “This is more than enough to keep the Reserve Bank on the
sidelines for now,” said  Amber Rabinov , a senior economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne.
Consumer spending will “remain subdued for many months yet as
households adjust to higher interest rates and another hit to
their wealth from recent falls in equity prices,” she said.  
 The Australian dollar fell to 83.17 U.S. cents at 12:19 p.m.
in Sydney from 83.71 cents just before the retail and building
approvals reports were released. The two-year government bond
yield was unchanged at 4.44 percent.  
 Australian Stocks  
 Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell 1.8 percent to
4,226.3 at 12:22 p.m. in Sydney, pacing stock declines around
Asia after a report showed Chinese manufacturing expanded at a
slower pace for a second month in June. China is Australia’s
largest trade partner.  
 Today’s retail sales gain of 0.2 percent also missed the
median forecast of 23 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg for an
increase of 0.3 percent.  
 Spending on household goods tumbled 1.4 percent in May, the
biggest monthly drop since July 2009, today’s report showed. By
contrast, consumers spent 1.7 percent more on clothing and shoes.  
 “Momentum in expenditure appears to have eased in the last
few months,” said  Su-Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital
Markets Ltd. in Sydney. Retail sales have gained by a monthly
average of only 0.1 percent over the last six months, she
estimates. “Coupled with the uncertain global backdrop, the
Reserve Bank will deliver a steady rate decision next week.”  
 Interest Rates  
 All 24 analysts polled by Bloomberg News this week expect
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep the overnight cash rate target
at 4.5 percent next week for a second straight month.  
 Spending by households in 2009, after the government
distributed more than A$20 billion ($17 billion) to consumers in
cash, helped Australia’s economy skirt the global recession.  
 This year, companies including Woolworth’s Ltd., the
nation’s largest retailer, have cut sales growth forecasts as
Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers boosted interest rates
by 150 basis points between early October and May.  
 Stevens’ rate increases since October, the most aggressive
series of moves by a Group of 20 policy maker, have added about
A$3,600 a year to loan repayments on an average A$300,000
mortgage.  
 Approvals have fallen in four of the first five months of
this year after the Labor Party government reduced grants on Jan.
1 to first-time buyers of new homes to A$7,000 from as much as
A$21,000.  
 Newly Built Dwellings  
 Sales of newly built dwellings fell 6.4 percent in May from
April, a separate report published yesterday by the Canberra-
based Housing Industry Association showed.  
 Governor Stevens, who chairs his next monetary policy board
meeting on July 6, signaled on June 15 that the bank’s decision
to return borrowing costs to average levels has given it
flexibility to gauge any fallout from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Traders are betting there is no chance of a quarter-point
increase at central bank monthly meetings until next year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  
 “The Reserve Bank has been expecting consumer expenditure
to slow for some time,” said  Paul Brennan , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “To be sure, the bank needs a weaker
consumer sector to allow more room for the expected increase in
business investment without the creation of undue domestic
inflation pressures.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        