-- Riksbank Increases Key Rate From Record Low to Cool Recovery, House Prices
-- Johan Carlstrom
-- 2010-07-01T07:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/riksbank-increases-key-rate-from-record-low-to-cool-recovery-house-prices.html

          
          
             Sweden’s Riksbank raised the  main
lending rate  a quarter-point from a record low as a government
stimulus and revived demand for the country’s  exports  injected
momentum into the economic recovery and pushed up house prices.  
 The world’s oldest central bank raised the benchmark seven-
day repo rate to 0.5 percent, it said in a statement on its
website today. The decision was forecast by 16 of 18 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 “The cyclical uplift is very strong and growth seems to be
fairly organic, encompassing both domestic demand and exports,”
said  Nicola Mai , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London,
before the announcement. “They don’t want to end up in a
situation that we have seen in many countries over the past
couple of decades in which the housing market gets overheated
and there is a massive correction.”  
 The Nordic region’s biggest economy grew more than
economists expected at the start of the year and data revisions
showed it exited recession in the second quarter of 2009.
 Unemployment  dropped and  industrial production  expanded more
than anticipated last quarter.  House prices  and  household
borrowing  also grew.  
 Consumer prices , adjusted for mortgage payments, increased
an annual 1.2 percent in May, compared with the Riksbank’s
inflation target of 2 percent.  
 Recovery Road  
 “The economy is on the road to recovery,” the National
Institute of Economic Research  said on June 23 , forecasting 3.7
percent growth this year after last year’s 5.1 percent slump --
the worst since World War II. “The turning point has been
passed with the aid of an expansionary economic policy and a
rapid upturn in demand for Swedish exports of goods.”  
 Gross domestic product expanded a quarterly 1.4 percent in
the first three months of the year, Statistics Sweden said on
May 28 as it revised contractions in the last two quarters of
2009 to show growth in both periods.  
 The government will spend 1.2 percent of  GDP  this year to
stimulate growth before elections in September. Measures include
a fourth income tax cut since 2006, infrastructure spending and
programs to support the unemployed.  
 Retail sales  rose an annual 2.7 percent in May, beating
economists’ predictions for a 0.3 percent increase. Unemployment
fell to 8.8 percent from 9.5 percent and  exports , which account
for about half of Swedish output, increased for a sixth month.  
 “Industrial firms forecast a continued increase in both
output and employment for the next few months,” NIER said on
June 23 as  manufacturing confidence  rose to its highest level in
three years in June. Swedish companies representing most major
industries are enjoying a return to growth, the Riksbank said in
a June 17 report showing rising showed production and orders.  
 Jobs, Homes  
 Volvo AB , the world’s second-largest truckmaker, hired 400
workers in the first quarter and is likely to add more jobs as
volumes increase, Chief Executive Officer  Leif Johansson  said on
April 23 after orders more than doubled in the first quarter
from the same three months a year earlier.  
 Swedish apartment prices rose for a 10th period in the
three months through May and household credit growth stayed
above an annual 9 percent in May, adding to concerns the
property market may be heading into a bubble. The financial
watchdog on May 5 proposed introducing a cap on mortgage lending
at 85 percent of the value of a property from Oct. 1.  
 The Riksbank is the 14th central bank to raise interest
rates since the height of the global financial crisis. Norway’s
Norges Bank has raised borrowing costs three times since October
to cool the economy.  
 The European Central Bank kept its benchmark lending rate
at a record-low 1 percent on May 6, as President  Jean-Claude Trichet  called the rate “appropriate.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johan Carlstrom  in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Swedish Riksbank raises rate to cool recovery  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Volvo AB hired 400 workers in the first quarter and is likely to add more jobs as volumes increase, Chief Executive Officer Leif Johansson said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Volvo AB hired 400 workers in the first quarter and is likely to add more jobs as volumes increase, Chief Executive Officer Leif Johansson said. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
