-- Rio Tinto, BHP Pare Losses After Reports of a Breakthrough in Tax Talks
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-07-01T07:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/rio-tinto-bhp-pare-losses-after-herald-reports-breakthrough-in-tax-talks.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group
pared losses in Sydney trading after a report on the Age and
Sydney Morning Herald websites of a breakthrough in talks on a
planned mining profits tax that prompted the ousting last week
of former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  
 BHP, Rio and Xstrata Plc and the Australian government have
agreed to key elements of a compromise including a new trigger
rate of the 10-year bond rate plus 7 percent, the Herald said,
without saying where it got its information. That would equal
about 12 percent, it said, compared with the original proposal
of just the bond rate, which is yielding about 5.1 percent.  
 Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  yesterday said
she’s encouraged by talks over the fate of the proposed levy
that’s been the target of a campaign by the industry. The
initial plan would have made the country the highest taxed
mining nation, according to the Minerals Council of Australia.  
 “Should the final resources super profit tax be structured
as suggested by this article, then this would be a considerable
concession for the miners,”  Ben Byrne , an analyst at Nomura
Australia Ltd., said in an email today.  
 Rio, which fell as much as 3.8 percent earlier, closed down
2.3 percent at A$65.10 on the Australian stock exchange. BHP
trimmed its loss from 2.6 percent to 1.4 percent. Gillard,
Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  have been holding the talks this week.  
 Talks Continue  
 Negotiations are still being conducted, a spokesman for
Swan’s office said today, declining to be identified in line
with government policy. He would not comment on the report.  
 BHP spokeswoman  Fiona Martin  declined to comment and Rio
spokesman  David Luff  wasn’t available when contacted for comment.
Xstrata spokesman  James Rickards  wasn’t available for comment
when contacted by phone.  
 The government may also have agreed to change how existing
operations are taxed, the Sydney Morning Herald said. Companies
may be able to inject their existing assets into the revised tax
regime at market value, the report said.  
 Under the original proposal, miners would have to pay a 40
percent tax on all profits above the return on investment hurdle,
set at the bond rate, on their projects in Australia, the
world’s biggest shipper of iron ore and coal. The original
proposal would have taken A$85 billion ($71 billion) from the
mining industry during the next decade, Morgan Stanley estimated.  
 No Confirmation  
 Negotiations are continuing on the 40 percent rate, the
Herald reported, citing people with knowledge of the talks. The
government is believed to have given ground on this issue, it
said.  
 “Share prices could rise further on news of a compromise
since that would remove a level of uncertainty,”  Martin Lakos ,
division director at Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney, said by
phone. “There’s no confirmation yet officially, but it
certainly wouldn’t come as a surprise to hear that a compromise
on the mining tax has been reached.”  
 Miners have campaigned for the government to exclude
existing projects, reconsider the trigger level and vary the
rate for different minerals. Mining companies suspended anti-tax
advertising campaigns after Gillard was appointed and she said
she wanted to negotiate.  
 An agreement has been reached on what rate the tax would
be, where it kicks in and which projects it should apply to,
Channel 10 reported, without saying where it go the information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        