-- Metsos Sought by Cyprus for Jumping Bail to Avoid Extradition in Spy Probe
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-01T17:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/robert-metsos-sought-by-cyprus-police-after-jumping-bail-in-u-s-spy-probe.html

          
          
             Cyprus’s police asked the public for
help locating a Canadian man who jumped bail to avoid
extradition to the U.S. on charges he was part of a Russian
espionage ring.  
 Christopher Metsos, 54, failed to check in at a Cyprus
police station yesterday and authorities say they have no
conclusive information about his location, police spokesman
Michalis Katsounotos said.  
 “We have some information that we are evaluating,” Cyprus
Justice Minister Loucas Louca said in an interview.  
 U.S. authorities arrested 10 people on June 28 for
allegedly spying for the Russian Federation, according to the
 Justice Department . The Federal Bureau of Investigation said
Metsos, a purported Canadian citizen, was an agent of the
Russian espionage agency and traveled to the U.S. to pay others
in the spy ring.  
 Metsos was arrested at  Larnaca International Airport  June
29 and released on bail of 20,000 euros ($24,500) and C$9,000
($8,500). He was ordered to surrender his travel documents and
check in at the police station.  
 ‘Unfortunate Development’  
 Stephanos Stephanou, a government spokesman, said police
had sought to have Metsos detained pending extradition
proceedings.  
 “The decision of the court was different and we had the
development that we have now,” Stephanou told reporters. “It
is an unfortunate development.”  
 U.S. Ambassador Frank C. Urbanic left a meeting with Cyprus
government officials today in the capital of Nicosia without
answering questions from reporters. Stephanou said Metsos’s
disappearance shouldn’t affect relations with the U.S. because
law enforcement officials had to follow court orders.  
 James Ellickson-Brown, spokesman at the U.S. embassy said
he was “disappointed” that Metsos was released on bail
following his arrest.  
 “As we have feared, having unnecessarily been given the
chance to flee, Mr. Metsos did so,” Ellickson-Brown said.  
 U.S. and Cyprus officials both identify Metsos as
Christopher Robert Metsos. A Cyprus police official had
initially described him as Robert Christopher Metsos after his
arrest.  
 Cyprus Division  
 Cyprus has been divided between its Greek and Turkish-
speaking communities since 1974, when Turkey invaded the
northern part of the island in response to a coup.  
 The Republic of Cyprus, represented by the Greek Cypriot
community in the south, doesn’t consider the demarcation line
between the regions as a border and there are almost no checks
before crossing into the north. Cyprus is a member of the
European Union.  
 “We have often witnessed suspects fleeing through the
Turkish occupied areas,” Katsounotos said in a separate
interview on Cyprus’s state radio. “This fact was presented to
the court, but the court decided to release him on bail.”  
 Katsounotos said photos of Metsos were distributed at the
border after he failed to appear at the police station
yesterday. Katsounotos also said that Metsos was under
“discreet” surveillance before he disappeared. Yesterday,
Katsounotos said that Metsos hadn’t been monitored by police.  
 Metsos’s attorney in Cyprus, Michalis Papathanasiou, said
that he was surprised his client fled as he had made an “honest
impression.” He said the court set the bail amount after his
client said he only had that amount at his bank.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Metsos; U.S. v. Chapman, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  through the Athens office at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Canadian Robert Christopher Metsos, who was arrested in Cyprus in relation to a Russian spy ring. Source: Cyprus Police via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
