-- Rowan Plans to Buy Control of Skeie Drilling for $130.6 Million in Stock
-- David Wethe
-- 2010-07-01T20:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/rowan-plans-to-buy-control-of-skeie-drilling-for-130-6-million-in-stock.html

          
          
             Rowan Cos. , the U.S. oil driller that
builds its own rigs, plans to buy control of Norway’s Skeie
Drilling & Production ASA for $130.6 million in stock to further
an offshore expansion in overseas markets.  
 Rowan will issue about 5.95 million shares to  owners  of
48.8 percent of Skeie’s stock, the Houston-based buyer said
today in a statement. The deal values  Skeie  at about 1 kroner a
share, according to the statement, 67 percent higher than
yesterday’s closing price. Rowan, which already owns 1.5 percent
of Skeie’s shares, said it will make a tender offer for the rest
of the Norwegian driller’s stock at the same price.  
 The transaction will give  Rowan  control of a four-year-old
company with no revenue and three rigs that are being built by
Keppel FELS Ltd. in Singapore. It will cost $420 million to
finish the rigs, and  Skeie  has $530 million of debt secured by
the vessels. Assuming all of Skeie’s remaining shares are sold
through the tender offer, Rowan said, the stock, debt and
construction costs will total about $1.2 billion.  
 Rowan , which seeks to sell its onshore rigs and its
LeTourneau Technologies Inc. manufacturing unit, is trying to
expand its offshore business and increase its presence outside
the U.S. The Skeie rigs are scheduled to be delivered between
September of this year and June of next year, Rowan said.  
 Skeie had to restructure debt last year to avert
bankruptcy. The company struggled for 18 months to find
contracts for its rigs, Dagens Naeringsliv reported in March.  
 Rowan fell 25 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $21.69 as of the 4
p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Skeie 
jumped 38 percent in Norway.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        