-- Russian Revamp of Legal System May Free 100K Entrepreneurs
-- Ilya Arkhipov
-- 2010-07-02T14:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/russian-revamp-of-predatory-legal-system-may-free-100-000-entrepreneurs.html

          
          
             Russian lawmakers say they plan to
overhaul the law on economic crimes, resulting in the early
release of as many as 100,000 imprisoned executives and
entrepreneurs as the government seeks to attract investors.  
 Andrei Nazarov, deputy head of the committee that handles
civil and criminal legislation in the lower house of parliament,
on June 30 introduced amendments to the criminal code designed
to implement a decree by President  Dmitry Medvedev . Nazarov said
he will offer further amendments, including one ending pre-trial
detention for economic offenses.  
 “We are taking economic amnesty not as one law but as a
series of legal changes,” Nazarov said in a phone interview.
“At least 100,000 businessmen will be released from prison or
will have to spend less time in jail. This will happen within
the next year and a half.”  
 Medvedev is trying to show investors their rights will be
protected as he asks Apple Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  and Citigroup Inc. CEO  Vikram Pandit  to help diversify the
economy. Concern about the legal system is one reason Russia got
one-fifth the investment of China and Brazil and half that of
India in the past three years, according to EPFR Global of
Cambridge, Massachusetts, which tracks $13 trillion of assets.  
 Legislation isn’t enough to change the “predatory”
culture of police, prosecutors and judges, according to Yana
Yakovleva. The co-owner of Moscow chemical distributor  Sofex Co. 
spent seven months in jail awaiting trial in 2006-07 before she
was acquitted of trafficking in dangerous substances.  
 “The current environment is like swimming with crocodiles
in a pool of sulfuric acid,” said Yakovleva, 38. “There’s a
war on business people in Russia, and it’s purely business for
officials. They can charge you with any crime and incarcerate
you to extort money.”  
 Slow Implementation  
 Medvedev’s April 7 decree eased penalties for white-collar
crimes, ended pre-trial detention for those charged with
economic offenses and expanded the use of bail. Law enforcement
officials were “slow” to implement the law, Supreme Court
President Vyacheslav Lebedev said in an interview.  
 The president, a former lawyer, in December fired Moscow’s
chief criminal investigator, the head of the city’s tax crimes
unit and 20 federal prison officials after escalating reports of
abuse, including the death of 37-year-old tax lawyer  Sergei Magnitsky  while in custody.  
 About one fourth of the 900,000 people in Russian jails are
accountants, entrepreneurs, legal advisers or mid-level
managers, Nazarov said.  
 Supreme Court statistics show that 97.3 percent of criminal
defendants were convicted last year in Russia. The U.K. rate was
83 percent in 2008, according to the  Ministry of Justice .  
 Justice, Not Punishment  
 Russia’s legal system is a remnant of Soviet times, when
courts were seen as primarily punitive, Lebedev said.  
 “But a court shouldn’t be about punishment, it should be
about justice,” he said. “Justice should reign supreme.”  
 The best way to fight misuse of the law is to make
information public, Lebedev said. All court documents will be
available on the Internet as the result of a law that took
effect July 1, he said.  
 “The main thing is to make courts to perform
professionally and honestly,” Lebedev said. “If we have
transparency then we can see whether a judge was mistaken or
there is intentional misconduct.”  
 Confidence Wanes  
 The number of business owners who saw the courts as the
best place to protect their rights dropped to 66 percent in 2009
from 80 percent a year earlier, according to a survey of 1,200
entrepreneurs conducted in September by the Moscow-based All-
Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion.  
 While Navarov’s changes could apply to Russia’s best-known
inmate,  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , his case is too politically
sensitive, said  Andrei Piontkovsky , a senior researcher at the
Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow and author of “Another
Look Into Putin’s Soul” ( Hudson Institute , 2006).  
 Khodorkovsky, the former CEO of OAO Yukos Oil Co., is
serving eight years for fraud and tax evasion.  Yukos  went
bankrupt after Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003 and the
government sold its assets to recover more than $30 billion in
taxes when Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  was president.
Khodorkovsky, 47, says he was targeted because he opposed Putin.  
 “Khodorkovsky is a clear example of double standards and
selective enforcement,” Piontkovsky said.  
 Death in Custody  
 The initiative comes too late for  Magnitsky , a lawyer for
London-based Hermitage Capital Management Ltd. Magnitsky was
arrested in 2008 and charged with tax evasion after alleging
that police stole money from Hermitage. He died in November
after almost a year in pre-trial detention when “his rights to
timely medical attention were violated,” according to a
government  investigation.   
 The Magnitsky case was “a very sad story,” First Deputy
Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an interview at his office.  
 “Both the president and prime minister say the whole
system should be changed,” Shuvalov said. “We will need time
for this. We cannot just fire all these people.”  
 Medvedev today signed legislation giving human rights
activists more access to suspects in custody.  Another measure 
signed by the president is designed to protect companies from
illegal property seizures, “especially when these crimes are
committed with involvement of law enforcement officers.”  
 Yakovleva founded Moscow-based Business Solidarity to lobby
for the rights of entrepreneurs after her release. While a few
business people have been freed since April 7, most have seen no
change, Yakovleva said. She cited the case of  Oleg Yanechko , who
is spending his 10th month in a Yekaterinburg jail awaiting
trial on charges of fraud related to a decade-old property deal.  
 “Until you change the whole mentality of law enforcement
officers you cannot succeed with humanization of this system,”
said Natalia Taubina, director of the Public Verdict Foundation,
a Moscow-based human rights group.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mikhail Khodorkovsky  
                       
                         
                           Alexey Sazonov/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Jailed Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky stands behind the glass of the defendant's cage during his second trial in Moscow in this file photo taken March 31, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jailed Russian oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky stands behind the glass of the defendant's cage during his second trial in Moscow in this file photo taken March 31, 2009. Photographer: Alexey Sazonov/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
