-- Russian Manufacturing Grew at Fastest Rate in More than Two Years in June
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/russian-manufacturing-grew-at-fastest-rate-in-more-than-two-years-in-june.html

          
          
             Russian  manufacturing  growth jumped
in June to the highest level in more than two years as new
domestic orders rose, signaling industry is giving the  economy  a
lift after a record contraction last year,  VTB Capital  said.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 52.6, the highest
since April 2008, from 52 in May, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The index, based on a survey of 300 purchasing
executives, signals expansion when it’s above 50. The gauge rose
in June above the survey average of 52.1.  
 “New orders received by  Russian  manufacturers rose at a
sharper rate in June,” the report said. “The domestic market
was a key source of improving demand as new export business
stagnated during the month.”  
 Manufacturers are leading a recovery from the worst slump
since the collapse of communism in 1991 as companies replenish
inventories and boost domestic sales.  Industrial output  expanded
for a seventh month in May, surging an annual 12.6 percent after
a 10.4 percent advance the previous month.  
 The  central bank  yesterday  cited  gains in industrial
production and fixed capital investment as reasons for keeping
the  refinancing rate  at a record low 7.75 percent.  
 Companies including OAO AvtoVAZ are spearheading a
rebound. Russia’s largest automaker aims to increase production
by at least 100,000 cars this year from its original target,
while Ford Motor Co. plans to expand the workforce at its plant
near St. Petersburg by almost 10 percent. Russian  sales  of new
cars and light vehicles rose 31 percent in May from a year
earlier as government cash incentives spurred demand.  
 Growth Outlook  
 The government expects the economy to grow 4 percent this
year, compared with a 7.9 percent slump in 2009, the worst on
record. Growth was 5.8 percent compared with May 2009, while the
economy gained a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in the month,
according to the Economy Ministry.  
 New manufacturing orders expanded last month at the fastest
pace since last September, according to VTB Capital.
Inflationary pressures in the sector remained “sharp,” as
higher prices for energy and metals fanned input costs,
according to the report.  
 Companies “marginally” reduced their workforce in June
after two straight monthly increases, VTB Capital said, adding
that the decline “reflected a high turnover of staff.”  
 Russia’s  unemployment   rate  dropped to 7.3 percent in May
from 8.2 percent a month earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        