-- Truvo USA Files for Chapter 11 Protection in Bankruptcy Court in New York
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-01T19:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/truvo-usa-files-for-chapter-11-protection-in-bankruptcy-court-in-new-york.html

          
          
             Truvo USA LLC and four affiliates,
publishers of printed and online directories, filed for
bankruptcy citing a heavy debt load and declines in print
advertising.  
 Truvo reached an agreement with senior lenders and
noteholders on a debt restructuring plan, the company said in
papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The
company has about $1.9 billion in debt.  
 “The Truvo Group has been significantly affected by the
continuing shift from print media toward online products,”  Marc C.F. Goegebuer , Truvo USA’s chief financial officer, said in
court papers.  
 The affiliates in bankruptcy are holding companies with no
employees and no operations and depend on operating units to
generate revenue, according to court papers and Sean O’Neal, the
company’s bankruptcy attorney.  
 “What they do have is a fair amount of debt,” O’Neal said
at a court hearing today before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez .  
 The markets for the company’s operating units, which aren’t
in bankruptcy, are Belgium, Ireland and, through a joint
venture, Portugal, according to court papers. Truvo also owns
equity stakes in directory companies in South Africa and Puerto
Rico.  
 Grace Period Expires  
 The holding companies filed for bankruptcy after a grace
period expired today following a missed interest payment on its
debt on June 1, O’Neal said.  
 At today’s hearing, Gonzalez approved a number of routine
requests that will allow the company to continue operating while
in bankruptcy, including a plan to spend the cash collateral of
its lenders.  
 The restructuring plan calls for lenders on a 1.03 billion-
euro ($1.28 billion) senior credit facility to receive
substantially all the stock in two holding companies that will
be the ultimate owners of Truvo USA, according to court papers.
They also will receive new debt. The plan will cut the company’s
debt to 450 million euros, O’Neal said.  
 Two groups of noteholders will receive 15 million euros in
cash, plus warrants to buy stock in one of the holding
companies, according to court papers. A group of lenders under a
130 million-euro loan also will receive warrants if they and the
noteholders back the plan.  
 Senior Notes  
 The company issued 395 million euros of 8.5 percent senior
notes and $200 million of 8.375 percent senior notes, both due
in 2014.  
 Lenders holding 75 percent of the senior credit facility
and investors holding 15 percent of the notes have agreed to
back the plan, O’Neal said. The company expects to file its
bankruptcy plan by July 14. It will return to court on Aug. 5 to
ask Gonzalez to allow creditors to vote on the plan.  
 The plan “represents the best prospect for restructuring
the Truvo Group’s balance sheet, maximizing recovery for
creditors, and implementing the new business transformation
plan,” Truvo said in court papers.  
 The case is In re Truvo USA LLC, 10-13513, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        