-- Sanofi Is Said to Plan Major Acquisition in U.S.
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-07-02T20:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sanofi-is-said-to-plan-major-acquisition-in-u-s-viehbacher-briefs-board.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s biggest
drugmaker, is preparing a major acquisition in the U.S.,
according to five people with knowledge of the situation.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  briefed the board
on the transaction at a special meeting this week, said two of
the people, who declined to be identified because the plan is
confidential. The process is in early stages and an agreement
with the unidentified target may not be reached, the people
said.  Allergan Inc. ,  Biogen Idec Inc.  and  Genzyme Corp.  rallied
in U.S. trading on speculation they may be the object of
Sanofi’s interest.  
 Viehbacher is counting on acquisitions to help replace
 revenue  the Paris-based company is losing as its medicines face
competition from lower-priced generic drugs. Sanofi has spent
about $17 billion on 25  acquisitions  since Viehbacher joined the
company in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Sanofi have made it very clear they generate lots of cash
and part of their way of mitigating the patent cliff is
reinvesting capital,” said  Marc Booty , an investment manager at
Pictet Asset Management Ltd. in London who helps oversee more
than $100 billion, including Sanofi shares. “They’ve been very
clear external growth is part of their plan.”  
 Based on conversations Sanofi has had internally and
externally about its plans, the U.S. deal may be worth $20
billion or more, two of the people said. The French company
generated 8.52 billion euros ($10.7 billion) in  cash from
operations  last year, and had 4.1 billion euros in cash and
equivalents on the balance sheet as of March 30.  
 Shares Drop  
 Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Sanofi, said the company
does not comment on “market rumors or speculation.”  
 Sanofi  fell 1.17 euros, or 2.4 percent, to close at 47.06
euros in Paris trading, giving the company a market value of
61.7 billion euros. The decline was the biggest among the 18
stocks in the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index , which fell
0.6 percent.  
 Acquisitions allow big drugmakers to replenish their supply
of newer drugs and cut costs by combining sales forces. In last
year’s biggest deals, Pfizer Inc. bought Wyeth for $68 billion,
and Merck & Co. bought Schering-Plough Corp. for $47 billion.  
 U.S. health-related companies with market values of $10
billion or more include Biogen, the world’s largest maker of
multiple sclerosis treatments; Allergan, which sells the Botox
wrinkle smoother; and  Celgene Corp. , a cancer-drug manufacturer.
 Amy Reilly , a spokeswoman for Biogen in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and  Caroline Van Hove , a spokeswoman for Allergan
in Irvine, California, declined to comment. A Celgene spokesman
didn’t return a call.  
 Nutrition, Generics  
 Sanofi may want to consider diversifying by buying  Mead
Johnson Nutrition Co. , a maker of infant formula that was spun
off from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. last year, said  Tim Anderson ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Mylan Inc. , the biggest
U.S. maker of generic drugs, and  Hospira Inc. , a manufacturer of
intravenous products, also may be targets, he said in a
telephone interview from San Francisco today.  
 “That company was grown through acquisitions; I don’t know
why they would stop now,” he said of Sanofi. “It wouldn’t
surprise me if they wanted to diversify further, in consumer
health care or generics.” He also cited Biogen and Genzyme, the
world’s largest maker of drugs for rare genetic diseases, as
possibilities. “Those are the usual suspects,” he said. He has
a  “market perform”  rating on Sanofi shares.  
 Biogen Climbs  
 Chris Perille , a spokesman for Glenview, Illinois-based
Mead Johnson, declined to comment. Tareta Adams, a spokeswoman
for Hospira, said the company doesn’t comment on market
speculation. Spokespeople for Mylan and Genzyme didn’t return
calls.  
 Biogen climbed $2.69, or 5.8 percent, to $49.42 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Allergan climbed $4.19, or 7.2
percent, to $62.29 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Celgene gained $1.12, or 2.3 percent, to $50.74. Mead Johnson
advanced 64 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $51.17. Genzyme rallied
$2.94, or 5.9 percent, to $52.80. Mylan rose 3 cents to $16.93
and Hospira lost 4 cents to $57.12.  
 Sanofi is looking for new products as generic versions of
cancer treatment Eloxatin and blood-thinner Plavix hurt sales.
Drugs accounting for more than 20 percent of revenue face
competition by 2013.  
 Acquisition Strategy  
 Viehbacher has identified consumer health, emerging
markets, new prescription drugs, vaccines and diabetes as
“growth platforms” that will help Sanofi make up for lower
revenue in the years to come. The company aims to keep 2013
earnings and sales at 2008 levels at least.  
 Sanofi did two to three  acquisitions  a month last year, and
probably will do the same in 2010, Viehbacher said in a February
interview. He said he preferred to stick to small or mid-sized
deals of $15 billion or less.  
 Acquisitions have to add to earnings in the first year,
earn the cost of capital by the fifth year and provide a return
that’s 2 to 3 percentage points above the weighted average cost
of capital, Viehbacher has said. At a dinner with institutional
investors last week, he reiterated those criteria, according to
a report today by  Andrew Baum , an analyst for Morgan Stanley,
which organized the event.  
 Sanofi probably won’t want to issue new stock to fund a
purchase because that would dilute existing shareholders, Baum
wrote. The company could carry debt of as much as $20 billion,
compared with a net debt now of about $5 billion, he wrote.  
 Merial, Chattem  
 Last year, Sanofi acquired  Merck & Co. ’s half of their
Merial animal-health venture for $4 billion, Viehbacher’s
biggest purchase so far. In March, Sanofi bought Chattem Inc.,
the U.S. maker of Gold Bond medicated powder and other non-
prescription health products, for $1.9 billion.  
 The cost of protecting  Sanofi  debt from default rose today
to the highest in more than a year. Credit-default swaps on the
company increased 10 basis points to 77, according to CMA
DataVision in London.  
 Drugmakers have announced about $83.5 billion of
acquisitions in the past year. In the past month, Celgene agreed
to buy Abraxis Bioscience Inc., a maker of drugs for solid-tumor
cancers, for $2.9 billion. Grifols SA struck a $3 billion deal
for Talecris Biotherapeutics Holdings Corp., and Valeant
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Biovail Corp. signed a merger pact.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sanofi-Aventis SA Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
