-- Santos, Origin Welcome Change to Australian Tax as Boost for LNG Ventures
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-02T02:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/santos-welcomes-equal-status-of-onshore-offshore-oil-gas-under-new-tax.html

          
          
             Santos Ltd. , proposing a A$16.4
billion ($14 billion) Australian gas venture using fuel mined
from coal seams, said changes to the country’s planned tax on
resources profits provide “welcome” certainty.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  today announced that the
country’s 26-year-old Petroleum Resource Rent Tax will be
extended to cover all onshore and offshore oil and gas projects.
Gillard reached a pact with mining companies on the tax
proposals, ending a dispute that cost her predecessor  Kevin Rudd 
his job.  
 “We’ve argued since the start that all oil and gas
companies, whether they are onshore or offshore, needed to be
treated equally,” Santos spokesman  Matt Doman  said by phone
from Adelaide. “That’s been achieved, so we welcome that.”  
 Santos, BG Group Plc and Origin Energy Ltd. are due this
year to make final decisions on whether to build projects in
Queensland that will convert gas extracted from coal seams into
liquefied natural gas. More than A$50 billion of spending is
planned for the Queensland coal-seam gas industry, which is
expected to generate 20,000 jobs, Santos Chairman  Peter Coates 
said May 6.  
 “Fiscal certainty” will allow BG and Santos to proceed
with final development decisions on their projects,  Nik Burns ,
an analyst at RBS Morgans in Melbourne, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “There are still a number of issues we
await clarity on, such as the payment of state royalties and
transitional arrangements for existing projects.” Royal Dutch
Shell Plc also plans a Queensland LNG project.  
 Santos, which has  declined  11 percent since the start of
the year, gained 14 cents, or 1.1 percent, to A$12.50 at 11:32
a.m. in Sydney. That compares with a 0.1 percent increase in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. Origin, which plans an LNG venture
with ConocoPhillips, rose 1.2 percent to A$14.80.  
 ‘Full Steam Ahead’  
 “This is great news for Queensland and the Queensland
economy,” Premier  Anna Bligh  said in an e-mailed statement. The
LNG projects proposed for development at the port of Gladstone
can now move “ full steam ahead,” she said.  
 Gillard announced the changes in a joint statement with
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson .  
 Origin Managing Director  Grant King  said he welcomed the
revisions by the government to its tax plan. The Petroleum
Resource Rent Tax “is a regime we have operated under and
contains a number of provisions to ensure the tax only applies
after a reasonable return on investments has been achieved,” he
said.  
 The change is an improvement on the original proposal,
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association
Chief Executive  Belinda Robinson  said in a statement posted on
the lobby group’s website.  
 “Australia’s oil and gas sector, however, goes beyond
large companies and includes many small explorers and producers
who will be struggling to see how this reform will not lead to
them being worse off,” Robinson said.  
 Deutsche Bank AG estimates the development by Santos with
partner Petroliam Nasional Bhd. of two processing plants with a
capacity to export 7.2 million metric tons of LNG per year will
cost A$16.4 billion. The partners are yet to update an initial
capital cost of A$7.7 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        