-- Serena Williams Aims to Peak for Wimbledon Final After Setting Aces Record
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/serena-williams-aims-to-peak-for-wimbledon-final-after-setting-aces-record.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Serena Williams ,
who served a record 80 aces against her first six opponents at
Wimbledon, said the best could be yet to come in tomorrow’s
final.  
 Williams advanced to her third straight championship match
at the All England Club, beating  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech
Republic 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 yesterday. The American will meet
Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva , who beat  Tsvetana Pironkova  of Bulgaria
3-6, 6-3, 6-2.  
 “I’m hoping to still peak in the final,” Williams said in
a news conference after the semifinals. “I won’t know until I
play. Hopefully I can serve better than I did today and just be
more consistent off the ground. In the final, you really want to
play your best and hope for the best.”  
 Williams had seven aces against Kvitova, taking her total
in the two-week tournament to 80 -- she set the previous
Wimbledon women’s record of 72 last year on her way to the
title. Williams has hit 50 aces more than her elder sister,
Venus, who is second on this year’s list among women and lost in
the quarterfinals.  
 Serena Williams would be tied for seventh on the men’s aces
list at this Wimbledon with 49th-ranked  Thiemo de Bakker  of The
Netherlands.  
 Men’s Semifinals  
 The men’s semifinals are set for today at the All England
Club.  Tomas Berdych , the Czech player who ousted six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland in the quarterfinals, will
play Serbia’s  Novak Djokovic  for a place in the final on July 4.
Britain’s  Andy Murray  continues his quest for a first Grand Slam
title against 2008 champion and French Open winner  Rafael Nadal 
of Spain in the other semifinal.  
 Serena Williams’s serve is “perhaps the greatest shot” in
the history of women’s tennis, two-time Wimbledon semifinalist
 Pam Shriver  told the British Broadcasting Corp. Shriver said the
shot was even better than the forehand of seven-time Wimbledon
champion  Steffi Graf  or the volleys of  Martina Navratilova , who
won nine Wimbledon singles championships.  
 “I’ve never served that many aces,” Williams said, when
asked why the gap with her sister and five-time Wimbledon winner
Venus was so big in terms of aces. “It’s just really weird. I’m
really excited. But it’s just really cool.”  
 Serve as Weapon  
 The 12-time Grand Slam champion, who is ranked No. 1 on the
WTA Tour, said her serve has improved over the years.  
 “In the eve of my serve’s career, it’s just gotten better,
which is always a plus,” Williams said.  
 The realization that she had a great weapon to rely on when
in trouble came a few years ago, the 28-year-old Williams said.  
 “I would be down like 30-40, I would serve a big serve and
it would bring me back,” she said. “Or I would be down love-40
and I would be able to serve some great shots and it would
really bring me back into the game.”  
 Williams, a three-time champion, has faced her sister in
four of her five previous Wimbledon finals. The only previous
time Williams played in the final without her sibling was in
2004, when she lost in straight sets to  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia.  
 “There will definitely have to be changes,” Williams
said. “On paper it looks like I should win. But Vera, I’ve
played her several times; she’s beaten some good people. Her
last two matches she’s been down a set, so she’s obviously a
fighter. She never gives up.”  
 Only Win  
 Zvonareva’s only win in six career meetings against the
American came four years ago on a hard court in Cincinnati.
Tomorrow’s final will be their first meeting on grass.  
 “I will have to stay aggressive no matter what and not let
her dominate,” the 21st-ranked Russian, who will be playing in
her first major final, said in a news conference yesterday.
“Because when Serena dominates, she’s very difficult to play.”  
 Kvitova already has her mind made up about who will be
champion.  
 “Serena has more experience,” she said in a news
conference yesterday. “Serena will win.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        