-- Shell Chief Executive Calls for Global Carbon Market to `Level' the Field
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-01T12:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/shell-chief-executive-calls-for-global-carbon-market-to-level-the-field.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s  chief
executive officer called on lawmakers and investors to move
toward a global carbon market and a “level playing field” in
the fight against climate change.  
 Investors have yet to get the signals they need to set
long-term strategies for cutting emissions and participating in
an integrated global market, CEO  Peter Voser  said in an
interview today at the European Business Summit in Brussels.  
 “In Europe, we have the emissions-trading system, which is
a viable way forward, but ultimately we need a global
mechanism,” he said. “I think it will take longer than a
couple of years, but the important thing is that we start, and
we can adjust during the time.”  
 The European Union’s ETS program, the world’s largest cap-
and-trade system, covers about 12,000 installations that need
allowances for each ton of carbon dioxide they emit in burning
fossil fuels. Those that produce more than their cap need to buy
more permits; those that emit less can sell their surpluses. The
value of transactions in the system rose to $118 billion last
year, according to World Bank data.  
 The EU is “very committed” to linking up with carbon-
trading programs in other countries by 2015,  Jos Delbeke ,
director general at the European Commission’s climate
department, said in March.  
 In the U.S., a cap-and-trade proposal to limit greenhouse-
gases by letting polluters buy and sell emission allowances
passed the House last year and stalled in the Senate. Senators
 John Kerry  and  Joseph Lieberman  unveiled a revamped cap-and-
trade bill last month and are pushing for passage this year.  
 The Cost of Waiting  
 Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who took office
last month, said she will restart efforts to put a price on
carbon emissions should she succeed in the election she plans to
call in “coming months.” Her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  delayed
the carbon-trading plan amid opposition from lawmakers.  
 China will likely set up a domestic market for trading
carbon emissions by 2014, Feng Shengbo of the China Clean
Development Mechanism Management Center said in May.  
 “The more we wait, the more we, large investors, have
uncertainties about the future CO2 price and the mechanism how
the price is established,” Voser said. “This may slow down
certain investment, and that’s what we don’t want.”  
 Voser predicted carbon prices will advance in coming years.
EU permits for December traded as high as 15.29 euros a metric
ton today on London’s European Climate Exchange, rising 22
percent so far this year amid signals that the global economy is
recovering from recession.  
 “In Shell, we use $40 per ton and we use this for all our
projects across the world,” Voser said. “Compared to where it
is today, we see an increase.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        