-- SNB May `Punish Speculators' by Returning to Markets to Temper Franc Surge
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-02T09:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/snb-may-punish-speculators-by-returning-to-markets-to-temper-franc-surge.html

          
          
             Switzerland’s central bank may have
to consider resuming its battle with currency markets after the
franc surged against the euro within two weeks of policy makers
ending attempts to counter gains, economists and investors say.  
 The franc has gained more against the euro since June 17
than any other currency from the Group of 10 nations, which
include the U.S., Japan, and Canada. It rose to a record 1.3074
per euro yesterday before weakening in late trading in Zurich.
It fell 0.5 percent to $1.3336 as of 11:29 a.m. today.  Werner Abegg , a spokesman for the Swiss National Bank, declined to
comment on whether the central bank intervened.  
 “The franc is already expensive but above 1.30 it will
become a serious issue,” said  David Kohl , deputy chief
economist at Julius Baer Holding AG in Frankfurt. “They’ll wait
for the right moment to punish speculators. It’s only a question
of time, the appreciation is simply too fast.”  
 Resuming currency interventions to protect Switzerland’s
export-led recovery would increase the SNB’s record  currency
holdings , leaving it vulnerable to larger losses as the euro
weakens. The central bank may nevertheless have to run that risk
as the franc climbs against the euro on investor concern that
the euro-area debt crisis will worsen.  
 ‘Excessive’  
 SNB policy makers led by President  Philipp Hildebrand  on
June 17 said deflation risks have “largely disappeared,”
ending a 15-month policy of countering what they called
“excessive” gains of the franc. They also raised their 2010
growth forecast to 2 percent from 1.5 percent.  
 Officials “can always change their mind, they’re watching
the situation,” said  Richard Benson , who oversees $14 billion
of currency funds at Millennium Asset Management in London.
“Central banks don’t like rapid movements in their
currencies.”  
 With exports accounting for more than half of Swiss gross
domestic product, the central bank has been under pressure to
weaken the franc and protect companies including  Swatch Group
AG , the world’s largest watchmaker. The 16-member euro region
buys around two thirds of Swiss exports. The SNB added an
unprecedented 85 billion francs ($80 billion) in foreign
currencies to its balance sheet in May to stem franc gains,
boosting holdings to 239 billion francs. Its first-quarter
profit plunged 69 percent, due largely to a 2.9 billion-franc
loss on its euro reserves.  
 ‘Hurdle’  
 The scale of potential currency losses may force the SNB to
think twice, said  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in Frankfurt.  
 “The hurdle for interventions seems materially higher now,
in light of the financial risk posed by the sheer size of
foreign-currency exposure” on the balance sheet, he said.
 Thorsten Polleit , an economist at Barclays Capital, said the SNB
“might give a verbal warning to markets first.”  
 SNB Vice President  Thomas Jordan  said June 21 he doesn’t
“necessarily” expect the franc to appreciate further and the
central bank won’t need to counter gains as long as they reflect
the economy’s strength. The Zurich-based central bank would only
act to counter an “overshooting” and if the risk of deflation
returned, he told Swiss television.  
 “The SNB is definitely very uncomfortable with its large
currency reserves,” said  Ursina Kubli , a foreign-currency
analyst at Bank Sarasin in Zurich. “It could have been
considered a capitulation, had they just stopped with
interventions. The only way out was to declare the deflation
risk as over.”  
 ‘Detrimental’  
 Beat Siegenthaler , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG
in Zurich, said the SNB may hold off intervening unless the
franc reaches 1.25 per euro.  
 “There will probably be some level where the central bank
will reconsider their decision,” he said. “The market may have
to overshoot to a level that would start to become detrimental”
to the Swiss economy.  
 The economy has so far shown few signs of weakening.  Swiss
manufacturing  expanded at close to the fastest pace on record in
June and  leading economic indicators  increased to the highest in
almost four years last month. M3 money-supply growth, which
serves as a gauge for future inflation, accelerated to 7.1
percent in May from 5.4 percent the previous month.  
 “The SNB already has a large bulk risk on its balance
sheet,” said  David Marmet , an economist at Zuercher
Kantonalbank in Zurich. “Policy makers may still want to
counter any strong franc gains but they know that they won’t be
able to do anything against euro weakness.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       SNB President Philipp Hildebrand  
                       
                         
                           Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Swiss central bank president Philipp Hildebrand speaks at a press conference in Zurich. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Swiss central bank president Philipp Hildebrand speaks at a press conference in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
