-- Sorouh Raises $640 Million Loan to Repay Bond, Finance Abu Dhabi Projects
-- Haris Anwar
-- 2010-07-01T12:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sorouh-raises-640-million-loan-to-repay-bond-finance-abu-dhabi-buildings.html

          
          
             Sorouh Real Estate PJSC , Abu Dhabi’s
second-biggest property developer, raised 2.35 billion dirhams
($640 million) in loans to repay Islamic bonds and finance
projects in the United Arab Emirates’ capital.  
 The four-year loan, with a combination of term and
revolving credit, has both conventional and Islamic portions,
Sorouh said in a statement to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. The
facility is secured by a portion of Sorouh’s lands, and was
arranged by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC, First Gulf Bank
PJSC, National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC and Noor Islamic Bank.  
 Sorouh  will use 400 million dirhams of the facility to
redeem the balance of an asset-backed Islamic bond issued in
2008. The company will use the reminder of the loan to finance
the construction of Shams Gate and other developments in Abu
Dhabi, according to the statement.  
 Apartment prices in Abu Dhabi fell as much as 7 percent in
the first quarter as owners unable to pay mortgages were forced
to sell their homes, Asteco Property Management LLC said in
April. High mortgage rates are the biggest obstacle to a housing
recovery in Abu Dhabi, where property prices have fallen more
than 30 percent from their peak, Sorouh Managing Director
 Abubaker Seddiq Al Khouri  said that month.  
 “This facility strengthens our liquidity, extends the
company’s debt maturity profile, and maintains our gearing at a
comfortable level,” Chief Financial Officer  Richard Amos  said in
the statement. “The additional funds will be used to advance our
major developments in Abu Dhabi.”  
 New Contracts  
 Sorouh sold 4 billion dirhams of sukuk in 2008 to finance
its developments. The notes, due in 2015, were backed by
payments Sorouh would receive from developers of land the
company has been granted by the Abu Dhabi government, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The developer won two contracts valued at more than 2
billion dirhams to build 1,000 homes for United Arab Emirates’
nationals, Sorouh said in a separate statement today. The
contracts from the Abu Dhabi government are for developments in
Al Ain and the Western region to be delivered in 24 months.  
 The company posted a 3 percent increase in first-quarter
profit to 129.7 million dirhams.  Sorouh shares  have declined 29
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 4.6
billion dirhams. The stock was unchanged at 1.75 dirhams in Abu
Dhabi trading today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        