-- South Korea Rejects North's Request for Joint Probe of Warship's Sinking
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-07-01T15:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/south-korea-rejects-north-s-request-for-joint-probe-of-warship-s-sinking.html

          
          
             South Korea rejected North Korea’s
request for a joint investigation into the sinking of a South
Korean warship blamed on the communist regime as the United
Nations Security Council considers punitive action.  
 “It is our position that we will focus on Security Council
negotiations,” South Korea’s foreign ministry spokesman Kim
Young Sun said today in Seoul. He was responding to a question
on whether the government will consider the North’s request to
the UN. The attack is a “clear violation of the armistice”
that ended the 1950-53 Korean War, Kim said.  
 North Korea denies it had a role in the March 26 incident,
which claimed the lives of 46 South Korean sailors.  
 An international team concluded on May 20 that a North
Korean torpedo sank the warship. Almost one in four South
Koreans said they don’t trust the probe’s findings, according to
a poll commissioned by the Hankook Ilbo newspaper on May 24.  
 While rejecting the result of the investigation and
reinforcing “its position that it has nothing to do with the
incident,” North Korea offered to send its own inspection group
to the site of the sinking in a letter dated June 29 sent to the
Security Council.  
 “We are of the view that the most reasonable way of
settling this incident is that the north and south of Korea sit
together to probe for the truth,” the letter said.  
 Russia has yet to make an announcement on its own
investigation into the sinking, while China has refrained from
blaming Kim’s regime. China and Russia both have veto power on
the UN Security Council.  
 China Role  
 In sending the letter, North Korea is primarily playing to
China, said  Bruce Klingner , a former Central Intelligence Agency
official with expertise on the Koreas.  
 “Beijing has long acted as North Korea’s lawyer in the
Security Council” and fears instability on its border with the
reclusive country, said Klingner, now a research fellow at the
 Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based policy institute.
“China will see the letter as an affirmation of its policy of
trying to downplay confrontation and affirm its intention to
resist any resolution that names North Korea.”  
 South Korea remains technically at war with North Korea
since the armistice, signed between the UN Command and the
North, backed by China.  
 The U.S. has stood behind South Korea’s version of the
warship incident, with President  Barack Obama  telling Group of
20 leaders on June 27 that North Korea must be held to account
for its “belligerent” behavior.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        