-- South African Manufacturing May Have Contracted as Economic Rebound Wanes
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-01T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/south-african-manufacturing-may-have-contracted-as-economic-rebound-wanes.html

          
          
             South Africa’s  purchasing managers’
index  fell below 50 for the first time in eight months in June,
indicating a contraction in manufacturing,  Kagiso Securities
Ltd.  said.  
 The seasonally adjusted index slid to 48.4 from 51.1 in
May, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement
today. The PMI had been above 50, which indicates an expansion
in factory production, for seven consecutive months.  
 The drop in  manufacturing , which accounts for 15 percent of
the economy, raises doubts about the strength of the recovery.
Concern that the European debt crisis may stall global growth
also worsened manufacturers’ expectations of future sales,
Kagiso said.  
 “There are clear signs of a momentum loss in the rate of
output growth,”  Andre Coetzee , head of fixed income at Kagiso,
said in the statement. A drop in employment is “another
worrisome development.”  
 The index measuring business activity dropped to 45.2 last
month from 49 in May, while the new sales orders index declined
to 50.4 from 51.9, Kagiso said.  
 “The latest factory survey data suggests that the
contribution of manufacturing to overall GDP growth in the
second quarter should be meaningfully less than the 1.3
percentage points added during the first quarter,” Coetzee said.  
 The employment sub-index fell 1.5 points to 45.9, according
to the survey. South Africa’s  jobless rate  rose to 25.2 percent
in the first quarter, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg, even as the  economy  expanded an annualized 4.6
percent.  
 The  Bureau for Economic Research , based at the University
of Stellenbosch near Cape Town, and the Institute of Purchasing
and Supply South Africa conduct the PMI survey on behalf of
Kagiso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        