-- South Korea Exports Rise an Eighth Month, Adding Pressure for Higher Rates
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-07-01T05:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/south-korea-exports-rise-an-eighth-month-adding-pressure-for-higher-rates.html

          
          
             South Korea’s exports increased for
an eighth month in June as the global economic rebound spurred
demand for Hyundai Motor Co. cars and  Samsung Electronics Co. 
semiconductors.  
 Overseas shipments  increased 32.4 percent from a year
earlier, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in Gwacheon
today. That compared with the median estimate for a 25 percent
gain in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 13 economists.  Imports 
climbed 36.9 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $7.5 billion.  
 The government last week raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast to 5.8 percent, from a December projection of 5 percent,
saying a faster-than-expected global recovery is spurring
exports and local demand. South Korea may join India, Malaysia
and Taiwan in increasing borrowing costs as the economy shows it
is weathering Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 “The export growth is impressive, showing the economy’s
resilience to the European fiscal woes,” said  Park Sang Hyun ,
an economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The
faster-than-expected economic recovery will likely persuade the
central bank to begin raising rates soon, if not next week.”  
 The won weakened 1 percent to 1,233.45 per dollar as of
11:58 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency tumbled 7.4 percent in the three months through
June, the first quarterly loss since March 2009, on concerns
Europe’s debt crisis will hurt the global recovery.  
 Exports to Europe  
 South Korea’s exports to Europe rose 38.4 percent in the
first 20 days of June from a year earlier, a report from the
economy ministry showed today. Exports to China, the biggest
buyer of South Korean goods, advanced 25.3 percent and shipments
to the U.S. increased 24.2 percent.  
 Overseas shipments of semiconductors climbed 62.1 percent
last month, and display-panel sales increased 19.1 percent, the
ministry said. Exports of cars rose 61.9 percent and ships
gained 84.1 percent, the ministry said.  
 The Finance Ministry last week projected 25 percent growth
in exports this year, higher than the economy ministry’s earlier
forecast of a 13 percent gain.  
 South Korea’s economy expanded 2.1 percent in the first
quarter of 2010 from the previous three months, driven by
exports. The economic rebound pulled May unemployment down to a
19-month low.  
 The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark rate unchanged at 2
percent for a 16th month in June as Governor  Kim Choong Soo 
balanced the risks of growing inflationary pressures against
Europe’s fiscal woes. The next meeting is scheduled for July 9.  
 Stable Inflation  
 South Korea’s consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in June from
a year earlier, easing from a 2.7 percent gain in May, the
statistics office said today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 13 economists was for a 2.9 percent gain. Prices
declined 0.2 percent from May on cheaper agricultural products
as output increased.  
 Inflation will probably exceed 3 percent later this year
because of an increase in public fees for gas and electricity
and a weaker won, said  Kwon Young Sun , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 Central bank Governor  Kim  said June 10 policy makers will
focus more on “price stability” after keeping the  benchmark
rate  at a record low.  
 “They need to act to tackle inflationary pressures,”  Lee Sung Kwon , an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul,
said before today’s report. A rate increase is likely to come in
August after policy makers check second-quarter growth data due
to be released at the end of this month, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        