-- Spain Sells Upper Target at Bond Auction After Moody's Threatens Downgrade
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-01T12:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/spanish-bond-sale-reaches-target-as-moody-s-warning-raises-borrowing-costs.html

          
          
             Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of five-year bonds at an auction today, reaching the 
maximum sale target even as its borrowing costs rose after
Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut the country’s top
credit rating.  
 Spain sold the notes at an average yield of 3.657 percent,
compared with 3.532 percent at an auction of those bonds on May
6. Demand was 1.7 times the amount sold, below the bid-to-cover
ratio of 2.35 at the May sale.  
 “They did fill it at pretty much the maximum of their
guidance, and when you consider the backdrop, you’d have to say
that’s encouraging,” said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-income
strategist at Nomura International Plc in London. The bid-to-
cover ratio was “a bit low,” he said.  
 The sale came hours after Moody’s placed Spain’s Aaa credit
ranking on review for a possible downgrade, citing
“deteriorating” growth prospects, challenges in meeting
deficit targets and the risks posed by higher borrowing costs.
Spain, which faces 24.7 billion euros of debt redemptions this
month, is trying to convince investors it can cut the euro
region’s third-largest deficit, while bolstering the country’s
savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-year slump.  
 ‘Safely Away’  
 The average yield at the auction was in line with the yield
for the same bonds in the market before the sale, and the yield
declined after the auction to 3.773 percent from 3.796
yesterday. Spain’s main IBEX-35  share index  was 0.7 percent
lower as of 2:38 p.m. in Madrid, having fallen as much as 3.1
percent earlier.  
 “They got it safely away,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  
 “There was a concession running up to the auction,” he
said. “Every time there’s an auction, it’s a test and they’ve
passed the test.”  
 The  extra  interest investors demand to hold Spanish 5-year
debt rather than equivalent German bonds declined to 223.8 basis
points from 229.5 basis points yesterday. That spread narrowed
for the first time in three days yesterday as a European Central
Bank tender signaled the euro region’s banks are in less need of
cash than investors had estimated.  
 Investor Sentiment  
 The Spanish auction provides a test of investor sentiment
toward the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, and the Moody’s
decision may add to pressure on the Socialist government to
deepen spending cuts as it starts drafting next year’s budget.
Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s already stripped Spain of
their top ratings.  
 Moody’s also cut the ratings of five Spanish regional
governments, saying a decline in tax revenue would lead to an
increase in indebtedness. Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  declined to comment on Moody’s threat to cut Spain’s
credit rating today, saying only he is “fully confident in the
strength of the solvency” of Spain.  
 The government has pledged to cut the deficit to 6 percent
of gross domestic product next year from 11.2 percent in 2009,
aiming to bring the shortfall in line with the European Union
limit of 3 percent in 2013. Moody’s said the deficit will remain
“just over” 5 percent that year, lead Spain analyst Kathrin
Muehlbronner said in a telephone interview yesterday.  
 Spain’s Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said the
timing of the Moody’s announcement was “unfortunate.”  
 “Many of these downgrades come on the evaluation of long-
term growth, but the timing tends to be linked to short-term
volatility,” he said in an interview in New York.  
 Debt Redemptions  
 The Moody’s announcement boosted Spanish financing costs in
a month when it faces the largest debt redemptions for the rest
of the year. The government has said it will have no trouble
paying the maturing bonds, whose expiry coincides with a period
of peak tax collection. The Treasury has scheduled three more
auctions of bonds and bills before the end of the month.  
 While Spain’s  deficit  last year was 11.2 percent of GDP,
its public debt was 53 percent of GDP, lower than in Germany,
and less than the euro-region average of 79 percent. Spain sees
that ratio rising to 74 percent in 2012. Standard & Poor’s ranks
Spain AA, and Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+ on May 28, citing
concerns over the growth outlook.  
 Moody’s also forecasts slower economic growth than Spain’s
Finance Ministry as budget cuts threaten the recovery. It
projects that the economy will expand by an average 1 percent a
year through 2014, while the government sees growth accelerating
to 2.7 percent in 2013.  
 Campa said in the interview yesterday that growth next year
may be “slightly less” than the 1.3 percent the government now
expects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     'Many of these downgrades come on the evaluation of long-term growth, but the timing tends to be linked to short-term volatility, Spain's Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Dean Curnutt, president of Macro Risk Advisors, talks with Bloomberg’s Erik Schatzker about the prospects of Moody's Investors Service downgrading Spain's top credit rating and his investment strategy for European sovereign debt. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
