-- Sri Lanka's Sovereign Rating May Be Raised, Standard & Poor's Benard Says
-- Anusha Ondaatjie
-- 2010-07-01T08:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sri-lanka-s-sovereign-rating-may-be-raised-standard-poor-s-benard-says.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka’s sovereign rating, which
is on par with Kenya and Ukraine, may be raised as funds from a
$2.5 billion International Monetary Fund loan improved the
“external liquidity situation,” Standard & Poor’s said.  
 The South Asian country, which is rebuilding its economy
after ending a 26-year civil war, turned to the IMF last year
after foreign-exchange reserves dropped to an eight-year low.
S&P in October raised the island-nation’s credit outlook to
positive from stable and affirmed the long-term foreign currency
debt rating at B, five levels below investment grade.  
 “The balance of payments crisis is behind us and the
reserve position is stable,”  Agost Benard , S&P’s Singapore-
based associate director, said in a telephone interview today.
“The positive outlook means that the most likely outcome in the
next move is for the rating going up.”  
 Benard didn’t elaborate when S&P would next make an
announcement on the South Asian country’s rating.  
 Sri Lanka said this week that foreign-exchange reserves had
risen to $5.5 billion, or equivalent to about 6 months of
imports. The Washington-based lender on June 28 released $408
million to Sri Lanka and agreed to a one-year extension as the
country pledged to trim its budget deficit.  
 President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s government on June 29
unveiled plans to slash its deficit by the most in eight years
and pledged to cut taxes to spur economic  growth .  
 Tax Rates  
 Sri Lanka will narrow the  budget  shortfall to 8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2010 from 9.9 percent in the previous
year, Deputy Finance Minister Sarath Amunugama said in his
budget speech on June 29. The proposed reduction is the biggest
since 2002 after the government last year failed to meet the 7
percent target under the IMF program.  
 Sri Lanka is overhauling its tax rates based on the
recommendations of a panel set up by Rajapaksa that will submit
its final report in August, said Amunugama, who didn’t unveil
any tax changes in the budget.  
 “Fiscal consolidation doesn’t yet seem to be a priority,
with deficit targets being missed,” Benard said. “There’s
still a question-mark on what sort of revenue measures will be
implemented to achieve targets.”  
 Central Bank of Sri Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P.
Siriwardena said yesterday the island nation plans to sell
dollar-denominated bonds by the end of this year in its third
overseas offering.  
 Sri Lanka is formulating a strategy to have its rating
upgraded to investment level in the next four years, the central
bank said in a June 9 statement.  
 “The new budget and continued IMF program are positives,”
Benard said. “Still, to have effect on the rating, executing
the program is key.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        