-- Standard Bank Credit Card Accounts Surge 30% as World Cup Boosts Spending
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-01T11:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/standard-bank-says-number-of-credit-card-this-year-have-increased-by-20-.html

          
          
             Standard Bank Group Ltd. , South
Africa’s largest credit card provider, said the number of credit
card accounts opened in the first half of 2010 rose 30 percent
from a year earlier, boosted by spending for the World Cup.  
 “The World Cup is buoying the general psychology of the
nation and spend patterns are improving,” Leila Fourie, head of
Standard Bank’s card division, told reporters in Johannesburg
today. Africa’s biggest bank by assets posted year-on-year
growth of 20 percent in credit card accounts in May, she said.  
 The month-long soccer World Cup, which ends on July 11, has
increased spending on electronics, telecommunications equipment,
sporting goods and gifts, Fourie said. Lower interest rates in
South Africa also “helps with affordability” of credit, she
said, adding that the company is “cautiously optimistic” about
credit card growth in the second half.  
 South Africa’s Reserve Bank has lowered its benchmark
 interest rate  seven times to 6.5 percent since December 2008 to
boost spending after the economy fell into its first recession
in 17 years in 2009. Lower borrowing costs helped boost
spending, triggering a 4.6 percent expansion in  gross domestic
product  in the first three months of the year, the fastest pace
in seven quarters.  
 A report yesterday showed credit extension increased for
the first time in eight months in May as the low interest rate
encouraged consumers to borrow.  Borrowing  by households and
businesses rose an annual 0.8 percent last month after dropping
0.9 percent in April, the central bank said yesterday.  
 Credit card fraud at Standard Bank has also dropped by
about 30 percent in the first half compared with a year earlier,
Fourie said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        