-- Standard Life's Laing Beat Rivals With Bet Cameron Would Help U.K. Gilts
-- David Clarke
-- 2010-07-01T09:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/standard-life-s-bet-on-u-k-gilts-drives-laing-to-top-european-fund-spot.html

          
          
             Standard Life Investments’  Philip Laing  beat other bond investors in the first half by switching
money into U.K. debt just before a recovery prompted by the new
government’s bid to lower the deficit and avoid a downgrade.  
 His $14 billion SLTM U.K. Government Bond Fund gained 5.5
percent this year after he moved money from euro-region debt
into gilts. That made it the best performer among 20 government
bond funds based in Europe with more than $1 billion to invest,
according to Morningstar Inc. Laing said he’s maintaining his
U.S. Treasury holdings, betting the recovery there may slow.  
 “The U.K. is in the process of being rerated” by bond
investors, Laing said in a telephone interview from his office
in Edinburgh. “Last year the U.K. was a laggard. We got the
benefit from not being in the U.K. when it was being pushed
down, and turning that around when the country was being
reassessed.”  
 Since Prime Minister  David Cameron  took power in May and
announced an emergency spending review a month later, British
bonds have closed the gap with German securities, perceived as
Europe’s safest. U.K. bonds have returned 3 percent since the
May 6 election, compared with 1.4 percent from German bonds over
that time, according to indexes from Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit. In the six months before the election, U.K.
bonds gained 2.8 percent, compared with 6.1 percent for bunds.  
 Britain’s May 6 vote pitted former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , who promised to maintain spending to accelerate the
recovery, against Cameron, who said the U.K. may face the same
fate as Greece should it not lower its deficit.  
 Budget Commitment  
 Cameron’s budget, which announced a levy on banks and a
higher sales tax, is a “strong statement of intent” to tackle
the deficit, Fitch Ratings said on June 22 after the plan was
presented. The budget shows a commitment to cut the shortfall,
and is “materially stronger” than plans from former Chancellor
of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling  in March, Fitch said.  
 The budget aims to eliminate the so-called structural
deficit, the portion of a budget shortfall unaffected by swings
in the economy, by 2015.  
 Laing, whose firm manages assets of about $175 billion,
said he moved from an underweight position on gilts to
overweight, which means he owns a greater percentage of the
bonds in his portfolio than benchmark indexes suggest. His
holding of German bunds has gone from overweight to underweight,
he said.  
 U.K.  10-year gilts  rose for the eighth day in nine, pushing
the yield on the benchmark security down one basis point to 3.35
percent as of 10:40 a.m. in London. That’s approaching the 3.31
percent yield reached on June 29, which was the lowest in more
than a year.  
 Laing said his fund, which fell 0.6 percent last year, is
used to manage some of Standard Life’s own money and isn’t
directly available to outside clients. Standard Life Investments
is a unit of  Standard Life Plc , Scotland’s largest insurer.  
 ‘Core Dragged In’  
 Laing said he’s wary of German government securities, given
commitments from Europe’s wealthiest nations to help those with
the biggest deficits. The European Union crafted a 750-billion-
euro ($908 billion) rescue package in May in a bid to stem the
sovereign-debt crisis.  
 “Core Europe, we felt, has been pushed a little bit too
far,” Laing said. “The proposals that have been outlined to
support the peripherals mean the core has been dragged into the
crisis.”  
 Laing is still holding an overweight position in U.S.
Treasuries amid concern the recovery will wane should the
government rein in stimulus measures. A report yesterday from
ADP Employer Services showed companies in the U.S. expanded
payrolls in June less than economists predicted.  
 “There are question marks that when the authorities step
away, we are back to square one,” Laing said. “That will lead
to a flight to Treasuries.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Clarke at 
 dclarke3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        