-- Steak Chef Sharpens Knives in City Restaurant After Honeymoon
-- Richard Vines
-- 2010-07-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/steak-chef-sharpens-knives-in-city-restaurant-after-honeymoon.html

          
          
             John Cadieux got married in Canada a
few weeks ago.  
 It was a short honeymoon.  
 “I had a big delivery of meat coming on the Friday, so I
had to get back in time for that,” said Cadieux, 36, head chef
at Goodman, the London steak house that has been packing in
carnivores since opening in Mayfair in November 2008.  
 Now, a second branch is taking shape in the City financial
district, and Cadieux is focused on the challenge.  
 The restaurant, on Old Jewry, will feature an open kitchen
and a meat store in the dining room so that diners will get a
little theater along with their rib eye, fries and creamed
spinach. Opening is currently scheduled for Aug. 2.  
 “People ask me a lot what’s my favorite steak, and I would
say a good piece of meat would be the best answer,” Cadieux
said as he displayed different cuts in the basement kitchen of
the original restaurant. “Sometimes, I like the grain-fed
because it’s got less of a chew but lots of juice. But then you
can’t get away from a nice dry-aged English piece of meat that
has a lot of fat on it and a good chew on it as well.”  
 Cadieux was born in Ottawa and previously worked for five
years in Whistler, British Columbia. Was he surprised when he
first came to London and found how much Britons enjoyed steak?  
 “Yes I was,” he said. “People were ordering 700, 800,
900 grams. We had a fellow in last week he had a 2.2 kilo (4.9
pound) porterhouse. It took him about an hour and a half to eat.
And he wants a picture of himself on the wall and if anyone eats
more than him, he’ll buy it for them.”  
 Hawksmoor, Maze  
 “We were lucky when we opened: There weren’t that many
steak houses in town. There was Hawksmoor, a very good steak
house, Maze Grill and then the chain steak houses like Gaucho
and Aberdeen. We weren’t really going for that market,” he
said.  
 Given Goodman’s big cuts of American meat and an authentic
New York-influenced menu, you might be forgiven for not knowing
that this is a Russian company, with  branches across Moscow .
About 30 percent of customers in London are American, Cadieux
said, and most diners are male, particularly in the evening.  
 “At night, it’s very male dominated,” he said. “But the
women that do come in here are very, very confident, very
comfortable in that environment so you’ll have them ordering the
shots and them ordering the big steaks sometime so they know
what they’re getting into when they come here.”  
 City, Economy  
 How has the economic slowdown affected Goodman? Is Cadieux
nervous about opening in the City at this time?  
 “We haven’t really felt it because this meat costs a lot
and it is fair value,” he said. “We’ve never asked anyone to
pay for a steak they didn’t enjoy. The City will be a very
different crowd, a very busy crowd. Mayfair’s a universe unto
itself. In the City, we’re going to have a larger bar and a
private area. I’m looking forward to the City.”  
 The romantics among you may be pleased to hear that Cadieux
has managed to spend plenty of time with his new wife, Justyna
Rezla, who comes from Belchatow, in central Poland.  
 She works in the restaurant.  
 Goodman, 26 Maddox Street, London, W1S 1QH. Information:
+44-20-7499-3776 or click on  http://www.goodmanrestaurants.com/ .  
 Goodman, 11 Old Jewry, London, EC2R 8DU.  
 ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net ; Richardvines on  http://twitter.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Slices of beef at restaurant Goodman in Mayfair. The restaurant has opened a second branch, in the City's financial district. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Food critic Richard Vines, left, and chef John Cadieux in the kitchen at Goodman restaurant in London. The restaurant has opened a branch in the City financial district. Source: Bloomberg Television  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chefs from left, Anthony Demetre, Claude Bosi and John Cadieux at Goodman in London. The steak house has opened a branch in the financial district. Photographer: Richard Vines/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
