-- Stimulus Might Avert Error of Optimism: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-07-01T01:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/stimulus-might-avert-error-of-optimism-commentary-by-david-blanchflower.html

          
          
             We all seem to know that failing to
learn history’s lessons dooms us to repeat them, so you have to
wonder why so many smart people seem to make the same economic
mistakes.  
 For the latest example, let’s go back to Jan. 5, 1938, when
a famous cartoon was published in the London Evening Standard.  
 It pictured the residence of Prime Minister Neville
Chamberlain at 10 Downing St., emblazoned with the logo,
“Downing St. Temple of Sunshine.” A dozen officials stand in
front, all half-naked, wrapped in towels, next to a sign saying,
“Today’s weather report -- set fair indefinitely.” Walking
along Downing Street is a man under an open umbrella who is
admonished by the officials -- “the feller ought to be ashamed:
encouraging rain.” That man is  John Maynard Keynes : written on
his umbrella is the phrase, “anti-slump precautions.”  
 The cartoon followed a letter that Keynes wrote to the
Times four days earlier, in which he said that British military
spending was the main force keeping up employment, while blaming
 Franklin Roosevelt  for cutting spending and bringing on Round
Two of the Great Depression in the U.S.  
 “Examples abound in all parts of the world where public
loan expenditure has improved employment: and I know of no case
to the contrary,” Keynes wrote. “Does anyone doubt that
 employment  would decline if public loan expenditure on armaments
were to cease tomorrow?”  
 Semi-Naked  
 Keynes’ view ran counter to the so-called Treasury view,
expressed by the semi-naked officials in Low’s cartoon. That
view held that fiscal policy has essentially no effect on the
economy and unemployment, even in the depth of recession.
Increased  government spending , according to that view, crowds
out an equivalent amount of private spending or investment. In
short, it has no net impact on the economy.  
 History proved Keynes correct. In contrast to the U.S., the
U.K. didn’t experience a slump at the end of the 1930s, because
of the increased level of fiscal stimulus as a result of re-
armament spending.  
 Yet the crowding-out view seemed to be held by a number of
the countries at the G-20 summit last weekend, especially by the
U.K. and German governments. It appears now that even French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is on board and plans to implement
draconian austerity measures.  
 This position stands in contrast to the U.S. view that
committing to reduce long-term  deficits  is appropriate only if
it’s not at the price of short-term growth.  
 It is much more likely that public expenditures, rather
than crowding out private spending, are promoting it.  
 Ending Profligacy  
 The view of the anti-stimulus crowd is that public spending
cuts and tax increases now will somehow quickly return us to
steady growth and lots of private-sector hiring. Recovery is
under way, the slump is over, so let’s start shrinking the over-
reaching state and put an end to all that socialist profligacy.
Markets are self-correcting, so we must deliver what the markets
want or we will become Greece, it is argued.  
 It’s not a very convincing argument. Austerity can spook
the markets if it compromises growth, as it has in Greece.  
 In a subsequent letter to Roosevelt in February 1938,
Keynes explained that premature curtailment of public-works
programs had driven the U.S. back into recession in 1937 because
of an “error of optimism.” It seems to me that there is a very
real danger that German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron , Sarkozy and their underlings are being
overly complacent and are also in danger of making a huge error
of optimism.  
 Long Depression  
 There is a significant probability that these leaders will
make the biggest macro-economic mistake since the 1930s, which
might push us into what economist  Paul Krugman  has called the
Long Depression, equivalent to the depression that followed the
financial panic of 1873.  
 The signs of weakness are in plain sight. Banks are still
not lending, which can compromise growth. Money supply growth is
sluggish around the world. There is little or no potential to
lower interest rates, which are close to zero almost everywhere
except Australia.  
 Central banks are reluctant to do more quantitative easing,
as they remain wary of their effects and there is little room to
cut interest rates more. And there is even dangerous talk from
some inflation nutters that it is time to start raising rates,
which would make matters worse.  
 It doesn’t look like net trade or investment is going to
drive growth, and the consumer is beginning to run scared once
more. Consumer confidence last month dropped both in the U.S.
and U.K., and the outlook doesn’t seem promising: The index
measuring consumer expectations for the next six months in the
U.S. fell in May to 71 from 85, while a comparable yardstick in
the U.K. declined to 93 from 105. Consumer data in Europe paints
a similar picture.  
 All is not set fair. It’s time for more stimulus, not less.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- David Blanchflower, professor of economics at Dartmouth College, discusses the outlook for the global economy.
     Blanchflower talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
