-- U.S. Stocks Decline After Reports on Manufacturing, Home Sales
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-01T20:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/stock-index-futures-drop-on-signs-global-economic-recovery-may-be-stalling.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 to a nine-month low, as weaker-than-
estimated data on manufacturing and home sales fueled concern
that the economic recovery is in peril.  
 Bank of America Corp. ,  General Electric Co.  and  Merck & Co. 
lost at least 1.5 percent to lead declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , which slid for a sixth day, its longest
streak in almost 18 months. UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Humana
Inc. fell at least 1.9 percent.  United Parcel Service Inc.  and
 FedEx Corp.  increased more than 1.9 percent after both were
raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS AG.  
 The  S&P 500  lost 0.3 percent to 1,027.37 as of 4 p.m. in
New York and earlier fell as low as 1,010.91, its weakest
intraday level since Sept. 4. The index pared the drop of as
much as 1.9 percent amid speculation recent declines have made
stocks cheap compared with estimates for earnings growth. The
Dow decreased 41.49 points, or 0.4 percent, to 9,732.53.  
 “Markets are down because we’re getting a little bit
softer economic data,” said  Michael Vogelzang , who helps manage
$1.7 billion as chief investment officer at Boston Advisors in
Boston. “Numbers are pretty much disappointing across the
board.”  
 The S&P 500 has tumbled 16 percent from this year’s high on
April 23 on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, a slow-
to-recover U.S. job market and China’s moves to tame inflation
will dent global growth. The gauge is 7.9 percent lower this
year and has fallen for eight of the past nine days, trimming
its valuation to less than 15 times the reported  earnings  of its
companies, the cheapest level in about a year, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Jobs, Manufacturing  
 Index futures slid before the open of U.S. exchanges after
the Labor Department said initial jobless claims increased by
13,000 to 472,000 last week, topping the median economist
forecast for a decline to 455,000. Manufacturing grew in June at
a slowest pace this year, with the Institute for Supply
Management’s gauge dropping to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May.
The median forecast of economists surveyed was 59.  
 The number of contracts to purchase previously owned houses
plunged in May by 30 percent, more than twice as much as
forecast, after a homebuyer tax credit expired. The drop was the
biggest in records dating to 2001.  
 China Manufacturing  
 China’s manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast in June, adding to signs that the world’s fastest-
growing major economy is cooling. The government’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index fell to 52.1 in June from 53.9 in May. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was
53.2.  
 Stocks pared declines in the afternoon amid speculation
that the recent slide in equities may have overshot the
potential slowdown in the economic recovery.  
 “The level of pessimism we’ve seen over the last several
days can be viewed as somewhat extreme given valuations,” said
 Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at Solaris Asset
Management in Bedford Hills, New York, which manages $2 billion.
“We’re still in an economic recovery and all signs point to a
continuation of that, perhaps at a slightly slower pace.”  
 At its low for the day, the S&P 500 was trading with a PEG
ratio, or its price-earnings multiple using 2009 profit divided
by forecast 2012 income growth, of 0.78, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The indicator was a favored tool of
Fidelity Investments fund manager  Peter Lynch , who claimed
stocks trading with a PEG as high as 1 were fairly valued.  
 ‘A Good Deal’  
 “When you look at an individual stock at a PEG of 1 you’re
generally getting a good deal,” said  Paul Hickey , founder of
Harrison, New York-based Bespoke Investment Group LLC. “So if
you’re getting it at 0.78 you’re buying the market at 20 percent
cheaper than its growth rate and so that’s a pretty compelling
valuation.”  
 The Russell 2000 Index of smaller stocks fell 0.8 percent
after earlier losing as much as 3.1 percent. That intraday
decline took the gauge into bear-market territory, having
retreated more than 20 percent from its high on April 23.  
 “Small-cap valuations looked stretched, especially with
the hints of a weaker recovery,” said  Eric Cinnamond , the
Jacksonville Beach, Florida-based manager of the $450 million
Intrepid Small Cap Fund which has beaten 83 percent of peers so
far this year. “There are no tailwinds for these stocks and
they’re not seeing the revenue growth that had been priced in
earlier.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  fell 1.3 percent to $36.08. The
second-largest U.S. bank had its second-quarter earnings-per-
share estimate reduced by Bank of America Corp. analysts, who
said uncertainty over Europe and China and risk aversion hurt
trading and investment banking.  
 Health-Care Companies  
 An index of health-care companies in the S&P 500 fell the
second-most of 10 groups.  WellPoint Inc. , the biggest U.S.
health insurer, expects to lose about $100 million on the
individual insurance market in California after requesting a
scaled-back rate increase, a company spokeswoman said today.  
 WellPoint declined 2.3 percent to $47.79. UnitedHealth
retreated 1.9 percent to $27.85, and Humana fell 2.4 percent to
$44.59.  
 Merck lost 1.5 percent to $34.44 after Lupin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. said it received approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration for its generic version of Merck’s
antacid Pepcid.  
 Dendreon Corp.  tumbled 6.8 percent to $30.13. The Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services is requesting public comments
on the effects of Dendreon’s Provenge on prostate-cancer
patients.  
 Provenge Comment  
 “We believe the worst case scenario contemplated here --an
official CMS ruling not to reimburse for Provenge -- is simply
not supported by the facts,” Robert Baird analyst  Raymond Christopher  wrote in a note to clients today. The broker has an
“outperform” recommendation on the shares.  
 UPS climbed 2 percent to $58 and FedEx Corp. increased 2.7
percent to $72 after both were raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at UBS AG, citing compelling valuations and
expectations for above-average earnings-per-share growth.  
 BP Plc’s U.S. shares rallied 1.8 percent to $29.39 and have
gained 8.8 percent this week, paring their retreat since April
20 to 51 percent. The company said it’s sticking to its schedule
for the relief wells needed to plug the leaking well in the Gulf
of Mexico to be completed in August. Work continues to contain
the spill,  Sheila Williams , a London-based spokeswoman for BP,
said by phone.  
 ‘Ahead of Schedule’  
 “They are ahead of schedule,” said  Fadel Gheit , an oil
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co in New York. “They are coming to
the finish line, but once they come to it they will crawl, they
will not run or walk. They do not want to leave any chance of
failure.”  
 Yahoo! Inc.  gained 1.8 percent to $14.09 after the internet
media company’s board authorized the repurchase of as much as $3
billion of the company’s shares over the next three years.  
   Smith & Wesson Holding Corp.  climbed 6.9 percent to $4.37.
The handgun manufacturer reported fourth-quarter adjusted
earnings of 8 cents a share, beating analysts’ estimates of 4
cents a share.  
 Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc.  soared 16 percent to $3.56 after
Eisai Co. said it will sell the hunger-curbing lorcaserin drug
from Arena in the U.S. if the obesity treatment is approved.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks, commodities and the dollar slumped as data on manufacturing, jobless claims and home sales fueled concern the economic recovery is faltering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
