-- Success of Climate Plans Hinges on Energy Saving, Carbon Storage, IEA Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-01T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/success-of-climate-plans-hinges-on-energy-saving-carbon-storage-iea-says.html

          
          
             Any plan for halving global
greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 will depend on cutting the
energy used by buildings and vehicles and on developing
technology to capture and store pollution, the  International
Energy Agency  said today.  
 More energy-efficient buildings and cars could provide 38
percent of the carbon dioxide cuts necessary, and “should be
the highest priority in the short-term,” according to an IEA
report.  
 Power plants, factories and refineries could contribute 19
percent of the needed pollution cuts if “carbon capture and
storage” technology is commercially proven, said the agency,
which advises 28 nations, including the U.S. and Japan, on
energy policy.  
 Renewable electricity sources such as wind farms and solar
panels could account for 15 percent of the 2050 emissions goal,
with 6 percent more coming from new nuclear reactors, according
to the report. The IEA predicts governments and investors would
have to put 17 percent more money into the energy sector for the
next 40 years to support low-pollution technology over today’s
fossil fuels.  
 “Governments will need to intervene on an unprecedented
level in the next decade to avoid the lock-in of high-emitting,
inefficient technologies,” the Paris-based agency said.  
 Laws that charge polluters a price for releasing carbon
dioxide into the atmosphere won’t be enough to cut global
greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2050, according to the
report.  
 Driving Change  
 While cap-and-trade programs, in which companies buy and
sell a declining number of carbon dioxide allowances, “are
likely to be an important driver of change, they are not
necessarily the most effective way to deliver short-term
investment,” the IEA said.  
 Cap-and-trade programs for greenhouse gases already exist
in Europe and the U.S. Northeast. Legislation to establish a
federal cap-and-trade program covering nearly every sector of
the U.S. economy passed the House of Representatives last year
with the support of President  Barack Obama .  
 The cap-and-trade plan stalled in the Senate, where some
Democrats are now proposing a scaled-back plan covering the
electricity sector, which accounts for about one-third of U.S.
greenhouse gas emissions, according to  Environmental Protection
Agency  data. The EPA plans to enforce its own carbon dioxide
regulations next year if the carbon trading bill doesn’t pass.  
 The IEA predicts that “a truly global carbon market is
likely to be many years away,” and governments should consider
other measures to promote low-pollution technology, such as
agency regulations, tax breaks and subsidies.  
 Government funding for research and development into low-
carbon technologies also should be “two to five times higher
than current levels,” according to the IEA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        