-- Sugar Output in India to Top Forecast, Reducing Need to Import, Group Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-01T10:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sugar-output-in-india-to-top-government-forecast-halt-imports-group-says.html

          
          
             Sugar output in India, the world’s
biggest user, will exceed a government forecast because of an
increase in the area planted to cane, a producers’ group said.  
 Production will be 24 million to 25 million metric tons in
the year starting Oct. 1, said  Vinay Kumar , managing director of
the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., in
a telephone interview. Output may be 23 million tons, matching
demand, the government said on June 29.  
 Increased output from the second-biggest producer may add
to global surplus forecast at 5.64 million tons for the 2010-
2011 season by Fortis Bank Nederland and VM Group and pressure
prices that have slumped by half from a 29-year high in February.
The country has been a net buyer of the commodity since 2008
after sugar cane growers switched to planting wheat and oilseeds.  
 “There won’t be any need to import, not even for building
inventories,” as the nation may have a 4.8 million ton surplus
from the current season, said Kumar.  
 The area planted with cane is 22 percent more than a year
earlier, and higher than the 13 percent increase estimated by
the government, said Kumar, whose group accounts for 45 percent
of the nation’s production.  
 “Farmers have responded well to prices,” he said.  
 White sugar for October delivery declined as much as 0.6
percent to $466.5 a ton in London. Raw-sugar for delivery in
October dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 15.87 cents a pound in
after-hours trading on ICE Futures U.S.  
 Bore Wells  
 “Sugar is mostly irrigated in Uttar Pradesh and they can
withstand a delay of a week to 10 days in monsoon,” he said.  
 The  monsoon , the main source of irrigation for the nation’s
235 million farmers, may reach the rice and cane-growing regions
in the north region after four or five days, D. Sivananda Pai, a
director at the weather office, said in an interview today.  
 Rains have not moved beyond some parts of Madhya Pradesh,
the largest soybean-growing state, since June 16, and over the
northeast regions since June 18, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        