-- Sugar Prices May Climb on Demand, Brazil Port Bottleneck, Copersucar Says
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-07-01T21:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sugar-prices-may-rise-on-higher-demand-port-bottleneck-copersucar-says.html

          
          
             Sugar prices may rise 30 percent this
year on increasing demand, low yields and transportation delays
for sugar-cane crops in Brazil, said Copersucar SA, a Brazilian
cooperative that sells more sugar overseas than Thailand.  
 “We check fields and weather maps every day, and they tell
me prices are rising,”  Paulo Roberto de Souza , chief executive
officer for Sao Paulo-based Copersucar SA, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. He said prices could climb
to as much as 21 cents a pound this year.  
 Spot-market demand is measured by longer shipping times in
the port of Santos, Brazil, Souza said. He said as traffic
increased a ship must wait about a month to load sugar, while
normally it would take a week or two. In June, Brazil exported
2.5 million metric tons of sugar, a 12 percent rise over the
year-earlier period, the Brazilian Trade Ministry said today.  
 The availability of sugar in the spot market is tight and
should stay this way for some time because of the bottlenecks in
Brazil,  Michael McDougal , a senior vice president at brokerage
Newedge USA in New York, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Lower Forecast  
 Sugar-cane output in Brazil’s Center-South, the world’s
largest producing region, may be lower than previously estimated
on dry weather, industry association  Unica  said June 21. Unica
said March 31 the region will produce 595.9 million metric tons
of cane this year, up from 541.5 million tons in 2009. Unica
plans to release a revised forecast in the next few months.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery rose 0.22 cent, or 1.4
percent, to 16.28 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Prices have slumped 40 percent this year.  
 Copersucar is a sugar and ethanol cooperative with 39
associate mills. It plants an area of 900,000 hectare (2.2
million acres), more than twice the size of Rhode Island.  
 Copersucar plans to export 6 million metric tons of sugar
next year. Thailand, the world’s second-biggest exporter after
Brazil, exported 5.2 million tons last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        