-- Japan's Sumitomo to Pay $1.9 Billion For 30% of Usiminas Iron Ore Business
-- Masumi Suga
-- 2010-07-01T07:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/sumitomo-corp-buys-1-93-billion-stake-in-usiminas-mining-rail-business.html

          
          
             Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-largest
trading company, will pay $1.93 billion for a 30 percent stake
in a Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA unit, boosting its
iron ore supply 10-fold by 2015, amid growing demand from China.  
 The company will secure more than 10 million metric tons of
iron ore a year, up from 1.1 million tons, Senior Managing
Executive Officer  Kuniharu Nakamura  told reporters today in
Tokyo. It will buy the stake in Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based
Mineracao Usiminas SA, which owns iron ore mines and a railroad
business, Sumitomo said in a statement.  
 Iron ore imports by China, the world’s biggest consumer,
soared 42 percent last year to a record 628 million tons. Global
steel consumption will surpass a 2007 record this year, rising
11 percent from a year earlier as the world economy recovers,
according to the World Steel Association.  
 “This will help the domestic steel sector secure stable
raw material supplies” amid increasing competition from China
and South Korea, said  Takashi Murata , an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “Sumitomo can expect
an increase in revenue from higher iron ore prices and expand
its steel-products business.”  
 Usiminas, Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker, is seeking
to profit from surging iron ore prices by selling a stake and
spinning off the unit, which the company said may be worth $6.43
billion.  
 Profit Boost  
 The investment may boost Sumitomo’s operating profit by
between 10 billion to 20 billion yen ($226 million) a year by
2015, when an iron ore expansion project is completed, Nakamura
said. Usiminas Chief Executive Officer  Wilson Brumer  said
yesterday the company will invest 4.1 billion reais ($2.3
billion) by 2015 to boost iron ore output more than fourfold to
29 million tons.  
 Sumitomo shares closed little changed at 896 yen in Tokyo.  
 Sumitomo will likely supply “several million tons” of
iron ore a year to Japanese steelmakers and will target
shipments to China and India, Nakamura said. A Japanese group
led by Nippon Steel Corp., the nation’s largest mill, has a 27.8
percent stake in Usiminas.  
 “Stable supplies to Japan and the world will lead to
stability in management for the industries,” Nakamura said at a
press conference.  
 Asian Demand  
 Tokyo-based Sumitomo follows other Asian companies buying
assets in South America to curb costs and secure supplies of
iron ore, the main raw material used to make steel.  
 A group that included Posco and Nippon Steel acquired a 40
percent stake in a unit of Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, the
Brazilian steelmaker known as CSN, for $3.12 billion. CSN also
plans to sell shares in its iron ore unit.  
 JFE Holdings Inc. , Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, plans
to spend as much as 200 billion yen ($2.3 billion) to invest in
iron ore and coal mines in Australia and Brazil to double its
raw material self-sufficiency,  Eiji Hayashida , the president of
the company’s steel unit, said in a May 7 interview.  
 The Usiminas unit will control 83 percent of railroad
operator Usiminas Participacao & Logistica SA. The railroad
business includes a 20 percent voting stake in  MRS Logistica SA ,
a rail operator in southeastern Brazil.  Vale SA  and  CSN  also
hold stakes in MRS.  
 Ore Expansion  
 Mineracao Usiminas’ mine, located in the Serra Azul region
in the state of Minas Gerais, has an estimated 2.4 billion dry
tons in reserves, Sumitomo said.  
 When the mine expansion is complete, Sumitomo may be able
to secure 9 million tons of iron ore, about 30 percent of the
output, spokesman  Koji Furui  said. Sumitomo also has rights to a
South African iron ore mine that produces 1 million tons a year,
he said.  
 Sumitomo paid the equivalent of about $247 a ton of iron
ore, almost twice as much as Usiminas paid in 2008 to buy mining
company Mineracao J. Mendes Ltda.,  Ivan Fadel , a Credit Suisse
analyst based in Sao Paulo, said yesterday in a note to clients.  
 Iron ore producers including Vale SA, Rio Tinto Group and
BHP Billiton Ltd., the three biggest, have begun selling the
steelmaking ingredient on quarterly contracts. The price for the
period starting July 1, based on the average spot price for the
three months from March, may rise about 30 percent to $152 a ton,
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analysts said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        