-- Roche Embraces Genentech Innovation to Keep Cancer Drug Pipeline Flowing
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/swiss-roche-embraces-genentech-cool-to-keep-its-new-drug-pipeline-flowing.html

          
          
             When  Roche Holding AG  executives held
an  investor-day briefing  in New York in March, Morgan Stanley
analyst  Andrew Baum  had a question that had nothing to do with
new drugs, licensing deals or health-care legislation.  
 “Did the Genentech team hide the ties of the Roche
executives?” he asked.  Richard Scheller , a veteran of
Genentech, the biotechnology pioneer that Roche bought last
year, quipped that he doesn’t own one. His Roche colleagues on
the stage, led by Chief Executive Officer  Severin Schwan , didn’t
want him to look out of place, so they went tieless too.  
 “I’d never seen them without suits and ties before,” Baum
said in an interview. To him, the informal attire “reflected
the willingness of Roche to be seen to bend toward Genentech,
rather than the other way around.”  
 Such signals are easing investor concern that Roche might
destroy the  Genentech  culture of innovation that produced some
of the world’s top cancer drugs, said  Karl-Heinz Koch , an
analyst at Helvea AG in Zurich. There are even signs the $46.8
billion takeover may be bringing more change to Roche, the 114-
year-old inventor of Valium, than to Genentech, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 5 issue.  
 Scientists from the acquired company took key jobs, such
as head of development for Roche and Genentech combined. The
preexisting U.S. operations of Basel, Switzerland-based Roche
bore the brunt of job cuts after the buyout, and the parent
adopted Genentech’s research structure. At Genentech’s base, 1
DNA Way in South San Francisco, California, employees say it’s
business as usual.  
 ‘Key Positions’  
 “Success ultimately equates into power, and that’s
exactly what we are seeing at Roche/Genentech,” said  Joerg de Vries-Hippen , chief investment officer for European equities at
 Allianz Global Investors  in Frankfurt, where he helps manage
$146.6 billion of assets, including Roche shares. “Now that the
full integration has taken place, it’s the Genentech guys who
are being promoted and getting the key positions.”  
 Roche fell 2.8 Swiss francs, or 1.9 percent, to 146.3
francs in Swiss trading yesterday, valuing the company at 127.6
billion francs ($119.5 billion). Roche shares have declined 2.8
percent since March 27, 2009, the day after Genentech stopped
trading on the New York Exchange because of the buyout. Of 43
 Roche analysts  tracked by Bloomberg, 33 now recommend buying the
stock, while nine rate the shares “hold” and one says
investors should sell.  
 ‘Ahead of the Game’  
 There may be risk for Roche if Genentech becomes too
powerful, for the parent needs to preserve its “strategic
vision,” said  Nick Draeger , a former Roche employee who heads
Basel-based Cederberg Advisors, which counsels health-care
companies. Roche’s strength has been thinking 10 to 15 years
“ahead of the game,” and strategizing at U.S. companies can be
shorter-term, he said.  
 “Roche is the best company in the pharma business at the
moment,” Draeger said. “But they have to be very careful that
there is not undue and excessive influence on Roche by
Genentech.”  
 Roche acquired 60 percent of Genentech in 1990, for $2.1
billion. Roche owned 100 percent in July 1999, according to a
Genentech prospectus filed that month, before Roche reduced the
stake again. While retaining the right to control Genentech’s
board, Roche held just three of seven board seats in 2008 when
it owned 56 percent of the shares.  
 Rights to Products  
 In March 2009, Roche again took full ownership, ensuring
continued access to rights to sell Genentech’s products. Three
of those, Avastin, MabThera and Herceptin, had combined sales of
17.6 billion francs last year, topping the total for Roche’s 10
best-selling non-Genentech medicines, led by the antiviral drug
Tamiflu. MabThera is sold in the U.S. as Rituxan.  
 Genentech’s generated revenue per employee of $1.2 million
in 2008 compared with $527,664 at the Swiss company, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Roche’s long-term sales growth is better than its peers
mainly due to a subsidiary that’s been churning out its key
blockbusters, while its own research unit hasn’t been as
productive,”  Carri Duncan , an analyst at  Macquarie Group Ltd. 
in Zurich, said in an interview. “It appears to be a case of,
‘If you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em.’”  
 Roche installed Genentech veterans in strategic posts.  Hal Barron , who joined the U.S. company in 1996, is head of global
development. Genentech’s  Ian Clark , at the company since 2003
and CEO since January, heads all of Roche’s North American
commercial operations.  Pat Yang , who joined Genentech in 2004,
moved to Basel to run global manufacturing.  Scheller  took a seat
on Roche’s 12-member  executive committee , where he is the only
Genentech representative.  
 Moving From Basel  
 Genentech people also came to the fore in commercial roles.
About half of the oncology-life-cycle leaders, who manage market
introductions of drugs, are now based in South San Francisco.
 Mondher Mahjoubi , who had been working for Roche in Basel and
oversees global product strategy for cancer, moved to South San
Francisco to work alongside Genentech people.  
 More than a third of the life-cycle-leader positions in the
cancer business, which yields about 50 percent of  Roche’s
pharmaceutical revenue , went to Genentech employees. U.S.
commercial operations operate under the Genentech name.  
 Roche preserved Genentech jobs as it made cuts elsewhere.
The parent shut its Palo Alto, California, facility this year
and axed 500 of about 3,000 jobs at its Nutley, New Jersey, site
as part of a manufacturing shake-up.  
 More cuts may be in store, said Koch of Helvea, who
recommends buying Roche shares. Nutley is home to Roche’s
research and early development of compounds to treat cancer,
viruses, and inflammation. Genentech’s labs are also targeting
those diseases, and it isn’t clear that keeping two research
arms that do the same thing will make sense, Koch said.  
 ‘Sacred Place’  
 “Roche may not have wanted to rock the boat too quickly,
as Nutley’s always been something of a sacred place within the
company,” Koch said in an interview. “ Valium  was invented
there. Roche was built on Valium’s success.”  
 Roche changed how its preexisting labs work, because the
company’s scientists saw that Genentech’s set-up made more
sense, CEO Schwan said. In the past, Roche maintained separate
departments for laboratory research and early-stage testing in
people, functions that Genentech combined. Now both have
integrated research and early-development teams.  
 “The merger last year looks to me more like an attempt to
change the culture at Roche rather than the culture at
Genentech,” said David Botstein, a former science vice
president at Genentech who now consults for the company and is a
professor of genomics at  Princeton University  in Princeton, New
Jersey.  
 Power Base  
 Schwan said the shake-up of research led to initial
uncertainty, particularly in Basel. Also, for the “first time
ever in our history of acquisitions or mergers,” global-
management positions moved away from the Swiss city, Schwan
said. Before, decision-making powers had always been integrated
into Roche headquarters, he said in an interview.  
 For instance, Roche took over Boehringer Mannheim, a
health-care company based in Mannheim, Germany, in March 1998
and appointed its own manager to lead the merged diagnostics
business. Roche centralized, in Basel, functions such as
pharmaceutical marketing and development.  
 The main initial risk of the Genentech takeover for Roche
was losing staff from the biotechnology company, so the
integration was handled differently, Schwan said.  
 ‘Utmost Importance’  
 “If we look back a year ago, it was of utmost importance
to keep the spirit and the culture of Genentech and to keep
innovation thriving,” Schwan said. “It was really, really
important to retain people and to retain scientists.”  
 Staff fluctuation rates at Genentech are lower than they
were before the purchase was announced, Schwan said. A Roche
spokeswoman,  Claudia Schmitt , declined to give a breakdown of
staff changes, saying only that there were 11,120 Genentech
employees before the takeover and 13,000 afterward. The number
includes Roche employees who transferred to Genentech.  
 Roche management was “doing everything they can to make us
feel welcome, probably at the expense of their own folks a
little bit,” said Dennis Kleid, a scientist and patent adviser
who was the fifth employee that Genentech hired, and who helped
the company develop the first human insulin based on
recombinant-DNA technology.  
 While Kleid retired in May after more than three decades at
Genentech, departures of key personnel have been few.  Arthur Levinson , who had been Genentech’s CEO since July 1995, retired
from daily operations in May 2009, while remaining chairman, and
was given a seat on the Roche board of directors in March.  
 Retention Payments  
 Susan Desmond-Hellmann , who had been the head of product
development, left Genentech and last August became chancellor of
the University of California, San Francisco.  
 Roche distributed $375 million in payments to prevent
defections, and none of the top scientists from Scheller’s
research and early-development group left, even after the
outlays ended, Schwan said.  
 Genentech prides itself on a culture of research and
innovation, encouraging employees to pursue their own projects
and creating a workplace where jeans predominate, hierarchy is
kept to a minimum, and scientists have easy access to top
managers, said  Mark Sliwkowski , who has worked as a researcher
at Genentech for 19 years.  
 ‘Little Has Changed’  
 “From my point of view as a research scientist very
little has changed,” Sliwkowski said in an interview. “If I
don’t wander outside our research facility you wouldn’t know
there was anything different. The culture is exactly the same.”  
 Genentech earned a reputation for treating employees well,
offering perks such as day care for children and “Ho-Hos,” or
regular get-togethers, for staff. One such event saw members of
Genentech’s executive committee dress in lederhosen, in honor of
Roche’s initial acquisition in 1990.  
 Four years ago, Fortune Magazine ranked Genentech the best
company to work for in the U.S. The Ho-Hos are still a fixture,
and an atmosphere of what  Pascal Soriot , the head of Roche’s
pharmaceuticals division, called ‘casual intensity’ remains,
employees say.  
 “Genentech has always had as an explicit goal being a
great place to work,”  Genentech CEO Clark  said. “I don’t think
that was such a conscious goal for Roche, and that may be one
place where our culture can rub off a little bit.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Genentech CEO Ian Clark. Photographer: Gabriela Hasbun/Bloomberg BusinessWeek via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Severin Schwan, chief executive officer of Roche Holding AG, in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
