-- Investors Should Sound Alarm on Firms' Excessive Risk, U.K. Regulator Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-02T12:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/u-k-accounting-regulator-urges-better-monitoring-on-risks-by-investors.html

          
          
             U.K. pension funds and other
institutional investors should take responsibility for improving
corporate governance at the companies in which they invest by
sounding the alarm about excessive risk-taking, Britain’s
accounting regulator said in new guidelines published today.  
 The measures are part of a voluntary “stewardship code”
being implemented by the  Financial Reporting Council  in response
to a U.K.-commissioned report on governance in financial firms
last year by Morgan Stanley Senior Adviser  David Walker . Some
financial-services lawyers have already criticized the likely
effectiveness of the code because it isn’t mandatory.  
 The code is a “basically flawed approach,” said  Richard Cranfield , who leads the global corporate practice at Allen &
Overy LLP in London. “Regulating investors through a non-
legally binding ‘comply or explain’ regime is likely to be of
marginal relevance.”  
 The rules are intended to complement changes to the FRC’s
corporate governance code published in May, which sought to make
 FTSE 350 index  companies more accountable to shareholders. The
changes were the first since bad bets in the U.K. financial
industry led to bailouts of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc  and  Northern Rock Plc  during the
financial crisis.  
 The code is “an opportunity to build a critical mass of
U.K. and overseas investors committed to the high quality
dialogue with companies” needed to underpin good governance,
the FRC said in a statement in London today.  
 Asset Managers  
 The  Financial Services Authority  is separately considering
proposals to require authorized asset managers to report on
whether they’re complying with the code.  
 The code is almost identical to guidelines already in use
by Britain’s  Institutional Shareholders Committee , and the FRC
put off until next year tackling “significant” issues, such as
whether investors should disclose their policies on stock
lending.  
 The code calls on institutional investors to create a
policy on managing conflicts of interest, establish guidelines
for escalating situations to protect shareholder value, prepare
to act collectively with other investors and have a clear policy
on voting and disclosure of voting activity.  
 “Institutional investors who have been holding their
breath about whether they would become subject to a new and
different regime can relax,” said  Frances Le Grys , a corporate
governance lawyer with the firm Hogan Lovells in London.  
 Lack of ‘Teeth’  
 “In the absence of any serious teeth in the way of
sanctions, it remains open what the FRC can or will do with
those who do not comply,” said Le Grys.  
 Under the code, pension funds, insurance companies and
other pooled investment vehicles can either adopt the rules or
explain why they aren’t doing so.  
 Barbara Allen , a lawyer at Ashurst LLP in London, said
that although companies will likely welcome the chance to share
responsibility with investors, the FRC’s stewardship code
could become a distraction.  
 “The danger is that it will simply become a further box-
ticking exercise, and divert attention away from the real
importance of effective management, by both the board and
institutional shareholders,” Allen said.  
 Britain’s Institute of Directors gave its support to the
new code, saying in a statement that “institutional
shareholders should have done more to provide an effective
governance counterweight to excessive risk taking during the
financial crisis.”  
 ‘Strongly Encouraged’  
 The FRC “strongly encouraged” institutional investors to
comply with the code.  
 “The stewardship code will only have real teeth if the FSA
imposes a mandatory ‘comply or explain’ approach,” said  Stuart
Pickford , a lawyer at Mayer Brown LLP in London.  
 Corporate boards have already been called upon to raise
governance standards and requiring more dialogue from investors
shows the process is a “two-way street,” according to  John Cridland , deputy director-general at the Confederation of
British Industry, a lobbying group.  
 Tamara Cizeika, a lawyer at Eversheds LLP in London,
said the code could be too time-consuming to follow.  
 “Institutional investors do not have infinite time and
resources, and the largest ones often have vast numbers of
companies in their portfolios,” Cizeika said.  
 The corporate governance code released in May called
for performance-based pay to match a company’s long-term risk
policies and for directors of the U.K.’s 350 biggest listed
companies to face re-election every year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. accounting regulator urges better monitoring  
                       
                         
                           Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Morgan Stanley Senior Adviser David Walker. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Morgan Stanley Senior Adviser David Walker. Source: Morgan Stanley via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
