-- U.S. Economy: Manufacturing, Claims Point to Slowdown
-- Shobhana Chandra
-- 2010-07-01T20:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/u-s-manufacturing-jobless-claims-home-sales-data-sign-recovery-slowing.html

          
          
             Reports on U.S. manufacturing,
employment and home sales pointed to slower growth in the second
half of the year, just as government spending to stimulate the
economy begins to wane.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s  manufacturing gauge 
fell more than forecast to 56.2 last month from 59.7 in May. A
reading greater than 50 points to expansion. Other data showed
contracts to buy existing homes fell 30 percent in May, and
claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly rose last week.  
 Stocks and commodities slumped and Treasuries rose on signs
the global economy is cooling after manufacturing weakened in
Europe and China. The data underscore concerns of Federal
Reserve policy makers that financial-market turmoil sparked by
Europe’s debt crisis threatens to inhibit a self-sustaining
recovery in the U.S.  
 “The U.S. recovery is set to have a bad start to the
second half” of 2010, said  David Semmens , an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York. The pace of growth
“definitely poses concerns” and won’t improve “until the
labor market picks up.”  
 Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. today lowered forecasts
for second- and third-quarter growth, reflecting the influence
of the European debt crisis on stocks, confidence and exports.
The economy grew at a 3.2 percent annual rate from April through
June and will expand at a 3 percent pace the following three
months, down from a prior estimate of 4 percent,  Michael Feroli ,
JPMorgan’s chief U.S. economist in New York, said in a note to
clients.  
 Stocks Decline  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  fell to a nine-month low,
losing 0.3 percent to close at 1,027.37 in New York. The 10-year
Treasury yield rose 2 basis points to 2.95 percent.  
 Manufacturing in the U.S. expanded in June at the slowest
pace this year as factories received fewer orders and demand
from abroad cooled, the report from the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM
showed. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a reading of 59.  
 General Motors Co., the largest U.S. automaker, said U.S.
sales in June rose 11 percent from last year, trailing the
median forecast of a 16 percent gain. GM’s results show the car
market may be cooling as employment is slow to improve.  
 Jobless Claims  
 First-time filings for jobless benefits rose 13,000 last
week to 472,000, the Labor Department said today. The number of
people receiving unemployment insurance rose, while those
getting emergency benefits dropped after Congress failed to act
on extending the legislation.  
 The number of contracts to purchase previously owned houses
plunged 30 percent in May, more than twice as much as forecast,
after a homebuyer tax credit expired, the National Association
of Realtors said today.  
 A separate report from the Commerce Department showed
construction spending fell 0.2 percent in May, the first decline
in three months, as homebuilders cut back and work on factories
and transportation structures decreased.  
 In China, manufacturing growth slowed more than economists
forecast, and a gauge of factory output in the 16-member euro
region weakened for a second month, two surveys showed today.  
 Federal Reserve  
 Fed policy makers last week repeated a pledge to keep their
benchmark interest rate low for “an extended period” after
saying the situation in Europe represented a risk to the U.S.
recovery. The Fed has left the overnight interbank lending rate
target at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008.  
 “The economy has not yet arrived at a state where healthy
and sustainable final demand is underpinning growth,”  Dennis Lockhart , president of the Fed bank of Atlanta, said yesterday
in a speech in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. “Recent developments
make me even more convinced that current policy is
appropriate.”  
 Central bankers are concerned that persistent unemployment
may reduce the pace of recovery. The Labor Department will
report tomorrow that unemployment rose to 9.8 percent in June
from 9.7 percent in May, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month, reflecting a
reduction in the number of temporary federal workers helping
conduct the decennial census. Excluding government, private
employers probably added 110,000 jobs.  
 Recession and Jobs  
 The economy has lost 8.4 million jobs during the recession
that began in December 2007, the biggest employment slump in the
post-World War II era. From January through May, company
payrolls grew by 495,000 workers.  
 Manufacturing has led the recovery as companies rebuild
inventories and invest in new equipment. Factories have  added
126,000 workers  during the first five months of this year,
matching the most successive gains since 2006, according to the
Labor Department.  
 “This economic recovery is very uneven, with manufacturing
expanding but housing weaker than just about anybody thought,”
said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC
in Charlotte, North Carolina. “The labor market is so far
behind the curve that it’s going to limit the expansion.”  
 Global sales may cool as the European debt crisis reduces
demand and a stronger dollar makes U.S. goods more expensive
abroad. Further manufacturing gains also depend on sustained
domestic demand fueled by improvement in employment and incomes.  
 Sales and inventories “are very much in sync,”  Samuel Allen , chief executive officer of  Deere & Co. , said in an
interview June 23 in a reference to the Moline, Illinois-based
manufacturer’s agricultural business.  
 “We do believe the recovery is under way,” Allen said.
“We do believe it is moving slowly. We do believe it is on
stable ground at this time.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A trader talks on the phone while working on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, talks with Bloomberg’s Mark Crumpton about the outlook for the U.S. economy and labor market.     
     Initial jobless claims increased by 13,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 26, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
