-- Regulatory Bill's Support May Weaken as Senate Delays Vote
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-07-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/u-s-regulatory-overhaul-s-support-may-weaken-after-senate-postpones-vote.html

          
          
             The U.S. financial-regulatory bill,
approved by the House of Representatives yesterday, may still be
compromised in the Senate, which postponed its vote until after
the week-long July 4 recess.  
 The delay may give opponents of the legislation time to
persuade undecided lawmakers to vote against the measure.
Republican Senators  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts,  Chuck Grassley 
of Iowa, and Olympia Snowe and  Susan Collins  of Maine voted for
a previous version of the bill and are being courted by
Democratic leaders to support its final passage.  
 “While the odds are that a week doesn’t change anything,
certainly Snowe, Collins and Brown are going to get lots of
visits over that week from their local community bankers and
anyone else who has an interest in this,” said  Mark Calabria , a
former  Senate Banking Committee  staffer who is now a director of
financial-regulation studies at the Cato Institute.  
 Legislation the House approved yesterday with a 237-192
vote would create a consumer financial protection bureau at the
Federal Reserve, give regulators new powers to liquidate failing
financial firms whose collapse would threaten the economy and
create a council of financial regulators to monitor systemic
risk. It is aimed at curbing risk-taking by Wall Street firms
and lessening the impact of any future financial crisis.  
 “We put our middle class first and enacted the toughest
set of Wall Street reforms in generations,” House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, told reporters after the vote.
“No longer will recklessness on Wall Street cause joblessness
on Main Street.”  
 Memorial Service  
 The Senate’s vote will be delayed until the middle of July
because of the death of Senator  Robert Byrd , a West Virginia
Democrat. Byrd’s body will lie in repose in the Senate chamber
today, and a memorial service will be held in Charleston, West
Virginia, tomorrow.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
yesterday that under the chamber’s rules there isn’t enough time
to schedule a vote before lawmakers leave for the recess. “I
can’t procedurally get to it,” he said.  
 On June 29, House and Senate negotiators reopened
consideration of a combined bill, which they had agreed to last
week, to approve a change sought by Brown, Collins and Snowe to
eliminate $19 billion in fees assessed on large financial firms
to cover the legislation’s costs.  
 ‘Squeeze Too Much’  
 “Once you move one part that was tentatively agreed to,
there are others who want to know why their failed tentative
agreements aren’t on the table as well,” said  William Thomas ,
vice chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission and a
Republican who represented California in the House until 2007.  
 “There should be some concern about the conference’s
ability to solve its vote problem by making only one change in
the conference report,” he said in a June 29 conference call
with reporters.  
 A vote this week would “squeeze too much” into senators’
schedules, Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd 
told reporters yesterday.  
 “I am trying to be very patient,” said the Connecticut
Democrat, who acknowledged his disappointment in the delay. “I
am still very optimistic we will have the necessary votes to
pass it.”  
 House Financial Services Committee  Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat who wrote the House version of the bill,
told reporters yesterday that he doesn’t expect the delay to
erode support. He wants to revisit the fee proposal in a
separate bill and plans to take it up in committee, he said.  
 Collins, Cantwell  
 Sixty votes are needed in the Senate to move the merged
bill toward final passage. Democrats need to retain votes from
at least two of the four Republican senators who voted for the
bill. Democrats also could secure support from Byrd’s
replacement and from Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Washington
Democrat who previously voted against the bill.  
 Collins said she is “inclined to support” the bill.  
 “This is not the bill that I would have written had I been
able to craft it myself, but it’s a balancing test as I decide
whether it warrants my support,” she told reporters yesterday.
“And based on my initial review, I believe that it does.”  
 Cantwell has said her vote would be contingent on changes
to the derivatives section of the bill, pushing for lawmakers to
tighten regulation of the instruments that have been seen as
exacerbating the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  
 Derivatives Rules  
 The bill would, for the first time, push a large amount of
the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market into the
purview of federal regulators. Standardized derivatives would
need to be moved through a third-party clearing facility and
traded on an exchange or swap-execution facility.  
 Businesses that use derivatives to hedge risk from
producing or consuming commodities, deemed “end users,” will
be exempt from the clearing requirements if the activities are
undertaken as a way to hedge legitimate business risk.  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or the
weather.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine, speaks in Washington, D.C. on April 29, 2009. Photographer: Mannie Garcia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Republican Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the outlook for passage of the U.S. financial-regulatory bill, approved by the House of Representatives yesterday.
     Sixty votes are needed in the Senate to move the merged bill toward final passage. Democrats need to retain votes from at least two of the four Republican senators who voted for the bill. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Joshua Rosner, managing director at Graham Fisher & Co., talks about efforts to overhaul the U.S. financial regulatory system. 
     Rosner speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Simon Johnson, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, talks about legislation overhauling financial regulation.
     He speaks with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance." (This is an excerpt of the interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- The U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation overhauling financial regulation yesterday, moving a step closer to enacting the broadest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression. The House voted 237-192 in favor of the bill. It also will have to be approved by the Senate, which delayed action until after the weeklong July 4 recess, before going to President Barack Obama for him to sign into law. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the nation's economy.
     Saut, speaking from St. Petersburg, Florida, also discusses U.S. House of Representatives' approval of the financial-overhaul bill and its implications for the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
