-- U.S. Aid to Israel Spurred Failed JFK Airport Bomb Plot, Witness Says
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-01T22:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/u-s-aid-to-israel-spurred-failed-jfk-airport-bomb-plot-witness-says.html

          
          
             A U.S. citizen from Guyana plotted to
blow up fuel lines and tanks at New York’s  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  because he was upset over U.S. aid to
Israel, a witness testified at the terror trial.  
 Russell Defreitas , the defendant, said he put material
bound for Israel on planes when he was a cargo worker at the
airport, Donald Nero, 51, testified at the trial today in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York. Nero, a Guyanese citizen,
previously pleaded guilty for his role in the plot.  
 “America was putting missiles, bombs, war equipment on
planes to send to Israel because of the Palestinians,” Nero
said Defreitas told him. “Those things he said he personally
put on planes when he was working at the airport.”  
 Defreitas and co-defendant  Abdul Kadir , a citizen of Guyana
who served as a member of the Guyanese Parliament, are charged
with hatching the plot in January 2006. They circulated their
plan to an international network of Muslim extremists,
prosecutors said.  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department. The plot was foiled in the planning stages with the
aid of an informant, Steven Francis, according to prosecutors.  
 Defreitas tagged the plot “The Shining” because he said
the explosion would be seen throughout New York’s Borough of
Queens, Nero testified.  
 ‘Kind of Shocked’  
 Defreitas first mentioned his idea to Nero during a meeting
in 2005 or 2006, Nero said.  
 “I was kind of shocked,” he testified. “I didn’t say
much.”  
 After participating in the planning, Nero withdrew in 2007
before the group traveled to Trinidad, where it sought support
from Jamaat Al Muslimeen, he said. JAM staged a coup attempt in
Trinidad in 1990 that resulted in “numerous deaths,” according
to court papers.  
 Nero said that in 2007 disagreements arose among the JFK
plotters about the plan’s progress, particularly in getting
funding for it.  
 Francis, who had been convicted for drug trafficking,
testified today that he was working in 2006 as a confidential
informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The bureau
directed him to make contact with Defreitas, which he did for
the first time in June of that year at the Gertz Mall in
Jamaica, Queens.  
 Overseas Cargo  
 Defreitas eventually revealed to him his idea for blowing
up the airport, Francis testified. The defendant said he was
under the impression during his 20 years working at the airport
that the cargo he was loading was food to go overseas, Francis
said.  
 Francis testified that Defreitas said he learned from
reading a manifest that the cargo contained military equipment,
“which he felt very upset and adamant about because he said it
was the same equipment used to kill woman and children in Israel
and other places.”  
 Defreitas, who by then no longer worked at the airport, was
sent from Guyana to conduct video and photo surveillance of the
airport, prosecutors said. He allegedly identified the target
sites and escape routes, in part, using satellite photographs
from the Internet.  
 U.S. Assistant Attorney  Berit Berger  told jurors in her
opening statement yesterday that Kadir was an engineer who
advised on the technical aspects of the plot.  
 Separate Trial  
 Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty Jan. 29 to
one count of providing support to terrorists.  Kareem Ibrahim , a
citizen of Trinidad, was granted a separate trial at a later
date due to a medical condition.  
 Defreitas pleaded not guilty in 2007 and his co-defendants
in 2008. They have been in custody without bail.  
 Defreitas and Kadir may face life in prison if convicted.  
 The case is U.S. v. Russell Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        