-- Turkey Says Oil Companies Support Cuts to Bosporus Straits Tanker Traffic
-- Ercan Ersoy
-- 2010-07-01T12:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/turkey-says-oil-companies-support-cuts-to-bosporus-straits-tanker-traffic.html

          
          
             Turkey said it has broad support from
20 oil companies for steps that would make use of the Bosporus
straits for oil traffic more expensive than pipelines.  
 Turkey is proposing higher insurance fees, limits on tanker
size and improved safety standards until alternative routes are
ready in three or four years. There were “no objections” from
participants including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Chevron Corp., OAO
Rosneft and BP Plc at a meeting today in Istanbul, Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said.  
 Turkey is using the environment damage caused by BP’s Gulf
of Mexico spill to press its case that oil traffic through the
straits is unsafe and potentially dangerous. The straits. which
divide Europe and Asia, transport 1.85 million barrels a day,
equivalent to 2 percent of global oil demand, to western
markets, according to  Salih Orakci , head of Turkey’s Directorate
General of Coastal Safety.  
 Current traffic levels are “unsustainable,” Turkish
Environment Minister  Veysel Eroglu  said at a press conference
with Yildiz after the meeting. He said 115,000 tons of oil has
been spilled into the straits over the past 15 years and 80
percent of tankers using the waterway are old.  
 Passage through the Bosporus is governed by the Montreaux
Convention drawn up in 1936, long before the era of the tankers.
It allows free transit to all commercial vessels of all nations.  
 Pipeline Routes  
 Turkey wants more traffic to flow through alternative
pipelines, such as the $2.5 billion Samsun-Ceyhan line that’s
proposed to run from Samsun on the Black Sea to Ceyhan on the
Mediterranean. Another option is the proposed 285-kilometer
(177-mile) pipeline from Bulgaria’s Black Sea port of Burgas to
Greece’s Aegean port of Alexandroupolis.  
 Oil volumes through the straits would be cut by as much as
50 million tons a year, or almost half the current traffic,
after the proposed Samsun-Ceyhan has been built, Yildiz said.  
 Traffic through the Bosporus would be 50 percent higher
were it not for BP’s Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan pipeline, which bypasses
Istanbul, Yildiz said.  
 Turkey has the support of the Group of 20 most
industrialized countries for its proposals, Yildiz said. It may
take three or four years for the full impact of the measures to
be seen, he said.  
 There’ll be further meetings with oil companies in the
future to discuss the proposals, Yildiz said. A date for the
next meeting hasn’t been set yet.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        