-- Music Downloads Stall as Online Streaming Grows
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-01T21:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/music-downloads-stall-as-fans-stream-pandora-instead-of-buying-from-apple.html

          
          
             The music industry is getting hit
again after learning to live with less profitable digital sales
in the post-CD era.  
 Downloads of songs to iPods, computers, and other devices
have stalled, growing just 0.3 percent this year, Nielsen
SoundScan reports. Ringtones, an earlier digital moneymaker,
peaked in 2007 at $714 million and have since fallen 24 percent,
according to the latest data from researcher SNL Kagan,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 5 edition.  
 “Digital downloads are clearly becoming a mature part of
the business,” says  Howard Bass , a senior partner at Ernst &
Young LLP in New York who advises entertainment companies. “The
question is how quickly the music industry can adopt a new
digital strategy.”  
 The number of music enthusiasts using  Apple Inc.’s  iTunes,
 Amazon.com Inc.  and other digital music stores has leveled off
at about 40 million people, market researcher  NPD Group Inc. 
reports.  
 Audiences increasingly are turning to ad-supported
streaming sites such as  Pandora Media Inc.  While growth in
downloads may pick up this year,  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
says, it won’t be enough to keep the overall industry from
shrinking. U.S. sales of all kinds of recorded music -CDs,
downloads, and other formats- will fall to $7 billion in 2012,
or a bit more than half their level in 2005, before climbing
slowly, according to New York-based PWC.  
 Ad-Supported Streaming  
 “The days when people were building their digital
collections or might hear a song and buy digitally are
diminishing,” says  Russ Crupnick , an analyst at Port
Washington, New York-based NPD.  
 The major labels are scrambling to come up with
alternatives. The industry’s leaders, Universal Music Group and
Sony Music Entertainment, are among the backers of  Vevo , an ad-
supported streaming website. No. 3  Warner Music Group Corp. 
wants new acts to sign what the industry calls “360 deals,”
which generate revenue from music, merchandise and concert
sales.  
 All the big labels have licensed songs to subscription
services such as Rhapsody and  Rdio . The problem is those
services are far less profitable than sales of individual
tracks.  
 “It could take 200 streams to make up for a single
download,” says  Robb McDaniels , chief executive officer of
INgrooves, a San Francisco-based distributer of music online.  
 Squeeze Money  
 To squeeze more money from downloads, the big labels last
year persuaded Cupertino, California-based Apple to raise prices
from 99 cents to $1.29 for the newest hit tunes.  
 While Warner’s overall digital music revenue grew by 12
percent in the quarter ended in March, the New York-based
company said in February that the higher price may have
contributed to slower growth in downloads last year. Universal
says revenue for its stable of artists such as U2, Justin
Bieber, and  Lady Gaga  fell by 1.7 percent in the quarter ended
March 31, largely a result of weak ringtone sales.  
 One area that continues to grow at a troubling rate is
pirated music.  
 “This isn’t a mature market, it is a market that’s getting
pirated,” says  Strauss Zelnick , former chairman of Columbia
Music Entertainment. Even so, value-minded consumers who might
have spent money to download tunes have gone elsewhere, he says.  
 “When disposable income is tight,” Zelnick says, “a lot of
them would rather spend for things like video games that can’t
be pirated.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tim Westergren, founder of Pandora Media Inc., listens during an interview in San Francisco. Photographer: Ryan Anson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
