-- Hustler, Paris Hilton Sex Site See .xxx Porn Ghetto
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-07-02T18:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/hustler-paris-hilton-sex-sites-see-xxx-domain-creating-web-porn-ghetto.html

          
          
             Stuart Lawley  has Hustler magazine
and the distributor of  Paris Hilton ’s sex tape up in arms.  
 The 47-year-old British Internet entrepreneur’s  ICM
Registry  is roiling the $13 billion pornography industry after
last week winning a preliminary nod for the .xxx domain from  The
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , ICANN,
which approves Web addresses.  
 If his bid passes later this year, Lawley could sell Web
addresses to adult sites for $60 each. Although not mandated,
many Internet sex sites said they’d register with .xxx to
prevent their brand from being stolen.  Hustler  and  Vivid
Entertainment LLC , the porn company that released sex tapes from
Paris Hilton and reality TV stars Kendra Wilkinson and  Kim Kardashian , say .xxx would corral the industry into an “online
ghetto,” making it easier to censor.  
 “.xxx would basically be an avenue for authorities to try
and push all adult websites into a certain segment and then get
rid of .com,”  Michael Klein , the president of Hustler, the
brand behind websites like Barelylegal.com, said from his Los
Angeles office.  
 An unlikely alliance has formed in opposition to Lawley.
Adult content providers see lost revenue from software blocks,
increased stigmatization and possible censorship, while
conservative groups such as the  Family Research Council  argue
.xxx legitimizes porn.  
 More Control  
 Lawley, who reckons his Jupiter, Florida-based ICM stands
to earn $200 million a year from .xxx, says the domain gives
parents more control and allows Internet users to filter out
unwanted pornographic material.  
 “There’s a noisy little section of the adult industry
that’s not happy about this, but the majority is,” he said.  
 With already more than 153,000 registration requests for
the domain, Lawley said he’s planning a “PayPal for porn,” an
online system across .xxx that could process $1 billion a year
in transactions.  
 Kink.com, which shoots bondage films in a San Francisco
armory, has begun registering .xxx versions of thousands of its
Web addresses with ICM, said John Sander, the company’s vice
president for marketing and business development.  
 Half of all online-video consumption is related to porn,
said  Ian Maude , a media analyst at Enders Analysis in London,
citing figures from market researcher ComScore.  
 “It’s obviously incredibly popular on the Internet,” he
said. “The question would be how to drive traffic to .xxx, as
the porn sites don’t want to be in .xxx unless it’s
comprehensive.”  
 Who Decides?  
 Should Lawley’s bid pass at an ICANN board meeting in
December, the new domain would go into use from 2011. He expects
to eventually log between 3 million and 5 million registrations
and become the preferred domain for the industry.  
 Not everyone wants it to be.  
 “We need to be concerned with what will follow the
implementation of this domain,” said  Steven Hirsch , founder of
Los Angeles-based Vivid Entertainment. “Will all adult .coms be
mandated into the .xxx corral and if not, what makes some exempt
but not all?”  
 The  Free Speech Coalition , the adult industry’s trade
association with more than 1,000 members, says .xxx could make
the porn industry a target for “anti-adult industry
extremists.”  
 “At a time when the adult entertainment industry is hard-
hit by the recession and copyright infringement, there is no
expendable income to invest in defensive registrations,” said
Diane Duke, the group’s executive director.  
 ‘Hoopla’  
 Marc Bell , the owner of Penthouse magazine and
AdultFriendFinder.com, which claims to be the largest online sex
community, isn’t convinced .xxx would translate into a loss of
business.  
 “There’s a lot of hoopla right now, but at the end of the
day it’s a matter of delivering content that people want,” he
said. “Ebay.com or Amazon.com has something you want so you’d
go to them no matter where they went.”  
 Lawley has spent $6 million over six years on .xxx legal
fees and $3.5 million on other costs.  
 He first tried to get ICANN to recognize .xxx as a domain
in 2004. His application was denied because he didn’t have
enough support in the adult-entertainment industry, according to
ICANN Chairman Peter Dengate Thrush.  
 Lawley said the proposal moved forward last week after an
independent arbitrator ruled ICANN acted improperly in rejecting
the proposal.  
 Otherwise uninvolved in the porn industry, Lawley is a
mechanical engineer by training and was former chairman of
Oneview.net Plc. The company, which he helped take public on
London’s AIM market in 1999, was sold for $200 million in March
2000, he said. He’s now looking for his next big Internet win.  
 “This is bespoke for the adult entertainment business,”
he said. “It’s a must-have.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Marc Bell, the owner of Penthouse magazine and AdultFriendFinder.com, isn’t convinced .xxx would translate into a loss of business. Photographer: Robert Caplin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Socialite Paris Hilton speaks to Larry King on his CNN show "Larry King Live". Photographer: Kyle Christy/CNN via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
