-- Verizon IPhone Deal May Add $1 Billion to Apple's App Sales
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-01T18:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/verizon-wireless-s-iphone-deal-may-boost-apple-s-app-sales-by-1-billion.html

          
          
             A Verizon Wireless version of the
iPhone will create a boom in sales of downloadable tools and
games for the device, strengthening  Apple Inc. ’s already close
ties to mobile software developers.  
 Verizon Wireless customers may buy $1 billion in
applications, adding to an expected $6 billion in apps through
Apple’s App Store in 2011, according to technology research firm
IDC.  Verizon Wireless  will start selling the iPhone in January,
two people familiar with the plans said this week.  
 As the largest U.S. mobile phone service provider, Verizon
Wireless gives developers a bigger pool of customers than AT&T
Inc., now the exclusive U.S. iPhone carrier. Its network ranks
higher than AT&T’s in consumer-satisfaction surveys and may
provide a showcase for a wider range of multi-media features.  
 “We don’t have to do anything -- it just increases the
size of our audience,” said Andrew Stein, director of mobile
business development at  PopCap Games , the Seattle-based maker of
“Bejeweled” and “Plants vs. Zombies,” two of the top-
grossing games in Apple’s App Store. “Hopefully we start to see
our sales increase drastically as Verizon customers start moving
to the iPhone.”  
 New iPhone users from Verizon Wireless may account for
about 14 percent of Apple’s app sales, expected to rise to $7
billion next year from $2.9 billion in 2010, according to  Scott
Ellison , an analyst at  IDC  in Framingham, Massachusetts.  
 Verizon Wireless spokesman Jeffrey Nelson declined to
comment, as did Apple spokeswoman  Natalie Harrison . An AT&T
representative didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  
 Apple Versus Google  
 Association with Verizon Wireless may also help Apple
extend its lead over Google Inc., when ranked by the number of
applications. Apple’s  App Store  boasts 225,000 free and paid
apps, while Google-backed mobile operating system Android has
about 65,000 apps on its Android Market.  
 “Carrier distribution still matters for handset sales, so
the primary benefit for Apple and iPhone developers is another
100 million people who currently go through Verizon’s doors” and
may choose to buy an iPhone, said Matt Murphy, a partner at
Menlo Park venture capital firm  Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers , who manages the $200 million iFund for app developers.  
 Apple shares 70 percent of app sales with the programmers
who create the software. Verizon Wireless, owned by Verizon
Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc, may sell about 12
million iPhones in first year, said UBS AG analyst  John Hodulik .  
 Network Reliability  
 A bigger audience on the iPhone means some developers will
train more resources on apps for the device even as they write
for competing platforms, said Julian Farrior, founder and CEO of
 Backflip Studios , maker of “Paper Toss” and other games.  
 “We won’t plan to develop any less for Android, but we
will likely accelerate iPhone” development towards the end of
this year, Farrior, whose company is based in Boulder, Colorado,
said in an e-mail.  
 The Verizon Wireless data network may also prove a more
reliable platform for multi-media applications, said Jeff Smith,
CEO of  Smule , a Palo Alto, California-based maker of music
applications that incorporate music and video downloads.  
 “The thing that was holding a lot of this back was
reliability of connection and the reliability of data,” Smith
said. In recent months, Smule has heard from users of its “I Am
T-Pain” app who became frustrated by data connections being
dropped before a song download had completed, he said.  
 Added competition from Verizon Wireless for iPhone users
may prompt AT&T to step up the pace of network improvements,
Smith said. “From a developers’ perspective that gives us
little more confidence to continue to create applications that
are multimedia-intensive,” he said.  
 AT&T, Google  
 AT&T has said it’s spending an additional $2 billion to
ease the strain on its network posed by smartphones.  
 “I don’t know what the big deal with AT&T is because I’ve
never had any problem with them,” said Brian Greenstone, CEO of
Pangea Software, based in Austin, Texas. “As for development, it
really makes no difference. The iPhone is already the number one
spot to be for mobile app development - by a long shot.”  
 While forging tighter links to Apple may boost sales, it
also makes developers beholden to the company’s restrictions on
how applications are built. Apple bars the use of such tools as
Adobe Systems Inc.’s Flash, used to make video run more smoothly
on mobile devices. Some programmers also say Apple’s app
approval process is opaque.  
 Google, meantime, is considering ways to give programmers
more incentive to create apps for Android, Andy Rubin, vice
president of engineering at Google, said last month in an
interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.com. Google may offer
tools that help them sell subscriptions, virtual goods and other
items from within applications on mobile phones, he said.  
 In 2012, Android will eclipse Apple’s iOS as the world’s
second-most-popular mobile operating software after Symbian,
researcher Gartner Inc. has said.  
 Sam Altman , chief executive and co-founder of mobile
location service Loopt, has no plans to abandon Android. “I
don’t think it means people stop developing for other
platforms,” he said, citing the danger of building a company
around “a single platform.”  
 Editors: Tom Giles, Peter Elstrom.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net .   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, talks about the outlook for AT&T Inc. losing exclusive rights to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone and the impact on the wireless industry.
     Hodulik talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
