-- Vietnam's Economic Growth Accelerates to 6.4% on Manufacturing, Consumers
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-07-01T03:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/vietnam-s-economic-growth-accelerates-to-6-4-on-manufacturing-consumers.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s economic  growth  accelerated
in the second quarter as revived bank lending helped boost
manufacturing and consumer spending.  
 Gross domestic product rose 6.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, from a 5.83 percent first-
quarter expansion, based on figures released today by the
General Statistics Office in Hanoi. For the first half of 2010,
the economy grew 6.16 percent from a year earlier, from 3.87
percent in the same period of 2009.  
 “Our loan growth was stronger in the second quarter,
particularly corporate lending,” said  Ly Xuan Hai , Ho Chi Minh
City-based chief executive of  Asia Commercial Bank , the
country’s biggest non-state-owned bank. “Economic growth in the
range of 6.2 percent to 6.4 percent is not bad, though we have
the potential to do better.”  
 GDP expanded 5.32 percent in 2009, the slowest pace since
1999, as the country’s export industries slumped amid a
struggling global economy. Vietnam’s government is targeting
annual economic growth of as fast as 8 percent until 2020 in a
bid to boost per-capita income to at least $3,000 and attain the
status of a “modern industrialized country.”  
 “Vietnam has a good first-half report card,”  Tai Hui ,
head of Southeast Asian economic research at  Standard Chartered
Plc  in Singapore, said before today’s release. “The data we
have seen on growth, industrial production and retail sales
reflect firm domestic fundamentals.”  
 Lowering Rates  
 The government, which expects 6.5 percent full-year growth,
began pressing lenders to cut interest rates after first-quarter
credit expanded by 3.3 percent, compared with the central bank’s
25 percent target for 2010. By June the pace of lending had
picked up to 10.5 percent, supporting demand for  Vincom Joint-
Stock Co .’s apartments and steel produced by  Hoa Phat Group
Joint-Stock Co.   
 Vietnam should be able to pursue an expansionary monetary
policy without stoking inflation in part due to “contained
pressures from commodity prices,” said  Matt Hildebrandt , an
economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in Singapore.  Inflation  slowed
for a third month in June to 8.69 percent.  
 “Construction should have a pretty strong bounce-back,”
Hildebrandt said in a telephone interview before today’s report.
“In the second half you’re probably going to see faster credit
growth if the government is determined to achieve its growth
target.”  
 Industry and construction, which accounted for 40 percent
of the economy in the first half, expanded 6.5 percent in the
six months through June from a year earlier. The sub-component
measuring only construction grew at a 9.89 percent clip.
Services, which made up 38 percent of GDP, grew 7.05 percent.  
 Sustainable Recovery  
 Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which accounted for
the remaining 22 percent of the economy, gained 3.31 percent in
the first half from a year earlier.  
 “Vietnam’s economy in the first five months of the year
continued the trend of recovery quite strongly,” the central
bank said in a report prepared for a June meeting with agencies
and countries that provide development aid. The Southeast Asian
nation “is recovering sustainably after a period of being
hammered down by the global economic slowdown,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        