-- Warhol Sells, Koons Painting Sets Record in $68.2 Million Sale
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-07-01T01:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/warhol-sells-koons-painting-sets-record-in-68-2-million-sale.html

          
          
             Works by  Andy Warhol  and  Jeff Koons 
boosted a 45.6 million pound ($68.2 million) sale in London last
night, settling nerves in the market for contemporary art as
almost half the successful bids were above presale estimates.  
 The total, including fees, at Christie’s International’s
52-lot sale was achieved against a low estimate of 40.9 million
pounds ($61.2 million), based on hammer prices. Eighty-four
percent of the works found buyers, who were encouraged by
higher-quality art offered at competitive prices, dealers said.  
 A sale the previous evening at Phillips de Pury & Co.,
where almost half the lots were rejected, and subdued bidding at
Sotheby’s on June 28 had fueled expectations that a recovery in
the market may have stalled, dealers said. A slump in world
stock markets added to the concern.  
 “The quality was higher,” Anthony McNerney, managing
director of the London-based gallery Ben Brown Fine Arts, said
in an interview. “There was a broader range of material, the
reserves were lower and Christie’s worked hard to get buyers.”  
 The auction’s presale low estimate was more than double the
19 million pounds fetched by a Christie’s sale last June during
the financial crisis, suggesting sellers are now more confident
about offering quality material for auction.  
 Works by U.S. artists captured all four of the evening’s
top prices, led by the 6.8 million pounds paid by a telephone
bidder for  Warhol’s  1963 silkscreen, “Liz,” estimated to fetch
between 6 million pounds and 8 million pounds.  
 Silver Liz  
 One of two paintings with silver backgrounds that highlight
the actress’s violet-colored eyes, it had been entered by a
U.S.-based seller who’d been encouraged by the $18.3 million
achieved for a two-panel silver “Liz” at Christie’s New York
in May, said Christie’s.  
 Koons’s  1999 painting “Loopy,” from the artist’s
“Easyfun” series, was bought by Gagosian Gallery for a within-
estimate 3.4 million pounds -- a record for a painting by the
artist.  Roy Lichtenstein’s  1995 acrylic, “Collage for Nude with
Red Shirt,” fell to a telephone bidder at a surprise 2.7
million pounds, more than three times the upper estimate. It was
one of 25 works that sold for hammer prices above forecasts.  
 “I was expecting a tough sale because of falls on the
stock markets,”  Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the London-
based Fine Art Fund, said in an interview. “Christie’s had some
star lots. This is a small world and it only takes a few bidders
to become active to turn a sale around.”  
 The same telephone bidder purchased four of the evening’s
most prominent successes, paying record prices for works by the
Young British Artists (YBAs) Glenn Brown,  Chris Ofili  and Jake
and  Dinos Chapman .  
 ‘Dali-Christ’  
 Brown’s 9-foot-high painting “Dali-Christ,” inspired by
the Spanish surrealist’s “Soft Construction with Boiled Beans:
Premonition of Civil War,” sold for 1.4 million pounds, while
the Chapmans’ sculpture “Ubermensch,” showing physicist
 Stephen Hawking  life-sized, perched on top of a rocky outcrop,
took 241,250 pounds. Both works had been included in  Charles Saatchi’s  Sensation exhibition at the Royal Academy in 1997.  
 The anonymous telephone bidder paid 1.9 million pounds for
Ofili’s 1998 portrait of an African woman, “Orgena,” complete
with trademark elephant dung supports, and a further 1.2 million
for  Gerhard Richter’s  1964 photo booth-inspired painting,
“Portraet Schniewind.” The Ofili, which attracted at least
four bidders, had been expected to fetch as much as 1 million
pounds.  
 “We were concerned after what had happened last night,”
 Francis Outred , Christie’s European head of contemporary-art,
said in an interview. “Bidders were waiting for the quality,
and we had interest from right across the globe. Whatever is
going on, people want to buy art.”  
 European Bidders  
 Fifty-eight percent of the lots were bought by European
bidders, 33 percent from the U.S., four percent from Asia and
five percent from “other” regions, said Christie’s.  
 Also among the artist’s records set was the 1.8 million
pounds paid by another telephone buyer for a 1989 embroidered
“Mappa” of the world by Alighiero Boetti notable for its dark
blue oceans. This carried a high estimate of 1.2 million pounds.  
 The one major disappointment was the 1982  Jean-Michel Basquiat  canvas, “Untitled,” featuring a bespectacled grinning
face, which failed against a low forecast of 2.5 million pounds.  
 The estimate was too ambitious and too many Basquiats had
recently come on the market to capitalize on the current
exhibition on the artist at the Beyeler Foundation in Basel,
said dealers.  
 Christie’s contemporary evening sale total was the biggest
of the week, though none of the sales exceeded their high
estimates. The upper forecast at Christie’s was 58.1 million
pounds.  
 The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  of U.S. stocks dropped
4.1 percent in the past two days.  
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Silver Liz" by Andy Warhol. The work was expected to sell for between 6 million pounds and 8 million pounds at Christie's International's June 30 auction of contemporary art in London. The painting, not been seen on the market since 1989, sold for 6.8 million pounds. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Untitled"  
                       
                         
                           Christie's Images via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Untitled" by Jean-Michel Basquiat. The work was offered at Christie's International's June 30 auction of contemporary art in London with an estimate of 2.5 million pounds to 3.5 million pounds. In June 2004 it sold at auction for 453,250 pounds. This time, it failed to sell. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Untitled" by Jean-Michel Basquiat. The work was offered at Christie's International's June 30 auction of contemporary art in London with an estimate of 2.5 million pounds to 3.5 million pounds. In June 2004 it sold at auction for 453,250 pounds. This time, it failed to sell. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A mobile "Two Fish Tails" by Alexander Calder. the work was included in Christie's International's June 30 auction of contemporary art in London. Executed in 1975, it sold for 1.4 million pounds with fees. It was expected to fetch between 1.2 million pounds and 1.8 million pounds. Source: Christie's Images via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
