-- Wesfarmers CEO Goyder Looks Overseas, to India, for Growth Opportunities
-- Ben Sharples
-- 2010-07-01T07:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/wesfarmers-s-goyder-looks-abroad-to-india-for-growth-opportunities.html

          
          
             Wesfarmers Ltd. , Australia’s second-
largest retailer, says it will have to look offshore for
opportunities to expand, including its coal and chemicals
divisions, with potential opportunities in India.  
 “We have a pretty big footprint in Australia now,” Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Goyder  said at a business lunch in
Melbourne today. “It’s difficult to grow by acquisition in the
businesses we’ve got because of regulatory reasons. I continue
to believe there are opportunities in India.”  
 Revenue in India at chains selling items from clothes to
food may rise as much as 35 percent a year to $80 billion by
2015, researcher McKinsey & Co. estimates. Australian retail
sales growth weakened in May to the slowest in three months, and
building approvals fell.  Sales  increased 0.2 percent from April,
when they rose 0.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today.  
 India bars Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other overseas
companies from opening retail stores or buying stakes in
supermarket chains. Local laws, aimed at protecting small shops,
allow foreign chains to operate only wholesalers.  
 Goyder didn’t elaborate on any plans by Perth-based
Wesfarmers to expand in India or abroad.  
 Australia’s consumers are cautious though they “haven’t
gone into hiding,” Goyder told reporters after the lunch today.  
 Wesfarmers shares, which have  declined  11 percent this year,
dropped 88 cents, or 3.1 percent, to close at A$27.77 in Sydney.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.5 percent.  
 The turnaround of Wesfarmers’s Coles supermarket business
is “on-track,” Goyder said.  
 Wesfarmers is boosting sales after improving fresh-food
areas and store layouts at Coles, a business it acquired more
than two years ago for A$18.2 billion ($15.2 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        