-- Wind Hellas May Put Itself Up for Sale After Banks Grant Debt Standstill
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-01T11:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/wind-hellas-may-put-itself-up-for-sale-after-banks-grant-debt-standstill.html

          
          
             Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA may
put itself up for sale after reaching agreement with creditors
to defer 40.5 million euros ($50 million) of debt payments.  
 Greece’s third-largest mobile phone operator got a debt
standstill until Nov. 5 to give it time to seek a buyer or
restructure its borrowings, the Athens-based company said today.  
 Wind Hellas said it deferred a 17.5 million-euro payment
due yesterday on its 250 million-euro revolving-credit facility
maturing June 2012. The company will also miss a 23 million-euro
coupon payment on 1.2 billion euros of floating-rate notes due
July 15, according to a statement.  
 The phone operator’s business is being hurt by falling
consumer confidence and spending after the implementation of
austerity measures to ease the Greek budget deficit crisis. Wind
Hellas is owned by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , through
Weather Investments SpA, after he bought the company from
administrators when it moved its headquarters to London in
August for a so-called prepackaged bankruptcy.  
 The majority of lenders involved in the outstanding credit
facility have agreed the standstill, the company said.  
 Wind Hellas now has until July 20 to win bondholder
approval. The company said it needs 75 percent of owners of the
floating-rate notes accounting for more than three quarters of
the principal amount to agree. Investors controlling about 48
percent of the principal have so far consented.  
 Wind’s secured floating-rate notes were unchanged at 29
cents, the lowest ever, according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices on
Bloomberg. Its 356 million euros of unsecured 8.5 percent notes
due October 2013 lost half their value, dropping 2 cents on the
euro to 2 cents.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        