-- Treasury Yield Curve Reahces the Lowest Since October on Inflation Outlook
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-01T11:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/two-year-treasury-yields-are-near-record-low-on-growth-employment-outlook.html

          
          
             The difference in yields between two-
and 10-year Treasury notes narrowed to the least since October
on speculation a slowing economy raises the risk of deflation.  
 The 10-year yield stayed below 3 percent for a third day, a
level not seen since April 2008, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said the inflation rate is headed toward zero, giving investors
confidence to buy longer-dated securities. China’s manufacturing
growth slowed in June more than economists predicted. A report
tomorrow will probably show that the U.S. lost jobs last month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 “We’ve had several reports indicating global growth is
slowing and we’re seeing signs that the U.S. labor market isn’t
improving at the pace that we’d like to see,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht,
Netherlands. “If you take all this together, the picture for
Treasuries looks positive.”  
 The  difference  between two- and 10-year yields, known as
the yield curve, narrowed to 232 basis points as of 6:46 a.m. in
New York, from 233 basis points yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread narrowed in each of the past
four days and reached 231 basis points today, the least since
Oct. 8.  
 A narrowing spread indicates investor preference for
longer-term bonds, which are more influenced by inflation while
two-year rates tend to track the Federal Reserve’s target for
overnight lending between banks.  
 The 10-year yield climbed less than two basis points to
2.95 percent, according to BGCantor Market Data. The two-year
yield climbed two basis points to 0.63 percent, after touching a
record low of 0.5856 percent yesterday.  
 Stocks Fall  
 The MSCI World Index dropped for a third day, losing 0.4
percent. European equities and U.S. stock-index futures also
declined.  
 The Chinese government’s  Purchasing Managers’ Index 
declined for a second month in June, falling to 52.1 from 53.9
in May. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 12
economists was 53.2. An HSBC Holdings Plc manufacturing index
slid to a 14-month low.  
 U.S. employers cut 125,000 jobs last month, after a 431,000
increase in May, a Labor Department report tomorrow will show,
according to the median prediction of 71 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. A report today may show initial  jobless
claims , a gauge of firings, fell to 455,000 last week from
457,000 in the prior seven days, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey.  
 ‘Setback Risk’  
 Two-year notes declined as some investors bet that yields
may have dropped to levels not justified by the outlook for the
world’s largest economy.  
 “Given where valuations are, there’s certainly more risk
of a setback” in bond prices, said  Christoph Rieger , co-head of
fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The
Treasury market may be hoping for too much of more negative
readings that may not materialize.”  
 U.S. central bankers can keep their target rate at the
current range of zero to 0.25 percent without worrying it will
lead to inflation, Goldman economists including  Jan Hatzius  in
New York wrote in their report yesterday.  
 “The ‘bubble risk’ associated with an easy monetary policy
is currently low,” according to Goldman, one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade directly with the central bank.  
 The Fed’s preferred price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 1.3 percent in May from a year earlier. The figure
was 1.2 percent in April, matching the least since 2001. Fed
policy makers last week repeated a pledge to keep interest rates
near zero “for an extended period.”  
 Breakeven Rate  
 Traders reduced bets that inflation will accelerate,
according to the so-called breakeven rate. The difference
between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, a gauge of expectation for consumer-price gains, has
narrowed 10 basis points in the past week to 1.85 percentage
points. It was 2.49 percentage points on Jan. 11.  
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, and
ex-Morgan Stanley President  Zoe Cruz  are among investors who
see demand for low-rated corporate debt as Treasuries rally.  
 Gross’s Pacific Investment Management Co. and Cruz’s Voras
Capital Management LP were among at least eight firms telling
regulators in June they are starting funds that may buy junk
bonds and distressed securities.  
 High-yield debt was little changed last quarter, trailing
the 4.7 percent return for Treasuries, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  
 “In the high-yield sector, you don’t really need an
economic recovery,” said  David Breazzano , who co-founded DDJ
Capital Management LLC after co-managing distressed and high-
yield assets for Boston-based Fidelity Investments. “You just
need the economy to stay where it is, and you can get double-
digit returns and you have less interest-rate sensitivity” than
with Treasuries.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        