-- BHP, Xstrata, Rio's Australian Tax Win May Revive Mining
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-07-02T16:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/xstrata-copper-resumes-ernest-henry-underground-project-after-tax-accord.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group
may join  Xstrata Plc  in reviving investment plans in Australia
after forcing the government to water down a new tax on mining
profits in the world’s biggest exporter of coal and iron ore.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  agreed to cut the planned tax
to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger
level, a week after ousting  Kevin Rudd  as the nation’s leader to
defuse a dispute that’s damped the government’s election
prospects.  
 “The reduction in the headline rate is an amazing
concession,” said  John Robinson , chairman of Global Mining
Investments Ltd., which oversees about A$300 million ($254
million) of assets, including shares of BHP, Rio and Xstrata.
“It’s certainly better than I had expected.”  
 Xstrata, which resumed work today on a copper project in
Queensland state, BHP and Rio led the campaign against the
initial tax proposal, which Moody’s Investors Service estimated
would have cut mining-company earnings by almost a third.  Marius Kloppers , chief executive officer of BHP, said the new tax is a
“material improvement” after earlier saying projects were
difficult to approve under the original Rudd proposal.  
 Better Outcome  
 “There’s no doubt the changes have moved in the direction
of the miners,”  Chris Drew , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets,
said today by telephone from Sydney. “It’s a better outcome
than the previous proposal. The impact of the tax is going to be
lower, so profitability is going to improve.”  
 BHP , the world’s biggest mining company, rose 1.7 percent
to close at 1,723 pence in London trading, the steepest gain in
almost two weeks.  Rio  climbed 1 percent to 2,934.5 pence. Both
stocks closed little changed on the Australian stock exchange.  
 “We’ve continued to maintain an exposure to the
heavyweight resource stocks, particularly those involved in the
negotiations: BHP and Rio,”  Peter Rudd , director of mining and
resources at Balnave Capital Group, told Bloomberg Television
today, adding that he expects the largest stocks to rise.  
 Xstrata  advanced 3 percent to 871.1 pence in London, the
biggest gain since June 21.  
 The Zug, Switzerland-based company, which had shelved
spending on A$6.6 billion of projects in Australia, resumed work
on a A$586 million expansion at its Ernest Henry copper mine
following the tax announcement, Xstrata said in a statement. The
company is the world’s fourth-largest copper producer.  
 Wandoan Venture  
 Xstrata may also restart early work on its A$6 billion
Wandoan coal project, spokesman  James Rickards  said in an
interview. Xstrata and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. had suspended
work on a total of $21 billion of projects because of the tax.  
 The new levy has no immediate impact on Fortescue’s senior
secured rating, Moody’s said today in a note. Given that the tax
is still under consultation and will be phased in from 2012,
it’s too early to measure its “precise” effect, it said.  
 BHP’s and Rio’s ratings are also unaffected, Moody’s said
in separate notes.  
 BHP, with 51 percent of its assets in Australia, and Rio
had warned that the initial tax proposal threatened mining
investment in the country, while the Minerals Council of
Australia estimated the tax would give the nation the world’s
highest tax rate for mining companies.  
 Investment Back On  
 “Mining investment in Australia going off the table as a
result of the earlier super-tax proposal was very real,”  Hunter Hillcoat , an analyst at Investec Plc, said by phone from Sydney.
“With that regime now altered you’d think investment will now
be back on.”  
 Rudd’s first proposal in May “upset the apple cart” for
BHP’s planned expansion of the Olympic Dam copper, gold and
uranium mine in South Australia, Kloppers said May 9, adding
that projects may be “very difficult” to approve. Rio Tinto
put projects on hold as it studied the tax proposal,  Sam Walsh ,
head of the company’s iron ore operations, said in May.  
 Gillard’s compromise minerals tax will now only apply to
coal and iron ore mines and affect 320 companies instead of the
2,500 under Rudd’s proposal. The book-value hurdle will kick in
at the higher level of the 10-year government bond rate,
currently about 5 percent, plus 7 percent, compared with just
the long-term bond rate under the previous plan.  
 Extraction Allowance  
 Projects also will be entitled to a 25 percent extraction
allowance that reduces taxable profits, and mining companies
will be allowed to use the market value of a mine instead of the
book value for the purposes of the tax. Rudd sought the tax to
pay for infrastructure, retirement and company levy reforms.  
 “The important amendment to the proposal is to allow
existing projects to enter the minerals resource rent tax regime
at their market values,”  Benjamin Byrne , a credit analyst at
Nomura Australia Ltd., said in e-mailed note. “This delivers
the miners a considerably more stable taxation environment and
should go a significant way to allaying the concerns of foreign
investors with respect to investing capital in Australia.”  
 To be sure, the new tax is still flawed and discriminates
against coal, iron ore and energy miners, Western Australia
Premier  Colin Barnett  said in an interview on ABC Radio today.
Billionaire mining magnate  Clive Palmer  told Sky News that it’s
“disappointing” Gillard didn’t speak to small miners.  
 The new proposal provides a “reasonable framework” for
further talks, said  Andrew Forrest , CEO of Fortescue, which has
put $15 billion projects on hold because of the tax.  
 ‘Extreme Disappointment’  
 The levy won’t apply to minerals such as gold, copper and
nickel and small miners with resource profits below A$50 million
a year. It was an “extreme disappointment” the government
wasn’t pursuing a resource exploration rebate, the Association
of Mining & Exploration Companies said in a statement. The
government estimates the changes will reduce the estimated
revenue take by A$1.5 billion. The first proposal was forecast
to bring in A$12 billion in the first two years from 2012.  
 “It will be very positive for the equities not involved,
the copper, gold and nickel miners,” said Peter Strachan, a
Perth-based analyst for independent advisory firm StockAnalysis.
Explorers will “be negatively impacted,” he said.  
 Morgan Stanley estimated the initial levy plan would have
cost the mining industry A$85 billion in its first 10 years,
while UBS AG had forecast the tax may reduce Rio’s earnings by
21 percent and earnings at BHP by 17 percent in 2013.  
 “The new effective marginal tax rate works out to be 45
percent,” said  Mike Elliott , Sydney-based global mining and
metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP. That compares with
56.8 percent under the initial plan and BHP’s current effective
tax rate of 43.5 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for the story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard smiles during a press conference in Canberra. Photographer: Scott Barbour/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global mining and metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, speaks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's planned resources tax.
     Prime Minister Julia Gillard agreed to cut the planned tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger level, a week after ousting Kevin Rudd as the nation’s leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects. Elliott also discusses the outlook for the mining industry, and Banpu Pcl's agreement to pay A$2 billion for the 80 percent of Centennial Coal Co. it doesn’t own to take control of thermal and coking coal mines in Australia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
