-- Yankee Stadium Bond Outlook Revised to Positive After Championship Season
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-01T20:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/yankee-stadium-bond-outlook-revised-to-positive-after-championship-season.html

          
          
             The credit outlook on more than $1
billion of municipal debt issued to help finance a new baseball
stadium for the New York Yankees was raised to positive by
Standard & Poor’s as the team’s World Series-winning season last
year boosted ticket sales and attendance.  
 S&P affirmed its BBB- rating, the lowest of 10 investment
grades, on the bonds backed by ticket revenue. The previous
outlook for the debt was stable.  
 The Yankees, who have won 27 championships, the most of any
 Major League Baseball  team, collected $397 million in ticket
revenue, exceeding budget projections by $66 million, S&P said.
Paid attendance last year was 3.67 million, or 90 percent of
capacity at the 50,287-seat stadium, better than the original
forecast of 3 million, the ratings company said.  
 “Opening of the stadium during a recession affected the
average ticket price, but the draw of the new stadium and the
Yankees’ success on the field contributed to the higher-than-
expected paid attendance,” S&P said in a news release.  
 The Yankees also issued $1.26 billion in bonds backed by
payments in lieu of property taxes to fund construction.  
 The new ballpark was designed to resemble the original  1923
Yankee Stadium  before it was renovated in the 1970s, with a
limestone-based exterior, arches and a roof-top frieze. The new
stadium is across the street from the site of the old ballpark
in the Bronx.  
 The New York Mets, the Yankees’ cross-town rivals, haven’t
been as successful on the baseball diamond and in the credit
markets. The rating on $695.4 million of bonds issued to finance
their new stadium was cut to junk by S&P in February because of
losses suffered by an insurance company that provided a surety
bond.  
 Yankees spokesman Michael Margolis didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        