-- Yuan Forwards Drop, Bonds Rise, as Growth in China's Factory Output Eases
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-01T09:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/yuan-forwards-drop-on-china-manufacturing-data-spain-debt-rating-concern.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards declined and bonds rose
after a manufacturing survey signaled China’s economy is slowing
and Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Spain’s top credit
rating.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.1 in June from
53.9 in May, lower than economists had forecast, the Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing said today. A reading of above 50
signals expansion. The U.S. Conference Board on June 29
corrected its April leading index for China to show the slowest
expansion since November.  
 “The markets are a bit nervous on the PMI numbers as it
shows that growth is slowing in China,” said Brian  Jackson , an
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong.
“It is inevitable that growth will slow in the third and fourth
quarters but though markets have largely priced that in, there
is still nervousness.”  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards weakened 0.17 percent
to 6.6730 per dollar as of 5:37 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting
traders’ bets that the yuan will strengthen 1.6 percent in one
year. The spot rate was little changed at 6.7810, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. The People’s Bank of
China set its  reference rate  at 6.7858 today, stronger than
yesterday’s fixing of 6.7909 but weaker than the close of 6.7814.  
 Yuan Appreciation  
 “Overall, the trend for yuan appreciation is still there
as long as the economic slowdown is not too severe,” Jackson
said.  
 China’s central bank has allowed the currency to gain 0.7
percent since saying on June 19 that it was resuming a flexible
exchange rate to curb inflation and rebalance the economy away
from exports. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  
 Policy makers have this year raised the amount of cash
banks must set aside as reserves, tightened mortgage
requirements and curbed lending targets to bring down inflation
and tackle asset bubbles.  
 Government bonds rose following the PMI and on speculation
there’s more funds in the banking system to invest in debt as
interbank lending costs declined.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, dropped 47 basis points so far this
week to 2.69 percent, according to the daily fixing rate
published by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate
rose to 3.16 percent at the end of last week, the highest level
since June 2. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 ‘Easier Cash’  
 “Slower economic growth in the second half is a positive
element to the debt market, but investors will also watch the
inflation rate,” said  Chen Jianheng , a bond analyst at China
International Capital Corp., the nation’s first Sino-foreign
investment bank in Beijing. “Easier cash supply in the short
run is being reflected in declining bond yields.”  
 The central bank sold 22 billion yuan ($3.2 billion) of
 three-year bills  in open-market operations today at a 2.68
percent yield, unchanged for a second straight sale. It also
held the yield on bills due in a year stable for the third
auction in a row earlier this week.  
 The monetary authority has injected cash into the financial
system for six consecutive weeks. The  net inflows  of 67 billion
yuan this week compared with 201 billion yuan in the last.  
 The yield on the 3.9 percent government note due in August
2014 fell one basis point to 2.52 percent, and the price of the
security added 0.04 per 100 yuan face amount to 105.36,
according to the funding center.  
 -- Patricia Lui ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at   plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        