-- Hyundai Motor Falls, Hyundai Engineering Advances on Report of Stake Bid
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-01T01:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/hyundai-motor-falls-hyundai-engineering-advances-on-report-of-stake-bid.html

          
          
             Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s
largest carmaker, fell the most in a month in Seoul trading
after a report said its parent group may bid for a controlling
stake in Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  
 The automaker retreated 4.8 percent to 137,500 won as of
10:21 a.m. on the Korea Exchange, while  Hyundai Engineering 
gained 5.3 percent. Korean-language daily Chosun Ilbo  reported 
today that Hyundai Motor’s Chairman Chung Mong Koo and his
family members, including Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. Chairman
Chung Mong Joon, met recently and agreed Hyundai Motor Group
will buy a controlling stake in Hyundai Engineering.  
 Hyundai Engineering’s  creditors , including Korea Exchange
Bank, plan to choose a preferred bidder by the end of the year
for a 2.2 trillion won ($1.8 billion) controlling stake in the
builder, South Korea’s largest, they said on June 29. The Seoul-
based company was taken over by the creditors in 2001 as debt
mounted after it couldn’t collect payment for projects abroad.  
 “The report that Hyundai Motor Group may expand into non-
core businesses by purchasing Hyundai Engineering is driving
concerns among investors today,” causing the carmaker’s shares
to decline, said  Choi Dae Sik , an analyst at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 Hyundai Motor denied in an e-mail today that a meeting took
place or that an agreement was made. The industrial group hasn’t
decided about a potential bid, the company said.  
 Hyundai Engineering spokesman Lee Tae Suk in Seoul declined
to comment on the report.  
 Hyundai Engineering’s creditors plan to select arrangers
for the sale of a 35 percent stake in Hyundai Engineering with
management rights by early July, main creditor Korea Exchange
Bank has said. The debt holders plan to complete the sale, open
to both domestic and overseas buyers, by early 2011, they said.  
 Hyundai Engineering said in February it aims to win $12
billion worth of foreign orders this year, compared with $4.5
billion in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        