-- Zloty, Forint Weaken on China Manufacturing Report, Spain Ratings Review
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-07-01T16:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/zloty-forint-weaken-on-china-manufacturing-report-spain-ratings-review.html

          
          
             Poland’s zloty weakened, ending two
days of gains, and Hungary’s forint and government bonds slid on
concern slower manufacturing growth in China and the U.S. means
the global recovery is faltering.  
 The zloty declined 0.9 percent at 4.17 per euro as of 6:05
p.m. in Warsaw. The forint depreciated 0.9 percent to 287.31 per
euro, erasing yesterday’s advance. Hungarian bonds fell to a
three-week low, pushing the yield on the 5 percent local-
currency note due in 2015 up 9 basis points to 7.49 percent.  
 Stocks, commodities and currencies tumbled worldwide after
reports showed Chinese and U.S. manufacturing expanded less than
forecast in June and the American index of pending home resales
plunged 30 percent in May, more than twice the estimated drop.
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may lower Spain’s
Aaa credit rating by as many as two grades on “deteriorating”
growth prospects and challenges in meeting fiscal targets.  
 Moody’s move and Chinese manufacturing data “have kept
markets in the negative territory,” emerging-market strategists
at BNP Parbias SA in London wrote in a report today. “We stay
defensive towards the central and eastern Europe, Middle East
and Africa region.”  
 Shun Zloty  
 Investors should stay away from the zloty this week as the
chances  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  will become the next Polish president
have increased, threatening to hamper fiscal austerity measures,
 BNP  analysts said today after  Bronislaw Komorowski ’s lead in
opinion polls narrowed ahead of July 4 runoff election.
Kaczynski, who has pledged to boost social spending, could block
legislation reducing the budget deficit as president, BNP said.  
 Hungary raised less than its target at a debt auction today
for a third time in less than a month as its borrowing costs
rose, reflecting investor concern that Europe’s debt crisis
hasn’t been contained. The country sold 45 billion forint ($193
million) of debt, less than the 50 billion forint planned.  
 Public debt may reach 79 percent of gross domestic product
in Hungary and 54 percent in Poland this year, making them the
European Union’s most indebted eastern members, according to
European Commission estimates. Hungary received a 20 billion-
euro international bailout in 2008 to avert default.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        