-- Serena Williams Beats Kvitova to Advance to Third Straight Wimbledon Final
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-01T18:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-01/zvonareva-defeats-pironkova-at-wimbledon-to-reach-first-grand-slam-final.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Serena Williams 
defeated  Petra Kvitova  in straight sets to reach the Wimbledon
women’s singles final for the third straight year.  
 The 28-year-old American, the top-ranked player on the WTA
Tour, won 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 on Centre Court at the All England
Club. Williams, who had played her elder sister Venus for the
championship the two previous years, will meet  Vera Zvonareva  in
the final in two days.  
 “It definitely wasn’t easy,” Williams said in a televised
interview on the British Broadcasting Corp. “I definitely
worked really hard. I didn’t expect to get this far when I
started at the beginning of the tournament. I was just off.”  
 Zvonareva, the No. 21 seed from Russia, advanced to her
first Grand Slam final by beating 82nd-ranked Tsvetana Pironkova
of Bulgaria 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 in today’s opening semifinal.  
 “It’s one of my dreams to be out there, to be on the
Centre Court, and play in the finals of Wimbledon,” Zvonareva
said in a news conference.  
 Playing Williams, a 12-time Grand Slam singles champion,
will be “a tough challenge, for sure,” Zvonavera, who trails
the American  5-1 , said.  
 “Serena is great player, defending champion, and very
tough to play against,” she said.  
 Three Titles  
 Williams took this year’s Australian Open and has won
Wimbledon three times. Kvitova, the youngest semifinalist at the
age of 20, never before had been beyond the first round at
Wimbledon and was playing her first Grand Slam semifinal.  
 “Vera’s a great player, I’ve played some unbelievable
matches against her,” Williams said. “It feels like I have
nothing to lose.”  
 Kvitova started off well against the top seed, breaking
serve for a 3-2 lead. Williams broke back for 4-4 as Kvitova
committed three forehand errors. The American raced to a 4-2
lead in the tiebreak as she put the Czech under pressure with
hard serves and ground strokes. Williams clenched her fist, and
turned to her private box after taking the first set with a
service winner.  
 Kvitova, the only left-handed player in the last four,
tried to unsettle Williams’ ground strokes in the second set by
adding slice to her shots.  
 Navratilova Tips  
 The Czech, who had been given some tips on how to play in
the semifinals from nine-time Wimbledon singles champion  Martina Navratilova , saved a breakpoint as she won the longest rally of
the match at 19 strokes on her serve at 4-2 down. Williams broke
serve on her second breakpoint for a 5-2 lead.  
 Serving for a place in her sixth Wimbledon final, Williams
failed to convert the first two match points as she made two
errors. She won the match as the ball hit the top of the net,
fell over to Kvitova’s side and bounced twice before the Czech
player could get to it.  
 “I took my points better in the second set,” Williams
said in a news conference. “But, granted, she served really
well. So it wasn’t very easy.”  
 Williams, who curtsied to the Centre Court crowd after her
victory, had seven aces, taking her total to a women’s Wimbledon
record of 80. Williams had produced 72 aces during last year’s
Wimbledon.  
 “Serena plays very well,” Kvitova said in a news
conference. “I don’t think I played bad. It was a very great
match for me. It was just close in the first set. In the second,
two breaks.”  
 Best Performance  
 Zvonareva never before advanced beyond the fourth round at
Wimbledon.  
 Pironkova forced a break for 4-2 in the first set, as she
attacked Zvonareva with her double-handed backhand. The
Bulgarian won the first set on her third set point as Zvonareva
dumped a backhand into the net.  
 Watched by the Bulgarian ambassador to London, her parents
and friends in her private box, Pironkova used her slice
forehand to unsettle Zvonareva from the baseline.  
 Zvonareva broke serve for 4-2 in the second set as she
found her rhythm. She tied the match at one set all with the
help of a net cord.  
 The Russian then broke serve in the first game of the final
set as Pironkova sent a backhand long. She went up a double
break for 4-1 as Pironkova made another backhand error. Serving
for the match, Zvonareva got to two match points with a forehand
wide. Pironkova saved the first one as the Russian hit a
forehand long.  
 After a decade on the women’s tour, Zvonareva then moved to
her first Wimbledon final with a cross-court forehand.  
 Zvonareva’s best Grand Slam performance before this
tournament was reaching the semifinals at the 2009 Australian
Open.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
 James Cone  at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at +44-
   jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Serena Williams of US celebrates as she plays against Czech Republic's Petra Kvitova during a women's semi-final match at the Wimbledon Tennis Championships. Photographer: Ian Kington/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
