-- Whole Milk Powder Auction Prices Drop for a Third Month, Fonterra Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-06T22:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-01/whole-milk-powder-prices-ease-for-second-month-at-auction-fonterra-says.html

          
          
             Milk powder prices eased for a third
month at auction as concerns about a faltering global economic
recovery curb demand,  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,  the
world’s largest dairy exporter, said.  
 Whole milk powder for September delivery fell 15 percent to
$3,435 a ton in the company’s latest GlobalDairyTrade  auction ,
Auckland-based Fonterra said in a statement, citing a trade-
weighted price index. Prices have been falling from a 21-month
high of $4,092 a ton at the company’s April auction.  
 Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in butter, milk powder and cheese, selling $12 billion of
product in 140 countries. Demand for milk powder is slowing amid
reports that U.S. employers hired fewer workers than expected in
June while economists have lowered their gross domestic product
forecasts for China.  
 “One of the key concerns is there appears to re-evaluation
of the health of the global economy,” said  Paul Grave , manager
of GlobalDairyTrade in Auckland. “That has a big effect on
buyers who become reluctant to commit beyond their known
requirements, or too far into the future for fear of volatility
affecting them.”  
 Fonterra, owned by the New Zealand farmers who supply its
milk, last month said prices this season may rise 8.2 percent as
demand recovers and production increases only slowly.  
 “One trade event doesn’t determine the success of an
entire season,” said Grave. “We have been anticipating a very
volatile future.”  
 Dairy Exports  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell after the report as investors
increased bets that lower milk prices could curb New Zealand’s
economic growth and the central bank needn’t be as aggressive
raising interest rates. Dairy shipments make up a fifth of
exports, which contribute 30 percent of the economy.  
 The currency bought 69.46 U.S. cents at 9:30 a.m. in
Wellington after trading as high as 69.75 cents.  
 “Fonterra’s overnight dairy auction result has certainly
taken some of the steam out of the New Zealand dollar,”  Mike Jones , a strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington,
said in an e-mailed note.  
 Fonterra sells whole and skim milk powder and dried milk
fat at its monthly Internet-based auctions. It offers one-month
 contract s with delivery starting two months after the sale, and
two three-month contracts with delivery starting three and six
months later.  
 Whole milk powder for delivery from October through
December fell 15 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment
from January through March also dropped 15 percent.  
 Skim milk powder for September delivery fell 16 percent,
and dried milk fat prices declined 11 percent.  
 Grave said concerns about a shortage of supply which buoyed
prices earlier in the year have give way to the focus on
consumer demand.  
 “Supply is not a concern and the major focus point is
going to be on demand,” he said. “Buyers now want to make sure
they don’t have any more than their current needs and certainly
don’t want to commit a long way into the future.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        