-- Wesfarmers to Spend A$5 Billion Reviving Coles Sales
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2007-08-16T06:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-16/wesfarmers-to-spend-a-5-billion-reviving-coles-sales-update3-.html

          
          
             Wesfarmers Ltd. (WESDA) ,  Australia 's biggest
hardware retailer, plans to spend A$5 billion ($4 billion)
reviving sales growth at Coles Group Ltd. should its record
takeover of the supermarket chain succeed.  
 Wesfarmers will accelerate cost saving programs, refurbish
stores and close Coles' headquarters in  Melbourne  to lower
overheads by A$385 million a year, the Perth-based company said
in a statement today. The operator of the Bunnings Hardware chain
today announced a 34 percent fall in second-half profit on lower
coal earnings.  
 Chief Executive Officer Richard Goyder, whose businesses
include mining and insurance, aims to revive  profit growth  by
increasing the focus on retail. After the A$18.4 billion
takeover of Coles, which will be Australia's largest, Wesfarmers
will need to turn around sales at the nation's second-largest
supermarket chain and stem a loss of customers to Woolworths Ltd.  
 ``Given their expertise on Bunnings and in retail, they are
the best people to turn around Coles,'' said Michael McCormick,
who helps manage and advise on A$220 million at Leyland Private
Asset Management in Sydney. ``If they throw all that expertise at
it, they will do a good job.''  
 In buying Coles, Wesfarmers will gain 3,000 stores including
supermarkets, Officeworks stationery supply outlets, filling
stations and the Target and Kmart discount department stores.  
 The company will review the Kmart chain based on three
options of improving its performance, rebranding some outlets or
selling the business.  
 ``My preference is to retain Kmart and build it, but time
will tell,'' Goyder told reporters on a conference call.  
 Three Divisions  
 Goyder will create three divisions focused on Target, large
format stores operating the Bunnings Hardware and Officeworks
chains, and a food, liquor and convenience stores unit.
Administrative functions, such as human resources, will be
performed within each business rather than through a central
office.  
 ``The corporate office at Wesfarmers is around 130 people
and that contrasts with around 6,500 at Coles so you can see this
is going to be a significant change in the way we run
management,'' Goyder said.  
 Losing Customers  
 Coles sales are growing at the slowest pace on record as it
loses customers to larger rival Woolworths and smaller
independently owned supermarkets. Goyder expects sales growth
from stores open at least a year to rise to between 3 percent and
3.5 percent by 2010, compared with the 0.8 percent pace of the
most recent quarter.  
 ``A big investment needs to be made to reposition those
stores on price, service and fresh food and turn things around,''
said Grant Saligari, a retail analyst at Commonwealth Securities
Ltd. in Sydney. ``They are being extremely optimistic.''  
 Wesfarmers shares fell 41 cents, or 1 percent, to A$39.09 at
the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney. The stock has slumped
15 percent since the July 2 bid for Coles on concern it's paying
too much and the purchase will cut earnings per share.  
 Wesfarmers last week said Coles investors may be able to opt
for more cash or stock in the takeover after the slump in its
share price.  
 Under the initial bid, Coles investors were to receive A$4
cash and 0.2843 Wesfarmers shares for each share they owned. They
were also entitled to a 25-cent dividend.  
 Falling Profit  
 Second-half net income at Wesfarmers fell to A$394.4 million
in the six months ended June 30 from A$601.3 million a year
earlier, the company said today. Annual profit fell 25 percent to
A$786.3 million.  
 Wesfarmers was expected to have annual earnings of A$783.3
million, according to the average of five analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The year earlier result included a A$178.7
million gain from selling its rail unit.  
 The company expects all units except the coal mining
division to report higher earnings in 2008.  
 Coal earnings before interest and tax for the second half
fell 29 percent to A$170 million on lower prices and production.  
 Goyder agreed to a 15 percent cut in coking coal prices
from its Curragh mine in Queensland state in April 2006. Coal
output for the year was 13.7 million metric tons, 8 percent below
the year-earlier figure, as port and rail congestion limited
shipments.  
 Second-half earnings from the Bunnings unit, the nation's
biggest home-improvement retailer, rose 5.7 percent to A$258.7
million on new store openings. Hardware and coal generate 63
percent of the company's profit.  
 Insurance, Chemicals  
 Insurance earnings for the half were unchanged at A$60
million. The insurance margin, or profit as a ratio of premium
income, fell to 9.5 percent during the year from 14.9 percent the
previous year.  
 Earnings before interest and tax at the chemicals &
fertilizer division rose 33 percent for the half to A$72.8
million.  
 The industrial and safety unit, which sells workplace
equipment ranging from tools to clothing, had a 25 percent rise
in earnings for the half to A$63.7 million.  
 Wesfarmers will pay a second-half dividend of A$1.40 a
share, down from A$1.50 a year earlier. In 2008 and 2009, the
dividend is forecast at more than A$2 a share subject to the
Coles deal succeeding.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jason Scott  in  Hong Kong  
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        