-- Malone's Starz Unit to Form New Film Studio Overture
-- Cecile Daurat
-- 2006-11-13T21:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-13/malone-s-starz-unit-to-form-new-film-studio-overture-update3-.html

          
          
             Billionaire John Malone plans to
start his own motion-picture studio through the Starz cable-
television unit, budgeting as much as $360 million a year for his
first foray into movie-making.  
 Overture Films will distribute eight to 12 live-action films
a year, with budgets of $10 million to $30 million, Chief
Executive Officer Chris McGurk said in an interview. Overture may
release the first between March and May.  
 Malone chose to create his own studio after his bid to buy
Universal Pictures fell through in 2003. He's venturing into the
business as larger rivals such as Walt Disney Co. trim payrolls
and distribute fewer films to save money. The new studio is a
departure from Starz's traditional TV business.  
 ``It's a good way for them to diversify their pipeline,''
said Andrew Baker, a Cathay Financial analyst in New York, who
rates Liberty Capital shares ``neutral.'' The purchase also may
help Starz cut costs to buy films as it competes with CBS Corp.'s
Showtime and Time Warner Inc.'s  HBO , he said.  
 Shares in Liberty Capital fell 4 cents to $89.56 as of 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.
They've gained 28 percent since the tracking stock started
trading in May.  
 Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , said in July it would
cut 20 percent of its film unit's workforce and put out 10 Disney
features and two to three Touchstone ones a year, down from as
many as 16 under the two brands a year earlier. That leaves room
for smaller studios such as Overture to gain a share of the
market, McGurk said.  
 Room for Overture  
 ``There's an opportunity for a new distributor to set up
shop,'' McGurk said in a telephone interview. The executive, a
former chief operating officer of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.,
joined Starz as a senior adviser in August when the company
acquired animated-film company IDT Entertainment Inc. He pitched
the idea for Overture to Starz executives and Malone.  
 Malone made a fortune building up Tele-Communications Inc.
into the second-largest U.S. cable-TV operator before selling it
in 1999. In May, he separated his Liberty Media businesses into
two tracking stocks.  
 Overture's new chief operating officer, Danny Rosett, also
worked for MGM. Overture will produce a mix of movies similar to
the MGM ones McGurk and Rosett helped put out, such as ``Hotel
Rwanda,'' ``Capote,'' ``Barbershop'' and ``Legally Blonde,''
Rosett said.  
 Overture is at least the third attempt to create or revamp a
movie studio in the past year, along with the Weinstein brothers'
film company and Tom Cruise's plan to revive United Artists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Daurat in New York at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        