-- EU Outlines Expansion of Emissions Trading After 2012
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2006-11-13T13:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-13/eu-outlines-expansion-of-emissions-trading-after-2012-update1-.html

          
          
             The European Union outlined ways to
widen its system for trading air-pollution credits, seeking to
break the international deadlock over climate change.  
 The EU said it may cap power plant and factory pollutants in
addition to carbon dioxide and create links to countries such as
the U.S. starting in 2013. New gases to be covered might include
methane from coal mines and nitrous oxide from ammonia
production.  
 ``Climate change is the gravest challenge facing mankind and
emissions trading is the most effective policy instrument for
tackling it,'' EU Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said in
a statement today in Brussels. ``The better its design, the
easier it will be for other countries to adopt similar
policies.''  
 The 25-nation EU wants global limits on emissions of gases
such as carbon dioxide blamed for higher world temperatures,
rising sea levels and more frequent heat waves, floods and
storms. Poor nations say rich ones should lead the way with
emissions cuts, while the U.S. says the refusal of developing
countries to take part makes its participation too costly for
American companies.  
 EU Quotas  
 The EU last year introduced carbon-dioxide quotas on 11,400
power plants and factories. Under the system covering companies
such as German utility  RWE AG (RWE)  and British steelmaker Corus Group
Plc, businesses that exceed their limits must buy permits from
companies that emit less or pay a penalty.  
 The system is part of an EU pledge under the global Kyoto
Protocol to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions 8 percent in 2008-
2012. Existing caps cover an initial period from 2005 through
2007 and new allowance grants will be for 2008-2012.  
 The EU says pollution-permit trade may facilitate a global
accord to cut greenhouse gases after Kyoto expires in 2012. The
141-nation treaty doesn't impose reduction targets on developing
countries where emissions are growing and is opposed by the U.S.,
the world's biggest polluter.  
 EU cuts would have little impact without reductions
elsewhere because the bloc's share of global emissions will fall
to less than 10 percent in the coming decades, according to the
European Commission.  
 Carbon Trading  
 ``The EU is committed to a global carbon market,'' the
commission, the EU's regulatory arm, said in a strategy paper.
``The EU emissions-trading scheme is already a key driver of
international carbon trading and provides a solid foundation for
a global carbon market.''  
 The commission is talking about emissions trading with
countries including  China ,  Russia ,  Brazil  and  Norway  and earlier
this year endorsed the idea of linking the system to  California 
after an accord between U.K. Prime Minister Tony Blair and
California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.  
 In today's paper, which goes to EU lawmakers and a working
group for more analysis, the commission also mentions possible
connections to northeastern U.S. states and Australian states
that are planning emissions-trading systems.  
 The commission said it is ``committed'' to continued EU
recognition after 2012 of emissions credits allowed under Kyoto
for energy-efficient projects in developing and other countries.
It said ``regulatory certainty is important for companies.''  
 Slumping Prices  
 The strategy paper comes as the commission tries to restore
investor confidence after a price slump this year when it emerged
companies had a surplus of permits from national governments in
2005. The surplus prompted the price of EU permits for 2006 to
halve to about 15 euros ($19) a metric ton in mid-May from an
April high.  
 The drop in the price, which is now about 8 euros a ton for
2006, raised questions about how strict the commission will be in
limiting allowance grants in 2008-2012. The price of permits for
delivery in 2008 is about 16 euros a ton.  
 The commission's paper also calls for an alignment across
the EU of the types of installations covered and more ``robust''
compliance with the rules and enforcement of them. The paper says
it may be necessary to establish an EU accreditation process for
organizations that verify emissions reports by companies.  
 In addition, the strategy paper mentions the possibility of
setting a single EU-wide cap after 2012 rather than separate
national caps.  
 The review excludes plans to add airlines to the system
because the commission is drafting separate legislation on this
matter. The EU could impose emissions caps on airlines from
``about 2010'' after legislation is proposed in December, Dimas
said last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        