-- Asia's Currency Rally to Provide `Tailwind' For Domestic Stocks, UBS Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-04-28T03:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/asia-s-currency-rally-to-provide-tailwind-for-domestic-stocks-ubs-says.html

          
          
             Asia’s currencies are rallying more
than the region’s equity markets, providing a “tailwind” for
domestic-related stocks to outperform exporters, UBS AG said.  
 Rising local currencies have contributed to more than half
the total U.S. dollar returns in Malaysia, South Korea, the
Philippines, Singapore and India so far this year, UBS
strategist Niall MacLeod said. That’s the first time since at
least 1988 that foreign exchange gains “mattered more” than
the underlying share price increases, he also said.  
 “Currency appreciation tends to lead outperformance by
domestic stocks over exporters,” MacLeod wrote in a report
today. “Since early last year, exporters in general in the
region have been outperforming domestic stocks, something we
expect to reverse, given the likely ongoing tailwind of domestic
currency appreciation.”  
 The Hong Kong dollar, which is pegged, and China’s yuan,
held little-changed since July 2008, are the only two among the
10 most actively traded Asian currencies outside of Japan that
haven’t strengthened against the dollar this year. Their stock
markets are also among the 10 worst performers globally.  
 UBS estimates that the yuan and rupee may advance the most
this year. The Indian currency, the Philippine peso and South
Korea’s won are furthest away from their highs reached before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
the brokerage said.  
 Shares in the Philippines and India will beat South Korea,
given a “greater domestic component” in their benchmark stock
indexes if all three nations see their currencies appreciate,
MacLeod also said. He didn’t identify any recommended stocks.  
 Almost half the revenue generated by the 97 stocks in the
MSCI Korea Index comes from outside the nation, compared with 35
percent for the MSCI India Index, according to the note. Just
7.1 percent of the revenue earned by the Philippine Stock
Exchange Composite Index’s 32 companies is derived from
overseas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        