-- Hatoyama Backs Ozawa to Stay in Party Post After Panel Recommends Charges
-- Sachiko Sakamaki
-- 2010-04-28T00:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/hatoyama-says-he-still-supports-ozawa-after-panel-recommends-indictment.html

          
          
             Japan’s Prime Minister Yukio
Hatoyama said he wants ruling party secretary-general Ichiro
Ozawa to stay on even after a legal panel recommended Ozawa be
charged with violating campaign finance laws.  
 “I want him to continue to do his best,” Hatoyama told
reporters today outside his official residence in Tokyo.  
 Ozawa, the top political official in Hatoyama’s Democratic
Party of Japan, should be charged in a case in which three of
his aides have already been indicted, a judicial panel said
yesterday. The recommendation to prosecutors would become
legally binding if the panel votes the same way a second time.
Ozawa yesterday said he wouldn’t step down.  
 Hatoyama’s repeated defense of Ozawa risks further damaging
the prime minister’s standing before parliamentary elections set
for July. Voters are already disenchanted over his own funding
scandal and a dispute over relocating a U.S. military base.  
 Ozawa, 67, is a former DPJ leader who orchestrated the
party’s landslide election victory last August, leaving more
than 100 lawmakers in his debt. Prosecutors declined in February
to pursue charges against Ozawa, a Diet member since 1969.  
 “As the prosecutors’ investigations have shown, I didn’t
receive any suspicious money,” Ozawa said yesterday in remarks
shown on NHK Television. “I will keep doing my duties calmly.”  
 Disenchanted Public  
 Polls show an increasing percentage of Japanese favor
Hatoyama and Ozawa stepping down before the upper-house election,
and some DPJ lawmakers have suggested the same. More than half
of voters think Hatoyama should resign if he can’t resolve where
to move a U.S. Marine base on Okinawa by the end of a May
deadline he set, a Nikkei newspaper poll this week showed.  
 More than three-quarters of the public thought Ozawa should
quit following the indictment of his aides, according to a
Mainichi newspaper poll published Feb. 1.  
 Ozawa was forced to resign as DPJ leader in May 2009 after
a top campaign official was charged with falsifying fund reports.
He engineered the party’s 2007 victory in the upper house of
parliament, and retains the loyalty of many DPJ lawmakers for
spearheading last August’s landslide in the more-powerful lower
house. As party secretary-general he is in charge of determining
which candidates run in elections.  
 “Nobody can replace Ozawa,” said Jiro Yamaguchi, a
political science professor at Hokkaido University in Sapporo.
“I don’t think he’ll resign and DPJ lawmakers have given up
calling for him to quit because he’ll take Hatoyama down too.”  
 DPJ lawmaker Tomohiro Ishikawa, Ozawa aide Takanori Okubo,
and former assistant Mitsutomo Ikeda, were indicted in February
for under-reporting 545 million yen ($5.8 million) in income for
2004, part of which was used to buy land in Tokyo for Ozawa’s
fund-raising group. Ozawa wasn’t charged. Prosecutors have three
months to examine yesterday’s panel ruling before making a
decision whether to file charges.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ichiro Ozawa, secretary general of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), is surrounded by reporters at the company's headquarters in Tokyo on April 28, 2010.  Source: JIJI PRESS/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
