-- Australia May Become Highest-Taxed Mining Nation, Citigroup Analyst Says
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-04-28T01:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/australia-may-become-most-highly-taxed-mining-nation-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             The possible introduction of a 40%
resources tax may make Australia, the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore, alumina and coal, the most highly-taxed mining
nation, cutting its competitiveness, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “Australian royalties-taxes are already some of the
highest in the world and further increases will severely curtail
investment in, and the competitiveness of, our resources
sector,” Citigroup analyst Craig Sainsbury said yesterday in a
report. Treasurer Wayne Swan will release Treasury Secretary Ken
Henry’s review of the nation’s tax system on May 2.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, may
have its earnings cut by 19 percent should a 40 percent tax be
applied, according to Merrill Lynch & Co. Any new tax regime
must consider Australia’s international competitiveness, Don
Argus, Melbourne-based BHP’s former chairman, said last year.  
 Swan commissioned the review almost two years ago. The
review may propose a 40 percent tax rate to replace corporate
tax and state-based royalty payments for mining companies.  
 Australia is the third-highest taxed mining nation with a
total tax burden of 35 percent, behind the U.S. and Brazil,
Citigroup said. The new tax would replace a 30 percent corporate
tax rate and state production royalties of between 2 percent and
8 percent, the broker said.  
 ‘Tax Grab’  
 Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest iron ore
exporter, which has about a third of its assets in Australia,
may have its earnings cut by as much as 30 percent, Merrill
Lynch’s Peter O’Connor said yesterday in a report. BHP has 51
percent of its assets in Australia.  
 “We should ultimately brace for a larger future tax grab
than is currently the case,” Merrill’s O’Connor said.  
 Gold and copper companies, which pay royalties of 3 percent,
will be most affected, while coal producers, which pay about 6
percent to 8 percent, may suffer less, Citigroup said.  
 Australian gold output rose 14 percent in the fourth
quarter last year, helped by Newmont Mining Corp.’s Boddington
mine, confirming the country as the world’s second-biggest
producer, research group Surbiton Associates Pty said last month.  
 The tax proposals may not be considered until after a
Federal election at a date-to-be set this year, Sainsbury said.
“We don’t believe that any major tax reform will be likely
before 2012 at the earliest,” he said. State governments would
also need to agree to remove their royalties, he said.  
 “We don’t believe the Henry tax review is aimed at adding
another level of tax burden on the miners,” Sainsbury said.
“This is a means of standardizing and simplifying a confusing
state-based royalty scheme.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        