-- Bank of America Hires Kikuchi From JPMorgan to Head Japan Mortgage Sales
-- Takahiko Hyuga
-- 2010-04-28T01:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/bank-of-america-hires-kikuchi-from-jpmorgan-to-head-japan-mortgage-sales.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. recruited
Tomomi Kikuchi from JPMorgan Chase & Co. to head sales of
mortgage-backed securities in Japan, at least the third hire
from a rival bank in the country this month.  
 Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., a unit of Bank of
America, this week appointed Kikuchi, 41, as a managing director,
according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.
Tsukasa Noda, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Merrill Lynch,
confirmed the contents of the document.  
 Bank of America, which agreed to buy Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2008, is rebuilding operations in Asia after cutting its
workforce last year, hiring executives from rivals including UBS
AG and Barclays Plc. At JPMorgan, Kikuchi led a group trading
and marketing securities backed by home mortgages that covered
Japanese and U.S. products, according to the memo.  
 The value of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S.
agencies rose to $5.58 trillion last year from $5.08 trillion in
2008 and $4.6 trillion in 2007, according to Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association.  
 Bank of America this month hired Andrew Hunter, former co-
head of equities in Tokyo at UBS’s brokerage unit, to lead Japan
equity sales from London. The firm recruited Futoshi Ago, a
former Morgan Stanley sales executive, to bolster its prime
brokerage business in Japan.  
 Those appointments followed the March hiring of Seamus
Donoghue from Barclays to run short-term interest rate trading
and foreign-exchange forwarding at Merrill Lynch Japan; and the
appointment of Joseph Kraft, former head of capital markets at
Dresdner Kleinwort, to run sales and trading for its foreign-
exchange business in the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        