-- California Declares War on State Bond Short-Sellers: Joe Mysak
-- Joe Mysak
-- 2010-04-28T01:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/california-declares-war-on-short-sellers-of-bonds-commentary-by-joe-mysak.html

          
          
             California wants to know why
underwriters take its money to sell the state’s bonds, and then
talk trash behind its back.  
 That’s what California Treasurer Bill Lockyer asked in
March of six banks that have made $215 million from selling the
state’s general obligation bonds since 2007.  
 “We have information that indicates your firm, which sells
California GO bonds, may participate in the municipal credit
default swaps market,” the letter said. Lockyer wanted to know
why, and to what extent. The treasurer posted the banks’
responses on his Web site last week.  
 And the answer, I conclude, is: Because you can’t short
munis. That’s too bad, because the municipal market would
benefit from an army of short-sellers analyzing state and local
credits.  
 The nearest thing to short-selling municipals is the
credit-default swaps market. As the Lockyer inquiry shows,
public officials have little to fear. The market in municipal
credit-default swaps is just too small.  
 Credit-default swaps don’t drive up borrowing costs,
anyway. Bad financial management does that. I do tip my hat to
the treasurer for getting some straight answers.  
 How Big?  
 The municipal market has a denominator problem.  
 Consider interest-rate swaps. During the late 1990s and
into the 2000s, states and municipalities were sold on the
things, not least because they were told that everyone was doing
them. It was in the interest of those selling these instruments
to make it seem so.  
 We still don’t know how many issuers used swaps in their
financing. The number was smaller than people implied. Last
October, Moody’s Investors Service said 500 municipal bond
issuers it rated used swaps. Standard & Poor’s in 2007 put the
number at 750. That’s still too many, if we calculate the number
of state and local issuers sophisticated enough to figure out
how to use them, a number that is probably in the low hundreds.  
 Now take credit-default swaps. These were all but unknown
in the municipal market until maybe three years ago. If
investors wanted protection against default, they bought bonds
insured by one of the financial guarantors. At one time these
companies, known by an alphabet-soup of acronyms, insured almost
60 percent of all new issues. The insurers’ involvement in the
subprime mortgage market has cost all of them their AAA ratings;
a couple are near bankruptcy.  
 How to Make Money  
 Enter the credit-default swap. The instrument allows
investors to purchase default protection. It also allows
speculators to express a point of view on a particular credit or
basket of credits, without owning any bonds at all. In May 2008,
London-based Markit Group Ltd. introduced an index tied to the
debt of 50 municipal bond issuers.  
 How does this work? Let’s say you have a dim view of the
financial prospects of state “A.” You enter a contract
protecting $10 million of “A” debt for five years. Let’s say
it costs 50 basis points. A basis point on a credit-default swap
protecting $10 million of debt for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 annually, so you pay $50,000.  
 Then everyone starts worrying about state “A” and
comparing it with Greece. Now people are willing to pay 200
basis points to protect $10 million of debt for five years. That
makes your contract more valuable. You sell your CDS and pocket
$150,000.  
 Perception of Risk  
 That’s the theory. In practice, you need lots of investors
who are interested in buying such contracts, which is what makes
the little table included in Morgan Stanley’s letter to Lockyer
so interesting. The table shows that credit-default swaps for
the five most active municipal issuers had a gross notional
value of $17.5 billion, according to Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp., which tracks such things.  
 That’s the top five, a list that includes California, New
Jersey and New York. How big is the municipal credit-default
swap market? Could it be $50 billion? Maybe it’s $100 billion.
It’s nowhere near the size of the $2.8 trillion municipal bond
market. It’s certainly not the bazillion billion proponents will
have you think. In an overview of the municipal CDS market in
January, included in its Lockyer submission, Barclays Plc said,
“Liquidity is expected to remain challenging in 2010.”  
 What was Lockyer concerned about? “Data reported in the
news media and other sources show that the prices, or spreads,
on California CDS wrongly brand our bonds as a greater risk than
those issued by such nations as Kazakhstan, Croatia, Bulgaria
and Thailand,” he wrote. “The perception of risk could
adversely affect the price of our bonds when we go to market.”  
 If California stops spending more than it takes in, and
cuts back on the generous pensions and benefits it gives to
public employees, then it won’t have to obsess about credit-
default swaps.  
 (Joe Mysak is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        