-- China Says Vale, BHP Threaten to Cut Iron Ore Supply to Get Price Increase
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-28T03:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/china-says-vale-bhp-threaten-to-cut-iron-ore-supply-to-get-price-increase.html

          
          
             Vale SA, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio
Tinto Group, the three largest exporters of iron ore, threatened
to cut supplies unless steelmakers accept their price demands,
the China Iron & Steel Association said.  
 The mining companies asked for price gains of between 90
percent and 100 percent for the steelmaking ingredient as global
demand recovered this year, Luo Bingsheng, deputy chairman of
the association, said today at a briefing in Beijing.  
 “They adopted a threatening policy,” Luo said. “If you
don’t accept iron ore prices before a deadline, they threaten to
cut supplies. Is this iron ore negotiations?”  
 The World Steel Association called on authorities globally
to examine the iron ore market after Brazil’s Vale broke with
a 40-year custom of selling on annual contracts and won a 90
percent price increase from Japanese mills. The Chinese
government this month said it was investigating the possibility
that BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto and Vale may be monopolizing
supplies of the steelmaking ingredient.  
 Steelmakers in China have about two months of iron ore
stockpiles as of the end of March, enough to ensure “stable
production,” Luo said. Some mills have signed tentative
agreements with the mining companies to ensure materials for
their furnaces, he said, without giving details.  
 Amanda Buckley, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman at BHP
Billiton, declined to comment. David Luff, a spokesman at Rio,
wasn’t available for an immediate comment.  
 ‘No Options’  
 Suppliers cut exports to China during price talks earlier,
Angang Steel Co., the biggest Chinese steelmaker traded in Hong
Kong, said April 21. Chinese steelmakers have “no options” and
have to accept price demands, Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., the
nation’s biggest privately held mill, said this month.  
 Global steel demand may expand 10.7 percent this year,
rebounding from last year’s 6.7 percent slump, the World Steel
Association said April 20. That’s leading to competing iron ore
demands from Europe, Japan and South Korea for the material.  
 “The global iron ore market is in serious shortage,” Luo
said. “Apart from China, steel production increased by 33
percent in the first quarter, while China’s output rose 24.5
percent.”  
 To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        