-- Norris Says Commonwealth Can Wait Out Greek Crisis as Needs Already Funded
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-04-28T03:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/commonwealth-bank-doesn-t-see-any-need-for-immediate-additional-funding.html

          
          
             Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Chief Executive Officer Ralph Norris said the bank has no need
for immediate additional wholesale funding following Standard &
Poor’s decision to cut Greece’s credit rating to junk and lower
Portugal’s rating two levels to A-.  
 Australia’s biggest lender “can wait it out” as the bank
has pre-funded its borrowing needs into its next financial year,
Norris said in an interview in Sydney today. Commonwealth has no
exposure to Greece and Portugal, he added.  
 “Wholesale markets become somewhat sensitized when these
sort of situations occur,” Norris said. “There will be some
short term volatility. The situation will moderate over the next
few weeks.”  
 The Australian benchmark index fell today, extending
yesterday’s global declines after Standard & Poor’s cut its
rating on Greek bonds to junk status. Australian banks rely on
overseas markets including the U.S. and Europe for about 30
percent of their wholesale funding, according to the
International Monetary Fund. That makes them vulnerable to a
crisis because deposits at home leave a funding shortfall.  
 All of Australia’s four biggest banks, which also include
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
and National Australia Bank Ltd., have justified raising their
own interest rates since late last year by saying funding costs
have climbed since the financial crisis.  
 Standard & Poor’s warned that investors could recover as
little as 30 percent of their initial outlay if Greece
restructures its debt, after earlier reducing Portugal’s rating
by two steps.  
 Commonwealth is due to release a trading update next month
for the quarter ended March, while ANZ Bank, Westpac and
National Australia Bank are set to announce first-half results
over the next week. All four banks have said the worst of the
bad-debt cycle has passed.  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index today dropped as much as 1.9
percent and traded down 1.2 percent at 1:40 p.m. in Sydney.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        