-- Farm Ministry Finds Suspected Cases of Foot-and-Mouth Disease in Pigs
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-04-28T03:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/farm-ministry-finds-suspected-cases-of-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-pigs.html

          
          
             Japan has discovered suspected
cases of foot-and-mouth disease in pigs at a farm in Miyazaki
prefecture, where the government confirmed the first outbreak
since 2000 in cows last week.  
 Five pigs at the farm were found to have the disease
according to initial test results, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries said in a statement today. All 486 pigs
at the farm are being culled, it said.  
 The foot-and-mouth virus is one of the most contagious
animal diseases and can have high mortality rates in young
animals, according to the Paris-based World Organization for
Animal Health, or OIE. Eating infected meat doesn’t harm humans.  
 To contain the disease, the Japanese government has
limited transportation of animals in the region, killing them
at farms where suspected cases were discovered and disinfecting
the area. Miyazaki is on Japan’s southern island of Kyushu.  
 Japan’s last outbreak of the disease was in 2000, when the
country slaughtered 740 cattle, according to Katsumi Yorita,
deputy director at the ministry’s livestock industry policy
planning division.  
 In April 2000, Souichi Kagawa, then executive director of
the Japan Livestock Industry Association, said Japan’s first
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in 92 years had been
contained and caused little damage to the country’s 500 billion
yen ($4.8 billion) domestic beef industry.  
 In South Korea, the farm ministry said April 22 that two
cases were found at a pig farm in Chungju, south of Seoul,
indicating the virus has spread inland. A new outbreak was
discovered on April 9 on Ganghwa island, less than a month
after the nation declared itself free of the disease.  
 China in March reported an outbreak of the disease in pigs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        