-- Goldman Takes Little Blame in Senate Defense: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-04-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/goldman-takes-little-blame-in-senate-defense-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             For a moment last week as the
Goldman Sachs drama unfolded, it looked as if the bank might
defend itself against a sensational civil fraud charge by
hanging out to dry one of its vice presidents, the fabulous
Frenchman,  Fabrice Tourre .  
 “This all seems to be at root about whether someone
intentionally misled someone, and that’s not something we would
approve of or sanction,” Goldman Co-General Counsel  Greg Palm 
told analysts last week.  
 Now, given the testimony of the Goldman guys before a
Senate subcommittee yesterday, we can infer a different meaning
from Palm’s statement. It’s a denial that anyone at Goldman
misled anyone else.  
 As senators eager to score points against Wall Street
cross-examined bank executive after former executive, what
emerged from the witness table was a unified defense.  
 There was no misconduct. Not by Tourre. Not by Goldman.  
 Yes, there were misjudgments. Sure, some bad deals
resulted. Real bad deals.  
 Several e-mails were ill-advised. Some “could have been
more accurate,” as Tourre put it.  
 And of course everyone is so very sympathetic to all those
people who don’t know a CDO from a CDS and yet lost their homes,
their savings, their jobs, their retirement incomes to the
recession while Goldman raked in billions.  
 What Fraud?  
 Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said Goldman does
bear some responsibility for that.  
 As for securities fraud, no way.  
 Yesterday’s testimony won’t do much to cool public fury at
Wall Street, except to the degree that senatorial bullying and
hypocrisy transform villains into victims.  
 But as a legal defense, Goldman’s all-out denial just might
work. It certainly stands a greater chance than any rogue-
employee strategy, which would have offered no cover at all. The
law clearly makes the employer vicariously liable for the
conduct of its agent. Besides, Tourre wasn’t acting alone.  
 For more than five hours -- without so much as a bathroom
break for the witnesses -- a panel of four current and former
Goldman executives insisted that no, they didn’t “bet” against
clients or even the mortgage market.  
 They simply put together securities that clients could and
did evaluate for themselves. They have no obligation to tell
clients when Goldman essentially shorted a security, since
Goldman’s positions so often change, and there is no disclosure
obligation, anyway.  
 Plus, as Blankfein later testified, investors have
different reasons for wanting or avoiding exposure to certain
industries or securities, as does Goldman.  
 Designed to Fail  
 And, no, the firm didn’t design any collateral debt
obligation to fail, Goldman witnesses said. Not even when a
client -- say hedge fund Paulson & Co. Inc. -- wanted to go
short on the mortgage market.  
 As for the specific transaction featured in the Securities
and Exchange Commission complaint, everything that should have
been disclosed to potential investors was disclosed, they
maintain. Yes, Paulson had a role in picking the portfolio, but
so did the customer who wanted to go long. The collateral
manager, ACA, made the final choices, witnesses insisted.  
 Whether the e-mails, memos and witnesses will eventually
support that claim or the SEC’s remains to be seen.  
 But by itself, the argument Goldman offered the  Senate
Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations just might prevail in
court, if not in public opinion.  
 No Predictions  
 Most of the Goldman witnesses freely claimed that they
hadn’t predicted the collapse of the mortgage market. These
financial wizards knew less than the outsiders who populate
 Michael Lewis ’s book, “The Big Short.” They read the humongous
red letters written so clearly on the wall and knew with
certainty that the mortgage market would collapse.  
 If Goldman had seen the future, the bank would be far more
culpable for what went wrong, at least morally. The fancy
derivatives it created spread risk so broadly that when
obviously unsound mortgages began to fail, the sky fell.  
 And if Goldman could see that happening and kept on selling
mortgage-backed securities that the bank was secretly shorting,
then the bank’s claim to follow the highest of ethical standards
should make us all very worried. If that’s the most ethical
conduct we can expect, then we might as well stuff cash into
mattresses and head for the mountains.  
 Add to that the transaction the SEC finds fishy, and you
can smell the stench.  
 The big message delivered through Goldman’s witnesses was
that, while internal debate raged over the future of the
subprime mortgage market, the bank in late 2006 decided to “go
flat” on related securities. And that meant being less long and
more short because Goldman was at that point very, very long.  
 Reducing Risk  
 All it was doing was reducing risk, as Chief Financial
Officer  David Viniar  said when it was his turn at the table. The
upshot was a “small net short,” Viniar said.  
 “You call it reducing risk. I call it making billions,”
retorted  Carl Levin , chairman of the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations.  
 And what about all those e-mails, the ones that called some
of the Goldman-created securities essentially worthless?  
 Quoting from such messages, Levin asked Viniar whether his
customers have a right to assume that, with Goldman’s name on
the security, “you don’t think it’s ‘junk,’ that you don’t
think it’s ‘crap.’”  
 Viniar said, “that’s very unfortunate to have on e-mail”
(which was an unfortunate thing for Viniar to say).  
 Next came Blankfein, who seemed stumped by the question of
whether Goldman should tell clients its assessment of the
derivatives it packages.  
 Different clients will have divergent views on a security’s
value and price it accordingly. Sometimes, for any number of
reasons, Goldman will want to sell something others want to buy.  
 So what? No conflict of interest there.  
 That’s the sort of thing that makes Wall Street look bad,
and makes Congress want to rein it in.  
 But as for defeating the SEC case against Goldman, it just
might work.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        