-- Iron Ore Prices in China Drop on Concern Government to Tighten Policy
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-28T03:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/iron-ore-prices-in-china-drop-on-government-tightening-concerns.html

          
          
             Iron ore prices in China, the
biggest consumer, dropped in the past week amid concerns
government measures on the property market will curb demand.  
 Domestic prices of the steelmaking ingredient in Tangshan,
China’s biggest spot market for the material, fell 6.4 percent
to 1,310 yuan ($192) a metric ton yesterday from a record 1,400
yuan on April 20, according to data from Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  
 The Chinese government this month moved to cool its real
estate market after prices surged and the fastest economic
growth in almost three years stoked concerns of an asset bubble.
Iron ore import prices, which traded at a 21-month high, may
drop 30 percent in coming weeks, UBS AG said April 21.  
 “The moves to rein in the property market and expectations
of higher interest rates have led to falls in the prices of
steel and iron ore,” Ma Haitian, a Beijing-based analyst with
Antaike, said by phone. Import prices of iron ore will likely
follow the decline in domestic levels, he said.  
 The nation’s securities regulator on April 24 required
developers to submit fund-raising plans for review, adding to
curbs imposed by the central bank on loans for third-home
purchases, increased downpayment requirements and mortgage rates
announced this month.  
 Iron ore Imports  
 Weekly import prices of 63.5 percent-content iron ore at
Chinese ports have risen for five straight weeks, gaining 1.6
percent last week to $189.50 a ton, according to Metal Bulletin.
The prices may reflect what sellers are asking for and are
higher than actual transactions, Ma said.  
 Import prices averaged $96.31 a ton in the first quarter,
the China Iron & Steel Association said today in a statement
issued in Beijing, an increase of 20.7 percent from a year ago  
 The government crackdown on property may damp construction
and steel demand. Prices of reinforcing steel bars, used in
buildings, fell for six straight days to 4,523 yuan a ton
yesterday from 4,585 yuan on April 19, according to Antaike data.  
 Benchmark steel prices in China jumped 20 percent this year.
Stockpiles of steel products leapt 34 percent to 10.74 million
tons by the end of March from the start of the year, as
speculators bet that prices of the material will keep increasing,
the China Iron & Steel Association said.  
 The rise in steel stockpiles and prices earlier in the year
is “fragile and unstable,” the steel association said. “It
can’t be sustained.”  
 Steel inventories have already dropped 9 percent to 9.77
million tons by April 23, Luo Bingsheng, vice chairman of the
association, said at a briefing in Beijing today.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        