-- No Time Like the Present to Overhaul Wall Street: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-04-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/no-time-like-the-present-to-repair-wall-street-commentary-by-david-pauly.html

          
          
             If there ever was a moment for
reining in America’s cowboy banks, this is it.  
 Folks across the nation are fed up with banker bailouts and
bonuses -- and American lawmakers finally are listening more to
them than to Wall Street’s lobbyists. The proposed Volcker rule
for restricting bankers’ securities trading, once dismissed by
pundits as a pipe dream, is very much in play.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission’s fraud suit against
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the clincher for reform. Goldman
Sachs loses even if it wins the legal case or settles out of
court. Will anybody trust investment bankers who think betting
against their own clients is ethical?  
 Bank reform also gives Congress a chance to restore a bit
of its reputation, now at a low. Republicans will have to think
twice before casting a reflexive “no” vote against proposals
offered by Democratic lawmakers.  
 Christopher Dodd  and  Richard Shelby , the top Democrat and
Republican, respectively, on the Senate Banking Committee, have
said they are close to approving a bill on bank regulation. The
House of Representatives has already passed its  measure .  
 One hang-up is the proposal for an industry-financed fund
to shut down a big bank that fails in the future. Republicans
say this simply invites future bad behavior by bankers. And you
never know if the fund will be big enough.  
 Customers Only  
 Banks would get smaller and perhaps less likely to fail if
the Volcker rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , passes. The proposal would forbid banks to trade
securities for their own account -- which can create conflicts
with customers -- or to invest in hedge funds or buyout funds.  
 Wall Street will resist giving up proprietary trading
because it has been so profitable. The banks would probably spin
off this activity from the rest of their business, perhaps
putting it into an old-style partnership. Then the risks of bad
decisions would affect only the partners, not public
shareholders and taxpayers. Banks might go even farther,
splitting off all trading or even all investment banking from
commercial banking.  
 More, smaller companies may be beneficial for the industry.
Outfits such as  Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp. , which
thought size and wide product diversity were the keys to profit,
were on the brink of bankruptcy before the government rescued
them from their crazy bets on mortgage securities.  
 Trading Derivatives  
 Congress seems to be reaching a consensus that all or most
derivatives trading should be done on exchanges. This would mean
that trades in such instruments as the credit default swaps that
overwhelmed American International Group Inc. would be done by
well-capitalized firms and with the assurance they would be
completed.  
 You know this is a good idea because Wall Street chiefs
insist that many derivative contracts are too customized to be
fit for exchange trading. Believe that if you want to. The
broader view is that banks find it more profitable to trade in
the dark where they dictate the prices rather than on a well-lit
exchange where all buyers and sellers set prices.  
 The bleating about derivatives is reminiscent of the
moaning when the  New York Stock Exchange  abolished fixed
commissions on share trading in 1975 (before some of you were
born). Profits would vanish, the business would be ruined, spoke
the voices of doom. Sure. Average daily trading volume on the
exchange back then was in the millions. Today it’s in the
billions.  
 What bank bosses don’t get is that properly regulated banks
will thrive.  
 The high-risk trading that fomented the recent credit
crisis and recession wasn’t an aberration. Banks as now
constituted reward risky behavior. When government overseers
insist they hold adequate capital and pay their people
rationally, bankers and their shareholders will be better off.  
 Let’s not mess it up.  
 ( David Pauly  is Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Normandy
Beach, New Jersey   dpauly@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        