-- Reserve Bank's Debelle Says Australia Is Withstanding Greek Debt Crisis
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-04-28T01:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/reserve-bank-s-debelle-says-australia-withstanding-greek-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             Australian funding costs haven’t
been affected by the Greek debt crisis, according to central
bank Assistant Governor Guy Debelle.  
 “So far it hasn’t had any effect at all. It’s pretty much
been confined to Europe,” Debelle said in response to questions
at a function organized by the Mortgage & Finance Association of
Australia in Sydney today. “We haven’t seen any impact on
Australian funding costs.”  
 Standard & Poor’s yesterday lowered Greece’s credit rating
to junk and Portugal was cut two steps as contagion from
Greece’s debt crisis spreads through the euro region. Stocks
worldwide tumbled amid investor concerns that debt-laden nations
are moving closer to default.  
 “It’s become a bit more messy in the past 24 hours,”
Debelle said today. “It’s been fairly localized to Europe thus
far, and one would hope it remains so.”  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1.4 percent at 9:30
a.m. in Tokyo. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 2.3 percent
yesterday in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 3.1
percent, the most since November, and the euro dropped below
$1.32 for the first time since April 2009.  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its
forecast for global growth this year while cautioning that a
failure to contain soaring public debt may have “severe”
consequences for the world economy.  
 The Reserve Bank of Australia, which has raised its
benchmark interest rate five times in six meetings, next meets
to discuss monetary policy on May 4.  
 Traders are betting there is a 20 percent chance of a
quarter-point increase in the overnight cash rate target to 4.5
percent at the bank’s next meeting, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures
Exchange at 7:59 p.m. yesterday. Chances of a quarter-point move
by early July are at 80 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        