-- Rudd Should Call Australian Vote on Climate Plan, Opposition Leader Says
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-04-28T03:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/rudd-should-call-australian-vote-on-climate-plan-opposition-leader-says.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister Kevin
Rudd should call an early election after abandoning his climate
change plan, opposition coalition leader Tony Abbott and Greens
Party chief Bob Brown said.  
 Rudd lacks the “guts to take difficult policies to the
election,” Abbott, who leads the Liberal-National party
coalition, told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. The
prime minister can’t be taken seriously “and this back-flip on
an emissions trading scheme just proves it.”  
 Brown joined Abbott in calling for a national vote after
Rudd said yesterday his proposal for a cap-and-trade program to
help reduce emissions from Australia, the world’s biggest coal
exporter, would be delayed until the end of 2012.  
 Rudd, who must call an election by next April, earlier this
month abandoned plans to build child-care centers and a home
insulation program, toughened laws on foreigners buying
Australian residential properties in a reversal of a 2008 ruling,
and halted processing asylum applications from Afghans and Sri
Lankans.  
 “We’ve got a government which is reneging, dissembling,
backing off, failing,” Brown told ABC today, saying Rudd should
fight an election on the issue of climate change. “We simply
don’t have a government with the ability to act.”  
 The failure of Rudd’s climate plan to reduce greenhouse
gases by between 5 percent and 15 percent in the next decade
comes almost four months after some 190 countries were unable to
agree on a binding greenhouse treaty at United Nations talks in
Copenhagen.  
 President Barack Obama’s cap-and-trade legislation to limit
carbon dioxide emissions that scientists have linked to climate
change and set up a market in pollution allowances, similar to
the European Union’s emissions-trading system, narrowly passed
the U.S. House last year and stalled in the U.S. Senate.  
 Out of Time  
 Rudd’s Labor Party doesn’t control the upper house Senate,
which rejected his climate bill twice last year and again in
February. The prime minister said yesterday the carbon emissions
plan was delayed as a result opposition from lawmakers and to
give Australia a chance to assess actions taken by other nations
by the end of 2012, the end date for the Kyoto accord on climate
change.  
 The Senate meets for just 10 days between now and the end
of August so Rudd is “running out of time to get laws through
the Senate,” said Associate Professor Rodney Smith, who teaches
Australian politics at the University of Sydney. “The
government has now put the disappointing items like climate out
of the way so it can try to build a case for a second term.”  
 Rudd’s election timing is also complicated by ballots in
Victoria State on Nov. 27 and New South Wales on March 26. Polls
suggest the Labor governments in power in both states face
either a loss or a reduced majority.  
 Rudd has made clear that he believes Australians “expect
their politicians in general to serve out a full term and that’s
the view the government has taken,” Penny Wong, the minister
for climate change, energy efficiency and water, told ABC radio
today.  
 “Action of climate change last year was the right thing to
do,” Wong said. “It is not the government that has prevented
Australia from taking action, it is the Senate led by Tony
Abbott.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        