-- Shanghai Hotel, Transport Stocks to Extend Rallies as Expo Boosts Earnings
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-28T00:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/shanghai-s-hotel-tourism-transportation-stocks-will-extend-gains-on-expo.html

          
          
             Shanghai-based hotel, tourism and
transport companies are likely to extend gains this year as a
jump in visitors during the city’s World Expo may increase
earnings by 20 percent, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co.  
 The expo is expected to boost spending by about 100 billion
yuan ($14.7 billion) during its May-to-October run, or about a
fifth of the city’s retail sales, Zhang Kun, a Shanghai-based
strategist at Guotai Junan, the nation’s second-biggest
brokerage by revenue, said today.  
 Shanghai Jinjiang International Hotels Development Co.,
China’s largest hotel operator, Shanghai Oriental Pearl Group
Co., operator of the tallest television tower, and Shanghai
International Airport Co., which manages the second-busiest
airfield, will be the largest beneficiaries, he said.  
 “Earnings at these Shanghai-based companies may be boosted
by about 20 percent this year due to the World Expo effect,”
Zhang said in a phone interview yesterday. “Hotel operators may
be the biggest beneficiaries among all these industries. Should
more people visit the city than expected, it’s inevitable we
will see room rates increased.”  
 A total of 192 countries, including the U.K., France and
Japan, and 50 international organizations will take part in the
Expo, which starts May 1, according to the Expo’s Web site.
Organizers are expecting 70 million visitors, with about 95
percent expected from within the country.  
 Hotels in Shanghai’s Pudong district, which plays host to
the Expo, are likely to see occupancy rates rise by 50 percent,
according to the area’s tourism chief.  
 “Occupancy rates for hotels in Pudong during the Expo
period should be able to reach 90 percent on average” compared
with “nearly 60 percent” last year, said Chen Zhongmao.  
 Earnings Growth  
 The prospect of increased earnings may help Shanghai
Jinjiang, which in January received approval to buy a 71 percent
stake in budget-hotel operator Jinjiang Inn, extend a 16 percent
rally this year. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has
fallen 11 percent in 2010.  
 “Its catering division and Jinjiang Inns are poised to
benefit from the upcoming Shanghai World Expo,” BOC
International analyst Tracy Feng wrote in a note dated April 19.  
 Analysts predicted further gains for Shanghai Oriental
Pearl and Shanghai Airport, which have advanced 15 percent and 1
percent this year, respectively.  
 “The thematic play on the World Expo may last for a while
rather than end once the physical event starts,” Li Jianfeng, a
strategist at Shanghai Securities Co., said in a phone interview.
“It’s a six-month run, unlike the Beijing Olympic Games, which
was only two weeks.”  
 Thematic Inflows  
 About 400 billion yuan may flow into stocks that offer
thematic investment opportunities as investors sell property
stocks because of the government’s measures to rein in asset
bubbles, Citic Securities Co. analysts led by Yu Jun said in a
report on April 26.  
 World expos began with the 1851 World’s Fair in London’s
Crystal Palace and were originally used to show off the wealth
and technological prowess of Europe’s industrialized nations.
These days, companies use the forum to promote their products.
Coca-Cola Co., International Business Machines Corp., and Cisco
Systems Inc. have signed on as sponsors of the Expo.  
 For Related News and Information:
Chinese stocks stories: TNI CHINA STK <GO>
The most-read Chinese stock stories: MNI CHS <GO>
Global stocks stories: TOP STK <GO>
World equity index monitor: WEI <GO>
World equity valuations: WPE <GO>  
          
          


  


        