-- Yuan Gains Won't Drive Factories Away From China, HSBC Hong Kong CEO Says
-- Bob Chen
-- 2010-04-28T01:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-28/yuan-gains-won-t-drive-factories-away-from-china-hsbc-hong-kong-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Hong Kong companies with factories
in China will be reluctant to move abroad as the yuan and labor
costs climb, because of their growing focus on domestic sales,
HSBC Holdings Plc’s chief executive officer in the city said.  
 “Traditionally factory owners producing goods in China
would look for the shortest, most efficient supply route out of
the country,” Mark McCombe, who heads the local unit of
Europe’s largest bank, said in an interview yesterday. “Now
they’re investing much more time and energy in researching
internal supply chains in China.”  
 HSBC forecasts the currency, officially known as the
renminbi, will strengthen 4.8 percent this year and 5.8 percent
in 2011. McCombe predicts China will shun a one-off appreciation
to avoid seeming “reactive” to foreign pressure. Non-
deliverable yuan forward contracts reflect bets for a 3.1
percent gain against the dollar in the next 12 months.  
 Policy makers have kept the yuan at about 6.83 per dollar
since July 2008, halting a 21 percent, three-year advance to
help exporters weather a global recession. Yang Yuanqing, chief
executive officer of Beijing-based computer maker Lenovo Group
Ltd., last month supported appreciation as a means of boosting
Chinese consumers’ purchasing power.  
 Exports played a reduced role as China’s gross domestic
product surged 11.9 percent from a year earlier in the first
quarter. Investment contributed 6.9 percentage points to growth,
consumption accounted for 6.2 points and net exports deducted
1.2 points, according to government data. Retail sales jumped 18
percent to 1.13 trillion yuan ($165 billion) in March.  
 China Demand  
 “If you can build domestic sales in China and receive
renminbi for those sales in a rising currency, then that’s fine
since both costs and revenues will be renminbi-based,” said
McCombe. China allowed trials in yuan settlement for
international trade starting July 2, which promises to further
reduce foreign-exchange exposure, he said.  
 A central bank survey showed 25 percent of migrant workers
expected their wages to climb more than 10 percent in 2010, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported March 30. The nation’s
producer price index rose 5.9 percent in March, the biggest gain
in 17 months, as costs of raw materials and labor increased, the
statistics bureau said April 15.
      Hong Kong-based Li & Fung Ltd., the biggest supplier to
companies including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., said March 24 the
volume of goods it sourced from China fell 5 percent in 2009,
while that from Bangladesh increased 20 percent and Vietnam rose
1 percent. Li & Fung has “other options as a company and our
customers who use us have other options” if costs rise too fast
in China, Managing Director William Fung said March 24.  
 Inland Development  
 Many manufacturers in China are moving factories further
inland, rather than relocating to a country that they are less
familiar with, said McCombe.  
 The government’s 4 trillion yuan stimulus package has
helped accelerate development of China’s interior, which
historically has been left behind by the export-driven coastal
regions. Urban fixed-asset investment in central and western
areas surged 36 percent and 35 percent last year, respectively,
outpacing the east coast’s 24 percent growth.  
 “The reality of renminbi appreciation takes a lower
priority within the overall business dynamics,” McCombe said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top currency news: TOP FRX <GO>
News on China’s currency: TNI CHINA FRX BN <GO>
Stories on China economy: TNI CHINA ECO BN <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yang Yuanqing, chief executive officer of Lenovo Group Ltd., speaks at a news conference in Beijing, on April 2, 2009. Photographer: Adam Dean/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 27 (Bloomberg) -- Fan Gang, a former People’s Bank of China adviser, talked yesterday with Bloomberg's Susan Li in Hong Kong about China's measures to cool property prices and the nation's currency policy.
     Fan said James Chanos is overly pessimistic about China’s property market because the hedge fund manager underestimates government efforts to avoid a bubble. Chanos said earlier this month that China is on a "treadmill to hell" because it’s hooked on property development for driving growth. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
