-- Madoff, Tribune, Oriental Trading, Lehman, Orleans: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-26T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/madoff-tribune-oriental-trading-lehman-orleans-bankruptcy.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities Inc. sued  UBS AG , alleging that the
Zurich-based investment bank “actively assisted” in the Madoff
fraud by sponsoring international feeder funds. The complaint
alleges that UBS continued participating with Madoff even though
its “due diligence” turned up “indicia of fraud,” the Madoff
trustee said in a statement.  Many factual allegations in the complaint are filed under
seal, the Madoff trustee said, because UBS believes information
it turned over is confidential. The trustee is asking the
bankruptcy court to make the entire complaint public. For other
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Madoff trustee said he is seeking to recover $2 billion
in 23 counts of financial fraud for “collaboration” with
Madoff. Without UBS, the trustee said Madoff would have had $1
billion less in customer funds.  UBS said the suit is “completely unfounded.” For details
on the UBS response, click here.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008 with the
appointment of a trustee under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  individually went into an
involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His bankruptcy
case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation. Madoff is
serving a 150-year prison sentence following a guilty plea.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-
00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
  Manhattan ).  Updates  Tribune Has $35 Million Profit, Cash is $1.7 Billion  Publisher Tribune Co. reported a $35 million net profit for
the month ended Oct. 24. The creditors’ committee was authorized
to file an unredacted version of the Nov. 1 complaint to set
aside fraudulent transfers resulting from the leveraged buyout
in December 2007.  Tribune’s profit in October stemmed from revenue of $255.4
million. Operating income was $45.8 million. For the month,
depreciation expense was $12 million and reorganization costs
were $6.5 million.  Tribune ended the month with $1.729 billion cash, an
increase of $77 million from the prior month.  When the committee originally filed its complaint, many of
the facts were deleted because they were obtained under
confidentiality agreements. This week, the judge authorized
filing the entire complaint publicly.  Depending on which of four competing Chapter 11 plans is
ultimately confirmed, the claims in the lawsuit will be waived.
Consequently, the committee won’t be moving the lawsuit forward
for the time being. The committee filed other lawsuits. One is
for preferences to insiders and another would recover
preferences from Tribune’s pre-bankruptcy professionals. All of
the suits are on hold.  For a discussion of the three plans filed by creditors,
click here for the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For
details on Tribune’s own plan, click here for the Oct. 25
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The hearing to approve disclosure
materials is set for Nov. 29.  The plans differ in how to deal with disputes arising from
fraudulent transfer claims resulting from the $13.7 billion
leveraged buyout in 2007 led by Sam Zell. For a summary of some
of the examiner’s conclusions about possible defects and
fraudulent transfers in the LBO, click here for the July 27
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Oriental Trading Second Lien Settles to Support Plan  Oriental Trading Co., a direct marketer of home decor
products, toys and  novelties , should have smoother sailing at
the Dec. 16 confirmation hearing now that the first- and second-
lien lenders reached settlement on the Chapter 11 plan.  Originally, second-lien lenders were to receive only
warrants for 2.5 percent of the stock with a strike price based
on an enterprise value of $427.5 million. Assuming the second-
lien lenders as a class vote for the plan, they will instead
receive five-year warrants for 5 percent of the stock based on a
$422 million enterprise value. They will also receive five-year
warrants for 4.5 percent based on a $447 million enterprise
value.  If the second-lien lenders vote “no,” their treatment
reverts to what it would have been under the prior plan. In
addition, a “yes” vote gets them $750,000 to apply toward
reimbursement of counsel fees and expenses.  The amended plan requires re-solicitation of votes by the
classes composed of first- and second-lien lenders and unsecured
creditors. A ballot already cast remains the same unless the
creditor changes the vote.  The plan gives the new stock plus cash or a new $200
million second-lien note to senior lenders owed $403 million. As
the result of another settlement with the creditor’s committee,
first-lien lenders are providing $1.1 million for unsecured
creditors with $6.8 million in claims, assuming the class votes
for the plan.  Oriental Trading missed an interest payment in May on
second-lien debt. The plan was negotiated with the first-lien
lenders before the Aug. 25 bankruptcy filing.  Assets of the Omaha, Nebraska-based company were on the
books for $463 million on April 3. Liabilities totaled $756.6
million. Net sales for the fiscal year were $485.4 million.
Although OTC sought a purchaser, no offer was enough to pay
first-lien debt in full.  At the filing date, $180 million plus interest was owing on
the second-lien debt plus $120 million in mezzanine debt.  An affiliate of the  Carlyle Group  purchased 68 percent of
OTC in July 2006 from private-equity investor Brentwood
Associates, which continues to own about 24 percent of the
equity.  JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is agent for the first-lien
creditors. Wilmington Trust FSB is agent on the second-lien
credit. Wachovia Bank NA serves as agent for the mezzanine debt.  The case is In re OTC Holdings Corp., 10-12636, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  FGIC Plan Up in the Air Over Insurance Subsidiary’s Troubles  The fate of FGIC Corp. and its reorganization plan are up
in the air as a consequence of the failure of an exchange offer
by the subsidiary Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., a bond
insurer.  FGIC said in a bankruptcy court filing that the subsidiary
may be taken over by New York insurance regulators. The
previously negotiated plan may not work as a result.  FGIC’s assets consist of $11.3 million cash and the ability
of the reorganized company to utilize a $4 billion net operating
loss carryforward. The contemplated plan called for splitting up
the cash and stock among lenders on the $46 million revolving
credit and the $345 million unsecured notes. The holders of 90
percent of the common stock had agreed to go along with the plan
and waive their $7.2 million unsecured claim.  In view of the uncertainty regarding a plan, the Nov. 23
hearing that had been set to approve a disclosure statement was
pushed back to Dec. 14. FGIC also obtained an extension until
Feb. 1 of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan.  FGIC’s petition in early August listed $11.5 million in
assets and $391.5 million in debt. Wilmington Trust FSB is
trustee for the bondholders and JPMorgan Chase Bank is agent for
the lenders.  The case is In re FGIC Corp., 10-14215, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Selling Heritage Fields Debt Again  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed a new motion for
approval to sell the debt it holds against the Heritage Fields
master planned community in  Irvine ,  California . The purchaser,
an affiliate of  State Street Corp ., will pay $125 million plus
repayment of a $32 million participation interest.  Lehman filed a motion in June to sell the debt to State
Street. Lehman withdrew the motion in September.  Heritage Fields is a 3,723-acre project. If the sale goes
through this time, Lehman also is entitled to receive contingent
payments. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based Barclays
Plc one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Orleans Homebuilders Haggling over Loan Terms  Homebuilder Orleans Homebuilders Inc., which is currently
scheduled for approval of the reorganization plan at a Nov. 30
hearing, is haggling with lenders over details in financing to
support an exit from Chapter 11.  The bankruptcy court previously authorized Orleans to
accept $155 million in exit financing to be provided by JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, as administrative agent for lenders. The
financing is to be composed of a $30 million revolving credit
and a $125 million  term loan . Click here to read Bloomberg
coverage about the terms under discussion with the lenders.  For a summary of the Orleans plan, click here for the Nov.
8 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Bensalem, Pennsylvania-based Orleans builds homes and
condominiums in seven states. The Chapter 11 filing in March
followed maturity of the revolving credit the prior month.
Approximately $325 million was owing to the banks at maturity,
not including $15 million on letters of credit. The March 31
balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against total
liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re  Orleans Homebuilders Inc ., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Point Blank Arranging Auction, Minimum $14 Million    Point Blank Solutions Inc ., a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, intends on holding
an auction for the business on Dec. 15 to comply with the
dictates of financing for the Chapter 11 case begun in April.  Although Point Blank has letters of intent from six
potential buyers, no one is yet under contract. The bankruptcy
court scheduled a Dec. 1 hearing to approve procedures for
auction and sale.  The price cannot be less than $14 million, Point Blank’s
court papers say. The company wants bids by Dec. 13, followed by
a Dec. 15 auction and a Dec. 17 hearing to approve the sale. The
financing agreement requires completion of the sale by the
year’s end.  The official shareholders’ committee earlier this month
said it had a “fully funded plan of reorganization” that would
serve creditors better than a sale of the business. The
stockholders’ panel also said it had a “fully funded
alternative financing facility” to take over if existing
lenders don’t extend their loan beyond the year’s end.  In the papers setting up the auction, Point Blank said the
committee hadn’t shown committed financing.  Point Blank said that proposals to sponsor a Chapter 11
plan will be accepted at the auction.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,  Florida . A second plant is in Jacksboro,  Tennessee . Revenue in
2009 exceeded $153 million. The former chief executive and chief
operating officer of Point Blank were convicted in September of
orchestrating a $185 million fraud.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Almatis Junior Lenders Can’t Have Confidential Info  Some of the junior lenders to Almatis BV were precluded by
the bankruptcy judge from having their new lawyers gain access
to confidential materials produced in litigation during in the
Chapter 11 case. The Almatis reorganization plan was confirmed
and implemented in September.  Some of the junior lenders hired Herrick Feinstein LLP as
their new lawyers. The Nov. 24 opinion by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn says it was “quite clear” that the information
was being sought to lay the groundwork for a lawsuit against the
senior lenders. Glenn’s opinion notes that the confirmed plan
does not prohibit the lenders from suing one another after
bankruptcy.  Glenn said it would be a misuse of the bankruptcy process
to turn over the information. The Chapter 11 case is essentially
over, and the information can’t be used for any purpose in the
bankruptcy case.  Glenn said the junior lenders can sue and use discovery
rights in a new lawsuit to gain access to the same materials.  Almatis is a producer of specialty alumina products. The
plan was based on a settlement between junior lenders and
Oaktree Capital Management LLC, a first-lien lender that
originally intended to assume ownership. Oaktree objected to
turning over the confidential materials.  The plan as ultimately confirmed gave Oaktree full payment
with interest at the default rate. Other holders of the $676
million in first-lien debt receive the same treatment. For
details on the plan, click here and here for the Aug. 27 and
July 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for $1.53 billion.  The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  American Safety Razor Completes Sale to Energizer  American Safety Razor Co. completed the $301 million sale
of the assets on Nov. 23 to  Energizer Holdings Inc ., the maker
of Schick shavers, the buyer said in a statement. Energizer won
the auction on Oct. 8, beating out the original bid from secured
lenders who offered to buy the business in exchange for the
$244.4 million they were owed on a first-lien revolving credit
and term loan.  ASR originally turned down the offer from Energizer,
contending that a sale would never close given the possibility
of objection from federal antitrust regulators. At a hearing on
Sept. 30, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath overruled ASR’s
decision and required holding another auction where Energizer
could bid. As it turned out, Energizer received necessary
antitrust waivers.  Energizer was required to complete the acquisition by Nov.
23 or the lenders would have taken ownership in exchange for
debt. Second-lien creditors, owed $178.1 million, had urged
Walrath to hold the second auction where Energizer could bid.  ASR filed under Chapter 11 in July, saying at the time that
it would give second-lien creditors an opportunity to arrange a
sale at a price more favorable than swapping the business for
the first-lien debt. The topping bid from Energizer “validates
that there was value in the lenders’ strategy,” Jesse Austin, a
lawyer from Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP, said in an e-
mailed statement. Paul Hastings represented the investment
bankers for the first-lien lenders.  Mezzanine lenders are owed $60 million. The agent for the
first-lien lenders is  UBS AG .  Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based ASR had revenue of $330
million in 2009. It had U.S. plants in Virginia and Tennessee.
Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy. It was acquired for $625
million in July 2006 by London-based Lion Capital LLP.  ASR has the largest market share for private-label blades,
although only 8 percent when branded goods are included,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Reorganized MGM’s Board, Governance Rules Disclosed  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. disclosed the identity of most of
the members of the board of directors to take office when the
prepackaged Chapter 11 plan is confirmed and implemented. To
read about the board members, click here for Bloomberg coverage.  The papers filed in bankruptcy court on Nov. 23 also
included revised corporate governance documents that were
important in reaching settlement with Carl Icahn, who can
designate a board member.  MGM started the court reorganization on Nov. 3 and is
scheduled for approval of the plan at a Dec. 2 confirmation
hearing. Creditors voted before the Chapter 11 petition was
filed.  The plan swaps $4.89 billion of debt under a credit
agreement for most of the equity. The plan pays general
unsecured claims in full while existing stockholders receive
nothing.  MGM’s assets include 4,100 feature films and 10,800
television episodes. The assets at Sept. 30 were $2.67 billion
with total liabilities listed for $5.77 billion, without
adjustments required by generally accepted accounting
principles. MGM owns 62.5 percent of United Artists
Entertainment LLC, which isn’t in bankruptcy.  Los Angeles-based MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8
billion transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc., 10-
15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  Daily Podcast  Big Decision for Servicers, Texas Rangers Transcript: Audio  An important decision stopping servicers from suing on
mortgage notes, the unsealed transcript of a chambers conference
in the  Texas Rangers  reorganization, and more than 1,000 pages
of briefs to wrap up the trial by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
against  Barclays Plc  are topics analyzed in the bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 