-- Thai Stocks Set to Rally Further 18% in 2011 on Rates, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-26T04:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/thai-stocks-set-to-rally-further-18-in-2011-on-rates-credit-suisse-says.html
Thai  stocks , the second-best
performers among Asia’s 15 biggest markets this year, will
probably rise a further 18 percent in 2011 as low interest rates
and repatriation of overseas bond investments boost demand for
the nation’s equities, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The  SET Index  may rise to 1,176 in 2011, driven by higher
available cash among domestic investors, Credit Suisse analysts
including Dan Fineman said in a report today. The index, which
has rallied 36 percent this year, fell 0.3 percent to 993.56 at
11:37 a.m.  “Thais have no major alternative investment classes beyond
equities and bank accounts,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.
The lowest interest rates in Asia’s emerging markets and
expiration of investments in South Korean bonds will provide
“extraordinary liquidity” for equities, they said.  The benchmark  index  has been beaten by only Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite index among the 15 top markets in Asia this
year, as the Thai economy returned to growth from a recession in
2009. Foreigners have raised their purchases of Thai equities as
political tension eased since deadly street protests claimed 89
lives in April and May.  Premier Abhisit Vejjajiva said Nov. 24 a new election may
be held “quickly” if Dec. 12 by-elections are peaceful,
reiterating a desire to dissolve Parliament before he’s forced
to at the end of 2011.  Elections, Rates  “Most” of the gains next year will come in the first half
before the elections and interest rates increase, according to
Credit Suisse. It has an “overweight” rating on banks and
property developers because the sectors are sensitive to
interest rates, and is “underweight” on energy stocks.  The  Bank of Thailand  on Oct. 10 refrained from a third
straight increase in its benchmark interest rate as Asia’s
policymakers seek to stem currency gains and shield their
economies from a slowdown in global growth that may hurt
exports. The central bank kept the  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 1.75 percent after raising it in July and August.  Sales of funds that invest in South Korean bonds have
slowed this year as the excess return in comparison with
domestic Thai bank savings rates narrowed.  Kasikorn Asset
Management Co. , Thailand’s biggest mutual fund company, and  SCB
Asset Management Co.  are among asset managers that have raised
funds from Thai individuals in recent years to invest in South
Korean bonds for their higher returns.  Hedge Funds  More foreign buying, especially from hedge funds, will
“represent another possible driver” for gains in Thai
equities, Credit Suisse said. “Many hedge funds have yet to
return” to the Thai stock market after the global financial
crisis, the brokerage said.  Overseas investors  have bought a net 52.4 billion baht
($1.74 billion) of Thai equities so far this year, compared with
a net buying of 39 billion baht in all of 2009, according to
Stock Exchange of Thailand data. Foreigners raised holdings
after selling 58.7 billion baht of the equities at the height of
political crisis in May in the biggest monthly selloff,
according to stock exchange data going back to 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  