-- Thailand's Manufacturing Growth Slows as Exports Ease, Floods Hurt Demand
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-26T05:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/thailand-s-manufacturing-growth-slows-as-exports-ease-floods-hurt-demand.html
Thailand’s manufacturing growth
eased in October as slowing global economic expansion and the
nation’s worst flooding in five decades hurt demand.  The industrial production index  rose 6.2 percent last month
from a year earlier, the Office of Industrial Economics said on
its website today. That compares with the 8.1 percent increase
reported earlier for September.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia grew 6.7
percent last quarter, the slowest pace this year, as exports
eased and agriculture declined. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said Nov. 24 the government “can’t be complacent” about growth
and has scope to introduce stimulus measures if needed.  “We can expect weak production” going forward because of
a slowdown in export growth,  Rahul Bajoria , a Singapore-based
economist at Barclays Plc, said before the report. With
“manageable inflation and general external growth risks, the
Bank of Thailand will most likely keep rates on hold.”  The  Bank of Thailand  in October kept its  benchmark rate  at
1.75 percent after raising it in July and August as Asia’s
policy makers sought to stem currency gains and shield their
economies from a slowdown in global expansion. The central bank
will probably keep borrowing costs unchanged in 2011 to counter
faltering growth, the state planning agency said this week.  Thai  export growth  slowed to 15.7 percent in October, the
slowest pace in a year, a report showed last week, and the baht
has appreciated more than 10 percent this year, the best
performance in Asia, raising concern that Thailand’s goods may
become more expensive relative to its regional rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  