-- AirAsia Indonesia to Surpass Three-Times-As-Large Malaysia Unit, CEO Says
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-26T09:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/airasia-indonesia-to-surpass-three-times-as-large-malaysia-unit-ceo-says.html
AirAsia Bhd.  Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Fernandes  said the carrier’s Indonesian operations may
surpass its Malaysian unit, which is now more than three times
as big.  The Indonesia business may pass Malaysia in the “not-too-
distant future,” Fernandes said today in a Bloomberg TV
interview in Kuala Lumpur, without elaboration. “We’re really
in the best playground for growth.”  Southeast Asia’s largest budget carrier more-than-doubled
third-quarter  net income  as it expands its main Malaysian unit
and ventures in Indonesia and Thailand to take advantage of
rising regional travel demand. The airline plans to add as many
as 12 planes a year and is targeting opportunities in Vietnam,
the Philippines, India and China, Fernandes said.  “We believe that the market has underestimated AirAsia’s
growth potential in riding the sector recovery,”  Juliana Ramli ,
an analyst at HwangDBS Vickers Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur, wrote in a
note to clients today. The analyst recommends buying the stock.  AirAsia  rose 2.4 percent to close 2.61 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur. The stock has risen 89 percent this year compared with a
17 percent gain on the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index .  AirAsiaX Tokyo Service  The company’s long-haul unit, AirAsia X Sdn. today said it
wants to increase its Kuala Lumpur-Tokyo flights to daily within
18 months to make the route profitable. The service to Tokyo’s
Haneda Airport is scheduled to begin at three flights a week
from Dec. 9.  “Costs are very high in Tokyo,” Azran  Osman Rani , AirAsia
X chief executive officer, said in an interview in Tokyo today.
“While we could usually make a route profitable with five
flights a week, we need seven in Tokyo.”  The carrier would also like to add service to Osaka,
Fukuoka and Sapporo within three years, he said.  Indonesia AirAsia’s passenger number rose 8 percent to 1.1
million in the quarter, according to a statement. The Malaysian
operations boosted passenger numbers 12 percent to 4 million, it
said.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd.  returned to profit in the
same period to Sept. 30, reporting net income of 233.2 million
ringgit, it said in a separate exchange filing yesterday.  AirAsia could also be “very interested” if Airbus SAS
decides to offer a revamped version of its A320 single-aisle
plane with a new engine, Fernandes said. The Toulouse, France-
based planemaker has said it is considering such move.  Airbus is already working through orders for 175 A320s from
AirAsia, according to data on its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rishaad Salamat  in London at 
 rishaad@bloomberg.net ;
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  