-- Taiwan Holds Mayoral Elections After Shooting at Kuomintang Campaign Rally
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-27T05:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/taiwan-former-vice-president-son-shot-in-taipei-cna-says.html
Taiwan voters choose mayors in
elections today after  Sean Lien , son of  Taiwan ’s former vice
president  Lien Chan , was shot and wounded while campaigning for
the ruling Kuomintang party on the eve of the ballots.  Voting is taking place in two northern municipalities, two
in the south and one in central Taiwan, which together account
for about 60 percent of Taiwan’s 23 million people. Lien and his
son are members of the KMT, which controls three areas, while
the opposition Democratic Progressive Party is in power in two.  “The gun shot incident will garner more votes for the KMT
in Taipei city and Sinbei,” said  Philip Yang , a professor of
political science at National Taiwan University in Taipei.
“Some people who weren’t going to vote may be compelled to do
so now.”  President  Ma Ying-jeou  has seen his popularity fall to 30
percent in September from 58 percent after his inauguration in
2008, according to polls by Global Views, a Taipei-based
magazine. Losses in the local elections may harm the KMT before
presidential elections scheduled for March 2012.  Sean Lien’s condition is stable following the shooting in
Taipei county and he is under observation after an operation,
the National Taiwan University Hospital said in a statement on
its website. He was shot in the left cheek, with the bullet
exiting his right temple, Tan Ching-ting, a spokeswoman for the
National Taiwan University Hospital, said by phone.  Shooter Arrested  A 29-year-old man surnamed Huang died in the gunfire, and a
shooter, identified as Lin Cheng-wei, was arrested at the scene,
said Wang Cho-chiun, head of the National Police Agency.  Ma condemned the incident and ordered an investigation,
according to a statement from his office.  Former President  Chen Shui-bian  was shot in March 2004 on
the eve of the presidential election, which triggered weeks of
street protests on allegations he may have set up his own
shooting to win sympathy votes. Lien Chan, then chairman of the
Kuomintang, lost to Chen by 30,000 votes out of about 13 million
cast.  “This is very negative for the future of Taiwan’s election
process, democracy and our international image,” said Yang.
“It sets a bad model for us and there would be such concerns
for campaigning next time.”  Ma, Chen and  Lee Teng-hui  were mayors for Taipei city
before becoming Taiwanese presidents.  Bets on the  Exchange  of Future Events indicate that former
premier  Su Tseng-chang  of the DPP has a 50.9 percent chance to
win the Taipei mayoral race, compared with 49.8 percent for the
KMT’s incumbent  Hau Lung-bin  as of Nov. 24. KMT candidates are
leading in New Taipei in the north and Taichung in the center,
according to predictions on the exchange. The DPP is winning in
Kaohsiung and Tainan in the south.  The simulated market, with about 80,000 participants, is
maintained by the Center for Prediction Markets at National
Chengchi University in Taipei. No money is involved, as Taiwan’s
law doesn’t allow futures contracts on political events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Ong  in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  