-- Irish Bank Bonds Tumble on Concern Senior Bondholders Will Pay for Bailout
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-11-26T16:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/allied-irish-bank-of-ireland-bonds-plunge-amid-bailout-concern.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of
Ireland Plc’s senior debt slumped on concern the government will
force some of the cost of bailing out the country’s banks onto
senior bondholders.  European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
are taking legal advice on how senior bondholders can share the
cost of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($113 billion) bailout without
triggering lawsuits, the Irish Times reported today, without
saying where it got the information. Negotiators plan to
finalize the aid package on Nov. 28 before markets re-open after
the weekend, an EU official said on condition of anonymity.  Allied Irish’s 750 million euros of 5.625 percent senior
notes due 2014 fell 2 cents on the euro to 75 cents, a 2.6
percent decline, according to composite prices on Bloomberg at
4:30 p.m. in London. Bank of Ireland’s 974 million euros of
4.625 percent senior unsecured notes maturing in 2013 fell 3
cents on the euro, or 3.4 percent, to 82 cents.  “While  junior bondholders  always faced the prospect of
taking a haircut on their investments,” senior bondholders
“have been sacrosanct” until now,  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst
with Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, said in a note to clients.
“It is clear that more radical solutions than simply pumping
more equity into the bank system are in the offing.”  Two years ago, the Irish government assured senior
bondholders that they wouldn’t lose their money if banks failed.
Holders of the debt are typically the last investors to lose out
when a bank or company founders.  Allied Irish  Allied Irish has about 5.9 billion euros of  senior
unsecured debt  and 12.1 billion euros of senior secured notes,
all of which are covered bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Bank of Ireland  has 5.4 billion euros of senior
unsecured debt and another 5.9 billion euros of government-
guaranteed bonds, the data show.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Ltd., which is buying back some of
its subordinated securities at an 80 percent discount, also had
its senior bonds tumble on speculation of burden-sharing.  Anglo Irish’s 1.25 billion euros of floating-rate notes
maturing in January 2012 dropped 7 cents on the euro, or 9
percent, to 70 cents, Bloomberg composite prices show. The
Dublin-based lender’s 750 million euros of FRNs due in January
2011 plunged 9 cents, or 10 percent, to 83 cents.  Anglo Irish had its long-term credit rating cut six levels
by Standard & Poor’s to B, or junk, from BBB today.  Paid at Par  Holders of European senior bank bonds have been paid the
par value of their investments in troubled lenders, except in
the case of Iceland, Morgan Stanley analysts including  Carlos Egea  said in a note on Oct. 15. There, creditors of Iceland’s
Kaupthing Bank hf, Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki Islands hf are
owed as much as $86 billion. Bondholders of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. weren’t bailed out after the firm filed for
bankruptcy in 2008.  The rescue talks taking place in Dublin have focused on how
Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish may buy back or exchange
subordinated debt rather than burden-sharing by senior
bondholders, according to three people familiar with the
situation, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Allied Irish  shares  surged as much as 24 percent to 37
cents on speculation that burden-sharing with bondholders would
help the bank avoid outright nationalization, before falling
back to 34 cents in Dublin trading.  ‘Benefit’ Shareholders  “While shareholders would still get diluted, Allied Irish
could avoid being nationalized, which would potentially benefit
investors” as the shares would still have some value and be
tradable,  Oliver Gilvarry , head of research at Dolmen Securities
in Dublin, said in a telephone interview.  Bank of Ireland shares were 6 percent higher at 27 cents
after earlier rising 9 percent. The five-member ISEQ Financial
Index has fallen about 98 percent from its peak in February
2007.  To help prevent another crisis, Ireland’s government will
seek to raise its banks’ so-called core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength, to between 10.5 percent and 12
percent, two people familiar with the situation said Nov. 24.
That’s up from the central bank’s 8 percent target.  Allied Irish would require an additional 3 billion euros to
the 6.6 billion-euro fundraising the government is already
underwriting to meet the 12 percent target,  Niall O’Connor , a
London-based analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note
to clients yesterday. The government’s Allied Irish stake would
rise to as much as 97 percent from 19 percent today, he said.  Default Insurance  The cost of insuring the debt of Ireland’s two biggest
lenders against default soared to records today.  Credit-default swaps insuring Allied Irish’s senior bonds
for five years rose 5 percentage points to 25 percent upfront
and 5 percent annually, according to CMA. The upfront cost of
protection on its subordinated debt climbed 3 percentage points
to 67 percent.  The upfront cost of Bank of Ireland senior swaps rose 5
percentage points to 16 percent in advance, while that cost on
its junior debt insurance increased 5.5 percentage points to
47.5 percent upfront.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of debt for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Forcing losses on senior bondholders “sets a nasty,” if
understandable, “precedent,”  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London, said in a note today. “The
constant ‘goal-post moving’ in terms of regulation” does
“enormous damage to investor and entrepreneurial confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  