-- Anglo Irish Bank Credit Rating Is Cut Six Levels by S&P to Junk From BBB
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-11-26T14:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/anglo-irish-bank-credit-ratings-are-cut-six-levels-by-s-p-to-junk-from-bbb.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  had its long-
term counterparty credit rating lowered to below investment
grade by Standard & Poor’s, which cited concerns about sovereign
support for the bank.  S&P lowered the Dublin-based lender’s rating six levels to
B, or junk, from BBB, it said in a statement today. The bank
remains on CreditWatch with “negative implications,” S&P said.  “The Irish government may be forced to reconsider its
current supportive stance toward Anglo’s unguaranteed debt,”
the ratings company said in the statement. “We consider Anglo
to be of lower systemic importance.”  Anglo Irish, which the government nationalized in January
2009, may cost as much as 34.3 billion euros ($45.4 billion) to
rescue, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept. 30. Ireland
is in talks with the European Union and the International
Monetary fund for a bailout of about 85 billion euros, Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said this week, after problems at the
nation’s lenders overwhelmed the state’s finances.  Anglo Irish Chairman  Alan Dukes  said yesterday the bank
lost about 12 billion euros of deposits this year, as customers
pulled money out of lenders amid the country’s debt crisis.
Anglo is seeking to cut as much as 1.7 billion euros from its
bill to the state by buying back subordinated bonds at an 80
percent discount to par.  S&P also lowered the long-term counterparty credit rating
on  Allied Irish Banks Plc ,  Bank of Ireland Plc , and Irish Life &
Permanent Plc by one level, and cut ratings on the senior and
subordinated debt of the banks. Moody’s Investors Service placed
the ratings of Irish lenders, including Anglo Irish, under
review yesterday before a probable “multi-notch” downgrade of
the sovereign.  Bank of Ireland  and Allied Irish plunged in Dublin this
week as the country’s financial authorities prepared further
capital injections into the banks. Bank of Ireland may fall
under majority state control in less than two years, two people
familiar with the matter said this week, and the government may
increase its stake in Allied Irish to 99.9 percent, Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE said Nov. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  