-- Fuel-Oil Premium to Rise Fivefold in Survey: Energy Markets
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-11-26T15:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/asian-fuel-oil-premium-to-increase-fivefold-in-survey-energy-markets.html
Rising Chinese demand for energy
that’s helped push shipping costs higher may lead to a fivefold
increase in the premium of Asian December  fuel oil  over January.  The extra cost for next-month fuel-oil swaps traded in
Singapore compared with January contracts may climb to $5 a
metric ton during December from $1 a ton today, according to a
survey of four traders by Bloomberg News. The last time the
difference, or timespread, reached that level was October 2009.  Rising shipping charges are deterring traders from
increasing imports into Singapore, Asia’s trading hub. Increased
cargoes of below-standard fuel oil from other regions such as
Latin America and the Caribbean have also boosted the premium,
known by traders as backwardation.  “Imports remain scarce,” so the premium is unlikely to
dissipate, said Yasuhito Imaizumi, a Singapore-based manager at
Petro Summit Pte, a unit of  Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-
largest trading company.  The decline in cargo arrivals pushed December contracts
above January’s on Nov. 11, the first time in three months there
has been backwardation in the Asian market for fuel-oil swaps,
which traders use to hedge against future swings in prices.  Singapore imports of fuel oil, a residue from crude
refining used to power ships and generate electricity, may fall
to 3.8 million tons in November and 3 million tons in December,
the lowest since May, according to the survey. About 4 million
tons may have arrived in October, the traders estimated.  Hiring Ships  Cargoes are sliding as the  cost  of hiring ships to carry
the fuel increases. Rates for chartering vessels that can convey
80,000 tons to Singapore from the Mideast have climbed almost 23
percent in the past month, the most since May, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China is suffering a shortage of fuels such as diesel as
farms increase consumption to drive machinery during the harvest
season and factories seek alternative supplies to run generators
as the nation limits energy use under a five-year government
plan. Premier  Wen Jiabao  wants to reduce power consumption per
unit of gross domestic product by 20 percent in the five years
through 2010. A new five-year plan is due to start next year.  Lower-quality shipments into Asia from other regions is
increasing amid the shortage. Cargoes from Mexico contained more
than 2 percent water, while imports from Venezuela had about 0.8
percent of water, Imaizumi said. Water content should be no more
than 0.5 percent, according to recommended levels set by the
International Organization for Standardization.  ‘Another Trigger’  “An increase in cargoes with high water content or high
metal content was another trigger for the backwardation,”
Imaizumi said. “These off-specification cargoes require
blending with other fuel but blending material is also getting
tighter now in Asia.”  Chinese state refiners are boosting imports of diesel to
help meet increased use. PetroChina Co., the country’s biggest
oil and gas producer, is planning additional cargoes after
buying 200,000 tons from overseas, China National Petroleum
Corp., its parent company, said Nov. 22. China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, has halted diesel
exports, parent China Petrochemical Corp. said Nov. 19.  The widening of the timespread may be limited as gains in
the nearest December swaps may be capped by year-end selling,
said two of the traders surveyed.  The price of  180-centistoke fuel oil  rose 1 percent to $495
a ton this week, while the price of  380-centistoke grade , mainly
used as marine fuel, increased 1.5 percent to $486 a ton.  Some European traders and refiners may sell cargoes to cut
fuel oil inventories and reduce holdings before the year ends,
said  Akira Kamiyama , an energy derivatives trader with Mitsui &
Co. in Tokyo.  “The tightness may also be reduced when shipping charges
start coming down and Singapore imports increase in December and
January,” Kamiyama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  