-- Stocks, Won Decline as North Korea Warns of War; Euro Weakens on Debt Risk
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-26T08:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/asian-stocks-won-set-for-third-week-of-losses-on-korea-risk-aussie-drops.html
Global stocks and the won fell for a
third week and commodities dropped after North Korea threatened
war and as investors speculated that China will tighten monetary
policy. The euro fell on concern Europe’s debt crisis may deepen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slid 1.1 percent to 129.14 as
of 4 p.m. in Tokyo, taking its weekly decline to 2 percent,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slumped 0.4 percent. The won
sank 1.9 percent while the euro weakened to a two-month low
against the dollar. Zinc slumped as much as 4.4 percent in
London. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slipped 0.6 percent
as U.S. markets reopen after the Thanksgiving holiday.  South Korea said the North may have conducted artillery
drills today, after its neighbor warned of retaliation to any
encroachment of its sovereignty. Chinese banks declined after
the Shanghai Securities News said the government may cut the
target for new lending in 2011. Yields on Portuguese, Spanish
and Italian bonds jumped yesterday even as European Central Bank
council member  Axel Weber  said governments can increase the size
of the region’s bailout fund if necessary.  “We have both economic and geopolitical events that have
taken a toll on investor appetite for risk,” said  Wan Murezani Mohamad , an analyst at Malaysian Rating Corp. in Kuala Lumpur.
“The market tends to turn to safe-haven assets.”  More than two stocks fell for each that gained on the MSCI
Asia Pacific. The gauge’s three-week  slump , its longest stretch
of declines since the period ended Feb. 5, has wiped out its
gains this month. South Korea’s Kospi index fell 1.3 percent,
led by declines of at least 2.3 percent in  Kia Motors Corp.  and
LG Display Co.  China’s Banks  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.9 percent,
adding to its third straight weekly retreat.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  lost 1.6 percent after the
Shanghai Securities News reported that new loans in the nation
next year will likely be close to 7 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion), less than this year’s target of 7.5 trillion yuan.  Zinc for three-month delivery fell to as low as $2,098 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange before trading at $2,128.
The contract for copper retreated as much as 2.2 percent to
$8,161 a ton. Futures also slumped in China after the Shanghai
Futures Exchange said yesterday it will raise margins and daily
price limits to curb speculation and cool inflation.  Crude oil for January delivery traded at $83.68 a barrel in
New York, after settling at $83.86 on Nov. 24. Floor trading was
closed yesterday for Thanksgiving in the U.S. and electronic
trades will be booked with today’s for settlement purposes.  Korean Shelling  The won, which slid to a two-month low of 1,172.50 per
dollar a day after this week’s attack by North Korea, closed at
1,159.63 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  North Korea said today that it is “greatly enraged at the
provocation” from the South and warned that any “escalated
confrontation” will lead to war, according to state news agency
KCNA. It fired artillery shells on South Korea’s Yeonpyeong
island on Nov. 23, killing four and wounding 20. South Korea is
preparing for joint military exercises with the U.S.  “This is really a big risk for the whole region, leading
to a massive sell-off of the won,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief
manager of currency trading in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “People don’t want to hold the won and
other regional currencies over the weekend when we don’t know
what would happen.”  Dollar, Euro  The dollar rose versus 15 of its 16 major counterparts as
speculation of an escalation in the Korean conflict boosted
demand for the safety of the greenback. The currency traded at
83.89 yen from 83.60 yen in New York yesterday, after earlier
touching 83.89 yen, the strongest since Oct. 5.  The euro fell to $1.3263 in Tokyo from $1.3360 in New York
yesterday and traded at 111.21 yen from 111.69 yen. The 16-
nation currency has declined this week against 15 of its 16
major peers.  Bonds of the euro region’s most-indebted nations fell
yesterday after LCH Clearnet Ltd. increased its margin
requirements, or cost of trading, in Irish government securities
for the third time this month. The yield on Ireland’s 10-year
debt climbed 18 basis points to 9.04 percent, while the Spanish
10-year yield rose 11 basis points to 5.18 percent yesterday.  Portugal faces a final vote in parliament today on its 2011
spending plan, which includes measures to pare the deficit. The
government said in September that it would cut wages, freeze
hiring and raise value-added taxes.  Spending, Rates  Elsewhere in the region, a report today may show French
 consumer spending  declined 0.5 percent in October from the
previous month when it increased 1.5 percent, according the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. From a year
earlier, spending increased 0.4 percent last month, the survey
showed.  Australia’s dollar dropped versus 15 of its 16 major peers
as central bank governor  Glenn Stevens  said the nation’s
interest-rate setting is appropriate for the “period ahead,”
damping speculation of further rate increases. The so-called
Aussie appreciated 1.2 percent to 96.94 U.S. cents.  Stevens’ statement suggests the Reserve Bank of Australia
“is pretty comfortable with the current level of policy and
will hardly change it,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “The market
hasn’t got another hike fully priced in until July next year.”  Japan’s 10-year government  bonds  fell for a second day,
pushing yields up by 2.5 basis points to 1.18 percent, an 11-
week high.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.6 percent
in October from a year earlier after dropping 1.1 percent in
September, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo, matching
the median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Overall consumer prices rose 0.2 percent from a year ago, the
first increase since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at   dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 