-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate as Korea Conflict Tension Tempers Weber's Comments
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-26T10:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/asian-stocks-retreat-on-korea-conflict-tension-china-tightening-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  fell, driving the
region’s benchmark index toward its biggest loss in two weeks,
as North Korea’s state news agency warned its confrontation with
South Korea could lead to war, and on concern that China will
tighten monetary policy.  Hana Financial Group Inc., South Korea’s fourth-largest
financial company slumped 4.1 percent in Seoul following the
resignation of South Korea’s defense minister and after having
its investment rating cut.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  lost 1.6 percent in Shanghai after the Shanghai Securities
News said the government may cut the target for new lending next
year.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest mining company,
climbed 1.2 percent in Sydney after metal prices advanced in
London.  “Markets are factoring in the likelihood of some sort of
additional action by the North Koreans,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne. “What was initially dismissed as a one-off skirmish
is now making people a little bit nervous.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1.2 percent to 129.10
as of 7:26 p.m. in Tokyo, with two stocks dropping for each that
advanced. The gauge rose 0.2 percent yesterday after reports
showed that U.S. employment and consumer sentiment improved.  The measure is headed for its third straight weekly decline,
the longest run of weekly losses since February. The Asia
Pacific Index fell 3.5 percent from a two-year high on Nov. 8
through yesterday on speculation China will take further steps
to tame inflation and on concern that a debt crisis in Europe
will spread.  ‘Escalated Confrontation’  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  slumped 1.3 percent as North
Korea warned that any “escalated confrontation” will lead to
war, according to state news agency KCNA. The North is “greatly
enraged at the provocation” from South Korea and it will
retaliate to any encroachment of its sovereignty, the agency
said in a statement e-mailed to news organizations.  South Korea may appoint a new defense minister today after
 Kim Tae Young  resigned in the wake of North Korea firing
artillery onto the South’s territory for the first time in half
a century this week. President Barack Obama sent a nuclear-
powered aircraft carrier, USS George Washington, to the area for
joint drills with South Korea between Nov. 28 and Dec. 1.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  added 0.1 percent in Sydney,
the only major index in the region to advance today. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 0.8 percent and the Shanghai Composite
Index slipped 0.9 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
retreated 0.4 percent.  Financial Stability  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent
today. U.S. markets were closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving
holiday.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.5 percent
yesterday after German central bank President  Axel Weber  said a
rescue fund for the euro area would be sufficient to calm
financial markets. Weber, who is also a European Central Bank
Governing Council member, said governments can increase the size
of the European Union-led bailout fund if necessary to restore
confidence in the euro.  “Investors globally welcome any moves by governments to
support each other,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “The euro
issues pose a threat to the stability of financial institutions
globally.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 8.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with 5.5 percent for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index and 7.5 percent for the S&P 500. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.4 times estimated  earnings  on
average, compared with 12 times for the Stoxx 600 and 14.1 times
for the S&P 500.  Hana, LG, Hyundai  Hana Financial Group Inc.  slumped 4.1 percent to 37,400 won
in Seoul. The stock was cut to “neutral” from “outperform”
at Macquarie Group Ltd., which said the company doesn’t have
excess capital after buying a controlling stake in Korea
Exchange Bank.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest automaker, dropped
1.4 percent to 175,000 won. LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, sank 2.3 percent to
40,850 won.  “Right now, the big issue is North Korea,” said  Kim Young Chan , a fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co.,
which oversees $28 billion. “There are risks remaining such as
the planned military drill, and there are jitters about that,
especially because stocks aren’t down enough to price that in.”  Industrial & Commercial Bank lost 1.6 percent to 4.32 yuan
in Shanghai. China Construction Bank Corp. dropped 1.5 percent
to 4.68 yuan. Developers China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate
Group Co. also fell.  China Interest Rates  Chinese policy makers have been stepping up measures in
recent weeks to curb inflation that reached 4.4 percent last
month, the fastest pace in two years.  National Development and
Reform Commission , the nation’s top planning body, urged local
governments to be careful about introducing price increases,
according to a statement on the commission’s website yesterday.  “The market is still rife with concerns about policy
tightening,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The central bank had made it clear
that it will use price tools to manage inflation expectations.
That means another interest rate increase will come soon.”  Rio advanced 1.2 percent to A$84.04 in Sydney after a
measure of metals traded in  London  rose 1.4 percent yesterday
following Weber’s comments. Copper advanced 1.1 percent, zinc
3.4 percent, and nickel 1.4 percent.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. ,
Australia’s No. 2 oil and gas producer, climbed 0.7 percent to
A$40.95 as crude oil prices increased in New York yesterday.  Among other stocks that fell today,  Aristocrat Leisure Ltd. ,
the world’s second-largest maker of slot machines, tumbled 19
percent to A$2.70 in Sydney after saying earnings may drop as
much as 57 percent on lower sales and gains by the Australian
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 