-- Asian Currencies Drop for a Third Week on Korea Tensions, Europe Debt Woes
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-11-26T09:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/asian-currencies-drop-for-a-third-week-on-korea-tensions-europe-debt-woes.html
Asian currencies declined for a
third straight week as appetite for emerging-market assets was
damped by concerns about military tension on the Korean
peninsula and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index had its longest
losing streak since February after North Korea lobbed artillery
at a South Korean island on Nov. 23. The won was the world’s
worst-performing currency against the dollar today as the
nuclear-powered USS Washington headed toward the Yellow Sea and
Pyongyang threatened a “shower of terrifying fire” if its
sovereignty is infringed. The euro fell to a two-month low on
concern Ireland’s debt crisis will spread to Portugal and Spain.  “Asian currencies have suffered from the contagion effect
from Europe as a lot of investors holding Asian exposure also
hold positions in Europe,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “So they needed
to trim their Asian holdings to make up for the losses in
Europe. We also had escalation of tensions from North and South
Korea.”  The won fell 2.2 percent for the week to 1,159.63 as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It slumped 1.9 percent today. Singapore’s dollar declined 1.6
percent to S$1.3152, its biggest five-day loss since May.
Malaysia’s ringgit retreated 1 percent to 3.1495, the
Philippines’ peso lost 0.8 percent to 44.18 and Thailand’s baht
fell 0.7 percent to 30.18.  Losses Could Continue  Losses in Asian currencies could continue into mid-December
due to the European situation, Kowalczyk said. “Also, the usual
pattern is for investors to book gains made during the year in
November and early December. From mid-December onwards, funds
will start to buy back for the following year.”  The won suffered its biggest weekly loss since June as
investors took refuge in the dollar after the North’s first
attack on its neighbor’s soil in half a century.  “This is really a big risk for the whole region, leading
to a massive sell-off of the won,” said  Minoru Shioiri , chief
manager of currency trading in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “People don’t want to hold the won and
other regional currencies over the weekend when we don’t know
what will happen.”  The ringgit had a third week of losses after the central
bank reported slower economic growth. The economy expanded 5.3
percent in the third quarter from a year ago, Bank Negara
Malaysia said on Nov. 22. That compared with a 5.9 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Less Risk Appetite  “We have both economic and geopolitical events that have
taken a toll on investor appetite for risk,” said Wan Murezani
Mohamad, an analyst at Malaysian Rating Corp. in Kuala Lumpur.  The Philippine peso slumped for a third week after gross
domestic product unexpectedly contracted 0.5 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three-month period, data
yesterday showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
forecast 0.9 percent growth in the third quarter.  China’s yuan declined 0.34 percent on the week, the most
since August. “The yuan is weaker as it reflects the global
risk aversion,” Kowalczyk said.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.5 percent this week to
NT$30.83 versus the greenback, while Indonesia’s rupiah
retreated 0.6 percent to 8,993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 