-- Australia Regulator Sues Macquarie, Bank of Queensland Over Storm Collapse
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 2010-12-22T02:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/australian-regulator-to-sue-commonwealth-bank-macquarie-bank-over-storm.html
Bank of Queensland Ltd.  and
 Macquarie Bank Ltd.  breached contracts with investors and
together with the  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  were involved
in an unregistered investment scheme related to the collapse of
Storm Financial Ltd., Australia’s securities regulator said.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission said it
sued the three banks in federal court today seeking compensation
for investors in Storm. A copy of the commission’s claims
against the banks wasn’t immediately available. The suit was
filed after the regulator said it failed to reach an out-of-
court settlement with the banks.  “ASIC has maintained that a commercial resolution is the
preferred approach,”  Tony D’Aloisio , the commission’s chairman,
said in a statement. “Unfortunately, discussions did not result
in a satisfactory outcome.” The regulator said last month that
it planned to file the lawsuits.  Bank of Queensland said in a regulatory filing today it
intends to defend itself in the legal proceedings lodged by
ASIC. The bank didn’t act illegally or dishonestly, it said.  “We believe it would be irresponsible for us to breach our
responsibilities and not fight this action,” Managing Director
David Liddy said in the statement. “We too put faith in the
regulatory system and can understand our customers’ frustration
at the collapse of a financial planner that had the tick of
approval from government regulators.”  The bank didn’t promote Storm financial products and didn’t
receive commissions from the company, Liddy said.  Commonwealth Bank didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment today. Macquarie Bank said it would issue a
statement later today.  Civil Penalties  The suit for compensation was filed in Sydney while the
claim over the unregistered investment scheme was filed in
Brisbane, according to the regulator. A third lawsuit, seeking
civil penalties against former Storm directors Emmanuel and
Julie Cassimatis, was filed in Brisbane, ASIC said.  Commonwealth Bank, Australia’s largest lender, said in a
statement last month it will “strongly defend” its position in
any legal proceedings stemming from Storm Financial. The bank in
December 2008 contacted Storm customers to notify them of margin
lending breaches, and in January 2009 Storm closed its business
and fired all employees as its investments soured.  Commonwealth Bank had agreed to refund investors where it
had been found the bank lent them money “imprudently,” the
Australian newspaper reported in February. Macquarie Group Ltd.,
parent company of Macquarie Bank, said last month it was
“disappointed by the claims made by ASIC, which it believes are
unsustainable and speculative.”  Storm Financial had A$4 billion ($3.98 billion) of funds
under management, with more than 170 staff in eight Queensland
offices, four offices in Victoria and one in Sydney, according
to its website in December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net 
 Malcolm Scott  in Sydney at 
Mscott23bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  