-- Tax-Frees Rally as Build America Extension Said to Be Likely: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/tax-frees-rally-as-build-america-extension-said-to-be-likely-muni-credit.html
Yields on longer-maturity tax-
exempts are headed for the biggest weekly decline in three
months amid Republican predictions that Build America Bonds, the
fastest growing part of the $2.8 trillion municipal market, are
likely to be extended.  Rates for AAA tax-exempts due in 30 years have  fallen 17
basis points  this week, which if unchanged today would be the
biggest slide since the week ended Aug. 20, according to a
Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields, which move inversely to
prices, fell at most maturities. Debt maturing in 25 years or
more receded 2 to 4 basis points, Bloomberg benchmark indexes
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The federally subsidized Build America program, set to
expire Dec. 31, is likely to be extended a year, a spokeswoman
for U.S. Senator  Charles Grassley , the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, said Nov. 24. Judging from the day’s market
movement, investors anticipate more Build Americas and a reduced
supply of longer-maturity tax-exempts, said  Mike Pietronico ,
chief executive officer of New York-based Miller Tabak Asset
Management.  “The market was heartened by comments that the program
would be extended,” Pietronico said. “More forceful moves will
come when it actually does get extended. It’s always uncertain
what will happen in a lame-duck Congress.”  Issuers who were rushing to sell Build America Bonds, known
as BABs, before the program lapsed spurred supply to record
highs this month. Thirty-year tax-exempts sold off from  Oct. 26
through Nov. 18 , gaining about 77 basis points in yield.  ‘Lot of Confusion’  “There’s been a lot of confusion about what’s going to
transpire here,”  John Hallacy , manager of municipal research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said Nov. 24. “The
BABs uncertainty has definitely contributed to the sour tone
we’ve had in the market in the past few weeks.”  A bill pending in the Senate would extend the program
through 2011 while paring the subsidy to 32 percent of the
interest cost from 35 percent. More than $169 billion of the
taxable debt has been sold since the program began in April 2009
as part of the economic-stimulus package.  If extended, total 2011 municipal issuance would be about
$395 billion, compared with $345 billion if the program ends,
 Alex Roever  and  Chris Holmes , strategists at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , said in a research note Nov. 24.  Subsidy Reduction  The bill would reduce the advantage of issuing BABs instead
of tax-exempt securities by shrinking the subsidy 3 percentage
points, the analysts said. “A subsidy reduction of this
magnitude, keeping other factors constant, would only modestly
reduce the volume of BAB issuance from current levels,” they
said.  About $5.8 billion in municipal issuance was scheduled this
week, the least since Sept. 10, Bloomberg data show. Next week,
about $10.7 billion is to be offered, making that “a better
indicator of the direction the market may take,” said  Tom Kozlik , a municipal credit analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  ILLINOIS , which shares Moody’s Investors Service’s lowest
state credit rating with California, will sell $1.46 billion in
tobacco revenue settlement bonds through the Railsplitter
Tobacco Settlement Authority, an entity established to issue the
bonds, as early as next week. The bonds, backed by payments from
a 1998 settlement with tobacco companies, will be used to pay
bills and balance its budget. The state has been the recipient
of $3.3 billion of tobacco settlement payments, according to the
offering statement. Underwriters led by Citigroup Inc. will
market the issue. (Updated Nov. 24)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell $840 million in tax-exempt bonds as early as
next week. The issue will fund expansion of JFK’s Terminal Four,
according to a Fitch Ratings report. Citigroup will market the
issue, which is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, both one
level above junk, and BB by Fitch, second-highest speculative
grade. (Updated Nov. 24)  CHICAGO, the third biggest U.S. city by population, plans
to sell $804 million in tax-exempt and taxable general
obligation bonds, including $214 million in Build America Bonds.
The securities will refinance existing debt and fund street,
sidewalk and gutter improvements, demolition of dilapidated
buildings and contributions to the city’s pension funds. Chicago
postponed the sale from mid-November for more favorable
borrowing costs. Underwriters led by Loop Capital Markets LLC
will market the issue, rated Aa3 by Moody’s, fourth-highest.
(Added Nov. 24)  AMERICAN MUNICIPAL POWER INC. , a Columbus, Ohio-based
supplier to public electric systems, will sell $667 million in
revenue-backed tax-exempt and taxable bonds, including $605
million in Build America Bonds. The issue will finance a 105-
megawatt hydroelectric power plant at an existing dam on the
Ohio River, according to an S&P report. Underwriters led by
Wells Fargo will market the securities, which are rated A,
sixth-highest, by S&P. (Added Nov. 24)  LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER, the largest U.S.
municipal utility, plans to sell $493 million in taxable Build
America Bonds as early as next week. The securities, backed by
water system revenue, will fund ongoing capital improvements,
according to a Fitch report. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead the
marketing of the issue, which Fitch rates AA+, second-highest.
(Added Nov. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  