-- Bank of Spain Calls on Country's Lenders to Disclose Real-Estate Holdings
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-26T12:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/bank-of-spain-calls-on-lenders-to-boost-real-estate-disclosure.html
The  Bank of Spain  called on the
country’s banks to make an “extra effort” to disclose their
real estate holdings amid concern the country may also need to
be bailed out after Ireland accepted a financial rescue.  Lenders will have to give more information about risks
linked to property and real estate, with details of guarantees
and reserves set aside to cover them, by March 2011, Deputy
Governor  Javier Ariztegui  said today in a speech in Barcelona.
He also told banks to cut their costs in a “rapid and decided
manner” and complete the mergers that will reduce the number of
savings-bank groups by almost two-thirds.  “Spain and the Spanish banking system need our creditors
to renew the financing they’ve granted us,” he said, saying
there was “no room” for delaying the restructuring under way
in the industry. “The best way to achieve it is to show daily
that the banks and savings banks are healthy and profitable.”  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
to Spain and Portugal as Irish officials race to complete a deal
for an international aid package before financial markets reopen
next week. All of Ireland’s banks passed European regulators’
stress tests in July, while five Spanish savings banks failed
the exercise.  Stock prices are falling and financing costs soaring for
Spanish lenders.  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s biggest bank,
dropped 3.6 percent to 7.54 euros at 11:57 a.m. in Madrid, while
 Banco Espirito Santo SA , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank
by market value, fell 1.1 percent to 2.97 euros.  Wholesale Funding  Ariztegui said stress tests on Spanish banks published in
July still “describe adequately the current situation of the
banking system and its risks.” As well as the additional
information, they will be required to publish on their real
estate holdings, banks will also have to give a report on the
state of their wholesale funding, he said.  Spanish lenders have 181 billion euros ($240 billion) of
“troubled exposure” to construction and real estate, according
to the Bank of Spain.  The comments were made in the text of a speech given by
Ariztegui today in Barcelona that was published on the Bank of
Spain’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Ross-Thomas  at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  