-- Bharat Petroleum Studying Options to Boost Oil Refining Capacity in India
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-11-26T02:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/bharat-petroleum-studying-options-to-boost-oil-refining-capacity-in-india.html
Bharat Petroleum Corp. , India’s
second-biggest state refiner, is examining options to boost
refining capacity by expanding two existing plants and setting
up a new facility in the north of the country.  The Mumbai-based company may raise capacity at its newly
constructed 6 million metric ton-a-year Bina refinery in central
India and at its Kochi plant in the country’s south,  R.K. Singh ,
director of refineries, said in an interview yesterday. The
capacity of the Kochi and Bina refineries can be expanded to 15
million tons each, he said.  Indian refiners are investing in new capacity amid a boom
in energy use. The International Energy Agency estimates the 
nation's energy consumption will more than double to 833 million
tons of oil equivalent by 2030. Fuel demand in Asia’s fastest-
growing major economy behind China may rise between 5 percent
and 7 percent a year in the next decade, Singh said.  “The first choice is to expand Bina and  Kochi ,” he said.
“We are also examining the possibility of setting up a
greenfield project.”  The company has secured about 2,000 acres of land in the
northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh to set up a refinery,
Singh said.  The Bina plant is capable of processing cheaper grades of
crude oil, as would any expansion at Kochi and the possible new
facility, Singh said.  Bharat Petroleum, which exported 1.3 million tons of
 naphtha  in the financial year ended March 2010, expects to
export similar quantities of the fuel in the current financial
year, he said.  Most fertilizer makers and power plants are using natural
gas as an alternative fuel, forcing Bharat Petroleum to export
all the naphtha it produces, he said.  The company is also studying setting up a naphtha cracker
in Kochi to help it process the fuel into chemicals, Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 