-- Blondie, Tom Jones Music Company Chrysalis to Be Acquired by BMG Rights
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-11-26T10:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/blondie-tom-jones-music-company-chrysalis-to-be-acquired-by-bmg-rights.html
Chrysalis Group Plc , the music
company with rights to songs by  Tom Jones ,  Engelbert Humperdinck 
and Blondie, agreed to be bought by BMG Rights Management GmbH
in a cash deal after years of approaches and talks to sell.  The deal, subject to shareholder approval, values London-
based Chrysalis at 107.4 millon pounds ($169 million), Chrysalis
said in a statement today.  Traditional record companies are struggling with song
piracy and dwindling CD sales. Publishing assets can provide a
return of 20 percent and have become cheaper as catalog owners
struggled to find buyers in the credit crunch,  Hartwig Masuch ,
chief executive officer at BMG Rights, said last year. BMG
Rights, a music-rights company founded by Bertelsmann AG and KKR
& Co., has been on a buying spree for catalogs, mainly in the
U.S. and U.K., with money from its owners.  “It’s clear we are at a point now where we can enter into
a major relationship,” Masuch said in a phone interview today.
“We intend to bring all our resources into play and expand our
reach to get involved in master rights.”  Today’s purchase gives BMG Rights rights to about 100,000
songs, includes producer royalties from the Beatles’ former
music producer, George Martin.  Apple Inc. this month started selling Beatles songs through
its iTunes download service, and those rights will bring in an
extra 500,000 pounds in the next year, according to Chrysalis
Chairman  Chris Wright , who founded the company in 1967.  “Our rights are long-term serious rights, and while we’re
still smaller than the four major record companies, we’re pretty
much getting on the heels of the four boys out in front,”
Wright said by phone today.  The four major record companies are  Vivendi SA ’s Universal
Music Group, EMI Group Ltd.,  Warner Music Group Corp.  and Sony
Music Entertainment.  BMG Rights, based in Berlin, will continue to seek catalog
assets, Masuch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 