-- Bloomberg Said to Win State Waiver for Black to Be NYC Schools Chancellor
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/bloomberg-says-black-to-name-nyc-academic-deputy-to-win-waiver-from-state.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and
 Cathie Black , a publishing executive he named to run the
nation’s biggest school system, will get a state waiver to let
her take the job after they agreed to appoint an academic
deputy, according to a person familiar with the situation.  State Education Commissioner David Steiner agreed to grant
the waiver on Nov. 29 after Bloomberg said Black would name an
educator as a chief academic officer, the person said yesterday.  Black will make Deputy Chancellor Shael Polakow-Suransky
the system’s academic chief, according to a letter addressed to
Steiner and released by the mayor’s office yesterday. In return,
Bloomberg asked Steiner to give Black the waiver she needs, as a
noneducator, to become schools chancellor.  “This is the approach that I have brought to City Hall,
empowering agency heads and -- in turn -- expecting them to
empower their staffs,” Bloomberg said in the letter. Black’s
decision to appoint an academic deputy “reflects her commitment
to a leadership principle that I view as absolutely essential to
running any large organization.”  Bloomberg appointed Black, 66, chancellor of the city’s
schools on Nov. 9 after  Joel Klein  resigned from the position.
She is chairman of the Hearst Corp. unit that produces Esquire,
Cosmopolitan and more than a dozen other magazines and has spent
her working life in the publishing industry. Now chief
accountability officer, Polakow-Suransky’s career “encompasses
educational expertise,” Bloomberg said in his letter.  Panel Urged Denial  An advisory panel named to weigh Black’s qualifications
urged Steiner to deny the waiver, the Associated Press said Nov.
23. On Nov. 24, the New York Times said Steiner would give Black
the certificate she needs only if Bloomberg appointed an
educator to help her run the system.  Steiner has Bloomberg’s letter and doesn’t have a comment,
 Tom Dunn , a spokesman for the commissioner, said yesterday.  Polakow-Suransky received a bachelor of arts in education
and urban studies from Brown University and has a masters degree
in educational leadership from the Bank Street College of
Education, Bloomberg said in his letter. He holds a state
District Administrator certificate and was a fellow at the Broad
Superintendents Academy in 2008, Bloomberg said.  Critics of Black’s hiring include  Charles Barron , a member
of the City Council, who said she lacked sufficient educational
experience, according to  WNYC-FM , a noncommercial radio station
in Manhattan. Bloomberg, 68, has made improving the city’s
schools a hallmark of his administration.  Voter Survey  By an almost 2-to-1 margin, city voters said Black doesn’t
have the right experience to be chancellor, according to a
Quinnipiac University poll released Nov. 23.  “I am confident that I have chosen the right person,” the
mayor told reporters in Manhattan after the survey was
published. “It’s not a popularity contest. One-third of our
budget goes to schools, and you want someone who has financial
and managerial experience.”  The mayor, who took office in 2002 and has three years
remaining in what he has said will be his final term, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 