-- Brazil's OGX Said to Postpone Sale of Campos Stake Until '11 First Quarter
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-11-26T19:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/brazil-s-ogx-is-said-to-postpone-oil-assets-sale-to-first-quarter-of-2011.html
Brazil’s  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA  is postponing the sale of a minority stake in
its Campos oil field until the first quarter of 2011, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  OGX, controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , will seek bids
for a stake of about 20 percent in Campos Basin only after it
gets an appraisal of the size of the oil field’s reserves, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the decision
hasn’t been made public.  The new appraisal by the Dallas-based petroleum consulting
company DeGolyer and MacNaughton is expected in the first
quarter of next year, the person said.  “In line with what was announced in the last conference
call with investors, on Nov. 11, the farm-out process is still
ongoing, without a date for when it will be closed,” a
spokeswoman for Rio de Janeiro-based OGX said in an e-mailed
statement in response to questions. “OGX did not announce a
delay.”  Batista said in September that  Cnooc Ltd.  and  China
Petrochemical Corp. , known as Sinopec Group, were among
companies likely to bid for the assets. The two Chinese
companies may offer at least $7 billion for the assets, people
familiar with the matter said in September, when bids had been
expected by the end of October.  Sinopec Acquisitions  Chinese oil companies are seeking assets overseas to secure
crude supplies needed to fuel the world’s fastest-growing major
economy. Sinopec earlier this year agreed to pay $7.1 billion
for a 40 percent stake in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian unit to gain
oil reserves in Latin America. It also bought  Addax Petroleum
Corp.  for C$8.3 billion ($8 billion) last year.  OGX has 3.69 billion barrels of potential reserves in its
seven blocks in the Campos Basin off Brazil’s coast, according
to a 2009 report by DeGolyer & MacNaughton. OGX has made
additional discoveries of heavy crude oil in the area this year
that may increase its reserves estimates,  Luiz Augusto Pacheco ,
an analyst at Omar Camargo Corretora in Curitiba, Brazil, said.  Batista said on Sept. 15 that OGX’s oil reserves in
Brazil’s Campos Basin are worth more than $8.51 a barrel and OGX
will use some of the proceeds from the planned sale of stakes in
its oil blocks to pay dividends.  Brazil’s government hasn’t sold any exploration blocks in
more than a year as it revamps oil legislation that’s intended
to put state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA in control of all new
deepwater projects.  OGX fell 54 centavos, or 2.6 percent, to 20.35 at 5:20 p.m.
in San Paulo.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 