-- Brazil's Plan to Raze, Replant Sugar Crop May Worsen Global Supply Deficit
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-11-26T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/brazil-s-plan-to-raze-replant-sugar-crop-may-worsen-global-supply-deficit.html
Global sugar supplies may fall short
of demand next year as Brazil, the world’s largest exporter of
the sweetener, razes and replants enough farmland to cover the
state of Connecticut.  Producers in the Center South, Brazil’s main producing
region, plan to replant about 1.4 million hectares (3.5 million
acres), or 20 percent of their farmland, to replace aging
plants, said  Paulo Roberto de Souza , chief executive officer of
 Copersucar SA , the Brazilian cooperative that ships more sugar
than Thailand, the world’s second-largest exporter.  The move will bolster sugar prices because it will probably
lead to an unexpected deficit in the 2011-2012 crop year,
following a global surplus this year, Souza said. On Nov. 17,
the International Sugar Organization forecast a 2.5 million-ton
surplus in 2011-2012, up from an excess of 1.3 million tons this
season. White, or refined, sugar for March delivery added $5.30,
or 0.7 percent, to $715 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe yesterday.  “Brazil won’t be able to supply the market as expected,”
Souza said yesterday by telephone from Sao Paulo. “I’m betting
on a small global deficit for the 2011-2012 season.”  Brazil, the world’s largest sugar producer, accounts for 54
percent of global exports, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  Growers in the region will produce “at best” about 33
million to 34 million tons next year, little changed from this
year, he said. Industry group Unica in August forecast output in
the Center South to total 33.7 million tons this year.  Sugar Rally  Sugar prices have surged 98 percent since mid-May and
touched a 29-year high on Nov. 9 on concern that exports from
producers such as India may trail expectations. Prices will
likely stay above 25 cents a pound in the first half of next
year, Souza said.  Brazil’s Center-South, where about 90 percent of the
country’s sugar and ethanol is produced, will replant farmland
between January and March, Souza said. That means new crops
won’t be ready when the harvest starts in April, he said.  Copersucar is a Sao Paulo-based sugar and ethanol
cooperative with 43 associate mills. It plans to export 6
million tons of the sweetener next year. Thailand plans to ship
4.7 million tons next year, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 