-- Bankers' Bribery Arrests Spur Biggest Swap Jump Since June: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-11-26T07:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/bribery-arrests-spark-biggest-default-swaps-rise-since-june-india-credit.html
The arrest of eight Indian bankers
and brokers following a bribery probe triggered the biggest
daily jump in benchmark credit-default swaps since June amid
concern investigators will find evidence of bad loans.  Five-year swaps on State Bank of India, the nation’s
largest lender and a proxy for the government, climbed 10 basis
points to 172 on Nov. 24, the biggest increase for four months,
CMA prices in New York show. While no one from State Bank was
named, the Central Bureau of Investigation said it seized
officials from firms including LIC Housing Finance Ltd., Life
Insurance Corp. of India, Bank of India, Central Bank of India
and Punjab National Bank.  “Other banks could be involved, that’s the nervousness,”
 Brian Hunsaker , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd.,
said in a phone interview from Hong Kong. “There’s a lot of
volatility on these prices.”  The allegations of improper loan disbursals to property
developers may damage investor confidence and lead to “some
derating” of public sector banks, Citigroup Inc. analysts
including  Manish Chowdhary  said in a Nov. 24 report. Credit swap
prices rise as perceptions of creditworthiness decline, and may
signal rising borrowing costs for India’s banks as they try to
meet demand for credit in a $1.3 trillion economy forecast to
expand 8.5 percent this year.  Bank Risk  Swaps on ICICI Bank Ltd., the second-largest lender, have
risen 10 basis points since Nov. 23 to 205 yesterday while those
on Bank of India climbed 11 basis points to 175, CMA prices show.
Default swaps of Tata Motors declined 0.6 basis points to 271.3.  Indian bank creditworthiness has improved faster than
rivals in China and Russia this year. Credit swaps on State Bank
of India have fallen 55 basis points in the past six months,
compared with 40 basis points for Bank of China Ltd. and four
basis points for Sberbank, the biggest in Russia.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its agreements. A basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Swaps on State Bank fell 2 basis points to 170 basis points
in New York time yesterday after Chairman  O.P. Bhatt  said in New
Delhi that there’s “no need to be alarmed” by the housing loan
enquiry. ICICI, Bank of India and State Bank are based in Mumbai.  The Reserve Bank of India said in its weekly statistical
supplement on Nov. 19 that bank credit grew by 6.37 trillion
rupees ($140 billion), or 22 percent, from a year earlier as of
Nov. 5. Non-performing assets after deducting bad-loan
provisions were 1.1 percent of total loans as of March 31, the
central bank said in a report on Nov. 8.  ‘Regulated Market’  “India is easily one of the most regulated as far as the
banking system is concerned,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , the
New Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd.,
in an interview. “The movement in credit-default swaps is more
a kneejerk reaction.”  LIC Housing, based in Mumbai, will take the necessary steps
to safeguard interests of stakeholders, it said in an e-mail
yesterday. Bank of India, a state-run lender, began reviewing
loans to companies named, Chairman  Alok Kumar Misra  said.
Chairman of Mumbai-based Central Bank of India  S. Sridhar  said
in an interview he had “no reason to believe this will affect
the bank.”  “It looks serious,” said  Morten Groth , an emerging-market
bond manager at Jyske Bank A/S in Silkeborg, Denmark. “I am not
aware of the proportion of this case but these type of stories
come in emerging markets from time to time.”  Life Insurance Corp. of India is looking into its
investment processes, Chairman  T.S. Vijayan  told Bloomberg UTV
yesterday.  K.R. Kamath , chairman and managing director of Punjab
National Bank in New Delhi, wasn’t available for comment.  Relative Yields  Elsewhere, in the corporate bond market, the  difference  in
yield between India’s top-rated five-year rupee company debt and
similar-maturity government bonds widened to 64.8 basis points
from 63.7. The gap has shrunk from 86 at the start of the year.  India’s rupee declined 0.8 percent this week to 45.66 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
will appreciate to 43.5 per dollar by December 2011, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 15 economists.  The yield on the 7.8 percent note due May 2020 declined
four basis points to 7.97 percent today, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  The Indian 10-year yield has dropped from a two-year high
of 8.18 percent touched last month as slowing inflation lured
buyers. The yield is still 507 basis points above Treasuries of
similar maturity.  Food Inflation  India’s food inflation slowed for the sixth week to a 17-
month low, a trade ministry report showed yesterday. An index
measuring wholesale prices of agricultural products including
lentils, rice and vegetables rose 10.15 percent in the week
ended Nov. 13 from a year earlier. The index gained 10.30
percent the previous week.  Indian local-currency debt returned 4.3 percent in 2010,
according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc, as the
Reserve Bank of India raised  borrowing costs  by 150 basis points
to 6.25 percent. Investors in China earned 1 percent, the least
in the region, the indexes show.  India asked banks to review their exposure to loans given
to companies named by the federal investigating agency, an e-
mailed statement from the finance ministry yesterday said.  The capital markets regulator is taking steps to protect
investor confidence and will investigate any “unusual market
activity,” Prashant Saran, a member of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India, told reporters in New Delhi today.  “What’s important is how the authorities will act now,”
Groth said, referring to the inquiry. “I expect them to do the
necessary steps to calm down the unrest to ensure credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  