-- Canada's Dollar Falls Most in a Month as Risk Aversion Swells on Korea
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-26T21:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/canada-s-dollar-falls-most-in-a-month-as-risk-aversion-swells-on-korea.html
Canada’s currency weakened the most
in more than a month against its U.S. counterpart as heightened
concern about Europe’s debt woes and conflict between North and
South Korea increased demand for assets considered havens.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, was among five
of the 16 most-traded currencies that performed the worst
against the greenback today. The loonie and its commodity-linked
peers in Australia and New Zealand also dropped as resource
prices declined on speculation China will increase borrowing
costs further.  “The U.S. dollar is up across the board,”  Firas Askari ,
head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO
Capital unit, wrote via e-mail. “There’s some concern about the
military exercises on the Korean peninsula, and Europe’s issues
are not going away any time soon. The flight to the U.S. dollar
could cause a short-term selloff in the Canadian dollar.”  The currency depreciated as much as 1.5 percent, the
biggest intraday drop since Oct. 19, and was down 1.1 percent at
C$1.0208 per  U.S. dollar  at 4:42 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0092
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 97.96 U.S. cents.  The greenback rose to the highest level in almost two
months versus the yen as North Korea’s state-run news agency
said planned naval exercises by South Korea and the U.S. moved
the peninsula “closer to the brink of war.”  The euro posted a weekly decline versus all of its 16 major
peers except the New Zealand dollar and Danish krone amid media
reports euro-area policy makers are pushing Portugal to seek
assistance from a 750 billion-euro ($993 billion) bailout fund
to shield Spain from contagion. Policy makers got Ireland to
agree to a rescue this week.  ‘Global Issues’  “Global issues are dominating one of the more volatile
periods for the Canadian dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , an
institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in
Montreal, said via e-mail. Leavitt predicted the currency will
trade between C$1.0250 and C$1.0125 for the rest of the month.  Canada’s dollar was still the second-best performer this
week, down 0.4 percent versus the greenback, and the third-best
this month among its 16 most-traded counterparts. Domestic and
international economic indicators suggested the nation’s
recovery is set to accelerate.  “I still really like the Canadian dollar on the crosses,”
said BMO’s Askari, referring to trades involving non-U.S. dollar
currencies. He said he intends to sell the euro on rallies
against the loonie.  Canada’s currency will strengthen past parity against the
 U.S. dollar  by the end of March, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  The Canadian government’s benchmark two-year note yield
dropped seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 1.66
percent as the price of the 1.5 percent security due in December
2012 rose 14 cents to C$99.68.  The  MSCI World  Index dropped 1.1 percent, and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.8 percent. Futures on crude oil,
Canada’s biggest export, dropped as much as 1.3 percent to
$82.78 a barrel in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  