-- Icahn Proposes Five for Lions Gate Board, Including Ex-MGM Official McGurk
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-26T22:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/carl-icahn-files-proxy-with-5-nominees-to-lions-gate-entertainment-board.html
Carl Icahn , pressing a hostile
takeover bid for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , proposed five
nominees to the independent studio’s board, including former
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. executive  Chris McGurk .  The other nominees are Jay Firestone,  Michael Dornemann ,
 Daniel A. Ninivaggi  and  Harold T. Shapiro , according to a U.S.
regulatory  filing  today. Icahn is asking investors to withhold
support for five company nominees, including Co-Chairman  Harald Ludwig  and Vice Chairman  Michael Burns .  Icahn, who owns almost 33 percent of the stock, plans to
seek support for his proposed board at the company shareholder
meeting set for Dec. 14 in Los Angeles, according to the filing.
He is trying to buy Lions Gate, distributor of the “Saw”
horror movies and  Tyler Perry  comedies, for $7.50 a share.  McGurk, 53, was vice chairman and chief operating officer
at the MGM studio from 1999 to 2005. From 2006 until this year,
he served as chief executive of Overture Films LLC, part of  John Malone ’s  Liberty Media Corp.  Liberty sold Overture’s film
distribution and marketing arms to Relativity Media LLC in July.  “Mr. Icahn has not articulated a vision for Lions Gate
regarding how he would improve on these results and his nominees
provide no further clarity on the critical issue of leading
Lions Gate into the future,” the company said in a statement.  July Transaction  Icahn’s stake in Vancouver-based Lions Gate was cut from
almost 38 percent in July, when the film and TV studio issued
new stock to board member  Mark Rachesky  as part of an equity-
for-debt swap. Rachesky, who owns about 29 percent of Lions
Gate, was Icahn’s former chief investment officer and now is
president of MHR Fund Management LLC.  The two sides have tussled in courts in the U.S. and
Canada.  Firestone, 54, is the founder of Toronto-based film and TV
producer Prodigy Pictures Inc., according to the filing. He also
was a founder of Fireworks Entertainment Inc., a film and
independent production company sold to  CanWest Global
Communications Corp.  in 1998.  Dornemann, 65, is a director of video-game maker  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc.  He also is vice chairman of the
marketing company Access Worldwide Communications Inc. Icahn
holds about 14 percent of Take-Two, according to  filings .  Ninivaggi, 46, an attorney, is president of New York-based
 Icahn Enterprises LP . Shapiro, 75, was president of Princeton
University from 1988 to 2001 and is currently a professor of
economics at the school, according to the filing.  Icahn, who said in the past he would seek to oust Lions
Gate’s management, is also asking investors to withhold support
for directors  G. Scott Paterson ,  Hardwick Simmons  and Rachesky.  Lions Gate, which also produces the “Mad Men” series on
cable TV, is renominating its board with the exception of  Brian Tobin .  Frank Giustra , 53, chief executive officer of Fiore
Financial Corp., has been proposed to replace him.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, fell 1 cent
to $7.44 at 1 p.m. in holiday-shortened New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have gained 28 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  