-- CMA CGM to Get $500 Million Cash Investment From Turkish Company Yildirim
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-11-26T12:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/cma-cgm-to-get-cash-investment-of-500-million-from-yildirim.html
CMA CGM SA, the French shipping
business reorganizing about $5 billion of debt, said it will
receive an investment of $500 million from Turkish family-owned
company Yildirim in return for a 20 percent stake.  The accord means CMA CGM, the third-largest container
shipper, is nearing an agreement with creditors, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Rodolphe Saade  said today during a conference
call. “We’ve more or less agreed.”  CMA CGM and competitors including Germany’s  Hapag-Lloyd AG 
were forced to renegotiate debt and seek new capital last year
after the economic crisis hit shipping demand and rates. The
French shipper was founded by  Jacques Saade , who was forced to
relinquish his role as chief executive officer last year when
lenders granted an additional $500 million credit.  Yildirim will have three board seats out of 10 while
Jacques Saade will play an “active role,” son Rodolphe Saade
said today. Asked whether his father will remain non-executive
chairman, he said: “You must leave us the time to put in place
the best structure, which will take a few weeks.” The
Marseille-based company announced the agreement with Yildirim
late yesterday.  CMA CGM has assets worth $9 billion and debt of $5 billion
and plans to continue to invest in terminals, containers and
vessels, Rodolphe Saade said. It has “no intention of deviating
from this strategy,” he said.  “Certainly all options are open for the cruise business,”
he said when asked whether the shipper would consider selling
that part of the company.  Terminal Business  Yildirim, which has interests in mining, port terminals and
oil tankers, won’t move into the shipping-line business as long
as it’s in partnership with CMA CGM, Chief Executive Officer
Robert Yuksel Yildirim said during the conference call. “We are
more interested in the terminal business and will expand the
port business.”  Yildirim “isn’t only a financial investor but will have an
industrial partnership,” he said. “Management of our
businesses is similar” because both companies are family-owned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 