-- Comedy of Mistakes, Fela Explodes, Dog Tenor Scratches: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-11-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/comedy-of-mistakes-fela-kuti-explodes-dog-tenor-scratches-london-stage.html
U.K. national treasures Penelope
Keith and Peter Bowles were last seen sparring in the popular
sitcom “To the Manor Born.” They now have been reunited on
stage for an evening full of mistakes.  The delighted audience at the performance I attended
included  Kevin Spacey  and willowy actress Rebecca Hall.  The mistakes are intentional. Keith plays Mrs. Malaprop, a
forthright soul who misuses and mangles words, in  Sheridan ’s
1775 comedy “The Rivals.” “She’s as headstrong as an allegory
on the banks of the Nile,” is a crisp example. Keith, an
attractive mix of innocence and worldliness, breezes through the
role like a galleon in full sail.  Peter Bowles is the authoritarian Sir Anthony Absolute, who
wants his son Jack to marry Mrs. Malaprop’s niece Lydia. The
plot hinges on the fact that the youngsters are already in love,
although Lydia believes him to be a poor soldier. Jack thus
becomes his own rival.  The two main stars explore the darker sides of their roles.
Bowles, an imposing figure who stands 6 ft. 2 in., suggests a
mania in Absolute’s authoritarianism that hovers between funny
and disturbing. When Malaprop is comically rejected by everyone
in the final scene, Keith’s look of quiet dignified pain isn’t
played for laughs. Both give an object lesson in stage ease,
comic timing and perfect diction.  Bath Crescent  They’re the cream of a high-quality ensemble in a quickfire
production. Director  Peter Hall  uses period costumes, and puts
the action on a simple set that suggests an 18th-century
crescent in Bath, the English spa town where the story is set.  It’s not all plain sailing. None of the other actors looks
beneath the surface of the comedy. There’s a sameness of tone
and a dip in tension after the intermission.  That said, it all winds up again to a sparky denouement.
Keith and Bowles deserved the loud applause. Rating: ***.  From a polite comedy of manners to a raw explosion of black
power: The music of Nigerian singer and activist Fela Kuti is
celebrated in “Fela!” at the National Theatre.  My heart sinks at musicals with an exclamation point in the
title. It screams “fun!” in a way that really suggests “car
crash!”  If “Fela!” isn’t a flawless show, it’s still better than
the lazy title. Director and choreographer  Bill T. Jones  creates
an energetic, booty-shaking piece of razzle dazzle in which the
energy never lets up.  Jazz Funk  Kuti (a high-octane performance from Sahr Ngaujah)
developed the afrobeat style, which is a tuneful mix of African
drumming, hymn-like chants, Cuban riffs, jazz and guitar-heavy
funk. I can write that with confidence because there’s a great
number called “Breaking It Down,” which cleverly builds up the
soundworld layer by layer.  There’s a plot, of sorts. Kuti was an outspoken critic of
the Nigerian government, and the show is supposed to be his last
performance before leaving Africa in 1978. His dead mother
appears in a dream sequence and convinces him to stay. It’s weak
stuff by any standards, and it’s not enough to support 2 hours
and 45 minutes. Kuti’s real-life complexities are sanitized for
the sake of feel-good.  A history lesson it’s not. A riot of color and choreography
it is. Rating: ***.  There are riots of a different kind in “A Dog’s Heart” by
the Russian composer Alexander Raskatov at English National
Opera. Based on a 1925 satirical novel by Mikhail Bulgakov, the
new opera tells the story of a dog who’s transformed by an
operation into a vulgar, noisy, libidinous proletarian. He
begins to get mixed up with revolutionary politics, before being
transformed back.  Squeaks, Growls  Director  Simon McBurney  encourages the singers to give
highly physical, exaggerated performances to great effect, and
his production is full of visual flourishes. Tenor Peter Hoare,
who plays the central dog-man, is astonishing in his canine
whines, leaps and scratchings.  The opera itself comes nowhere near the level of the
staging. Raskatov uses itty-bitty chopped phrases that create no
tension. He uses a grab-bag method of shifting styles too, from
atonalism to Russian chant, that aims at a manic cartoon effect.
It’s not nearly as amusing as it thinks it is. It’s not amusing
at all, in fact.  The singers are required to use extended vocal technique,
from the highest squeaks to the lowest grumbles, which soon
comes to feel tiresome. With no musical differentiation, the
characters have no musical reason to live, which is crucial for
an opera. The staging, for all its virtues, can’t make a silk
purse out of a dog’s heart. Rating: *.  “The Rivals” is at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket,
 http://www.trh.co.uk  or +44-845-481-1870.  “Fela!” is in repertory at the National Theatre,
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  “A Dog’s Heart” is at English National Opera,
 http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-472-4088.  ( Warwick Thompson  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 