-- Commodities Fall on China Tightening Speculation, Higher Exchange Margins
-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-26T20:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/commodities-fall-on-china-tightening-speculation-higher-exchange-margins.html
Commodities dropped on speculation
that China, the biggest consumer of everything from aluminum to
zinc, will increase borrowing costs and after the country’s
exchanges increased margins to curb speculation.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
dropped 0.4 percent to 301.11 as of 2:39 p.m. in New York, led
by cotton, silver and coffee. Gold futures for February delivery
fell 0.8 percent, the most since Nov. 16, and palladium slumped
as much as 4.5 percent.  China, also the largest user of coal and iron ore, has
pledged to contain consumer costs after inflation sped up to its
fastest since 2008 and food prices jumped 10.1 percent in
October. The government may cut the target for new lending next
year, Shanghai Securities News reported. The country’s futures
exchanges will raise margins to discourage speculators after the
market closes on Nov. 29.  “China is going to tighten, no doubt about it,” said
 Jesper Dannesboe , a senior commodity strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London. Given a lack of clarity as to how much
borrowing costs may rise, “it’s difficult for commodities to
rally,” he said.  Commodities also fell on mounting military tension on the
Korean peninsula and as a stronger dollar increased the cost of
commodities denominated in the  currency . South Korea said North
Korea may have conducted artillery drills, after its neighbor
warned of retaliation to any encroachment of its sovereignty.
The greenback rose to a two-month high against a six-currency
basket.  Korean Situation  The Korean situation “just adds to the uncertainty in the
region, and the same set of uncertainties is driving the
dollar,” Dannesboe said.  Copper futures for March delivery fell 0.4 cent, or 0.1
percent, to close at $3.7625 a pound on the Comex in New York,
extending this week’s decline to 2.1 percent. Nickel futures for
March delivery dropped 1.2 percent to $22,564 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange.  China’s central bank raised interest rates last month for
the first time since 2007 and ordered banks on Nov. 10 and Nov.
19 to hold more money in reserve. China’s new loans next year
will likely be close to 7 trillion yuan ($1.05 trillion), less
than this year’s target of 7.5 trillion yuan, Shanghai
Securities News reported, citing an unidentified person.  Gold Declines  Gold futures for February delivery fell $10.70 to settle at
$1,364.30 an ounce on the Comex. Palladium futures for March
delivery declined $18.60, or 2.7 percent, to $678.85 an ounce on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, paring this year’s advance to
66 percent.  “The main negative factor is the firm dollar,”  Carsten Fritsch , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a
report today. “The increase in the margins for gold futures
trading on the Shanghai Futures Exchange is also having an
adverse effect.”  The Shanghai Futures Exchange has said it will raise
margins for copper, aluminum, steel wire, gold and fuel oil to
10 percent. The Dalian Commodity Exchange said today it will
increase futures margins and price limits as part of the wider
government crackdown on speculation and food prices.  Corn futures for March delivery fell 0.1 percent to $5.53 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and soybeans for January
delivery declined 1.3 percent to $12.385 a bushel. Cotton
futures for March delivery tumbled 4.1 percent to $1.1176 a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Increasing Margins  Increasing margins “is an effective way to deter those
speculators that leverage too much,” said Tian Feng, analyst at
BOC International (China) Ltd.  Commodity exchanges in the U.S. and Europe including CME
Group Inc., the largest futures market, and ICE already have
increased the cost of trading some raw materials in response to
a jump in volatility as prices surge.  Oil fell on concern that Ireland’s debt crisis will spread
to Portugal and Spain, limiting economic growth and diminishing
fuel demand. Crude oil for January delivery slipped 10 cents to
settle at $83.76 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Traders are speculating that Ireland’s debt crisis will
spread to other European Union countries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. European Central Bank council member
 Erkki Liikanen  said in a speech published today that policy
makers may keep support measures in place for longer “if
required.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Stuart Wallace} in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
{Nicholas Larkin} in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  