-- Copper, Zinc Drop for Third Week on Korea Jitters, China Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-26T08:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/copper-zinc-head-for-third-weekly-drop-as-china-seeks-to-cool-inflation.html
Copper dropped, heading for a third
weekly decline, as North Korea said “escalated confrontation”
will lead to war, and as China stepped up measures to curb
speculation. Zinc and nickel fell.  The metal for three-month delivery dropped as much as 2.2
percent to $8,161 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange, and
traded at $8,179.25 at 2:25 p.m. in Shanghai. The contract has
fallen 2.7 percent this week. Three-month zinc declined 4.1
percent to $2,104.75 a ton.  “The outlook domestically in China is quite negative and
the dollar gains in the short term may weigh on copper prices,”
Zhao Kao, an analyst at Jinrui Futures Co., said by phone from
Shenzhen. A stronger dollar makes base metals priced in the U.S.
currency more expensive for holders of other currencies.  The dollar hit a seven-week high against the yen, and
gained versus 15 of its 16 major counterparts today on concerns
the conflict between North and South Korea could worsen, raising
the demand for relatively safe assets. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, climbed 0.3 percent to 79.960.  North Korea today said it’s “ready to give a shower of
dreadful fire and blow up the bulwark of the enemies,”
according to a Korean Central News Agency statement. “Escalated
confrontation would lead to a war.”  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, where the world’s top three
metals contracts are traded, said yesterday it will increase
margins and daily price-move limits in the latest move by China
to curb speculation and cool inflation.  Trading Margins  Margins on copper, aluminum, steel wire, gold and fuel oil
will rise to 10 percent, on steel-reinforcing bars and zinc to
12 percent and on rubber to 13 percent after the market closes
on Monday. Daily price-move limits for all products will widen
to 6 percent from Tuesday.  “A further cut of leverage shows the regulator is still
aiming at reducing speculation,” Zhao said. “This will have
some impact on the fund flow.”  Copper for March delivery in Shanghai shed 0.7 percent to
close at 61,670 yuan ($9,259) a ton. The contract has lost 4
percent this week.  Posco, the second-biggest stainless-steel producer, is
seeking ways to cut its use of nickel because of volatile prices,
Suh Young Sea, a senior vice president of the Pohang, South
Korea-based mill, said in an interview yesterday.  The company will increasingly focus on so-called 400-series
stainless products, which use ferrochrome as a raw material and
are used in home appliances and cars, and other products that
use less nickel, Suh said.  Nickel is the second-best performer on the London Metal
Exchange this year, rising 21 percent, driven by rebounding
demand from stainless-steel mills. The metal fell 2.2 percent to
$22,330 a ton today.  Aluminum in London dropped 0.9 percent to $2,260.25 a ton,
lead slid 2 percent to $2,285.50 a ton, and tin lost 0.9 percent
to $24,100 a ton.  -- Helen Sun . Editors:  Ravil Shirodkar ,  Matthew Oakley   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  