-- Cowen's Party Probably Lost Irish Special Poll; Budget Passage Still Seen
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-11-26T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/cowen-party-loses-election-in-donegal-to-sinn-fein-bookmaker-payout-shows.html
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen’s 
party likely lost a special election for a vacant parliamentary
seat as talks continue on a rescue package of loans for the
country, according to a first tally of votes.  Counting of ballots began at 9 a.m. after the vote in
Donegal yesterday and early results suggest Cowen’s Fianna Fail
will lose, RTE said today. The candidate for Sinn Fein, the
nationalist party, took 40 percent of first preferences to
Fianna Fail’s 21 percent, the national broadcaster said.  While a loss for Cowen reduces his majority in parliament
to two, the premier probably will still be able to pass the 2011
budget. Cowen is racing to conclude talks with the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund on an 85 billion-euro
($113 billion) aid package as his governing coalition crumbles.  The two biggest opposition parties “both accept the need
to get the current deficit down,”  Alan Dukes , a former finance
minister who led the opposition Fine Gael party from 1987 to
1990, said in an interview late yesterday. He said the parties
have “no option” other than to allow the budget to pass.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today he
hopes that bailout talks will be concluded by early next week.  Bookmaker Paddy Power Plc. already paid out on Sinn Fein
winning the Donegal Southwest seat, the Dublin-based company
said in a statement today. Final results are due later today.  Election Looms  Cowen’s junior partner in government, the Green Party, said
Nov. 22 it is pulling out of the coalition, forcing a national
election to be held early next year. Two independent lawmakers,
on whom the government relies for support, said their backing
for the budget isn’t guaranteed.  The most northerly county in Ireland, Donegal is adjacent
to Northern Ireland and 140 miles from Dublin. Known as the
“Forgotten County,” it accounts for less than 4 percent of
Ireland’s population. The Donegal Southwest seat was vacated
last year when the lawmaker resigned.  Fianna Fail had 19 percent support prior to this week’s
election, according to a poll for Paddy Power published on Nov.
17. Sinn Fein, led by  Gerry Adams , was at 40 percent, according
to the poll of 510 people carried out between Nov. 12 and Nov.
16. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  