-- Cowen's Party Loses Irish Special Election to Sinn Fein Candidate Doherty
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-26T14:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/cowen-s-party-loses-irish-special-election-to-sinn-fein-candidate-doherty.html
Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s
party lost a special election for a vacant parliamentary seat to
a candidate who said he wants to “burn” holders of bank debt
as the nation seeks an international bailout.  The candidate for Sinn Fein took 40 percent of first
preferences to the ruling Fianna Fail party’s 21 percent, RTE, 
the national broadcaster, said. Fianna Fail conceded the vote.  “We need to burn the bondholders,” Pearse Doherty, the
Sinn Fein candidate, said in interview with RTE today. “We
can’t saddle debt around the necks of people who had no part to
play in the mess this country is in.”  Cowen is racing to conclude talks with the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund on an 85 billion-euro ($113
billion) aid package as his governing coalition prepares to hold
a general election next year. While a loss for Cowen reduces his
majority in parliament to two, the premier probably will still
be able to pass the 2011 budget.  The two biggest opposition parties “both accept the need
to get the current deficit down,”  Alan Dukes , a former finance
minister who led the opposition Fine Gael party from 1987 to
1990, said in an interview late yesterday. The parties have “no
option” other than to allow the budget to pass, he said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today he
hopes that bailout talks will be concluded by early next week.
EU and IMF officials are exploring if it’s possible for senior
bank bondholders to share some of the cost of rescuing Ireland’s
lenders, the Irish Times reported, without citing anyone.  ‘Mortal Danger’  It would be “wrong” to speculate on senior bank bonds,
Deputy Prime Minister  Mary Coughlan  said in an interview with
RTE, as she conceded the election.  “We’ll be dusting ourselves down and getting ready for a
general election,” she said. “Every seat is in mortal
danger.”  Cowen’s junior partner in government, the Green Party, said
Nov. 22 it is pulling out of the coalition, forcing a national
election to be held early next year. Two independent lawmakers,
on whom the government relies for support, said their backing
for the budget isn’t guaranteed.  The most northerly county in Ireland, Donegal is adjacent
to Northern Ireland and 140 miles from Dublin. Known as the
“Forgotten County,” it accounts for less than 4 percent of
Ireland’s population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  