-- Crude Oil Drops From One-Week High on European Debt Concern
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-26T07:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/crude-declines-because-of-concern-ireland-debt-crisis-may-spread-to-spain.html
Oil fell from near a one-week high
amid concern Ireland’s debt crisis will spread to Portugal and
Spain, limiting economic growth and diminishing fuel demand.  Futures slipped as the euro dropped toward a two-month
against the dollar, curbing investor demand for commodities
priced in the U.S. currency. Crude rose the most in four months
on Nov. 24, jumping 3.2 percent, after U.S. jobless claims fell
to the lowest since 2008, bolstering optimism economic growth
will accelerate in the biggest oil-consuming nation.  “The euro tends to sum up the concerns on the ground and
the risks or premiums associated with possible defaults,” said
 Mark Keenan , chief investment officer at fund manager Cubit
Asset Management Pte in Singapore. “Overall the backdrop of
fundamental data for crude isn’t hugely bullish at the moment.”  The January contract dropped 34 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$83.52 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 3:52 p.m. Singapore time. Floor trading was closed
yesterday for Thanksgiving in the U.S. and electronic trades are
booked with today’s for settlement purposes. Prices are up 2.4
percent this week and 5.2 percent this year.  The euro declined to $1.3317 as of 3:03 p.m. in Tokyo from
$1.3360 in New York yesterday, after reaching $1.3285 on Nov.
24, the lowest level since Sept. 22. The single currency has
fallen 2.6 percent this week.  Asian equities fell, driving the benchmark index toward the
biggest loss in two weeks, as North Korea’s state news agency
warned its confrontation with South Korea could lead to war. The
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1.2 percent to 129.05 as of 3:51
p.m. in Tokyo.  ‘March to $90’  Oil gained earlier today amid concern that China’s higher
refinery output to meet a diesel shortage will boost demand.
Refineries ran at 87.71 percent of capacity as of yesterday, 0.3
percentage point higher than two weeks earlier, data from
Oilchem.net showed today.  China’s oil-product stockpiles fell 5.2 percent in October
from a month earlier, Xinhua News Agency said on Nov. 22.
PetroChina Co., the biggest oil and gas producer in the nation,
said this week that it’s planning additional diesel imports from
overseas.  “Robust U.S. economic statistics, plunging fuel supplies,
and China’s diesel famine should help oil prices march toward
$90 a barrel,”  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd., said in
a report today.  Oil prices are forecast to be little changed next week as
signs of U.S. economic recovery are balanced by concerns that
Europe’s debt crisis may hurt growth and fuel demand, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted crude oil
will be little changed through Nov. 26. Last week, 47 percent
said futures would rise.  Brent crude for January settlement fell as much as 75
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $85.35 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  