-- Crude Oil Prices May Hold Steady Amid European Debt Concern, Survey Shows
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/crude-oil-prices-may-hold-steady-amid-european-debt-concern-survey-shows.html
Oil prices are forecast to be little
changed next week as signs of U.S. economic recovery are
balanced by concerns that Europe’s debt crisis may hurt growth
and fuel demand, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted crude oil
will be little changed through Nov. 26. Thirteen respondents, or
36 percent, estimated prices will rise and 8 predicted a
decline. Last week, 47 percent said futures would rise.  Oil rose to its highest in more than a week yesterday after
data from the U.S. Labor Department said that  applications  for
unemployment benefits fell to the lowest level since 2008.  “We expect upward pressure to come from solid demand out
of China and the U.S,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in London. “However, we also
expect downward pressure to comes from the Eurozone debt crisis,
and worries about China over-tightening to head off inflation.”  Contagion from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading
to  Spain , sparking concern that the bailout fund set up in May
isn’t large enough to rescue the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy.  “European debt concerns will turn to Spain and Portugal
causing the dollar to rise, pushing crude oil prices lower,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund focusing on energy. “In addition, the recent
spate of bullish inventory reports will not be repeated in next
week’s report.”  Crude supplies  rose  1.03 million barrels to 358.6 million
in the week ended Nov. 19, according to the Energy Department
report. A 2 million-barrel decrease was  forecast , according to
the median of 16 analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Crude oil for December delivery rose 0.8 percent to $84.52
a barrel yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  