-- China Raises Futures Margins to Cool Commodity Speculation, Curb Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-26T09:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/dalian-commodity-exchange-to-increase-margin-requirements-trading-limits.html
China’s futures exchanges, where the
world’s top four agricultural contracts are traded, are
increasing margins as part of a wider government crackdown on
commodity speculation and food prices.  Deposits to trade soybeans, soybean meal, soybean oil, palm
oil, corn, polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride contracts will
increase to 10 percent from as much as 7 percent on Nov. 29, the
Dalian Commodity Exchange said  today . The daily price limit rose
to 6 percent from as much as 5 percent, it said. Dalian’s move
follows similar measures by the Shanghai and Zhengzhou bourses.  China, the biggest consumer of raw materials, has pledged
to control  prices , and may increase interest rates a second time
this year to slow the fastest inflation since 2008 and curb food
costs that jumped 10.1 percent in October. The nation has
already made trading commodity futures more expensive to cool
excessive speculation.  Increasing margins “is an effective way to deter those
speculators that leverage too much,” Tian Feng, analyst at BOC
International (China) Ltd., said today. A margin is the
percentage of a contract value traders deposit with brokers.  Soybeans, soybean oil and palm oil contracts in Dalian have
dropped as much as 12 percent from the highest levels in more
than two years on Nov. 10 after the government announced moves
to cool trading. The Dalian bourse said today it may take
further measures.  Speculators Exit  The National Development and Reform Commission, the top
economic planning agency, said yesterday commodity prices had
declined in response to the government’s moves to “clamp down
strictly on market manipulation and other illegal activity, and
curb excessive speculation.”  “Some funds have left commodities markets such as cotton,
following moves by the exchanges,” said Du Ying, analyst at
Wanda Futures Co., one of the biggest cotton brokers on the
Zhengzhou bourse. “There may be more downside as we are now in
a sensitive period in terms of government policies.”  The government has also sold aluminum, zinc, lead, sugar,
cotton and corn from stockpiles this year to ease shortages.  September-delivery soybeans in Dalian dropped 1.1 percent
to 4,318 yuan a ton today, soybean oil declined 1.2 percent to
9,350 yuan and palm oil fell 0.7 percent to 8,626 yuan.  Natural rubber futures in Shanghai fell by the exchange
limit of 5 percent today to 30,375 yuan a ton. Cotton in
Zhengzhou also fell by 5 percent to 24,320 yuan a ton.  Shanghai, Zhengzhou  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, where the world’s top three
metals contracts trade, has said it will increase margins for
copper, aluminum, steel wire, gold and fuel oil to 10 percent.
They gain to 12 percent for steel-reinforcing bars and zinc, and
to 13 percent for rubber, after the market close on Nov. 29.  Steel rebars, zinc and copper were the most traded metals
contracts in the first six months, according to the Futures
Industry  Association . Volume for steel rebars jumped 1,412
percent and for zinc 282 percent, while copper fell 35 percent
from a year ago, association data show.  The  Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange  raises margin requirements
for cotton, rice and sugar contracts to 12 percent at the
settlement today, the bourse said in a Nov. 24 statement.
Margins for rapeseed oil, hard wheat and purified terephthalic
acid increase to 10 percent, it said today.  White, or refined, sugar in Zhengzhou was the world’s most-
traded agricultural futures contract from January through June,
according to the futures association. Shanghai rubber and the
Dalian soybean-meal and soybean-oil contracts followed.  CME, ICE  Volume for the Zhengzhou sugar contract more than tripled
from a year earlier, and Shanghai rubber more than doubled, the
association figures show.  The Chinese exchanges’ steps may have a limited effect on
world commodities prices, partly because trading is closed to
outside investors. The exchanges are open to domestic companies
and foreign businesses that operate in China and buy and sell
commodities as part of everyday activities.  CME Group, the world’s biggest futures market, this month
raised the amount of money traders must keep on deposit for
soybean futures by as much as 10 percent. ICE Futures U.S.
increased margins for cotton and London-based LCH.Clearnet
raised robusta coffee, cocoa and white-sugar charges.  -- Feiwen Rong . Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  James Poole   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Feiwen Rong  in Beijing at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpool4@bloomberg.net  