-- DAX Benchmark Slides as Concern Mounts Over Portuguese Debt; Puma Retreats
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-11-26T17:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/dax-benchmark-slides-puma-symrise-fall-conergy-shares-jump-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks fell for the first
time in three days as rising costs to protect southern European
bonds from default and China’s plans to cool its economy reduced
investors’ appetite for shares.  Deutsche Bank AG and Allianz AG paced the retreat.  Puma AG ,
the second-largest European sporting-goods maker, slipped 1.6
percent after Morgan Stanley downgraded the shares.  Conergy AG ,
the solar power company, jumped 18 percent after the Financial
Times Deutschland reported that the company’s creditors agreed
to a debt-for-equity swap.  The benchmark  DAX Index  retreated 0.5 percent to 6,848.98
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, ending the week little
changed, rising 0.1 percent. Escalating tensions between South
and North Korea exacerbated the losses today, traders and
analysts said. The broader  HDAX Index  fell 0.4 percent today.  “Sovereign debt concerns remain investors’ greatest worry
at the moment and aggressive rhetoric out of North Korea only
serves to amplify the waning risk appetite,”  Mads Koefoed , a
market strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said.  The cost of insuring Portuguese and Spanish government debt
against default rose to record levels, according to data
provider CMA. Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said European Union governments can’t impose a bailout on
his country even as speculation mounts that Portugal will
eventually have to ask for one.  The majority of euro region governments and the European
Central Bank are putting pressure on Portugal to accept a
bailout to stop contagion spreading to Spain, the Financial
Times Deutschland reported today.  China Policy  China’s benchmark  money-market rate  rose to the highest
level in almost two months as speculation mounted that policy
makers will raise borrowing costs after pledging to tighten
monetary policy.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  appointed a former top
military commander as defense minister as North Korea threatened
a “shower of terrifying fire.”  Former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Kim Kwan Jin, 61,
replaces  Kim Tae Young , who quit amid criticism that the
military failed to respond adequately to the North Korean attack
on a disputed island.  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest lender, tumbled 1.7
percent to 38.27 euros, for a 5.3 percent decline this week. A
gauge of European bank shares retreated 1.6 percent today.
Allianz,  Europe’s third-biggest insurer  by sales, dropped 1.6
percent to 86.90 euros.  Puma, Symrise, Nordex  Puma lost 1.6 percent to 233.40 euros as the second-largest
European sporting-goods maker was cut to “underweight” from
“overweight” at Morgan Stanley. The broker said it now
forecasts “a deterioration in earnings momentum in 2011.”  Symrise AG  retreated 2.2 percent to 20.53 euros after the
fragrance maker based in Holzminden, Germany, was cut to “equal
weight” from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  Nordex SE  slumped 6.1 percent to 4.70 euros, the shares’
biggest loss in eight days. The maker of wind turbines was cut
to “sell” at Deutsche Bank. The 12-month price estimate is 4
euros per share.  Conergy  soared 18 percent to 46 euro cents, the biggest
jump in more than 10 months. The company’s creditors agreed in
principle to a debt-for-equity swap, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported, citing an unidentified insider.  Several banks sold their debt in the German company to
hedge funds including York Capital and Sothic Capital. Conergy
estimates that hedge funds hold at least 25 percent of the
company’s debt, the newspaper said.  Sky Deutschland AG  surged 13 percent to 1.70 euros, taking
the gain since Oct. 12 to 108 percent. The pay-television
operator appointed  Steven Tomsic  to take over from  Pietro Maranzana  as chief financial officer.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG dropped 1.7 percent to 16.65 euros.
Flights operated by the airline’s regional partner Eurowings
Luftverkehrs AG were affected today by a pilots strike, their
union said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 