-- Deutsche Bank to Consolidate Postbank, Says Takeover Offer Was Successful
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-11-26T11:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/deutsche-bank-to-consolidate-postbank-says-takeover-offer-was-successful.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
bank, gained control of a majority of  Deutsche Postbank AG ,
allowing it to integrate the retail lender this year.  Deutsche Bank increased its stake to more than 51 percent
from 29.95 percent after investors holding more than 21 percent
of Postbank accepted the takeover offer, the Frankfurt-based
lender  said  in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is buying Bonn-
based Postbank to more than double retail clients to 24 million
and add about 1,100 branches. Deutsche Bank completed its
biggest-ever share sale last month to fund the takeover and
increase reserves ahead of tighter regulations on capital.  “It was the right step for Deutsche Bank to cut dependence
on investment banking,” said  Philipp Haessler , a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Equinet AG, who recommends buying Deutsche Bank
shares and selling Postbank stock. “The company can now
stabilize earnings in the medium term.”  Deutsche Bank shares fell 2.5 percent to 37.95 euros
($50.22) in Frankfurt trading by 12:30 p.m., valuing the company
at about 35 billion euros. Postbank fell 0.5 percent to 23.92
euros.  Deutsche Bank has said previously that the purchase of
Postbank may cost an estimated 6.4 billion euros if all
shareholders accept the offer. At least 70 percent of Postbank
stakeholders tendered their shares, the lender said today.  ‘Balanced’ Earnings  “We will consolidate Postbank by the end of this year as
planned,” Ackermann said in today’s statement. “In the future,
Deutsche Bank Group will have more stable revenues and a more
balanced earnings mix.”  Deutsche Bank reiterated today that it will temporarily
sell a small portion of the Postbank shares to bring its stake
below 50 percent until U.S. antitrust authorities approve the
takeover.  The German firm offered 25 euros a share in the bid. It had
agreed to buy a stake in Postbank in September 2008 from
 Deutsche Post AG  and renegotiated the transaction in January
2009 after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  roiled
global financial markets. Deutsche Bank also holds a mandatory
exchangeable bond for a 27.4 percent holding and an option to
buy Deutsche Post’s remaining 12.1 percent stake.  Postbank CEO  Stefan Juette  said in a separate statement the
lender is “optimistic for the future” after achieving a
turnaround in the first nine months and is “happy to soon be
part of” Deutsche Bank. Postbank will remain an independent
brand and customers will keep their same account numbers and
local branches, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Berlin at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  