-- Deutsche Bank Sells Samurai Bonds as Poland Delays Citing Volatile Markets
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-11-26T03:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/deutsche-bank-sets-coupons-on-80-billion-yen-of-samurai-bonds.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
lender, raised 80 billion yen ($954 million) from Samurai bonds
as Poland’s government postponed a sale planned for today citing
“volatile” debt markets.  The Frankfurt-based bank sold 28.2 billion yen of three-
year floating-rate notes yielding 30 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate for yen, and 51.8
billion yen of five-year, 0.95 percent notes priced to yield 30
basis points more than the yen swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Deutsche Bank has enough capital and allowance that would
absorb possible losses,”  Toshiaki Takahashi , who helps manage
about $300 billion at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo,
said in a telephone interview. Investors are concerned that
Poland isn’t in the euro area and so isn’t protected by the
European Financial Stability Facility, he said.  Ireland is planning to tap a European-Union led 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund as officials seek to
stop the nation’s financial crisis from spreading to Portugal
and Spain amid record-high yields on bonds of the continent’s
most-indebted countries. German banks will set aside less money
for potential losses this year and in 2011 as default risk in
Europe’s largest economy declines, the Bundesbank said in its
Nov. 25 Financial Stability Review.  Poland Guidance  Poland told investors it aimed to sell three-year Samurai
bonds at a spread of 90 basis points and five-year notes at 105
basis points, according to a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be identified as the information is private.  “We are planning to issue Samurai bonds in the near future
when the market situation becomes more stable, which would allow
for a better pricing of our issue,” Deputy Finance Minister
Dominik Radziwill wrote in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg News yesterday.  Poland’s borrowing costs rose to a five-month high in a
sale of 10-year bonds last week as Europe’s debt crisis curbed
demand for longer-dated notes.  Deutsche Bank increased its Samurai bond sale through a
Sydney unit from an initial 50 billion yen, according to a
person with direct knowledge of that transaction. The offering
of yen notes in Japan is the lender’s first since September 2007,
when it raised 147 billion yen, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Bank is  rated  Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
the risk assessor’s fourth-highest investment grade and two
steps higher than Poland’s foreign currency long-term debt
ranking of A2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 