-- Balanced-Budget Dream Will Take Decades to Achieve Even for Deficit Hawks
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/tea-party-s-balanced-budget-dream-will-take-decades-even-for-deficit-hawks.html
Senate Republicans have endorsed a
call for a constitutional amendment requiring the government to
balance its budget after Tea Party candidates made erasing the
deficit a rallying cry throughout the U.S. election campaign.  While the calls may be urgent, even Washington’s leading
 deficit  foes say it will take decades to balance the books.  A proposal by the heads of President  Barack Obama ’s debt
commission to cut the budget by $4 trillion wouldn’t wipe out
the deficit for more than 25 years. Representative  Paul Ryan ,
who’s in line to become chairman of the House Budget Committee,
predicts it will take a half-century. A panel led by former
Congressional Budget Office chief  Alice Rivlin  that offered its
own plan last week wouldn’t even project a date.  “This budget is screwed up so badly you can’t balance it
in the immediate future,” said Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who
sits on the debt commission and has offered his own “ roadmap ”
for getting U.S. finances in order. Senator  Dick Durbin  of
Illinois, the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat, said the problem is
“pure demographics. Boomers are showing up old and sick and, as
a consequence, costs are dramatic.”  Lawmakers are instead aiming to reduce the deficit as a
share of gross domestic product, a standard favored by many
economists even as it sets up a clash with those demanding an
end to the government’s red ink.  ‘A Harder Goal’  “You don’t need to literally balance the budget to get the
debt under control,” said  Donald Marron , a onetime economic
adviser to President  George W. Bush . “What you need are
deficits to be small enough so that economic growth means the
debt is going down relative to the size of the economy,” he
said.  “It’s always nicer to be able to say you’re going to
balance the budget, but that’s a harder goal than stabilizing
the debt and bringing it down slowly,” said Marron, now
director of the Washington-based  Tax Policy Center , a joint
venture between the Brookings Institution and Urban Institute.  Economists such as former White House budget director  Peter Orszag  say policymakers should aim to reduce the deficit to no
more than 3 percent of GDP because at least then borrowing
wouldn’t increase faster than the economy’s projected long-term
growth rate and the debt would be sustainable. The $1.294
trillion  deficit  for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 was 9
percent of GDP, according to CBO.  Here Come Boomers  Budget cutters say it’s much more difficult to show a
plausible path to balance than it was just a decade ago when
stricter fiscal policies, a roaring economy and a drop in
defense spending after the end of the Cold War produced a string
of budget surpluses.  “That was then, this is now,” said Ryan.  What’s changed now is that the first Baby Boomers became
eligible for Social Security in 2008 and will begin
participating in Medicare next year. That makes it difficult to
scale back the programs because budget-cutters want to protect
current beneficiaries’ benefits while giving those approaching
retirement time to prepare for changes. That means cuts are
phased in, which means they can’t be counted against deficit
reduction anytime soon.  Ryan’s roadmap proposes shifting Medicare to a voucher
program where participants would receive fixed payments to buy
private health insurance instead of enrolling in the traditional
program. It would apply only to those turning 65 after Jan. 1,
2021.  Phasing in Changes  The debt commission would raise the Social Security
retirement age to 68, though that wouldn’t be fully phased in
until 2050. By 2075, it would increase to 69. “That gives
people a good amount of time to get ready for it,” said  Erskine Bowles , co-chairman of Obama’s debt commission.  Even unelected officials like Rivlin and the co-leader of
her panel, former New Mexico Senator  Pete Domenici , who are in
no danger of losing jobs to voter outrage over cuts, couldn’t
draw up a plausible plan to eliminate the deficit anytime soon.  “We thought we had gone as far as we could,” said  Bill Hoagland , a former adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Bill Frist 
who helped write the proposal by the Washington-based  Bipartisan
Policy Center . “To go any farther would have meant more taxes
or spending cuts that just weren’t feasible.”  Still, he said, “It’s hard to explain to a Tea Party
person out there why you can’t balance the budget. I have to
balance my checkbook -- why can’t you?”  2.2% of GDP  All the budget plans aim to reduce the debt as a percentage
of GDP. The $4 trillion in cuts the debt commission proposed
would shrink the deficit to 2.2 percent of the economy by 2015
and more in subsequent years.  That would be a major improvement over what budget
forecasters say would otherwise happen. The debt is currently
forecast to climb to almost 90 percent of GDP by 2020 from 62
percent now, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . By
2025, it would top the all-time high set during World War II
when it reached 109 percent, before zooming upward to 185
percent in 2035.  The debt commission estimates it would reduce that to 65
percent in 2020 and 34 percent by 2040. By then, in 2037, when
Obama would be 76 years old, the panel projects the government
would finally run its first balanced budget -- though commission
members have done little to trumpet that.  “Can you imagine any elected official saying, ‘I’ve got a
25-year plan to balance the budget?” said  Stan Collender , a
former congressional budget aide who’s now managing director of
 Qorvis  Communications in Washington. “Politically, it’s a
nonstarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  