-- Ecopetrol Falls For Second Day on Mixed Signals From Government Over Sale
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-11-26T20:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ecopetrol-falls-for-second-day-on-mixed-signals-from-government-over-sale.html
Ecopetrol SA  fell for a second day,
touching its lowest level in seven weeks, after government
officials sent mixed signals as to how Colombia will invest the
proceeds from the sale of its 9.9 percent stake in the state oil
company.  President  Juan Manuel Santos   said  yesterday Colombia would
use the money for infrastructure projects including roads.
Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said in an interview
today with Caracol Radio that such a plan is “not imminent”
and that Ecopetrol’s plans to use the proceeds for investment
remain.  The conflicting information pushed down Ecopetrol’s stock
4.4 percent in the past two days. After markets closed,
Ecopetrol said in a regulatory  filing  that the government plans
to sell part of its stake in the company in the secondary market
and is free to use the money in any way.  “The market is very nervous about this,”  Jose Fernando Restrepo , head of research at Interbolsa SA, the country’s
biggest brokerage said in a phone interview before Ecopetrol
issued the statement. “There is little understanding of what’s
going on. The government needs to make much clearer what it is
planning and, if they don’t, the market will continue to
decline.”  Ecopetrol, based in Bogota, dropped 2.1 percent at 3:09
p.m. New York time. Earlier, the shares fell as much as 5.5
percent to the lowest price since Oct. 5.  The capitalization of Ecopetrol is defined as a new share
issuance and “oriented exclusively toward obtaining resources
for the company, while an eventual sale of shares owned by the
nation will be used in the way the government determines,”
Ecopetrol said in the filing. The two processes are “harmonious
and complementary” and can be carried out for the benefit of
the country and shareholders, the company said.  “We’re not going to come out and sell in the short-term,”
Echeverry told Caracol Radio. “This is something we’re
developing. I want to calm the market. We’re not going to rush
out and sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  