-- Emerging Stocks Decline for Third Week on Korea, European Debt Concern
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-26T22:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/emerging-stocks-decline-for-third-week-on-korea-european-debt-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to its third weekly drop, on concern China’s
bid to tame inflation, tensions between North and South Korea
and Europe’s debt crisis will stall the global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 1.6 percent to
1,081.06 as of 5 p.m. in New York. The gauge dropped 2.8 percent
in the past five days, its third weekly decline and longest
losing streak since May.  South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 1.3 percent while the
 Shanghai Composite Index  slipped 0.9 percent, the first decline
in three days. Hungary’s  Bux Index  slumped 2.8 percent after the
government moved to effectively nationalize private pension
funds, making the gauge the world’s worst-performer today.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell 1.6 percent, capping the
biggest weekly decline in almost five months, on signs the
central bank will raise interest rates and as concern deepened
that the global economy is weakening.  Chinese banks retreated, paced by  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , amid speculation the government may cut the
target for new lending next year. In South Korea, the defense
minister quit while the nation prepared for joint military
exercises with the U.S. starting Nov. 28 after an artillery
attack by North Korea this week. The won weakened 1.9 percent,
poised for a third straight weekly decline.  “The same two themes, peripheral Europe and Korea,
continue to drive the negative sentiment,” RBC Capital Markets
analysts led by  Nick Chamie  said in an emerging-markets report
today, adding that more selling pressure came from “further
talk of an imminent Chinese rate hike.”  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary’s largest lender, slid as much as
5.6 percent. The forint depreciated 0.9 percent against the euro
and 1.8 percent versus the dollar.  Hungary Sell Recommendation  The Hungarian government’s plans to shift private pension-
fund assets to the state is causing concern in the European
Commission,  Bruxinfo  news website reported, citing spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj .  Hungarian assets should be sold by investors given the
“complete unpredictability” of the government,  Simon Quijano- Evans , the Vienna-based head of emerging-market strategy at
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, said in an e-mailed note.  Concerns Portugal or Spain may join Ireland in seeking a
bailout from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund further darkened investor sentiment.  Brazil’s central bank will raise the benchmark rate to
12.25 percent from 10.75 percent by April to contain inflation,
Bank of America Corp. said. Bank of America previously forecast
policy makers would hold the rate at 10.75 percent through 2011.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100  index slid 1.5 percent, down more
than 8 percent since its all-time high reached on Nov. 9.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  lost 1 percent and Russia’s  Micex 
Index fell 0.3 percent.  The zloty slid 1.4 percent against the euro and 2.3 percent
versus the dollar. The rand lost 1.6 percent.  Oil fell as much as 1.3 percent to $82.78 a barrel and
copper slid 1.2 percent in London trading. Gold lost as much as
1.8 percent.  Indonesia, India  The difference between the yield investors demand to hold
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries widened 5 basis points
to 252, according to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  EMBI+ Index .  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  fell 1.6 percent and
The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  slumped 1.1 percent. India’s
Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , sank 0.9 percent.  The  Shanghai gauge  as of yesterday had retreated 8.3
percent from an almost seven-month high reached on Nov. 8 on
concern accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic
growth. The central bank last week ordered banks to set aside
larger reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising
interest rates in October, the first increase since 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  