-- Emerging-Market Stocks Set for Third Weekly Decline on Korea Risk, China
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-26T10:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-third-weekly-decline-on-korea-risk-china.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index toward its third weekly drop, on concern
China’s bid to tame inflation, tensions between North and South
Korea and the eurozone debt crisis will stall global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 1.4 percent to
1,083.54 as of 10:40 a.m. in London. The gauge has dropped 2.6
percent in the past five days, set for its third weekly decline
and longest losing streak since May. South Korea’s Kospi Index
slid 1.3 percent while the  Shanghai Composite Index  eased 0.9
percent, its first decline in three days. Hungary’s  Bux Index 
slumped 3.2 percent after the government moved to effectively
nationalize private pension funds, making the gauge the world’s
worst-performer decliner today.  Chinese banks retreated, paced by  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , amid speculation the government may cut the
target for new lending next year. In South Korea, the defense
minister quit while the nation prepared for joint military
exercises with the U.S. starting Nov. 28 after an artillery
attack by North Korea this week. The won weakened 1.9 percent,
poised for a third straight weekly decline.  “General risk aversion has gone up due to event risks like
the Korea tension and China inflation that seems to be above
expectations,” said  Geoffrey Ng , who manages $1.45 billion as
chief executive officer at Hong Leong Asset Management Sdn. in
Kuala Lumpur. “As a result of that, China may impose further
tightening measures.”  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary’s largest lender, slid as much as
5.7 percent. The forint depreciated 1 percent against the euro
and 2 percent versus the dollar.  Hungary Sell Recommendation  The Hungarian government’s plans to shift private pension-
fund assets to the state is causing concern in the European
Commission,  Bruxinfo  reported, citing spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj .  Hungarians assets should be sold by investors given the
“complete unpredictability” of the government,  Simon Quijano- Evans , the Vienna-based head of emerging-market strategy at
Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, said in an e-mailed note.  Concerns Portugal or Spain may join Ireland in seeking a
bailout from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund further darkened investor sentiment.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100  index slid 2 percent, down 8
percent from its all-time high on Nov. 9.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  lost 1.8 percent and Russia’s  Micex 
Index fell 0.4 percent.  The zloty slid 1.5 percent against the euro and 2.4 percent
versus the dollar. The rand lost 1.4 percent.  Oil fell as much as 1 percent to $83.06 a barrel and copper
slid 1.7 percent in London trading. Gold lost 0.6 percent.  Indonesia, India  The difference between the yield investors demand to hold
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries widened 4 basis points
to 2.51 percentage points, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 EMBI+ Index .  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  fell 1.6 percent and
The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  retreated 1.1 percent.
India’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , sank 0.9 percent.  The  Shanghai gauge  lost 8.3 percent as of yesterday since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that
accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic growth. The
central bank last week ordered banks to set aside larger
reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising interest
rates in October, the first increase since 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  