-- Emerging Stocks Set For Third Weekly Decline on Korean Risk, Chinese Moves
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-11-26T05:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/emerging-stocks-set-for-third-weekly-decline-on-korean-risk-chinese-moves.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, sending
the benchmark index to its third weekly drop, on concern China’s
bid to tame inflation and tensions between North and South Korea
will stall the global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 0.7 percent to
1,091.20 as of 12:55 p.m. in Singapore. The gauge has dropped
1.9 percent this week, set for its third weekly decline and
longest losing streak since May 7. South Korea’s Kospi index
slumped 1.3 percent while the  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 0.2
percent, its first drop in three days.  Chinese banks retreated, paced by  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , amid speculation the government may cut the
target for new lending next year. In South Korea, the defense
minister quit while the nation prepares for joint military
exercises with the U.S. starting Nov. 28 after an artillery
attack by North Korea this week. The won weakened 1.2 percent,
poised for a third straight weekly decline.  “The general risk aversion has gone up due to event risks
like the Korea tension and China inflation that seems to be
above expectations,” said Geoffrey Ng, who manages $1.45
billion as chief executive officer at Hong Leong Asset
Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “As a result of that, China
may impose further tightening measures.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  fell 1.1 percent, the
lowest since Sept. 20, while India’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
sank 1 percent. Benchmark indexes in Malaysia, Thailand and
Indonesia slid.  Policy Tightening  The  Shanghai gauge  lost 8.3 percent as of yesterday since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that
accelerated monetary tightening will crimp economic growth. The
central bank last week ordered banks to set aside larger
reserves for the second time in two weeks after raising interest
rates in October, the first increase since 2007.       Industrial & Commercial Bank  dropped 0.7 percent and
China Construction Bank Corp. fell 0.8 percent, pacing declines
among financial companies after the Shanghai Securities News
said the government may cut the target for new lending next
year. Developers  China Vanke Co.  dropped 0.5 percent and Poly
Real Estate Group Co. slid 1.6 percent.  “Investors are awaiting the government to set a tone for
next year’s economic policies, such as new lending and economic
growth targets,” said Dai Ming, a fund manager at Shanghai
Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co. “Large
capitalization cyclical stocks wouldn’t perform too well until
there’s more clarity. At this moment, buying consumer and
medical shares is a good defensive strategy.”  Hana Financial  Hana Financial Group Inc.  slumped 4.2 percent in Seoul
trading after the stock was cut to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Macquarie Group Ltd., which said the company
doesn’t have excess capital after buying a controlling stake in
Korea Exchange Bank.  Genting Malaysia Bhd. , which operates Malaysia’s sole
casino, slid 1.8 percent after third-quarter net income fell 6.4
percent from a year earlier to 336.4 million ringgit ($107
million) as revenue declined.  Adani Power Ltd.  fell 7.2 percent
in Mumbai trading as the power generation arm of India’s biggest
coal importer was downgraded to “reduce” from “buy” by
Girish Nair, an analyst at BNP Paribas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  