-- Kabel BW, Cable TV Company, Said to Plan Sale or IPO Worth $2.7 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-11-26T14:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/eqt-said-to-hire-banks-for-kabel-baden-wuerttemberg-ipo-or-sale.html
EQT Partners AB, the private equity
firm partly owned by Sweden’s Wallenberg family, hired banks to
prepare the initial public offering or sale of German cable
company  Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co KG , according to four
people familiar with the process.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Deutsche Bank AG  are advising EQT
on the divestment of Heidelberg-based Kabel BW, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.
Germany’s third-largest cable company may fetch about 2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) next year, two of the people said. EQT owns
100 percent of Kabel BW, according to its Web site.  Investors are betting on German cable companies because of
rising demand for pay-TV channels and so-called triple-play
offerings that bundle TV, Web and phone services.  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG , Germany’s largest cable TV operator, has
gained about 60 percent in Frankfurt trading since its IPO in
March. In November 2009, billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty
Global Inc. paid about 2 billion euros for Unitymedia GmbH,
Germany’s No. 2 cable company.  Spokesmen for Kabel BW and Deutsche Bank declined to
comment and spokesmen for EQT and JPMorgan couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Stockholm-based EQT bought Kabel BW in 2006 from  Blackstone
Group LP , without giving a price for the purchase. The deal was
worth about 1.3 billion euros, newspapers including the Wall
Street Journal said at the time. Kabel BW, which has more than
2.2 million cable  subscribers , had sales of 493 million euros in
2009.  No decision has been made whether to opt for an IPO or sell
the company, the people said. The likeliest buyers may be
private equity firms because domestic cable companies would face
antitrust hurdles to buy Kabel BW, the people said.  Germany is one of the fastest growing broadband markets as
subscribers have doubled since 2005, Liberty Global Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Fries  said earlier this year, adding that
more than 50 percent of all new broadband clients in the country
are accessing the Web via cable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Berlin at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  