-- Estonian Legislators Approve Media Damages Law on Issues of Libel, Privacy
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-11-26T14:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/estonia-legislators-adopt-law-on-preventive-media-fines.html
Estonia’s parliament adopted a law
that would allow the authorities to seek damages from media
outlets to prevent them from publishing compromising material.  Lawmakers voted 51-12 yesterday, with one abstention, to
back measures allowing courts to seek compensation from the
media in case a published article is deemed libellous or to have
infringed privacy “by considering the need to prevent the
person who caused damage from causing further damage, while
accounting for the wealth of this person,” according to the
 parliament website .  The bill fills a legal void on source protection and
establishes checks and balances on media freedom, according to
the Justice Ministry. It can still be vetoed by President  Toomas Ilves  within two weeks.  “We are deeply concerned that this law poses a serious
threat to freedom of the press and would, in particular, have a
significant negative impact on investigative journalism,” the
European Newspaper Publishers’ Association said in  a letter  to
parliamentary speaker Ene Ergma on Nov. 23. “We fear that the
law could be misused to inflict financial damage on
newspapers.”  Parliament’s Justice Committee amended the bill before the
final vote to apply the preventive intent of the bill only to
moral damage, having earlier sought to also include material
damages, according to parliament website.  “The preventive goal of compensating damages is not fully
unknown to the Civil Law of continental Europe,” the Justice
Ministry said in an explanatory letter accompanying the bill.  Newspaper Protest  Estonia’s largest newspapers left their front pages blank
on March 18 to protest at the draft, which was also criticized
by the World Association of Newspapers. Estonia, which gained
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, ranked sixth
globally last year, ahead of other eastern European countries in
the annual Press Freedom Index published by the Paris-based
press freedom group Reporters Without Borders.  The draft initially also allowed for journalists who refuse
to disclose sources in police investigations to be jailed. The
ruling coalition later agreed to limit the jail threat only to
investigations of most severe crimes.  Newspapers, including Estonia’s largest daily by
circulation,  Postimees , which is owned by Norway’s  Schibsted
ASA , and  Aeripaeev , a financial newspaper owned by Sweden’s
 Bonnier Group , carried editorials today urging Ilves to reject
the bill and said they would ask Justice Chancellor Indrek Teder
to see if it breached the constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Ott Ummelas } in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  