-- Etihad Seeks `Sustainable Profitability' in Two Years on Abu Dhabi Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/etihad-aiming-for-sustainable-profitability-within-two-years.html
Etihad Airways, the Abu Dhabi-based
intercontinental carrier, plans to reach “sustainable
profitability” within two years, even as it adds aircraft to
its fleet and expands its network.  Etihad will this year, for the first time, generate a
profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortization and
rentals, the carrier said in a statement. The airline then
anticipates reaching “full break-even” the following year
before generating a profit in 2012. The airline didn’t specify
the level of earnings it is targeting.  “The growth of Abu Dhabi as a global destination is
playing a critical role in our development,” Etihad Chief
Executive Officer James Hogan said in the statement. “Our
shareholders expect a return, and we will deliver that return.”  The carrier, founded seven years ago, will take delivery of
11 new Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS aircraft over the next two
years as it expands its network, according to a presentation by
Ethihad executives to bankers at a briefing in London.  The airline is part of a 10-carrier group that includes
Ireland’s Ryanair Holdings Plc and Dubai’s Emirates, that has
called for the extension of export credit support to other
airlines that are currently barred from receiving it.  The group, calling itself the Aviation Alliance, said
yesterday that there must be no increase in fees, no limit on
the amount of credit extended to any one airline and no lowering
in the proportion of the cost of an aircraft that can be
financed under the arrangements.  “I’ve got no problem with the European governments
providing export credit to the European airlines, or a form of
finance, that’s an issue for their governments,” Hogan said in
an interview yesterday after the presentation. “We don’t set
the rules, we take advantage of them as any other entity does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  