-- European Stocks, U.S. Futures Drop on Debt Concern, North Korea
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-26T12:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-slip-on-korea-tensions-debt-concerns.html
European stocks and U.S. index
futures dropped amid mounting concern about Europe’s debt crisis
and steps by China to cool inflation, while tensions between
North and South Korea escalated. Asian shares also fell.  Banco Santander SA slumped 4.3 percent, pacing a selloff in
Spanish lenders. Rio Tinto Group fell 3.1 percent, leading
basic-resource stocks lower.  Actelion Ltd . lost 2.4 percent as
UBS AG downgraded the Swiss drugmaker’s shares.  Givaudan SA ,
 Luxottica Group SpA  and Puma AG each slid more than 1.5 percent
as Morgan Stanley recommended that investors reduce their
holdings of the three stocks.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 1.1 percent to
264.85 at 12:35 p.m. in London. The gauge is heading for a third
week of declines as investors speculated that the region will
fail to contain its sovereign-debt crisis. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures lost 1 percent before U.S. markets reopen after
yesterday’s Thanksgiving holiday.  “There’s a combination of negative news that is burdening
the market today,” said  Christian Falkner , an analyst at Alpha
Wertpapierhandels AG in Frankfurt. “On the one hand, statements
from  Kim Jong Il  about the likelihood of a war in Korea and on
the other hand speculation that Portugal may be urged to tap the
European Stability Fund. Investors are also worried about
inflation in China. Financial shares are especially hurt
today.”  VStoxx Rallies  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, surged
12 percent to 28.36. The gauge is headed for a 29 percent
increase this week, the biggest gain since May.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  retreated 1.2 percent as North
Korea warned that South Korean military exercises with the U.S.
will take the peninsula to the “brink of war,” according to
state news agency KCNA. North Korea threatened a “shower of
terrifying fire” should the U.S. or South Korea infringe its
sovereignty.  Explosive shots, coming from the direction of North Korea,
were heard on South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island at about 3:10 p.m.
today, said a spokesman at South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff
who declined to be named, citing military policy. The military
is investigating, he said.  South Korea may appoint a new defense minister today after
Kim Tae Young resigned in the wake of North Korea firing
artillery onto the South’s territory for the first time in half
a century this week.  Chinese Inflation  Chinese  stocks  fell for the first time in three days, led
by banks and developers after Shanghai Securities News said the
government may cut the target for new lending next year.  Chinese policy makers have stepped up measures in recent
weeks to curb inflation that reached 4.4 percent last month, the
fastest pace in two years. Analysts at nine banks surveyed by
Bloomberg News last week predicted the central bank will boost
borrowing costs for a second time by the end of the year.  The cost of insuring Portuguese and Spanish government debt
against default rose to record levels based on closing prices,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps on Portugal
rose 13 basis points to 489, and contracts on Spain rose 3.5
basis points to 303.  Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos
said European Union governments can’t impose a bailout on his
country even as speculation mounts that Portugal will eventually
have to ask for one.  Avoid Bailout  By putting pressure on the Portuguese government, the
European Central Bank and countries in the currency union aim to
avoid a bailout of Spain, Financial Times Deutschland said,
citing unidentified people within Germany’s finance ministry.
Portugal faces a final vote in parliament today on its 2011
spending plan, which includes measures to pare its deficit.  Nouriel Roubini , the New York University professor who
predicted the global financial crisis, sees a 35 percent
probability that Greece will leave the euro, with the likelihood
increasing over the next five years, Austria’s Format magazine
reported, citing an interview.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index lost
1.4 percent and Germany’s DAX Index slid 1.3 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 Index retreated 1.7 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35
tumbled 2.4 percent.  Banks Decline  A gauge of bank stocks declined 2.7 percent, the worst
performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.
Santander, Spain’s largest lender, fell 4.3 percent to 7.48
euros.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  lost 4.1 percent to
7.43 euros. BNP Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank, slid 4.6
percent to 47.54 euros, extending the longest falling streak in
almost two months.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, U.K.’s largest mortgage lender,
dropped 4.9 percent to 61.56 pence, the biggest decline in the
Stoxx 600. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc tumbled 4.8 percent
to 38.89 pence.  Bank of Ireland, Ireland’s largest bank, slid 3.1 percent
to 24.8 euro cents, extending its weekly decline to 48 percent,
the biggest since January 2009.  Rio Tinto Group  lost 3.1 percent to 4,138.5 pence even
after the world’s third-largest mining company said its iron ore
unit will boost production by 50 percent over five years. A
gauge of basic-resource companies was among the worst performers
in the  Stoxx 600 , falling 2.1 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company, retreated 2.6 percent to 2,292
pence as base metal prices declined in London.  Vedanta Resources Plc tumbled 4.3 percent to 2,051 pence.
Standard & Poor’s may lower its credit rating on the mining
company controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , if its proposed
purchase of a controlling stake in Cairn India Ltd. is approved.  Actelion, Daily Mail  Actelion, the drugmaker that may attract a takeover offer
from Amgen Inc., lost 2.4 percent to 53.65 Swiss francs as UBS
cut its recommendation on the shares to “neutral” from
“buy.” The stock has surged 36 percent since Sept. 30.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc  fell 1.1 percent to 538.5
pence. The stock, which slumped 3.5 percent yesterday after
reporting sales that missed estimates, was cut to “neutral”
from “buy” at UBS.  Puma , the sporting-goods maker controlled by  PPR  SA, fell 3
percent to 230 euros. Givaudan, the world’s biggest maker of
flavors and fragrances, tumbled 1.7 percent to 1,015 francs.
Luxottica, the owner of Ray-Ban and Oakley sunglasses, slid 1.6
percent to 20.59 euros. The three stocks were downgraded to
“underweight” at Morgan Stanley.  Inditex, Kingfisher  Inditex, the owner of the Zara and Massimo Dutti chains,
slumped 3.2 percent to 57.96 euros as BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research downgraded the shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  Kingfisher,  Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer ,
fell 2.3 percent to 243.8 pence after being cut to
“underperform” from “neutral” by the brokerage.  Technip SA, Europe’s second-largest oilfield-services
provider, slid 2.5 percent to 61.28 euros. The stock was cut to
“equal weight” from “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  Porsche SE lost 4.4 percent to 56.67 euros, the biggest
decline in more than two weeks. The carmaker climbed for seven
consecutive days, adding 27 percent.  Sky Deutschland AG  rallied 4.2 percent to 1.57 euros as
Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation on the stock to
“overweight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 