-- European Stocks Have Biggest Weekly Decline in Eight Weeks on Debt Concern
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-11-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/european-stocks-decline-the-most-in-eight-weeks-bank-of-ireland-plunges.html
European stocks had their biggest
weekly decline in eight weeks as concern mounted that peripheral
euro area countries can’t repay their debt and North Korea fired
shells on South Korea for the first time since the 1950-53 war.  Banks and insurers led the decline as investors waited to
find out how much Ireland will borrow from the European bailout
fund and as the cost of insuring Portuguese government debt rose
to a record.  Bank of Ireland Plc  tumbled 45 percent, the largest
weekly drop in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Banco
Santander SA  plunged 12 percent and  BNP Paribas SA  lost 8.5
percent.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600  fell 1.1 percent this past week,
the biggest weekly drop since September. The gauge has still
rallied 15 percent since its low this year in May as investors
speculated that the world economy will grow after companies
reported better-than-estimated results and central banks from
the U.S. to Japan announced more stimulus measures to prop up
the economic recovery.  “After Ireland, Portugal is a likely candidate for aid
with Spain close behind,”  John Plassard , head of European
equities at Louis Capital Markets LP, said. “Amid these
problems, the geopolitical problem between the two Koreas is the
cherry on the cake in a bad week.”  Korea Conflict  North Korea threatened a “shower of terrifying fire” as
the U.S. sent the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS
Washington to the Yellow Sea for joint military exercises with
South Korea. On Nov. 23, North Korea shelled a South Korean
fishing community and military base on Yeonpyeong island with
highly inflammable ammunition that killed four people, including
two civilian construction workers, blew the windows out of a
school and torched houses.  In Europe, the cost of insuring Portuguese and Spanish
government debt against default rose to record levels, according
to data provider CMA. Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said European Union governments can’t impose
a bailout on his country even as speculation mounts that
Portugal will eventually have to ask for one. The majority of
euro region governments and the European Central Bank are
putting pressure on Portugal to accept a bailout to stop
contagion spreading to Spain, the Financial Times Deutschland
reported on Friday.  Irish Bailout  Irish officials raced to complete a deal for an
international aid package before financial markets reopen next
week with talks focusing on the status of bondholders in
Ireland’s largest banks amid concern that the government will
force holders of such debt to share the cost of bailing out its
financial system. Euro area finance ministers plan to finalize
an agreement on Nov. 28, a European Union official said on
condition of anonymity.  Bundesbank President,  Axel Weber , who is also a European
Central Bank Governing Council member, said the EU bailout fund
has enough money to calm markets and that there’s no alternative
to the European currency union.  “I think we can rule out” the pessimistic scenario that
the fund could be exhausted, Weber said in a panel discussion in
Berlin on Thursday. “We’ll do everything to safeguard the
existence of the euro,” he added.  Bank of Ireland lost 45 percent amid concern that the
government will force some of the cost of bailing out the
country’s banks on senior bondholders. The bank has 5.4 billion
euros ($7.2 billion) of senior unsecured debt and another 5.9
billion euros of government-guaranteed bonds, according to
Bloomberg data.  Two people familiar with the situation said the lender may
end up in majority state control as the government injects more
capital into the bank.  Santander, Mediobanca  Banco Santander, Spain’s largest bank, shed 12 percent
after calling on the European Commission to reject plans by
global regulators that would force lenders to accrue extra
capital during boom times. The bank urged the commission to
either take a different approach than proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, or scrap the idea entirely.  Italy’s  Mediobanca SpA  retreated 9.9 percent, while
France’s BNP Paribas declined 8.5 percent.  De La Rue Plc  fell 13 percent as the company said there
still “remains uncertainty” about ongoing paper production
issues. De La Rue reported a 17 percent drop in first half
revenue and is to be removed from the Stoxx Europe 600 index.  Porsche Automobil Holding SE  climbed 15 percent after the
carmaker’s operating profit increased more than sevenfold in the
first quarter.  Provident Financial Plc , the U.K.’s biggest subprime
lender, rallied 12 percent after saying that government’s
spending cuts will have a “modest” effect on its customers.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc , Britain’s biggest mall
owner, rose 9.7 percent this past week after saying Simon
Property Group Inc. may offer more than 2.3 billion pounds ($3.6
billion) in cash for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Giles Broom  in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 