-- Hewlett-Packard Sued in Investor Cases Over Mark Hurd Departure
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-11-27T15:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/hewlett-packard-sued-by-shareholders-for-information-over-hurd-s-departure.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s
largest computer maker, was sued by shareholders seeking
information about the company’s ouster of former Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Hurd .  In one of two cases filed in Delaware Chancery Court, mostly
under seal,  shareholder  Lawrence Zucker sued some HP directors
seeking “monetary relief” on behalf of the company.  According to a summary posted on the Wilmington, Delaware,
court’s public docket describing some of the sealed complaint’s
contents, the investor alleged that  officials  of the Palo Alto,
California-based computer-maker violated their duties. According
to the Nov. 24 summary, the plaintiff alleged in the complaint
that the defendants caused “corporate waste arising out of a
severance agreement between Hewlett-Packard and Mark Hurd.” In
the previous suit, filed Nov. 18, shareholder Ernesto Espinoza
seeks the release of “corporate documents.”  Hurd, 53, resigned as HP’s chairman and CEO on Aug. 6,
after a company investigation of a sexual harassment-allegation
determined that he violated its standards of business conduct,
according to a statement from Hewlett-Packard. The former
contractor who made the harassment claim was later identified by
her lawyer  Gloria Allred  as  Jodie Fisher . HP said it didn’t find
that Hurd had violated its harassment policy.  Hurd now works for software maker  Oracle Corp.  as a co-
president.  Mylene Mangalindan , an HP spokeswoman, didn’t return phone
messages seeking comment on the lawsuits yesterday.  Glenn Bunting , a spokesman for Hurd at Sitrick & Co., and  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-based
Oracle, declined to comment.  Severance Pay  As part of his severance, Hurd was due to receive a payment
of $12.2 million, plus other benefits that include a prorated
vesting and settlement of 330,177 restricted HP shares,
according to a company filing.  Judge  William B. Chandler  agreed to seal the Espinoza
complaint based on a confidentiality agreement among the
parties. Chandler sealed the Zucker complaint in an order that
gave no reason for the sealing and was based on a sealed motion
from lawyers.  The cases are Zucker v. Andreessen, CA6014, and Espinoza v.
Hewlett-Packard Co., CA6000, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 