-- Former German Utility Manager May Settle Charges Over UBS CDO Transactions
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-11-26T12:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ex-leipzig-utility-manager-may-settle-charges-over-ubs-deal.html
The former head of a German
municipal utility and two brokers charged with corruption
connected to collateralized debt obligation transactions with
 UBS AG  and other banks may reach a plea deal with prosecutors
and the court.  A settlement proposal will be presented Dec. 1, presiding
judge Karsten Nickel said on the first day of a trial in
Leipzig, Germany. The men are accused of working together when
arranging the deal and of sharing kickbacks from the
transactions.  “We offered a settlement to the defendants earlier during
the probe and have said that we wish to hear confessions and see
prison terms of several years,” prosecutor Till von Borries
told reporters after today’s hearing. “These were highly
criminal activities.”  The case is related to hedging transactions in 2006 and
2007 for cross-border leasing deals KWL-Kommunale Wasserwerke
Leipzig GmbH, the Leipzig water utility, had previously closed.
KWL in February filed a suit in Leipzig against UBS, Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg and  Depfa Bank Plc  to invalidate the
transactions in which KWL assumed guarantees for unsecured
loans.  Four UBS employees are also being investigated over the
issue, von Borries said. At least some of the suspects no longer
work at the lender, he said, without identifying them.  UBS spokeswoman  Anja Schlenstedt  declined to comment.  Bribery, Tax Evasion  Klaus Heininger, the former managing director of KWL-
Kommunale, is on trial on charges of accepting bribes, breach of
trust, falsifying financial statements and tax evasion. Two
other suspects, financial advisers  Juergen Blatz  and  Berthold Senf , are charged with bribing Heininger. Heininger is also
facing charges in a related case that goes to trial on Dec. 9.  The lawyers for the three defendants told the court at
today’s hearing they won’t comment on the allegations before the
end of settlement talks. They declined to comment after the
hearing.  UBS sued KWL in January in London over the issue. The
London High Court of Justice  ruled  Oct. 15 that it has
jurisdiction to hear the suit. The Leipzig court has scheduled a
hearing in its case for Feb. 15 when it will discuss the London
court ruling with the parties.  The utility claims that the transactions were closed
without proper authorization. The CDOs were part of a swap
arrangement. The probe against the UBS employees was started
after KWL filed its civil case, von Borries said.  Today’s criminal case is LG Leipzig, 11 Kls 395 Js 2/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Leipzig via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 