-- Mexico May Keep Interest Rates at 4.5% as Inflows Spur More `Dovish' Tone
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-26T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/mexico-may-keep-rate-at-4-5-as-inflows-spur-more-dovish-tone.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today and may suggest
it’s willing to ease borrowing costs next year if capital
inflows from foreign investors continue to increase.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
Agustin Carstens, will extend its longest-ever interest rate
pause and keep the  benchmark rate  at 4.5 percent for a 15th
straight meeting, according to all 17 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Given the consensus, analysts will instead focus on
the statement accompanying the decision.  Policy makers may signal that they would be willing to
lower borrowing costs in coming months if the Federal Reserve’s
debt-buying plan to aid the U.S. economy leads to excessive
capital inflows, said Alonso Cervera, chief Latin America
economist at Credit Suisse Group in Mexico City.  “We will see a change in the language with the central
bank probably slightly more dovish than in the past,” Cervera
said in a telephone interview. “The new statement will likely
reflect the apparent new bias towards easier monetary policy if
it’s needed.”  Carstens said in a Nov. 10 interview that policy
makers would consider cutting interest rates or selling more
dollar options if they see that inflows are becoming permanent
and may hurt competitiveness or lead to asset-price bubbles. He
said the central bank will be “very patient” before making
such a move.  Short-Term Notes  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes has risen more than seven-fold to 83 billion pesos ($6.7
billion) since the end of 2009 as investors look for
alternatives to near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe.
Investment in Cetes was 11.6 billion pesos at the end of last
year.  Foreign investors have also turned to Mexican government
peso debt, pushing yields to a record low of 6.26 percent last
month. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due in
2024 has fallen 138 basis points, or 1.38 percentage points,
this year to 6.89 percent yesterday.  The bond’s yield has risen 36 basis points, or 0.36
percentage point, since Carstens said Nov. 10 he would consider
cutting rates. The peso has fallen 1.3 percent to 12.3733 since
Carstens’ comments through yesterday’s close.  The Federal Reserve agreed this month to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to help boost economic
growth.  China said this month that the Fed’s decision threatens to
“shock” emerging markets with “hot money.” Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  has compared it to “throwing money from
a helicopter.”  A rate cut would set Mexico apart from Brazil, Chile and
Peru, where policy makers raised rates after the global
financial crisis ended.  Economist Forecasts  Despite Carstens’s recent comments, the majority of
economists forecast the central bank’s next move will be an
increase in borrowing costs rather than a reduction.  Policy makers will raise rates in January 2012, according
to a Nov. 22 survey of economists by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit. Two of the 18 economists forecast a reduction in borrowing
costs, according to the survey.  Mexico’s benchmark rate has been held at 4.5 percent since
July 2009.  Deutsche Bank economist Mauro Roca, the only analyst whose
official forecast calls for a rate cut today, said he now thinks
the central bank is more likely to lower borrowing costs in the
first quarter of next year. Deutsche changed its view after the
peso fell this week as investors avoided riskier assets on
speculation Europe’s debt crisis will spread beyond Ireland,
Roca said.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  “The window of opportunity would be during the first
quarter of next year,” Roca said in a telephone interview.  Carstens said Nov. 10 that the country’s inflation outlook
is evolving “much better than expected,” though medium and
long-term expectations for consumer prices remain “quite
above” the bank’s 3 percent target.  Consumer prices  rose 0.68 percent in the first half of
November. Annual inflation was 4.32 percent, within policy
makers’ prediction of 4.25 percent to 4.75 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The bank last month cut its inflation forecast for the next
two quarters, saying the country was experiencing only moderate
wage increases and limited external pressure on prices.  Banco de Mexico predicts annual inflation will be 3.75
percent to 4.25 percent in the first quarter of 2011 and 3
percent to 4 percent in the second quarter. Growth will be 5
percent this year, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  