-- Mexico Keeps Key Rate at 4.5% Amid Recovery as Inflation Remains In Check
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-11-26T17:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/mexico-keeps-key-rate-at-4-5-amid-recovery-as-inflation-remains-in-check.html
Mexico’s central bank extended its
longest-ever interest rate pause today and said the economy is
closer to performing at its potential, signaling a reduction is
unlikely in coming months.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
Agustin Carstens, maintained the  benchmark interest rate  at 4.5
percent for a 15th straight meeting. The decision matched the
forecasts of all 17 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Recent data suggests a moderate deceleration in the pace
of growth in aggregate demand,” the bank said in a statement
accompanying its decision. “Nevertheless, the output gap has
been closing in a relatively fast manner.”  The policy makers’ view that growth is approaching its
potential suggests that they’re not considering cutting the
interest rate to boost the economy, said Gabriel Casillas at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Investors speculated earlier this month
that the central bank might lower rates.  “We were surprised by the inclusion of the sentence,”
Casillas, who is chief economist in Mexico City, said in a
report. “We continue anticipating that the next movement will
be a rate hike.”  The statement was “a touch less dovish,” Italo Lombardi,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA, said in a report.  Markets  Mexico’s peso fell 0.9 percent to 12.4940 at 11:15 a.m. New
York time. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due
in 2024 rose 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 7.01
percent.  Mexico’s economy is rebounding from last year’s contraction
of 6.5 percent, its worst slump since 1932, on the back of
export growth.  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier and 7.6 percent in the
second quarter.  Carstens said Nov. 10 that the country’s inflation outlook
is evolving “much better than expected,” though medium and
long-term expectations for consumer prices remain “quite
above” the bank’s 3 percent target.  The central bank decided not to cut borrowing costs because
it doesn’t need to use monetary policy to boost the economy,
which it expects will grow 5 percent in 2010, said economist
 Ricardo Aguilar  at Invex Casa de Bolsa. Policy makers didn’t
raise rates because inflation is under control, he said.  “The bank doesn’t have any reason to lower rates if growth
is doing well,” said Aguilar in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “Right now inflation isn’t a concern at all.”  Investor Speculation  Investors began expecting a rate cut earlier this month as
increased capital inflows from foreign investors looking for
higher yields helped strengthen the peso.  The March 2011 futures contract for the  28-day interbank
rate , known as TIIE, fell 22 basis points between Oct. 1 and
Nov. 4 to 4.73 percent, suggesting policy makers might cut
borrowing costs 25 basis points. The peso gained 2.3 percent to
12.2367 during that period. It has since fallen 2.1 percent.  Carstens said in a Nov. 10 interview that policy makers
would consider cutting interest rates or selling more dollar
options if the Federal Reserve’s debt-buying plan to aid the
U.S. economy leads to excessive capital inflows that can hurt
competitiveness and lead to asset-price bubbles. He said the
central bank will be “very patient” before making such a move.  Foreign Inflows  Foreign investment in short-term Mexican notes known as
Cetes has risen more than seven-fold to 83 billion pesos ($6.7
billion) since the end of 2009 as investors look for
alternatives to near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe.
Investment in Cetes was 11.6 billion pesos at the end of last
year.  Foreign investors have also turned to Mexican government
peso debt, pushing yields to a record low last month. The yield
on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bond due in 2024 has fallen 126
basis points, or 1.26 percentage points, this year.  The Federal Reserve agreed this month to buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to help boost economic
growth.  The majority of economists forecast the central bank’s next
move will be an increase in borrowing costs rather than a
reduction. Policy makers will raise rates in January 2012,
according to a Nov. 22 survey of economists by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit. Two of the 18 economists forecast a rate cut,
according to the survey.  Mexico’s benchmark rate has been held at 4.5 percent since
July 2009.  Consumer Prices  The central bank said in its statement today that inflation
quickened in October mainly because of an increase in costs for
agricultural products. Inflation remains within the bank’s
forecasts because of the appreciation of the peso, the output
gap and low global inflation, the bank said.  Consumer prices  rose 0.68 percent in the first half of
November. Annual inflation was 4.32 percent, within policy
makers’ prediction of 4.25 percent to 4.75 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The bank last month cut its inflation forecast for the next
two quarters, saying the country was experiencing only moderate
wage increases and limited external pressure on prices.  Banco de Mexico predicts annual inflation will be 3.75
percent to 4.25 percent in the first quarter of 2011 and 3
percent to 4 percent in the second quarter. Growth will be 5
percent this year, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  