-- Fabio Capello Tells FIFA World Cup Voters Not to Forget England's Legacy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-26T00:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/fabio-capello-tells-fifa-world-cup-voters-not-to-forget-england-s-legacy.html
England coach  Fabio Capello  says
soccer’s governing body shouldn’t forget the sport’s history
when it comes to deciding who will host the World Cup.  FIFA’s Executive Committee will decide next week where the
2018 and 2022 tournaments are staged, and the Italian will be in
Zurich to lobby the 22 voters on behalf of his employer. England
is competing with Russia and joint bids from Spain/Portugal and
Netherlands/Belgium for the 2018 event.  England, which formalized the laws of the game almost 150
years ago, won its only World Cup in 1966, the first and last
time it hosted the event. South Africa became the first African
host of the quadrennial tournament earlier this year.  “Sometimes it’s about promoting new countries, but I also
think you have to remember the history of countries,” Capello
told reporters in London. “ England  is the home of football and
for this reason you have to sometimes consider this. It’s the
best country to host the World Cup - simple.”  England’s entourage in Zurich includes the recently engaged
second-in-line to the throne  Prince William , U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and soccer star  David Beckham . Capello believes
his reputation in the game may also be useful when it comes to
convincing FIFA’s committee members who to choose in Dec. 2’s
secret ballot.  The former Italian national team member began his career
in the sport five decades ago. He’s played and coached in the
World Cup and won European and domestic trophies as a manager
with teams including AC Milan and Real Madrid.  Fabio’s Friends    “I know a lot of people because I started to play
professionally when I was 18 and now I am 64,” Capello said.
“Now I know a lot of people. I look forward to meeting them.”  England’s bid is second-favorite at 13-8 with bookmaker
William Hill Plc behind Russia at 4-5 and Spain is 7-2. The
Netherlands/Belgium bid is the 50-1. That means a successful $8
bet on England would bring in $13 plus the original stake.  Gary Lineker , England’s No. 2 all-time record goal scorer
and broadcaster, will also be making the trip to Switzerland to
promote his nation’s cause. Like Capello he’s banking on his
relationships established over decades in the sport.  He said he’ll seek out  Michel Platini , the head of European
soccer. The two know each other well and play golf together.  “I’ll give him an extra shot if he votes for us,” joked
Lineker, scorer of 48 goals for the national team, which puts
him just behind 1966 World Cup winner  Bobby Charlton . “He plays
his cards very close to his chest so I don’t know what he’s
going to do.”  Weather Boost   England’s notoriously bad summer weather may help its
chances of hosting the tournament, he added. Lineker said the
weather at some of the previous competitions was too hot and not
conducive to attacking play. Several matches in South Africa,
the last host, were played at altitude.  “It might not be great for going to the beach but it’s
great for playing football,” he said.  Spain/Portugal bid head Miguel Angel Lopez said the group
has about eight votes. Lineker said it’s impossible to guess
which way the voters will go.  “You want to know, I want to know what they’re thinking,”
he said. “But we won’t know until next Thursday.”  The Spain/Portugal and England bids were deemed to have the
lowest risk according to a report published by FIFA technical
inspectors. England’s $722.9 million budget for the World Cup
and a warm up event a year earlier is the highest of all four
bids. It’s proposing to spend $2.5 billion on stadiums as well.  FIFA will also decide where the 2022 event is staged on
Dec. 2. The U.S., Australia, Qatar, Japan and Korea are
competing for that event. The next World Cup takes place in
Brazil in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  