-- FedEx Locates Missing Shipment of Radioactive Rods Used for CT Scanners
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-26T21:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/fedex-seeks-missing-shipment-of-radioactive-rods-used-in-ct-scan.html
FedEx Corp.  located a missing
shipment of low-level radioactive rods used by hospitals to
calibrate CT scanning equipment.  A cylinder containing the rods, which had been missing
since Nov. 23, was found at a FedEx facility in Knoxville,
Tennessee, the package’s destination city,  Sandra Munoz , a
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. The package was sent by
plane Nov. 22 from Fargo, North Dakota, Munoz said.  “It was always in our custody,” she said, hours after
Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx confirmed that it couldn’t
account for the shipment.  The cylinder was one of three, each packaged separately, in
a box that got wet, possibly during a rainstorm in Memphis,
where the shipment was transferred for the last leg of its
journey to Knoxville, Munoz said. After delivery on Nov. 23, the
box had water damage and one cylinder was missing.  FedEx retrieved the cylinder today in Knoxville, Munoz
said.  “My guess, and we are looking into this, was as they were
doing the sort, they came across a box with no label on it, they
set it aside,” Munoz said. “They knew we were looking for a
cylinder, but they never opened that box until today.”  The recovered cylinder, about 10 inches long and weighing
20 pounds, held four rods of germanium-68. They are used in CT,
or computerized tomography, scans in which X-rays from a variety
of angles produce cross-sectional images of patients’ bodies.  Total radioactivity for the rods is  684 megabecquerels , the
equivalent of about 18 microcuries, said David McIntyre, a
spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The rods
aren’t considered significant sources of radiation, according to
the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  If someone had opened the canister, “it would take like
1,000 hours of exposure to get a skin blister,” Munoz said.  She declined to identify the final destination of the
package. FedEx is the second-largest U.S. package-shipping
company after  United Parcel Service Inc .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  