-- Colin Firth's Stuttering King Aided by Eccentric Aussie Actor: Rick Warner
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/firth-s-stuttering-king-aided-by-eccentric-aussie-actor-movies.html
After Edward VIII abdicated the
British throne in 1936 to marry an American divorcee and was
succeeded by his brother, the royal family faced another
embarrassment: The new king, George VI, had a severe stutter
that made public speaking painfully difficult.  With the help of eccentric Australian speech therapist
Lionel Logue, however, he was able to overcome his handicap and
inspire his countrymen with radio speeches during World War II.  The story of the unlikely friendship between commoner and
king is told in “The King’s Speech,” a royal treat featuring
standout performances by  Colin Firth  as George VI and  Geoffrey Rush  as Logue.  Impeccably written (by David Seidler) and directed (by  Tom Hooper ), the film spotlights a significant yet little-known
chapter in U.K. history. Like “The Queen,” the acclaimed 2006
film about  Queen Elizabeth II ’s reaction to the death of
 Princess Diana , it humanizes a monarchy widely viewed as stiff
and unfeeling.  Following his best-actor nomination for “A Single Man,”
Firth could get an Oscar nod for the second straight year. His
portrayal of the insecure, speech-challenged king is an exemplar
of precise, beautifully restrained acting.  Instead of an exaggerated Porky Pig stutter, Firth gives a
realistic impression of a man who becomes practically breathless
while trying to talk, swallowing his words until they disappear
deep inside his mouth.  Tongue Twisters  Rush has the showier role, but he also tones it down to
avoid caricature. Logue was a former actor with no formal
training as a speech therapist who developed his therapeutic
techniques while treating shell-shocked World War I veterans.  Logue teaches the king breathing and jaw-strengthening
exercises, challenges him with tongue twisters and makes him
speak while listening to music. He also explores the king’s
prickly relationship with his father ( Michael Gambon ), who would
shout “Get it out!” when his son stammered.  Logue, who began treating George VI before he was king,
bonded with the monarch and his supportive wife ( Helena Bonham Carter ) by insisting on informality. He called his patient
Bertie (his family nickname), joked with him and made the king
come to his modest office rather than treating him at Buckingham
Palace.  The only weak link in the cast is  Timothy Spall , whose
 Winston Churchill  lacks the physical and dramatic heft of the
great wartime leader.  The story builds toward the king’s 1939 radio speech to his
countrymen following the outbreak of World War II. It’s a
stirring climax to one of the year’s best movies.  “ The King’s Speech ,” from the Weinstein Co., opens today
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ****  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 