-- Hungary Yields Hit Year High, Stocks Fall as Pension Grab Threatens Rating
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-26T16:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/forint-sinks-most-in-seven-weeks-bux-falls-on-hungary-pension-assets-grab.html
Hungary’s borrowing costs jumped to
the highest in more than a year while stocks and the forint fell
as plans to funnel assets from private pension funds to the
state drove investors away and raised rating-downgrade risks.  The forint slid as much as 1.4 percent, the most in seven
weeks, and traded 0.9 percent weaker at 279.67 per euro as of
4:40 p.m. in Budapest.  OTP Bank Nyrt.  and oil refiner  Mol Nyrt. 
led the BUX gauge of 12 stocks down 2.8 percent to 20,763.54,
its lowest close in almost five months.  Hungary, which received an international bailout two years
ago, plans to shift 3 trillion forint ($14 billion) of private
pension-fund savings into the state budget to help reduce the
deficit and public debt. Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA said today
investors should curb holdings of Hungarian equities. Fitch
Ratings said today it may cut the country from BBB, the second-
lowest investment grade because of the plan.  “Changes to the pension system have been received very
badly and we do not expect there will be an improvement in the
sentiment any time soon,” emerging-market strategists led by
 Shahin Vallee  at  BNP Parbias SA  in London, wrote in a report
today. “Euro-forint is approaching 280 and we expect some
further upward pressure.”  Government bonds tumbled, driving the yield on government
local-currency notes due in February 2015 up 34 basis points to
7.971 percent. The securities now yield 1.26 percentage points
more than at the end of October, heading for the biggest one-
month increase in funding costs since February 2009.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s administration gave
citizens an ultimatum on Nov. 24 to move their pension savings
from private funds or lose their public pensions.  ‘Disillusion’  “It was shocking to read that this kind of thing can
happen in this part of Europe,” said  Daniel Bebesy , who
oversees $1.5 billion at Budapest Investment Management, with as
much as 30 percent held in pension savings. “There’s a lot of
disillusion in the industry.”  Raiffeisen Centrobank AG analysts wrote in a report today
that Moody’s Investors Service is “highly likely” to downgrade
Hungary this month because of the government’s plan to
“nationalize” the pension-fund assets.  Moody’s will make a decision this month on whether to cut
Hungary’s rating from Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade,
the ratings company said in October. Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 3
maintained Hungary’s rating at BBB-, one level above junk, with
a negative outlook.  The cost of protecting Hungarian debt from non-payment with
credit-default swaps rose 19 basis points to 344 today,
according to data provider CMA. Default swaps rise as investor
perceptions of the borrower’s creditworthiness worsen.  ‘Complete Unpredictability’  Hungary is following the example of Argentina, which in
2001 confiscated pension savings before the country stopped
servicing its debt. The government in Buenos Aires nationalized
the $24 billion industry two years ago to compensate for falling
tax revenue after a 2005 debt restructuring.  “Given the complete unpredictability of the government’s
decision-making process, we have decided to recommend moving out
of Hungarian assets, with the additional risk of ratings
downgrades bearing negatively ahead in our view,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , Vienna-based head of emerging-market strategy for
Cheuvreux, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  