-- Four More Restaurants in Spain Win Their Second Michelin Star
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-11-26T09:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/four-more-restaurants-in-spain-awarded-second-michelin-star-17-get-first.html
Four more restaurants in Spain
gained a second star and 17 were awarded their first in the
Michelin guide to Spain & Portugal.  The new two-star establishments are Azurmendi, in
Larrabetzu; Miramar, in Llanca;  Ramon Freixa Madrid , in Madrid;
and Calima (H.G.  Melia Don Pepe ), in Marbella. Vila Joya, in
Albufeira, Praia de Gale, is Portugal’s only two-star venue.  Seven Spanish restaurants maintain their three-star rating:
Arzak, in San Sebastian; Martin Berasategui, in Lasarte-Oria
(Guipuzcoa); El Bulli, in Roses (Girona); Can Fabes, in Sant
Celoni (Barcelona); Sant Pau, in Sant Pol de Mar (Barcelona);
El Celler de Can Roca (Girona) and Akelare, in San Sebastian.
There are no new stars for Portugal, which doesn’t have a 
restaurant with three.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s  second-biggest tiremaker 
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and originally
intended for chauffeurs. The guide contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The guides have expanded internationally under director  Jean-Luc Naret , who will step down at the end of the year.  Michelin’s guide to France is scheduled for publication
early in March. Before that, Hong Kong & Macau is slated for
Dec. 2; the U.K. guide appears in January. The last volume to
appear, in mid-March, is “Main Cities of Europe.” That guide
covers Copenhagen, where interest centers on whether chef  Rene Redzepi ’s restaurant Noma will gain its third star.  Naret plans to step down at the end of this year.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 