-- Air France Says It Raised Speed-Sensor Concerns With Airbus Before Crash
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-26T14:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/french-investigators-to-renew-search-for-black-boxes-from-air-france-crash.html
Air France-KLM Group  repeatedly
raised concerns about airspeed sensors with Airbus SAS before
last year’s plane crash off Brazil, the airline told a Paris
judge leading a criminal probe into the disaster.  “The accident was clearly caused by things that were not
Air France’s doing,”  Fernand Garnault , a lawyer for the
airline, said in a telephone interview today. Air France
submitted a memorandum in the case to show it had taken “all
possible precautions” after a series of earlier sensor failures
of the kind implicated in the disaster, he said.  The Air France Airbus A330 plunged into the Atlantic on
June 1, 2009, en route from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, killing all
228 aboard. While a separate technical probe by France’s BEA air
accident investigation bureau has been hampered by its failure
to locate the flight data recorders, interim findings suggest
unreliable data from the  Thales SA  airspeed sensors triggered a
chain of system failures just before the crash.  In its submission, first reported by French daily newspaper
 Liberation  and confirmed by Garnault, the airline sets out its
exchanges with Airbus in the 10 months prior to the crash.  Air France told investigators it raised concerns during
that time with Airbus about similar failures of Thales sensors
in its fleet, Liberation reported. Airbus resisted its calls for
a redesign and did not respond positively to a request to switch
to an alternative model from  Goodrich Corp ., the newspaper said.  Airbus “can’t comment on a document we have not officially
received,” spokesman  Jacques Rocca  said by telephone.  Black-Box Search  The exchanges, some of which had been published previously,
are presented in the memo as evidence Air France did all it
could to address the sensor problems, Garnault said.  “This document was not produced to accuse Airbus,” he
said. The manufacturer “finds itself in the spotlight because
they were naturally the ones  Air France  turned to with the
problems.”  French Transport Minister  Thierry Mariani  yesterday gave
the go-ahead for a fourth black-box hunt to begin in February.
The BEA has spent about 30 million euros ($40 million) in the
three previous searches for the wreckage of Flight 447.  “The important thing is to do everything possible to find
the wreckage and black boxes, which are the only way that this
tragic accident might be explained,” Rocca said.  James Healy-Pratt, a London-based attorney representing
relatives of 50 crash victims, said he disputed Air France’s
assertion it did everything possible to minimize risk. Healy-
Pratt pointed to the airline’s decision before the accident not
to purchase an optional $50,000 backup system already used at
the time by other carriers, including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , to
maintain stability in the event of a multiple airspeed sensor
failure.  “Finger-pointing between the airline and manufacturers
doesn’t help the families,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 