-- FrontPoint Clients Seek $3 Billion Amid Insider Probe
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-26T18:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/frontpoint-investors-seek-to-pull-3-billion-from-hedge-funds.html
FrontPoint Partners LLC got
withdrawal requests from investors of about $3 billion for the
end of the year after a manager of its health-care funds
allegedly received insider information.  FrontPoint, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, is working
with several clients who have indicated they may rescind their
redemption requests, and as a result it expects to start next
year with $5 billion in assets, according to a letter sent to
investors today. The firm had $7.5 billion under management at
the beginning of November.  Clients pulled money after a portfolio manager at the firm
allegedly received tips about the results of  Human Genome
Sciences Inc.  trials for the drug Albuferon, according to a
person briefed on matter. Dr.  Yves Benhamou , a French doctor and
former adviser to Rockville, Maryland-based Human Genome, was
charged Nov. 2 by prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara  with insider trading and conspiracy. He
was granted $3 million bail by a New York judge on Nov. 17.  FrontPoint said on Nov. 2 it is “cooperating fully” with
federal authorities. Dr.  Chip Skowron  the co-portfolio manager
of the firm’s health-care funds who allegedly received the tips
from Benhamou, was placed on leave pending the outcome of the
probe, FrontPoint said.  The firm and Skowron haven’t been accused of wrongdoing.
 Steve Bruce , a spokesman for FrontPoint, declined to comment.  About $1.5 billion of the redemption requests were related
to the health-care funds, which FrontPoint liquidated, according
to the letter. Clients received about 97 percent of the funds’
net asset value in cash on Nov. 24.  Returns from FrontPoint’s health-care funds this year
through Nov. 19 have ranged from a gain of 6.2 percent to a loss
of 1.35 percent, according to a person familiar with the firm.  Hedge funds climbed an average of 5.4 percent this year
through October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  