-- LG, Nokia Accused of Infringing Caltech Camera Patents
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-11-26T20:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/lg-nokia-chipmakers-sued-by-caltech-in-u-s-court-for-infringing-patents.html
Nokia Oyj , LG Electronics Inc. and
chipmakers including STMicroelectronics NV were sued by the
California Institute of Technology, which said the companies’
mobile phones and components infringe its patents.  Caltech, in a complaint filed Nov. 24 in federal court in
Los Angeles, lists nine patents pertaining to camera technology
that it says Nokia and LG phones, as well as phones made by
Seoul-based  Pantech Co. , infringe. The research university,
based in Pasadena, California, seeks unspecified damages for
willful infringement.  The university last year sued six digital-camera makers,
including  Canon Inc.  and  Nikon Corp.  for infringing six patents
for pixel sensors. The inventions came from research Caltech did
for the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Also named in the Nov. 24 complaint were South Korean
chipmakers Seti Co. and Siliconfile Technologies Inc. and Tokyo-
based  Toshiba Corp.   Michael Markowitz , a U.S. spokesman for Geneva-based
STMicro, said the company doesn’t comment on litigation.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Seoul-based LG’s U.S.
electronics unit,  Laurie Armstrong , a U.S. spokeswoman for
Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, Pantech Wireless spokeswoman Erin
Magee, and Toshiba America Electronic Components spokeswoman
Rebecca Bueno didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Representatives of Seti and Siliconfile didn’t immediately
respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  The case is California Institute of Technology v.
STMicroelectronics, 10-9099, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 