-- Generali to Boost Real Estate, Asset Management in Asia and Central Europe
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-26T12:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/generali-plans-to-increase-asset-management-assets-in-asia-eastern-europe.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA , Europe’s
third-biggest insurer, plans to increase its real-estate
holdings and boost asset-management in central and eastern
Europe and Asia to raise profitability.  The insurer seeks to expand its real-estate portfolio to 30
billion euros ($40 billion) “in the medium term” from 24.2
billion euros as of Sept. 30, the Trieste, Italy-based company
said in a statement today.  “Generali will focus its new investments not only to take
advantage of the market cycle in European countries, but also to
diversify the portfolio into areas offering attractive returns
like the U.S.,” Generali said in the statement. “In China, it
will begin investing the resources generated locally by the
insurance business.”  Generali aims to boost its assets under management in Asia,
focusing on China, and in central and eastern Europe “to
enhance support for its local operations.” In China, the Hong
Kong-based joint venture with Guotai AMC will begin operations
in early 2011, Generali said.  Chief Executive Officer  Giovanni Perissinotto , who led the
purchase of 30 percent of Chinese asset manager Guotai last
year, is trying to expand in emerging markets and eastern Europe
to boost profitability following the global financial crisis.  Generali aims to triple assets managed in Asia through its
BSI private banking unit, targeting $15 billion of assets under
management by 2013 from the current $5 billion, Perissinotto
said during a speech at the company’s investor day in Venice
today. They also plan to hire staffers in Hong Kong to boost
inflow.  The insurer fell as much as 3.2 percent in Milan trading,
and was down 36 cents to 14.10 euros by 1:38 p.m., giving the
company a market value of about 22 billion euros.  The Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index  fell 3.4 percent this year, compared
with Generali’s 25 percent decline.  Generali’s third-quarter  profit  rose 13 percent to 440
million euros as earnings at its life-insurance unit increased,
the company said on Nov. 11. Generali reiterated that it expects
to report higher full-year operating margins and an increase in
net income compared with 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  