-- Spanish Bonds Head for Weekly Drop as Europe Sovereign Debt Crisis Deepens
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-26T17:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/german-government-bonds-rise-on-demand-for-refuge-ecb-tender-speculation.html
Spanish government bonds posted a
weekly drop amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will hurt
more economies, sapping demand for securities from high-deficit
nations.  The Irish yield premium over benchmark German bonds reached
a record as officials raced to complete an aid agreement for
next week. German notes rose as tension between North and South
Korea boosted demand for the safest assets. Bonds from so-called
peripheral euro-area nations headed for a weekly loss as
Financial Times Deutschland said Portugal is being pressured to
tap a European Union financial-rescue facility.  “All these countries have their specific problems, but the
market is putting them all in one basket and not making any
distinctions,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist
at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “The situation is
deteriorating by the day so the pressure is increasing. The bund
remains the safe-haven of choice.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields were at 5.21 percent as of 4:53
p.m. in London, from 4.74 percent a week ago. The price of the
4.85 percent security maturing in October 2020 was little
changed at 97.25, down from 100.81 on Nov. 19. The yield premium
over bunds widened to as much as 264 basis points today, a euro-
era record.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about whether the current
facilities will be able to help out Spain in an emergency,” de
Groot said.  The yield spread narrowed intraday after Finance Minister
 Elena Salgado  said Spain will issue less debt in the remaining
auctions for 2010 than originally planned as the financing needs
for the year are already covered.  Financial Support  The debt crisis that started a year ago in Greece has
deepened since European Union leaders on Oct. 29 agreed to
consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s demand for a crisis-
resolution mechanism that forces bondholders to share the cost
of future bailouts. Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  conceded on
Nov. 21 that the nation needed financial support, sparking
speculation other nations may follow.  European finance ministers will probably meet on the
afternoon of Nov. 28 to complete the terms of a rescue package
for Ireland, an EU official said on condition of anonymity.  Irish 10-year bonds slid today, with the yield advancing 10
basis points to 9.34 percent. The rate rose from 8.35 percent a
week ago, sending the yield premium over bunds to a euro-era
record 656 basis points today.  Reverse Exit  The European Central Bank bought Portuguese government
bonds today, according to four people with knowledge of the
transactions, after the FT Deutschland reported that Portugal is
under pressure to tap a rescue fund. An official at the office
of Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  denied the report and
German government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said it isn’t
pushing Portugal to seek aid.  The Portuguese 10-year yield fell 10 basis points to 7.14
percent, trimming the weekly increase to 18 basis points.  The difference in yield between German two-year and 10-year
securities reached the widest in more than three months amid
speculation the ECB will delay plans to scale back liquidity
support for banks. ECB Council member  Erkki Liikanen  said this
week the bank may reverse its exit from such support measures
“if required.”  The two-year German note yield fell four basis points to
0.93 percent. The yield  discount  to 10-year bonds widened six
basis points to 181 basis points, the most since Aug. 10, based
on closing prices.  Artillery Drill  Blasts heard from South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island today,
where North Korean artillery fire killed four people in a
barrage launched on Nov. 23, pushed investors towards the safest
fixed-income assets. The explosions may have been an inland
artillery drill conducted by the North, said a South Korean
defense ministry official who declined to be named, citing
government policy. No shells landed in South Korean territory,
he said.  Falling German yields are “a sign of a flight to
quality,” said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in Paris. “The market is concerned about big
problems, and I don’t think this will ease today.”  Inflation in Germany accelerated more than economists
forecast in November after food and energy prices rose.  The  inflation  rate, calculated using a harmonized European
method, increased to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent in October,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists predicted a gain to 1.4 percent, according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the month,
prices rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  