-- German Inflation Gains More Than Economists Forecast on Food, Energy Costs
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2010-11-26T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/german-inflation-gains-more-than-economists-forecast-on-food-energy-costs.html
Inflation  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, accelerated more than economists forecast in
November after food and energy prices rose.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
method, increased to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent in October,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists predicted a gain to 1.4 percent, according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the month,
prices rose 0.1 percent.  While inflation remains contained for now, Germany’s
 economy  is growing at a faster pace than its euro-area peers as
countries such as Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain grapple
with a sovereign debt crisis. That’s widening the divergences in
the 16-nation currency bloc, making it harder for the European
Central Bank to set policy suitable for all its members.  “The combination of a thriving economy and continuously
very low interest rates risks an unwanted acceleration in German
inflation,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit in
Munich. Still, “inflationary pressures remain under control so
far,” he said.  German  consumer confidence  will rise to its highest level
in more than three years in December after the economic outlook
improved and  unemployment  declined, boosting households’
willingness to spend, market research company GfK said this
week.  Food, Fuel  Business sentiment surged to its highest level in two
decades in November as a result of the brightening domestic
outlook. The economy will grow 3.7 percent this year, according
to the government’s panel of economic advisers.  “As in the previous months, the rate of price increases
was mostly due to strong rises in the price of heating oil as
well as of fruit and vegetables,” the Federal Statistics Office
said in a statement.  “Commodity prices have risen somewhat, and that has to be
kept under observation” said  Christian Lips , an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “But the inflation rate in Germany is still
rather muted and under the average level for the euro zone.”  In the euro area,  consumer prices  probably rose 1.9 percent
in November from a year earlier, according to the median of 31
economists in a survey. That would match the rate in October,
which was the fastest since November 2008. The EU statistics
office in Luxembourg will publish the data on Nov. 30.  The ECB, which aims to keep  inflation  in the euro region
just below 2 percent, on Nov. 3 left its  key interest rate  at a
record low of 1 percent. The central bank in September forecast
euro-region inflation will average about 1.6 percent this year
and around 1.7 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  