-- Iceland's Grimsson Says People Should Have Final Say on Icesave Agreement
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-26T10:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/iceland-s-grimsson-says-people-should-have-final-say-on-icesave-agreements.html
Iceland’s President  Olafur R. Grimsson  said voters should get the final say on any depositor
claims accord with the U.K. and Dutch, signalling he could be
willing to block a deal the government says may come soon.  “If the people of Iceland are being asked to pay for the
failure of a private bank, they should also have a say in the
final outcome,” Grimsson said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Mark Barton  today. “So I don’t think any deal that
is not in harmony with the Icelandic people is viable.”  Grimsson in January this year blocked a $5.2 billion deal
to cover British and Dutch depositor claims stemming from
Icesave accounts at failed Landsbanki Islands hf. The move
prompted Fitch Ratings to downgrade the island’s debt to
“junk” as a normalization of international relations grew more
remote. Iceland’s Finance Ministry on Nov. 16 said the country
may now be weeks away from a “final resolution” to the Icesave
dispute as it secures broad lawmaker backing for a new accord.  Grimsson, who said Iceland is better off than Ireland
because it let its banks fail and the krona slump, said an
Icesave deal is only possible if it enjoys the support of the
people. Following his rejection of the accord, the bill was put
to a referendum in March, where it was opposed by 93 percent of
voters.  “How far can we ask ordinary people -- farmers and
fishermen and doctors and nurses -- to shoulder the
responsibility of failed private banks?” Grimsson said. “That
question, which has been at the core of the Icesave issue, will
now be the burning issue in many European countries.”  ‘False Dawns’  Iceland’s debt is rated Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- at Standard & Poor’s, the lowest investment grades.
Moody’s said this month an Icesave accord would be positive for
the rating.  A resolution of Icesave would be “an important step
towards normalizing relations with the international financial
community,” Fitch Senior Director  Paul Rawkins  said in a Nov.
17 e-mailed reply to questions.  Still, Rawkins said he will “remain cautious” as there
have been “a number of ‘false dawns’ on Icesave.”  The government is this time targeting broader lawmaker
backing to ensure a smoother passage of a new Icesave bill. The
Independence Party, the largest opposition group, has signaled
it may give its support to the Social-Democrat, Left-Green
coalition.  Ireland, Iceland  The current draft accord reached carries a 3 percent
interest rate and gives Iceland’s government a nine-month
moratorium on paying interest, the country’s Channel 2
television station said on Nov. 15. The Finance Ministry
declined to comment on the details of any talks. The accord will
cost the government 40 billion kronur ($355 million) to 60
billion kronur, the broadcaster said. The remainder would be
covered by the value of Landsbanki assets.  “The most significant factor is that the British and the
Dutch have now recognised that the stand they took” in previous
accords “was fundamentally unfair,” Grimsson said. “Now they
have moved considerably away from that position so we will have
to see what becomes the final outcome.”  Kaupthing Bank hf, Landsbanki and Glitnir Bank hf failed
within weeks of each other in October 2008 after they were
unable to secure short-term funding. The government created new
banks out of the lenders’ domestic assets, ensuring the
liability toward international bond holders remained with the
failed commercial banks. Creditors are still owed about $85
billion. Grimsson said this model protected the state from the
kind of debts now facing the Irish government.  “The difference is that in Iceland we allowed the banks to
fail,” he said. “These were private banks and we didn’t pump
money into them in order to keep them going; the state did not
shoulder the responsibility of the failed private banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  