-- Millionaires May Thwart $166,000 U.K. Tax Raid With Avoidance, Emigration
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-11-26T11:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/millionaires-may-thwart-166-000-u-k-tax-raid-with-avoidance-emigration.html
The British government aims to
deduct an additional 106,000 pounds ($166,000) from resident
millionaires. Tax avoidance and emigration mean Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  may not see the extra money.  A British resident earning 1 million pounds a year with a
non-working spouse and two children will pay an extra 106,462
pounds more in tax in 2013 than in the 2009-2010 fiscal year,
according to a study for Bloomberg News by  Grant Thornton U.K.
LLP . Almost 80,000 pounds of this is attributable to the 50
percent top tax rate introduced this year, while the rest
relates to new government limits on pension contributions, the
withdrawal of child benefit payments and other taxes.  “The more you tax, the less revenue you get,” said  Robert Hiscox , who earned 1.1 million pounds in 2009 as chairman of
Lloyd’s of London insurer  Hiscox Ltd.  “I’m using more devices
to reduce my income and increase my capital gain. Tax avoidance
is completely legal.”  Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  have added to the
previous Labour government’s squeeze on top-rate taxpayers by
reducing pension tax breaks by four-fifths and increasing
mandatory employee social insurance contributions. They say the
measures, including the biggest cuts in welfare spending since
1945, are fair and will reduce Britain’s  budget deficit  to 2
percent by 2015 from more than 10 percent.  Tax rates in London are more punitive than in any of the
world’s other major financial centers including New York and
Hong Kong, according to a study by KPMG published in January.  London ‘Least Preferred’  “Those on the highest income are being hit hardest,” said
 Mike Warburton , a tax director at Grant Thornton, the U.K.’s
fifth-biggest accountancy firm, who helped compile the research.
“There must be a risk that entrepreneurs will decide that there
are better places to earn a living than the U.K.”  London is the “least preferred” location for directors
who have a choice,  Standard Chartered Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Sands  told London’s Times newspaper last month.
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Barclays Plc  have threatened to quit the
U.K. if a government-sponsored commission next year decides they
should separate their consumer and securities units.  There’s “not just a realistic chance of it happening, it
is happening,” said Ian Scott, regional head of financial
planning at Arbuthnot Latham, a 177-year-old private bank based
in London. “People are going. To an extent a lot of them have
already gone.”  Swiss Tax Vote  Swiss voters will decide this weekend whether to introduce
new tax rules for the nation’s top earners, risking the
country’s reputation as a low-tax refuge for well-paid and
wealthy residents.  Hedge funds including Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP
and BlueCrest Capital Management Ltd. have both opened offices
in Geneva this year.  WPP Plc , the world’s largest advertising
company, Shire Plc and United Business Media Ltd. all moved
their tax domicile to Ireland from London in 2008.  Those who stay in Britain, such as Hiscox, are choosing
other ways to avoid tax, despite the government’s efforts to
raise an extra 7 billion pounds a year within five years by
clamping down on tax evasion, which is illegal, and tax
avoidance, which isn’t.  “It’s my ambition to prove the Laffer Curve,” Hiscox, 67,
said, referring to economist  Arthur Laffer ’s 1974 theory that
tax receipts fall as governments raise taxes on the rich.
“Income at 40 percent tax is quite painful. But losing 50
percent, plus all the other taxes -- it becomes onerous and less
attractive to get income.”  Capital Gains  Hiscox plans to take more of his earnings as  capital gains ,
which are taxed at as much as 28 percent. This can be done by
choosing to invest in company share-option plans rather than
being paid in cash, according to  Patrick Stevens , a tax adviser
at Ernst & Young LLP in London.  Other techniques include moving assets to a lower tax-
paying spouse and sheltering money in Enterprise Investment
Schemes, said Arbuthnot Latham’s Scott.  EIS  encourage savers to
invest in growing U.K. companies in return for income and
capital gains tax breaks.  “The feeling of a lot people is they want to be efficient
with their tax planning, they don’t want to be aggressive,” he
said. “When markets are roaring away and people are feeling
flush they tend to go for the more esoteric offshore stuff.
People now realize the  Revenue  is playing hardball.”  Last year there were about 242,000 British millionaires,
according to the  Centre for Economics and Business Research
Ltd. , a London-based research group. That figure was less than
half the 489,000 estimated in 2007 because of the fall in
property prices during the recession, the CEBR said.  Hidden Money  Danny Alexander , chief secretary to the Treasury, said in
September he would devote 900 million pounds to help  Her
Majesty’s Revenue & Customs , the U.K. tax authority, to find
money hidden offshore and to target those seeking to avoid the
50 percent tax rate applied to those with annual incomes above
150,000 pounds.  Despite the rising tax rates, Hiscox said he’s had no plans
to move abroad since the 1970s, when the highest rate of income
tax was 83 percent.  Margaret Thatcher , who became prime minister
in 1979, lowered the rate to 60 percent. It was later lowered to
40 percent.  “It’s so funny that at the end of my career that tax is
going up, we’ve got an anti-business atmosphere and the
country’s being run incredibly badly with a huge debt,” Hiscox
said. “It’s just how it was in the ‘70s. It’s rather sad that
I’m beginning and ending in the same atmosphere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 Kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  