-- Hong Kong’s Income Partners to Start Yuan Bond Fund Next Month
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-11-26T00:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/income-partners-to-start-yuan-bond-fund-next-month-as-currency-appreciates.html
Income Partners Asset Management
(HK) Ltd. , a 17-year-old Hong Kong-based manager of Asian fixed
income-focused pools, plans to start a yuan bond fund to meet
investor demand for assets in the appreciating currency.  IP Renminbi Credit Fund will raise money from wealthy
individuals and institutions to buy mainly investment-grade yuan
bonds sold in Hong Kong, said  Emil Nguy , cofounder and managing
partner in charge of liquid credit investments at Income
Partners. It is scheduled to start trading on Dec. 16, he added.  The open-ended, long-only fund is to “provide foreign
investors a call option to play the appreciation in the yuan
with an interest yield,” Nguy said in an interview yesterday.  China is allowing greater use of its currency in global
trade and investment to cut reliance on the U.S. dollar as
money-printing by the Federal Reserve has eroded the value of
the greenback. In July, China eased restrictions on companies
buying and selling yuan in Hong Kong and on yuan deposit holders
transferring cash to buy wealth management products.  The yuan is expected to gain 6.5 percent by the end of next
year, according to the median estimate of analysts in Bloomberg
surveys. Yuan  deposits  in Hong Kong banks more than doubled to
149 billion yuan ($22.4 billion) in the six months to Sept. 30,
Hong Kong Monetary Authority figures showed. Since the July
relaxation, the value of yuan bonds sold in Hong Kong jumped 42
percent to 50 billion yuan, according to a Nov. 15 report by
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Caterpillar, McDonald’s  Caterpillar Inc. , the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, sold 1 billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong this month.
It joins China Development Corp., Asia Development Bank,
Hopewell Highway Infrastructure Ltd. and McDonald’s Corp. which
have sold yuan debt in the city.  Nguy played down concern that case-by-case regulatory
approval required for companies to reinvest the bond sale
proceeds back in China will discourage issuances. China’s
Ministry of Finance announcement this week of plans to sell 8
billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong is an indication of China’s
determination to grow the market, he said.  “Because the demand for it is so high, they can fund it
cheaper here,” said Nguy. “The demand to invest in yuan is so
high, the concern is supply.”  Income Partners has approached Bank of China International
Holdings Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, RBS and Standard Chartered Plc,
in anticipation of potential yuan bond private placements from
their top five clients with existing debt-issuance plans and
large operations in China. It is in the process of securing a
fifth banking partner, Nguy said.  Fragmented Markets  Income Partners, set up in 1993, manages about $800 million
in credit-focused long-only and hedge funds, as well as managed
accounts tailored to individual investors’ demands.  Credit investors in Asia have long been frustrated by small
and fragmented regional markets in different currencies, credit
rating systems that are in different stages of development, and
the absence of a sizeable regional pool of investors such as
pension funds, mutual funds and insurance companies, said Nguy.  The regional bond market dominated by foreign investors
suffered from their withdrawal during both the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 and the more recent global credit crisis, he
added.  “You’re starting to have the basic ingredients of a
meaningful market when China has come to a stage where it can
have A, AA kind of ratings, and one unified market that’s big
enough for primary and secondary activities to develop and have
a big enough domestic base of investors,” said Nguy.  Income Partners hired Raymond Gui to help manage the fund.
He was a former Hong Kong-based senior portfolio manager who
helped oversee fixed-income investments at  China Construction
Bank Corp. , the nation’s second-largest. He worked as a
strategist for China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange
between 2002 and 2004, aiding asset allocation of the
regulator’s investment assets, he said.  Investors in Hong Kong and Singapore have shown the
strongest interest in yuan-denominated bond funds, Nguy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  