-- India Investigating 16 Billion Rupee Loans of LIC, Unit, Official Says
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-11-26T22:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/india-investigating-16-billion-rupee-loans-of-lic-unit-official-says.html
Indian federal investigators are
probing 16 billion rupees ($349 million) of loans extended by
Life Insurance Corp. of India and  LIC Housing Finance Ltd. , said
a finance ministry official who declined to be identified.  Authorities Nov. 24 arrested  Ramachandran R. Nair , chief
executive officer of LIC Housing Finance Ltd.,  Rajesh Sharma ,
chairman of Mumbai-based securities firm Money Matters Financial
Services Ltd. and executives at three lenders. The Central
Bureau of Investigation accused Sharma of conspiring with Nair
to bribe state-run lenders’ executives in exchange for loans for
clients and confidential information.  Real estate  shares  and stocks of companies that were helped
by Money Matters to raise funds plunged as lenders began
reviewing loans to companies named by investigators in the
bribery investigation. Property developers may face higher
borrowing costs with loans being delayed, said  Parikshit Kandpal ,
a Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt.  “The probe raises a question mark on the system, one that
could possibly lead to a downgrade of Indian stocks by foreign
investors,” said Ambareesh Baliga, vice president at Mumbai-
based Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. “At the end of the day, money
comes in due to perception.”  R.N. Tayal, a manager at Bank of India, Maninder Singh
Johar, a part-time director at Central Bank of India, Venkoba
Gujjal, deputy general manager, Punjab National Bank, Sanjay
Sharma and  Suresh Gattani  of Money Matters and Naresh Chopra,
secretary investment at Life Insurance Corp. were the others
arrested by the CBI.  ‘Opposed Custody’  “All the accused have opposed custody by the CBI,” said
Anjani Kumar Singh, a lawyer representing Johar. “Our defense
will be based on the investigation report which CBI files.”  Satish Maneshinde, the lawyer for Money Matters’ Sharma and
Gattani, declined to comment. Sudipto Sil, LIC Housing Finance’s
spokesman, said he didn’t have information on Nair’s lawyer.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd.  fell 7.6 percent to 105.8 rupees
yesterday. A unit Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd. used
“partial” services of Money Matters to raise 16.5 billion
rupees in debt, Managing Director  Suren Jain  said by phone
yesterday.  “All our dealings with Money Matters are above board,”
Jain said. “Payments were made to them by checks.”  Adani Enterprises Ltd.  plunged 17 percent to 584.6 rupees.
The company was asked to submit information on dealings with
“multiple financial intermediaries including Money Matters” by
the CBI,  Devendra Amin , senior vice president, said by phone
yesterday. “The transactions have been done in complete
compliance,” he said.  Property Developers  The Bombay Stock Exchange Realty Index fell to its lowest
in 16 months on speculation banks may reduce lending to property
developers. India’s government hasn’t told banks to reduce
lending to real estate companies, Banking Secretary R. Gopalan
told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Life Insurance Corp. isn’t aware of a probe by the nation’s
federal investigators on loans extended by the insurer and its
mortgage lending unit, Chairman T.S. Vijayan said yesterday.  LIC Housing dropped 11.6 percent to 931.15 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  