-- India May Delay Lifting Curbs on Sugar Exports Until January, Sucden Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-11-26T12:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/india-may-delay-freeing-sugar-export-until-january-sucden-says.html
India, the second-biggest  sugar 
producer, is unlikely to permit free exports until January as
the government awaits a “dependable estimate” of production,
according to Sucden India Pvt.  “They won’t have a realistic estimate of the crop at least
until January,” Managing Director  Yatin Wadhwana  said today in
a phone interview from New Delhi. “It’s too early to decide
what output you may have as estimates rise and fall every day.”  A delay in ending curbs on shipments may help support a
rally that drove up raw-sugar prices in New York to near the
highest in 29 years amid concern that supplies from Brazil and
India, the top producer, may be too low to meet demand.  Futures for March delivery fell as much as 2.5 percent to
27.25 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. today. Still, prices may
advance next week on concern that India might limit shipments to
bolster domestic inventories after rains damaged its cane crop,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  The government will make a decision after getting
“dependable estimates” on output and after assessing domestic
demand, Junior Food Minister K.V. Thomas said in a statement to
parliament today. Shipments have been regulated after drought
damaged crops last season.  Production  in Maharashtra, India’s biggest producer, fell
29 percent in the season that began Oct. 1 after heavy rainfall
in the main growing areas slowed harvests, the  Maharashtra State
Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd.  Managing Director
 Prakash Naiknavare  said on Nov. 22.  India may probably produce 23.27 million tons, 8.7 percent
less than predicted by industry groups, according to data from
farmers interviewed by SGS SA for Bloomberg News. Output may be
24.5 million tons, Thomas told lawmakers Nov. 19.  Crushing Delayed  A late start to the cane-crushing season is unlikely to
affect the overall output, the Press Trust of India cited Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  as saying. Mills make up for the deficit
in the “course of time,” he told lawmakers in a statement.  “Our experience suggest that more rain tends to improve
cane yields,” Sucden’s Wadhwana said. “With sunny weather,
recovery will also improve and I don’t see any reason to change
our estimate of production.”  Sucden expects production of 25.8 million tons and exports
of about 2 million to 3 million tons in the year to Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  