-- Iraq, Shell Draft Agreement on Tapping Flared Gas Ready Within One Week
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-11-26T14:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/iraq-shell-draft-agreement-on-tapping-flared-gas-ready-within-one-week.html
The final draft of a $12.5 billion
agreement between Iraq and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Mitsubishi
Corp.  for the capture of burned off natural gas at southern
oilfields will be ready within one week, an Iraqi official said.  The two parties agreed on the final details in the draft
agreement during a “recent meeting in Istanbul,” Iraqi Deputy
Oil Minister Ahmed al-Shamma told reporters today in Basra.  The agreement will be signed by the end of January, Ali
Hussain Khudair, the director-general of Iraq’s South Gas Co.,
said yesterday.  The government gave initial approval in June for the
creation of a joint venture with Shell and Mitsubishi to be
called Basra Gas Co. The venture would be owned 51 percent by
state-run South Gas Co., with Shell holding 44 percent and
Mitsubishi the remaining 5 percent.  Once the agreement is signed, it will be referred for
approval to the Iraqi Council of Ministers, Khudair said.  The project involves capturing gas initially from the
oilfields of Rumaila, being developed by BP Plc and  China
National Petroleum Corp. , Zubair developed by  Eni SpA ,
Occidental Petroleum Corp. and  Korea Gas Corp , and West Qurna 1
by  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Shell, Shamma said.  Majnoon, developed by Shell and Petroliam Nasional Bhd of
Malaysia may be included “later,” he said.  Associated Gas  Most of Iraq’s associated gas, which is pumped in
conjunction with crude oil, is flared. The country burns more
than 1 billion cubic feet of gas a day, or 10.3 billion cubic
meters a year. Shell plans eventually to capture and sell about
700 million cubic feet of gas a day in southern Iraq.  While Iraq generates most of its revenue from oil sales,
the government wants to produce gas as fuel for power plants,
which haven’t been able to meet demand. Iraq is seeking to
develop its gas reserves to help generate power and for export.
The country awarded licenses last month in its first auction of
gas concessions since the U.S.-led invasion that ousted Saddam
Hussein in 2003.  Iraq wants foreign investors to help it increase production
of both oil and gas to stimulate a recovery after years of
conflict and economic sanctions. Iraq has the world’s fifth-
largest oil reserves, excluding oil in its northern Kurdish
territory, and its gas reserves rank fifth in size in the Middle
East, according to data from BP Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  