-- Ireland Seeks EU Aid Agreement Before Markets Open
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-27T19:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ireland-races-to-secure-weekend-aid-deal-amid-bank-debt-concern.html
Ireland is in the final stages of
negotiating an international bailout for its banks before
markets open on Monday as workers march to protest budget cuts.  Euro region finance ministers may seal an agreement with
Ireland tomorrow at a meeting slated to start at 1 p.m. in
Brussels, European Union officials said on condition of
anonymity. Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  estimates it may amount to
85 billion euros ($112 billion.)  Irish police estimate 20,000 people took to the streets of
Dublin as bailout talks focus on the interest rate charged to
Ireland and the fate of senior bondholders. A finance ministry
spokesman said the rate will be “sustainable” after state
broadcaster RTE reported that nine-year loans from the EU and
the International Monetary Fund may cost as much as 6.7 percent.  “This is the result of allowing speculators, bankers and
developers to run riot, pillaging and ruining our economy,”
said  Jack O’Connor , head of the Irish Congress of Trade Unions,
in a statement.  The need for a pact is intensifying as capital flows out of
Irish banks. The government in 2008 told senior bondholders they
wouldn’t lose their money if banks failed. The risk now is that
breaking the pledge may spark a rout in other euro-region debt.  “One possible scenario is that the financial package for
Ireland could include an element of restructuring affecting
senior debt,” Fitch Ratings said in a statement yesterday.
“Fitch has no visibility of this matter but notes that such a
restructuring could have wider implications for the euro area.”  Burning Bondholders?  Ireland’s woes are having domestic political repercussions. Cowen ’s party yesterday lost a special election for a vacant
parliamentary seat to a Sinn Fein candidate who said he wanted
to “burn” holders of bank debt.  Ireland’s loans will probably come from the IMF, the
European Commission and the European Financial Stability
Facility. The IMF rate will be the cheapest and the rate from
the EFSF, which provides most of the funds, will be the most
expensive,  RTE said .  The average rate on three-year loans will be around 5.5
percent, the Irish Times said, citing an unidentified person
familiar with the negotiations. Greece was charged around 5
percent by the EU for three-year loans when in May. The IMF
charged around 3.4 percent for most of its portion.  “The government in my view needs to play hardball,”  Leo Varadkar , a spokesman for the opposition Fine Gael party, said
on RTE.  Bond Selloff  Allied Irish Banks Plc and Bank of Ireland Plc bonds fell
yesterday on concern the government will abandon a pledge to
protect senior bondholders and force them to share the bailout
costs. EU and IMF officials are taking legal advice on how
senior bondholders can share the cost of the rescue without
triggering lawsuits, the Irish Times said yesterday, without
saying where it got the information.  While deposit outflows have “stabilized” in recent weeks,
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Chairman  Alan Dukes  told Bloomberg
Television two days ago that the nationalized lender lost about
12 billion euros of deposits this year and that “other banks
are having similar problems.” Anglo Irish yesterday had its
long-term counterparty credit rating cut to below investment
grade by Standard & Poor’s, which cited concerns about sovereign
support for the bank.  Contagion Risk  Deposits at Allied Irish and Bank of Ireland have fallen by
a combined 22 billion euros since the end of June, according to
estimates from  Emer Lang , an analyst at Dublin-based securities
firm Davy.  Ireland’s crisis is now forcing Portuguese and Spanish
politicians to quell speculation that they are next in line for
rescue. The average yield investors demand to hold 10-year debt
from Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy yesterday
reached a euro-area record of 7.57 percent. By contrast, Germany
pays 2.73 percent.  Portugal and Germany yesterday denied a report in the
Financial Times Deutschland that Portugal is being forced to
seek aid. The country’s parliament yesterday approved the
government’s 2011 budget proposals, which include the deepest
spending cuts in more than three decades. The European Central
Bank bought the country’s bonds yesterday, according to people
familiar with the transactions.  In Spain, Prime Minister  Jose Luis Zapatero  told Catalan
radio RAC1 that investors who are “short” on Spain “are going
to be wrong and will go against their own interests.” Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  said that Spain will issue less debt at
the remaining auctions of 2010 because the nation’s financing
needs for this year are already covered.  “The sovereign debt crisis has gone from third to fifth
gear in just a matter of days,” said  Kathleen Brooks , research
director at Gain Capital Group LLC in London. “Whereas the
Greek crisis and the start of the Irish crisis were concerned
with individual sovereigns and their problems, the current
chapter of Europe’s sovereign woes has turned into a periphery-
wide issue where no one is safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net 
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  