-- Ireland's Relief Proves Fleeting as `Day of Reckoning' Nears: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-26T15:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ireland-s-relief-proves-fleeting-as-day-of-reckoning-nears-euro-credit.html
Borrowing costs  for Europe’s most
indebted nations are at record highs as Ireland’s capitulation
in accepting a bailout of its banking industry stokes concern
that other countries also will have to seek aid.  The average yield for 10-year debt from Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, Spain and Italy reached 7.57 percent today, a euro-
era record. The average premium investors demand to hold those
securities instead of German bunds widened to as much as 492
basis points, the highest level of 2010. The average cost of
 insuring  against default by the five nations using credit-
default swaps reached a record 517 basis points on Nov. 23.  “It’s no longer taboo to speak about a restructuring,”
said  Johannes Jooste , a portfolio strategist at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management in London, which
oversees about $1.4 trillion for clients. “The fact that bond
yields continue to rise and put pressure on countries that have
to fund from the market makes investors less and less confident,
and it’s bringing forward the day of reckoning.”  The Nov. 22 relief rally after Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  conceded that the nation needed financial support proved
transient. Irish 10-year bond yields fell 4 basis points, before
jumping 104 basis points as of 3:13 p.m. in London today,
exceeding 9 percent for the first time since 1995. The euro’s
respite was more fleeting; the bailout inspired a 0.8 percent
gain for the currency before it slumped to a two-month low. It
fell 0.9 percent to $1.3247 today.  Volatile Market  “When Ireland accepted help, the general feeling in the
market was that this could restore some calm; that hasn’t been
the case,” said  Michiel de Bruin , who oversees about $35
billion as head of European government debt at F&C Netherlands
in Amsterdam. “Authorities should be doing their utmost to calm
the situation.”  Analysts at Morgan Stanley said in a Nov. 11 report that
any move by Ireland to use the European Financial Stability
Facility would boost the euro and be a “circuit breaker” for
the European sovereign debt crisis. While Ireland has enough
money to pay its debts until the middle of next year, it has
requested a bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund amid concern the cost of rescuing its banks would
overwhelm government finances.  Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos 
said in an interview published today that EU governments can’t
impose a bailout on his country.  A majority of euro region officials and the European
Central Bank are putting pressure on Portugal to accept aid that
helps stop contagion spreading to Spain, the Financial Times
Deutschland reported today. German government spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said the nation isn’t pushing Portugal to seek aid. An
official at the office of Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  also denied the report.  Greek Kickoff  The most recent leg of the debt crisis that started a year
ago in Greece kicked off after EU leaders agreed Oct. 29 to
consider German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s demand for a crisis-
resolution mechanism that forces bondholders to share the cost
of future bailouts.  The average yield of 10-year bonds from Greece, Ireland,
Portugal, Spain and Italy rose to 7.49 percent today from 5.93
percent a month ago. The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  of European
shares fell almost 7.8 percent in the past month.  Adding to the pressure is the ECB’s push to scale back
liquidity support for banks.  “This tough stance is reigniting a euro debt crisis,”
 Greg Gibbs , a Sydney-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, wrote in a research report dated Nov. 23.
“The recent problems in Europe may relate to fears that weak
banks in the periphery will lose access to cheap funding from
the ECB, and their deteriorating position will in turn put more
pressure on the sovereigns.”  European Fund  Greece agreed to a 110 billion-euro ($145 billion) rescue
program in April before the creation of the 750 billion-euro
European Financial Stability Facility in May as a backstop for
the common currency. Cowen said this week a bailout of 85
billion euros had been discussed for Ireland.  Policy makers must head off a “spreading disaster” in the
euro region, said  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co.
“The comforting statements issued by European ministers in
recent days must be urgently translated into meaningful
actions,” he wrote earlier this week in an article for the
Financial Times.  Analysts also say more needs to be done. Portugal should
request preemptive steps to stem the widening yield spreads
between high-deficit nations’ debt and German bunds, according
to WestLB AG.  ‘Huge Haircuts’  Bondholders of European banks need to accept “huge
haircuts” on their assets, said currency-trading firm FXPro.
Germany may pull out of the euro to allow the currency to
devalue, wrote  Graham Turner , chief economist at GFC Economics,
a London-based consulting firm.  “Time is of the essence,” a team of London-based analysts
at Nomura International Plc led by  Nick Firoozye  wrote in a Nov.
24 investor note. “The continued confusing political rhetoric
is driving investors out of Europe. Once the euro area issuance
cycle gets under way in 2011, unless many of the issues
surrounding collective action clauses, crisis resolution
mechanisms and their timing have been resolved, policy makers
could lose the battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  