-- Rio, BHP May Increase Iron Ore Quarterly Contracts By 7%, MB Index Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-26T06:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/iron-ore-quarterly-contract-price-may-rise-about-7-index-shows.html
Rio Tinto Group  and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. , the world’s second- and third-largest iron ore exporters,
may raise contract prices about 7 percent in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Metal Bulletin pricing.  Quarterly prices are based on the three-month average of
indexes provided by Metal Bulletin, Platts and the Steel Index
with a one-month lag period. The price of 62 percent iron ore
arriving at Qingdao port averaged $145.95 a metric ton,
including shipping, from Sept. 1 to Nov. 25, compared with
$136.51 in the previous three months, according to  Metal
Bulletin .  Rio, BHP and Rio De Janeiro-based Vale SA, the biggest iron
ore supplier, abandoned annual pricing this year in favor of
quarterly agreements as spot prices rose. Steelmakers in China,
the world’s biggest iron ore buyer, need to raise prices to pass
on higher raw-material costs as demand slows in winter.  “Steelmakers will face pressure from higher costs and
eroding profits in the first quarter,”  Xu Xiangchun , chief
analyst with Mysteel Research Institute, said in an interview.
“Winter is a slow season for steel consumption as construction
work in northern China normally will be suspended.”  Gervase Green , a spokesman for Rio’s iron ore unit,
declined to comment when contacted today.  Amanda Buckley , a
spokeswoman for BHP, weren’t available.  BHP gained 0.3 percent to close at A$43.20, and Rio was up
1.2 percent at A$84.04 on the Australian stock exchange. Baoshan
Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest listed steelmaker, fell 0.9
percent to 6.42 yuan as of 2:02 p.m. local time in Shanghai.  Contract iron ore prices almost doubled in the April
quarter and gained more than 20 percent in the July-to-September
period before falling 13 percent in the following three months.  Steel Index Price  First-quarter prices may increase about 7.7 percent,
according to data compiled by the  Steel Index , which tracks 62
percent-iron content ore arriving at China’s Tianjin Port. The
average price has risen to $149.081 a ton for the period from
Sept. 1 through Nov. 25, compared with $138.377 in the previous
three months.  Most Chinese customers use Platts indexes as a price guide,
according to  Jose Carlos Martins , Vale’s executive director of
iron ore.  Steel prices in China have risen as much as 14 percent from
July after the government limited power supplies to mills and
also because of expectations that inflation may quicken.  The People’s Bank of China said yesterday it will
strengthen liquidity management and “normalize” monetary
conditions, reinforcing forecasts for higher interest rates to
tame inflation. China has raised rates, told banks to hold more
funds in reserve and pledged price controls if needed.  -- Helen Yuan , with assistance from  Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne.
Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Alan Soughley   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 