-- Lithuania Revises Economic Growth Higher on Rising Construction Output
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-11-26T10:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/lithuania-revises-economic-growth-higher-on-rising-construction-output.html
The Lithuanian economy expanded at a
faster rate in the third quarter than previously estimated as
construction output grew for the first time in almost two years,
revised data showed.  Gross domestic product  grew 1.1 percent, compared with a
preliminary estimate of 0.6 percent released on Oct. 28, the
Vilnius-based  statistics office  said in an e-mailed statement
today. The growth rate was unchanged from the previous quarter.  The Baltic nation sustained the pace of recovery in the
third quarter as the economy emerges from the European Union’s
second-deepest recession of 14.7 percent last year. The
government is counting on  exports  to support expansion as
domestic spending remains fragile.  “The majority of industries moved into positive territory
in the third quarter and if it hadn’t been for the poor
agriculture performance, the economy would have expanded at
twice the rate.”  Vilija Tauraite , an economist with SEB Bank in
Vilnius, said today.  The value created in agriculture, which accounts for a
bigger share of GDP in the third quarter than in other periods,
fell 10.5 percent in year.  The yield on Lithuania’s 10-year bond rose 0.04 percentage
point to 5.65 percent today.  Construction, Transport  On the quarter,  output grew  a seasonally adjusted 0.6
percent, compared with a preliminary estimate of 0.1 percent,
the statistics office reported. The value created by the
construction industry grew 6.4 percent in the third quarter from
the same period last year, the statistics office said.  “Revised construction and transport figures led to GDP
growth being faster than previously estimated,” the statistics
office said. “The construction sector grew for the first time
after contracting for seven consecutive quarters.”  The construction, the worst-hit industry during the
economic crisis after contracting about 50 percent last year, is
recovering from “very low levels,” Tauraite said. “We’ve been
waiting for a positive figure for a while now. The increase is
nothing close to a boom but it’s no longer a dead silence
either.”  Exports, which make up about 65 percent of total economic
output, grew 9.9 percent in the third quarter from the previous
three-month period.  Industrial output , representing about 20
percent of the economy, increased an annual 7.8 percent in the
third quarter, compared with a 4.5 percent gain in the second.  Household Spending  The decline in household spending slowed to a 0.9 percent
rate in the third quarter compared with an 8.2 percent drop in
the previous three month. Public sector expenditures shrank 2.4
percent, compared with 1.7 percent decline in the second
quarter. Gross fixed-capital formation grew an annual 15
percent, marking the first increase in 11 quarters.  “Companies are starting to have the courage to invest in
equipment and machinery to increase efficiency,” Tauraite said.
“That’s good news.”  The government forecasts the economy will expand 1.6
percent this year. Neighboring Latvia grew 2.7 percent in the
third quarter, while Estonia expanded at a 4.7 percent rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  