-- Ivory Coast’s Election May Inflame Political Tensions
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-11-26T13:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ivory-coast-presidential-election-threatens-to-inflame-political-tensions.html
Ivory Coast’s  run-off presidential
election on Nov. 28 threatens to inflame political tensions in
the divided nation, pitting a candidate backed by the rebel-held
north against the incumbent who draws support from the south.  President  Laurent Gbagbo , who has ruled the world’s largest
cocoa grower for a decade, received 38 percent of the first-
round vote on Oct. 31, winning 10 of 13 regions in the south.
 Alassane Ouattara , a former prime minister, got 32 percent of
the ballot and dominated in five of six northern regions. A
third candidate,  Henri Konan Bedie , got 25 percent of the vote.  Both Gbagbo, 65, and Ouattara, 68, “have extremists in
their ranks and there is no guarantee that the loser will accept
the results,” said Dominique Assale Aka, vice-chairman of the
Ivorian Civil Society Convention. “It’s all or nothing for
them.”  Gbagbo’s supporters hold Ouattara responsible for a 2002
revolt that split the country; a charge he denies. The rebels
say they attempted to seize power because northerners were
treated as second-class citizens. Growth has averaged 1.1
percent in the eight years since the conflict started as the
cocoa-dependent country missed out on the wave of foreign
investment in Africa from nations such as China.  “One thing these elections have shown, especially in terms
of voting patterns, is that the country is still divided along
regional and ethnic lines,” said Rolake Akinola, West Africa
analyst with Eurasia Group.  ‘Threatening Tone’  The candidates have stepped up negative campaign rhetoric
in the week before the vote, with the Atlanta-based Carter
Center, a non-governmental organization that observed the first
round, urging candidates in a statement on Nov. 24 to halt
“personal attacks made in a threatening tone.”  Voting will start at 7 a.m. and finish at 5 p.m., said Baba
Coulibaly, a spokesman for the electoral commission. He said
attempts would be made to release results faster than the three
days the commission took in the first round, though he declined
to give a specific timeframe.  During a televised debate yesterday, both candidates
pledged to respect the results once they are announced by the
electoral commission. Gbagbo said he would impose a curfew from
10 p.m. on election day to reduce the risk of violence.  Boosting development might be the best way to avoid a
future of ethnic tensions, Akinola said.  Living in Poverty  The percentage of Ivory Coast’s 21 million people living in
poverty rose to 49 percent in 2008 from 38 percent in 2002,
according to a United Nations survey.  The situation is worse in the north, the International
Monetary Fund said in a  report  in 2008. The Fund said annual
income per capita in the North was 191,540 CFA francs ($390) and
281,660 francs in the Center-North, compared with 348,247 francs
in the South-West.  “The promise of infrastructural development and economic
opportunities for the population has to be fulfilled in order to
keep ethnic tensions at bay in the longer-term,” said Akinola.  Ivory Coast, which neighbors Africa’s second-biggest gold
producer Ghana, is in talks with companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  and  ArcelorMittal  over investment projects, Mines
and Energy Minister  Augustin Comoe  said Oct. 5. Channel Islands-
based  Randgold Resources Ltd.  poured its  first gold  from its
Tongon mine in the country on Nov. 8, the company said.  During the televised debate, Gbagbo said Ivory Coast should
cooperate with Liberia and Guinea to mine natural resources,
while aiming to double cocoa production within 20 years.
Ouattara said he wanted to reduce taxes to attract investors and
reduce tax evasion.  Oil Exploration  The country may attract oil companies keen to join in
exploration off the West African coast, said  Sebastian Spio- Garbrah , frontier markets analyst at New York-based DaMina
Advisors.  Ghana’s Jubilee oil field, discovered in 2007 and set to
start production next month, is close to the maritime border
with Ivory Coast. Western neighbor Liberia has given approval to
California-based Chevron Corp. for a 70 percent interest in
three deepwater concessions, the company said on Sept. 8.  Ivory Coast’s political conflict has revolved around the
issue of nationality since Ouattara was barred from
participating in the 1995 presidential elections on the grounds
that he is not Ivorian. Millions of Ivorians, especially in the
north, have parents who come from neighboring Burkina Faso and
Mali.  Nation Building  Dealing with the issue of identity “is going to have to be
a nation-building project by the newly elected government,”
said Eurasia’s Akinola.  A pledge by Bedie to support Ouattara in the second round
is not a guarantee of votes for the former deputy director of
the International Monetary Fund, Akinola said. “It is doubtful
that Bedie’s own supporters accept Ouattara as being fully
Ivorian,” she said in an e-mail on Nov. 19.  While the United Nations said the Oct. 31 election was seen
as free of any rights abuses, the European Union said they were
barred by the country’s electoral commission from observing
preparations for the runoff. Fighting between supporters of the
two candidates broke out in Abidjan on Nov. 19, police said.  “The only way forward for Ivory Coast is finding a
solution for the citizenship issue,” said  Abu Bakarr Bah ,
associate professor of sociology at Northern Illinois
University, in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 