-- Mizuho Expects More Japan Corporate Bond Gains as BOJ Action Lifts Market
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-11-26T01:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/mizuho-expects-bbb-japan-corporate-bond-gains-ahead-of-central-bank-action.html
Japanese company notes rated the
lowest investment grades may still offer value even as a Bank
of Japan bond-purchase program designed to support the economy
drives down yields, Mizuho Asset Management Co. said.  The investment arm of Japan’s third-biggest bank plans to
target BBB rated corporate bonds with tenors of less than three
years, before the first bond purchases by the central bank under
its latest program scheduled to start Dec. 3.  “Notes with maturities of less than three years are a good
buy,”  Hiroshi Nakamura , who helps manage about 900 billion yen
($10.7 billion) of fixed-income assets at Mizuho’s asset
management unit in Tokyo, said in an interview. “We are looking
for bonds that the BOJ may purchase in the future” if the price
is attractive.  The central bank said last month it would buy as much as
500 billion yen of corporate debt rated BBB or higher to allow
more companies to benefit from its stimulus programs. The BOJ is
trying to aid an economy that’s feeling the pain of deflation
after the yen climbed to a 15-year high Oct. 29, threatening
earnings at exporters leading the nation’s recovery from its
deepest postwar recession.  “Ahead of the start of BOJ’s corporate bond purchase, the
effect of the ‘comprehensive easing policy’ has materialized,”
Toshiyasu Ohashi, head of credit research at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. wrote in a Nov. 22 note to clients.  Yields on Japan’s BBB rated bonds have fallen 1.5 basis
points to 0.88 percent since the central bank’s plans were
reported Oct. 23, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. The index includes bonds with remaining tenors from a
year to 15 years, the data show.  Shorter Maturities  Yield declines have been more pronounced for shorter-dated
securities. Yields on railway operator  Kintetsu Corp. ’s
1.65 percent notes due September 2012 have fallen 11 basis
points to a record low of 0.49 percent over the same period,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices. The
company is rated  BBB  by  Rating and Investment Information Inc .  “Even spreads on credit with current concerns on the
performance, such as  Taiheiyo Cement Corp . and  Elpida Memory
Inc ., are tightening,”  Fumihito Gotoh , head of Japan credit
research at UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, wrote in a note
to clients on Nov. 24.  The yield on  Elpida Memory ’s 2.1 percent notes due
November 2012 has fallen 50 basis points to 1.16 percent since
Oct. 23, JSDA prices on Bloomberg show. Elpida, the Japanese
chipmaker bailed out by the government last year, is rated BBB
by Japan Credit Rating Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 