-- Kuwait Expects Faster Economic Growth, Lower Inflation, Sheikh Salem Says
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-11-26T13:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/kuwait-expects-faster-economic-growth-lower-inflation-sheikh-salem-says.html
Kuwait’s central bank expects
inflation to slow next year and foresees the economy returning
to growth, Governor  Sheikh Salem  Abdul Aziz Al-Sabah said.  “For 2011 we expect between 3 and 4 percent and for this
year I can say almost zero” growth,  Sheikh Salem  said in an
interview in Beirut, Lebanon today. Inflation will be 4 percent
by the end of this year and “slightly lower” in 2011, he said.  Sheikh Salem  said in March that the economy of Kuwait,
which produces about 2.3 million barrels of oil a day, may
expand by as much as 5 percent this year as it recovers from a
contraction caused by the global financial crisis.  Oil, the main source of Kuwait’s revenue, is “not in the
state’s hand and we can’t control this,” Sheikh Salem said.
Excluding oil, the country’s output grew about 6 percent last
year and will achieve a similar rate this year, he said.  Crude prices, which fell to a low of $34 a barrel in
December 2008, have averaged about $79 this year. Oil is trading
at about $83 a barrel today.  The Persian Gulf country’s inflation rate declined to 5.1
percent in October from 5.3 percent a month earlier, the state-
run KUNA news agency reported on Nov. 23.  The International Monetary Fund  expects Kuwait’s economy to
grow 2.3 percent this year and 4.4 percent in 2011, according to
figures on its  website . The IMF estimates Kuwait’s inflation
will be 4.1 percent in 2010 and 3.6 percent next year.  Bank Confidence  Kuwait doesn’t expect its economy to be affected by
contagion from the European Union’s debt crisis and there is no
concern over the risk of a weak dollar, Sheikh Salem said. He
said he is “very confident” about Kuwaiti banks, which he said
had the highest earnings among lenders of the Persian Gulf
countries through the third quarter of this year.  “Kuwaiti banks have put together a very good and
sufficient level of provisions not only for bad loans but also
as precautionary measures,” Sheikh Salem said, adding that he
expected the ratio of provisions to decline.  Kuwait’s macroeconomic indicators are “excellent,” with a
budget in surplus and a current account surplus exceeding 30
percent of economic output, he said.  The central bank has about 5.7 billion dinars ($20.2
billion) in foreign currency reserves excluding gold as of Nov.
24, Sheikh Salem said. He declined to provide a value for the
country’s holdings of gold. Kuwait had reserves excluding gold
worth $19.1 billion as of the end of September, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  