-- NFL Players' Union Leader Says Lockout `Near Certainty' for Next Season
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-11-26T10:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/nfl-s-union-leader-says-lockout-near-certainty-next-season.html
The executive director of the
 National Football League players union  said a player
lockout next season is a “near certainty,” and that it
would cost the U.S. economy an estimated $5 billion in lost
wages, taxes and other revenue if the entire season is
canceled.  In an interview on  “Political Capital With Al Hunt” 
airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television, union chief
DeMaurice Smith said if NFL owners lock out players in
order to get concessions in a labor dispute, it would be
devastating to local communities as the country struggles
with a 9.6 percent  unemployment rate .  “The magnitude of the loss would be at the very least
about $160 million to $170 million per team-city,” Smith
said. “That is a conservative estimate of the economic
impact.”  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  challenged Smith’s numbers,
saying they came from union projections rather than a
government agency, investment bank or noted economist.  “It is a series of numbers pulled from thin air in a
misguided attempt to inject politics into the collective
bargaining process,” Aiello said in an e-mail. “There is
a fair deal to be done and soon if the union will bargain
with the same fervor it displays in creating economic fairy
tales.”  Owners Vote  NFL owners  voted unanimously in May 2008 to opt out of
their labor contract with the players at the end of this
season -- two years early. The players were satisfied with
the agreement and wanted to complete the contract.  The 32-team league says NFL stadiums are getting more
expensive to build and operate, and has asked the players
to reduce the pool of money used to calculate their
salaries by $1 billion, according to the players.  The union  has asked the league to prove it needs the
money by opening its books. The league has declined the
request.  “The owners have told us that no team is losing
money,” Smith said. “The owners have told us that no team
is facing economic peril. They haven’t even told us that
teams have a smaller amount of profits this year.”  If the league wants to sign a new labor contract by
the end of the year, there needs to be “a substantial
increase in the amount of economic information that’s
turned over,” Smith said.  Other issues being negotiated include: the amount of
money paid to rookies, extending the 16-game regular season
schedule by two games, health coverage and drug-testing
requirements, according to the union.  Health Care  Smith said about 1,900 players will lose their health-
care coverage if players are locked out when the labor
contract ends in March.  He said the union estimates there will be about 300
expectant mothers and an unspecified number of children
awaiting heart transplants and kidney dialysis at that
time.  Aiello said a lockout triggers rights under the COBRA
federal law that allows employees to continue their
existing health insurance coverage without interruption
either at their expense or the union’s.  “This means that no player or family member would
experience any change in coverage for so much as a single
day because of a work stoppage,” Aiello said.  Smith says if the labor dispute comes down to a
lockout, the NFL has financial leverage.  The league negotiated agreements with broadcast
networks  News Corp. ’s Fox,  CBS Corp. ,  General Electric
Co. ’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN and  DirecTV  that will pay
the NFL about $4 billion in television revenue whether
games are played or not.  Lockout Fund  The union has saved about $200 million in a lockout
fund, Smith said.  “We know they have an economic leverage over us,”
Smith said. “Those TV contracts … (are) a huge economic
hammer that hangs over the players.  “But when it does come to leverage, about
understanding the necessity of sacrifice, teamwork, our
players believe they are this game. I believe that we have
a tremendous amount of leverage.”  Much of that leverage comes from the game’s popularity
and the fame of the players. The union also reached out to
political leaders and other unions before the current
season to argue that a lockout isn’t just bad for the NFL,
it’s bad for America.  League Statement  The NFL on Nov. 23 responded with a statement that
attacked the union for wasting Congress’s time on the
league’s labor negotiations when the nation’s leaders could
be working on more serious issues.  “The union’s request for state and local political
leaders to intercede in the negotiations ignores and
denigrates the serious and far more substantial problems
that those leaders, and that state and local workers across
the country face,” the statement said. “We can resolve
our own issues as we have done many times in the past.”  The NFL has had labor peace since work stoppages
during the 1982 and 1987 seasons.  The league, which has a political action committee,
has contacted members of Congress regarding the current
labor dispute and Commissioner  Roger Goodell  recently went
to the White House, where he met with officials including
 Peter Rouse , the interim chief of staff, and  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama , Aiello
said.  Goodell’s mission was to “just update and cover the
basic issues and keep the lines of communication open,”
Aiello said.  Playing Defense  He also said the NFL is simply playing defense through
such visits. He e-mailed a comment NFL Vice President of
Government Relations Jeff Miller made to the Associated
Press.  “If they’re spending a lot of time on Capitol Hill
trying to encourage Congress to engage in our collective
bargaining negotiations, we can’t just abdicate the playing
field,” Miller told AP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  