-- Obama Gets 12 Stitches in Lip After Basketball Mishap
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-11-27T23:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/obama-gets-12-stitches-after-being-elbowed-in-lip-during-basketball-game.html
President  Barack Obama  got 12
stitches in his lip after being hit by an elbow yesterday during
a basketball game with friends and family members.  Obama returned to a basketball court again today, this time
as a spectator, for a game between Oregon State University and
Howard University in Washington. First Lady Michelle Obama’s
brother,  Craig Robinson , is the coach of Oregon State’s team.  The stitches didn’t prevent the president from greeting
other fans at Howard’s Burr Gymnasium or eating popcorn. He left
with several minutes left to play in the game, in which Oregon
State defeated Howard 84-74.  Obama played basketball for about 90 minutes at a gym at
Fort McNair in Washington yesterday. The injury to the
president’s lip occurred in the fifth of five games when Rey
Decerega, director of programs for the  Congressional Hispanic
Caucus Institute , turned to take a shot and elbowed Obama in the
mouth.  “I learned today the president is both a tough competitor
and a good sport,” Decerega said in a statement released by the
White House yesterday. “I enjoyed playing basketball with him
this morning. I’m sure he’ll be back out on the court again
soon.”  Also playing were Obama’s personal aide,  Reggie Love , 29, a
former college basketball player at Duke University; Education
Secretary  Arne Duncan , 46, who played in college on the Harvard
University team and professionally in Australia; and family
members and friends in Washington for Thanksgiving, according to
the White House statement.  Smaller Scar  Obama was treated by the White House medical unit,
administration spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said in a statement.
Doctors used a smaller filament, which increases the number of
stitches but makes a tighter stitch and results in a smaller
scar, according to an e-mailed White House statement.  Obama, 49, received a local anesthetic for the stitches,
the statement said.  Obama played basketball regularly during the 2008
presidential campaign and had a basketball court installed on
the South Lawn of the White House. In addition to playing at
Fort McNair, he plays at other local sites, including the
Interior Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  