-- Crude Oil Drops From One-Week High on European Debt Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-26T13:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/oil-drops-from-near-a-one-week-high-on-concern-ireland-crisis-may-spread.html
Oil fell from near a one-week high
in London amid concern that Ireland’s debt crisis will spread to
Portugal and Spain, limiting economic growth and diminishing
fuel demand.  Brent futures slipped as the euro dropped to a two-month
low against the dollar, curbing investor demand for commodities
priced in the U.S. currency. North Korea’s state news agency
warned its confrontation with South Korea could lead to war,
sending equities lower. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  headed
toward its biggest loss in two weeks.  “We expect downward pressure to come from the Eurozone
debt crisis, worries about China overtightening to head off
inflation, and risk aversion due to the situation between North
and South Korea,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in London.  Brent crude for January settlement fell as much as $1.35,
or 1.6 percent, to $84.75 a barrel and was at $84.98 a barrel at
1:45 p.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, floor trading was
closed yesterday for Thanksgiving in the U.S. and electronic
trades are booked with today’s for settlement purposes. The
January contract dropped 90 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $82.96 a
barrel in electronic trading as of 1:45 p.m. London time.  “The euro tends to sum up the concerns on the ground and
the risks or premiums associated with possible defaults,” said
 Mark Keenan , chief investment officer at fund manager Cubit
Asset Management Pte in Singapore. “Overall, the backdrop of
fundamental data for crude isn’t hugely bullish at the moment.”  The euro fell as low as $1.3201, the currency’s weakest
rate against the dollar since Sept. 21, and was at $1.3207 at
12:18 p.m. London time. The single currency has fallen 3.4
percent this week.  ‘March Toward $90’  Oil had earlier pared losses in London amid speculation
that China’s higher refinery output to meet a diesel shortage
will boost demand. Refineries ran at 87.71 percent of capacity
as of yesterday, 0.3 percentage point higher than two weeks
earlier, data from Oilchem.net showed today.  China’s oil-product stockpiles fell 5.2 percent in October
from a month earlier, Xinhua News Agency said on Nov. 22.
PetroChina Co., the biggest oil and gas producer in the nation,
said this week that it’s planning additional diesel imports from
overseas.  “Robust U.S. economic statistics, plunging fuel supplies,
and China’s diesel famine should help oil prices march toward
$90 a barrel,”  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of
regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd., said in
a report today.  Oil prices are forecast to be little changed next week as
signs of U.S. economic recovery are balanced by concerns that
Europe’s debt crisis may hurt growth and fuel demand, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42 percent, predicted crude oil
will be little changed through Nov. 26. Last week, 47 percent
said futures would rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  