-- Crude Oil Drops on Concern Europe Debt Woes Will Spread, Cutting Fuel Use
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-11-26T20:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/oil-futures-decline-on-concern-ireland-crisis-may-spread-tension-in-korea.html
Crude oil fell from a one-week high
on concern Ireland’s debt crisis will spread to Portugal and
Spain, reducing economic growth and fuel demand, and as tensions
in Korea mounted.  Oil dropped as the euro declined to a two-month low against
the dollar, curbing investor demand for commodities. Euro-area
finance ministers plan to complete an agreement on an Irish
bailout on Nov. 28, a European Union official said on condition
of anonymity. North Korea warned its confrontation with South
Korea could lead to war.  “Concerns that the European debt crisis will spread pushed
the euro to a new two-month low against the dollar,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New
York. The oil market is down “primarily on European debt
worries.”  Crude oil for January delivery slipped 10 cents to settle
at $83.76 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The
January contract gained 2.2 percent this week. The front-month
contract added 2.8 percent for the week and has increased 7.4
percent in the past year.  Brent crude oil for January settlement declined 52 cents,
or 0.6 percent, to end the session at $85.58 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent added 1.5
percent for the week.  Shoppers crowded U.S. stores for Black Friday, the biggest
shopping day of the year and a bellwether for the holiday
season. Analysts’ estimates for holiday sales vary from little
changed to increases of 4.5 percent. The National Retail
Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales will
rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.  ‘Waiting to See’  “It’s quiet today for a good reason, we’re waiting to see
how well the shopping goes this weekend,” said  Carl Larry ,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “This is
the most anticipated holiday shopping weekend in a couple years.
If we come in next week and see that people were spending, the
market will move higher.”  Portuguese officials denied reports that the country is
being pressed to use the European Union-led rescue fund.
Borrowing costs for Europe’s most indebted nations are at record
highs as Ireland’s capitulation in accepting a bailout of its
banking industry stokes concern that other countries also will
have to seek aid.  The euro fell as low as $1.3201, the weakest level against
the dollar since Sept. 21. The single currency has declined 3.2
percent this week.  North Korea on Nov. 23 shelled a South Korean fishing
community and military base with highly inflammable ammunition
that killed four people, including two civilian construction
workers, blew the windows out of a school and torched houses.  ‘Worries About China’  “We expect downward pressure to come from the euro zone
debt crisis, worries about China over tightening to head off
inflation, and risk aversion due to the situation between North
and South Korea,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA in London.  Oil tumbled the most in three months last week after China
ordered banks to raise reserves to slow economic growth and curb
inflation in the world’s largest energy-consuming country.  China’s central bank raised interest rates last month for
the first time since 2007 and ordered banks on Nov. 10 and Nov.
19 to hold more money in reserve. China’s new loans next year
will likely be close to 7 trillion yuan ($1.05 trillion), less
than this year’s target of 7.5 trillion yuan, Shanghai
Securities News reported, citing an unidentified person.  Weak Equities  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.8 percent to
1,189.40 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  decreased 0.9
percent to 11,092.00.  “The weak tone of the equity markets and the stronger
dollar are the headwinds for the oil market today,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “We’re still digesting Wednesday’s big gains. Today’s
move lower isn’t nearly as large as Wednesday’s move higher.”  Oil surged 3.2 percent, the most in four months, on Nov. 24
after the Labor Department said U.S. jobless claims fell to the
lowest level since 2008. Applications for unemployment  benefits 
declined by 34,000 to 407,000 in the week ended Nov. 20.  Crude oil prices are forecast to be little changed next
week, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Fifteen of 36
analysts, or 42 percent, predicted crude oil will be little
changed through Nov. 26. Thirteen respondents, or 36 percent,
estimated prices will rise and 8 predicted a decline.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 242,285 contracts as of 2:06
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 502,284
contracts on Nov. 24, 29 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.33 million contracts, the
lowest level since Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 