-- Londoners Face Travel Chaos With 24-Hour Tube Strike
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-11-26T15:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/londoners-face-further-travel-chaos-as-planned-tube-strike-to-go-ahead.html
London Underground subway workers
will strike on Nov. 28 over a plan to cut 800 jobs, disrupting
travel for the city’s 3.5 million users of the network known
as the Tube.  The 24-hour walkout, the last of four scheduled to
protest the reductions, will begin at 6:30 p.m. on Sunday,
 Rail, Maritime and Transport  Union spokesman Geoff Martin said.  The strike is likely to cost the economy at least 48
million pounds ($75 million),  London Chamber of Commerce and
Industry  spokesman Andrew Horne said by phone today, and will be
exacerbated by the heavy snowfall expected in the capital next
week.  “It might well be the case that it has that cost to the
economy of London but the long-term cost to public safety we
think is even higher,” Martin said in a telephone interview.
“The action is on.”  The stoppage, the seventh to shut the Tube since 2002,
involves around 10,000 employees. More than 100 additional buses
and capacity for more than 10,000 extra river crossings have
been organized for the strike,  Transport for London  spokesman
Ben Pennington said by phone.  “Sunday’s and Monday’s strike action on the Tube is
terrible timing with icy conditions taking hold and the
possibility of snow on the Sunday,” LCCI Chief Executive  Colin Stanbridge  said in an e-mailed statement.  TfL condemned the RMT and  Transport Salaried Staffs’
Association  for refusing to continue constructive talks,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “We have been consulting with the union leaderships for
six whole months to try to establish what specific safety
concerns they may have,” London Underground Chief Operating
Officer Howard Collins said in the statement. “If they are
serious about resolving this issue, they should call off their
totally unnecessary strike immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{ Christopher Spillane } in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  