-- Hong Kong's Home Sales to Slow for a Second Weekend After Government Curbs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-11-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/hong-kong-s-home-sales-to-slow-for-a-second-weekend-after-government-curbs.html
Property  transactions  in Hong Kong,
whose government on Nov. 19 unveiled its toughest measures yet
to rein in home prices, will probably “remain slow” for the
second straight weekend as buyers anticipate lower prices.  “Things will probably remain slow at least until the Lunar
New Year” in early February, said Richard Lee, chief executive
officer of Hong Kong Property Services Ltd., a unit of  Midland
Holdings Ltd.,  the city’s biggest realtor by market value. “The
speculators are pretty much gone now and the end-users need time
to digest the impact of the new measures. The next few weeks
will be fairly quiet.”  Financial Secretary John Tsang last week increased deposits
on homes costing more than HK$8 million ($1 million) and imposed
additional stamp duties on all units bought after Nov. 20 and
resold within two years as home values soared more than 50
percent since January 2009.  Weekend sales of used homes fell 83 percent Nov. 20 and 21
from the previous week, according to data from Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  Residential transactions may fall by as much as 30 percent
from current levels of 11,000 units a month over the next
quarter, property broker Colliers International Ltd. said.  “Prospective homebuyers hold a wait-and-see attitude” as
they expect prices to drop further,  Simon Lo , a Hong Kong-based
director of research and advisory at Colliers, wrote in a report
this week. Owners previously looking to sell will instead offer
their units for lease, rather than accept lower prices, Lo said.  Four of the 10 private estates in Centaline’s survey,
including Mei Foo Sun Chuen in Kowloon and Sha Tin One in the
New Territories, posted no transaction last weekend, said Hong
Kong’s biggest closely held realtor.  New Sales  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the city’s second-biggest
developer by market value, is selling units at its Festival City
Phase II near the Sha Tin district, while Swire Pacific Ltd. is
offering 60 units at its Azura, a luxury project in the Mid-
Levels district.  Cheung Kong has sold about 216 of the 335 units available
since sales began Nov. 19, Oriental Daily reported Nov. 21,
citing people it didn’t identify. About 20 were sold at Azura.  The  Hang Seng Property Index  , which tracks Hong Kong’s
largest developers, has dropped 12 percent from a Nov. 8 peak.  The new measures mean homes sold within six months of
purchase incur a 15 percent stamp duty, while down payments will
rise to 50 percent for properties costing HK$12 million or more,
and to 40 percent for those between HK$8 million and HK$12
million.  The city’s home prices may drop 5 percent by year-end while
transactions may fall 40 percent because of the measures, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts  Cusson Leung  and  Joyce Kwock  wrote in a
Nov. 22 report. JPMorgan Chase & Co. also predicted a 5 percent
decline in prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netoomberg.net  