-- Nadal and Federer One Win Away from Title Showdown at ATP Finals in London
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-27T00:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/top-seed-rafael-nadal-makes-atp-semifinals-in-london-after-beating-berdych.html
Rafael Nadal  and  Roger Federer  are
one win away from a season-ending showdown for the title at the
 ATP World Tour Finals  in London.  Nadal of Spain defeated  Tomas Berdych  of the Czech Republic
7-6 (7-3), 6-1 in his final match in Group A yesterday. He’ll
play Britain’s  Andy Murray  at the O2 arena in east London today
for a place in the final. Nadal has beaten Murray eight times in
12 meetings.  “Very happy to be in the semifinals,” Nadal, who has yet
to win the season-ending event, told a news conference. “For
sure, it’s going to be a very difficult match against one of the
best players of the world. Maybe the circumstances are more
favorable for him. But I’m very happy how I am playing, how I
improved during the tournament.”  Federer, a four-time ATP Finals champion, will play  Novak Djokovic  in the other semifinal. The third-ranked Serb, the
champion in 2008, moved to the last four after he beat  Andy
Roddick  6-2, 6-3 yesterday.  Djokovic has been beaten by Federer  12 times out of 18
meetings . Djokovic overcame two match points to defeat the Swiss
Grand Slam record holder in the semifinals of the U.S. Open in
September.  “Definitely a great achievement reaching the semifinals,”
Djokovic, who lost the U.S. Open final to Nadal, said in a
televised courtside interview. “We’ve played so many times
against each other, let’s see. The best will win.”  Djokovic walked onto the court against Roddick wearing a
black eye patch, a joking reference to the eye problems he
experienced during a straight-set loss to Nadal earlier in the
week.  Quick Break  He found his rhythm quickly, breaking the American’s serve
in the fourth game. A second break handed him the first set 6-2
as the eighth-ranked Roddick sent a forehand long.  Roddick, who needed a straight-set victory to qualify for
the last four, double-faulted in the fourth game to go 3-1 down
in the second set. The American, a three-time semifinalist at
this event, lost his third consecutive match this week when he
dumped a forehand into the net.  “That’s not the way you want to end it,” Roddick told a
news conference.  The ATP Finals is played in a round-robin format with the
year’s eight best players divided into two groups. The top two
in each section move into the knockout semifinals.  Nadal, 24, entered the tournament after his most successful
season, winning the French Open, Wimbledon and the U.S. Open.
His first title in New York made him the youngest man since
tennis turned professional in 1968 to win all four majors. The
Australian Open is the other major.  Argument With Umpire  Serving at 5-6, 15-15 in the first set, he threatened to
stop play during an argument with the chair umpire over a line
call on his side of the court. The umpire had called the ball
long after Nadal seemed to raise his hand.  Video replay showed the ball was in, and Nadal reacted
after the umpire gave Berdych the point instead of replaying it.
Nadal punched the air as he held serve to force a tiebreaker. He
raced to a 4-2 lead as he put Berdych under pressure from the
baseline and then lifted both arms above his head after he won
the set with a forehand winner.  Berdych, who last won a set against Nadal four years ago,
dropped his serve to trail 3-1 in the second set after the
longest game of the match, which lasted almost 10 minutes.  Nadal then forced a double break for 5-1 and won the match
when Berdych sent a groundstroke long for his 32nd unforced
error.  Nadal, who made 13 errors and produced 27 winners, said his
argument with the umpire didn’t have an impact on the outcome of
the match.  “This point doesn’t change a lot,” said Nadal, who won
all three of his group matches. “I was still playing the same
level before that point and after that point. But maybe Tomas
goes down a little bit in the second, and I feel every time
better and better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the O2 arena through the London sports desk
at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  