-- Otsuka Said to Tell Investors It Plans to Make Acquisitions With IPO Funds
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-11-26T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/otsuka-said-to-tell-investors-it-plans-to-make-acquisitions-with-ipo-funds.html
Otsuka Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
largest closely held drugmaker, told investors it will use
proceeds from an initial public offering to buy drug and health-
food businesses, according to two people who were briefed on the
company’s plans.  The company is also considering raising its dividend payout
after it is listed, Chief Executive Officer  Tatsuo Higuchi  told
at least 200 investors and analysts in Tokyo yesterday, said the
people, who attended the meeting. They declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Yasushi Nakajima , an
Otsuka spokesman, declined to comment before the listing.  Otsuka aims to raise as much as 226.8 billion yen ($2.7
billion) selling 94.5 million shares including overallotment in
what would be the world’s biggest health-care IPO since at least
2006. The Tokyo-based company’s best-selling drug, Abilify, used
to treat mental illness, is set to lose patent protection in the
U.S. in 2015, making acquisitions attractive to bolster growth.  The company is Japan’s fifth-largest drugmaker, after
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. ,  Astellas Pharma Inc. ,  Daiichi Sankyo
Co.  and Eisai Co. Otsuka, which derives two-thirds of sales from
pharmaceuticals, also makes Pocari Sweat drinks and Soyjoy
nutrition bars.  Global sales of Abilify  rose  31 percent to $4.67 billion
yen last year, according to IMS Health Inc., a market research
company in Norwalk, Connecticut. Otsuka gets royalties from
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. , which has rights to sell Abilify in
the U.S.  Otsuka said Nov. 25 it plans to price the shares between
2,000 yen and 2,400 yen each. Book-building started yesterday
and ends Dec. 3. The IPO price will be announced Dec. 6 and
listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange is scheduled for Dec. 15,
Otsuka said.  Morgan Stanley ,  UBS AG  and  Nomura Holdings Inc.  are
managing the share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at  at
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 