-- Tottenham Needs to Toughen Up, Retain Gareth Bale, Gary Lineker Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/tottenham-needs-to-toughen-up-retain-gareth-bale-gary-lineker-says.html
Tottenham needs to improve its
strength and resilience and sign two or three players to become
a genuine contender for soccer titles, its former striker  Gary Lineker  said. It also has to keep  Gareth Bale , he added.  Two days ago Spurs reached the last 16 of the Champions
League by thrashing Germany’s Werder Bremen 3-0. That
performance and an earlier 3-1 victory over European champion
Inter Milan raised hopes that Tottenham can provide genuine
competition to clubs such as Manchester United, Chelsea and
local rival Arsenal, which it defeated 3-2 last weekend.  “Spurs are doing brilliantly, aren’t they,” Lineker said.
“I think they need to be a bit more resilient and stronger, but
they have the potential to become one of the great Spurs sides
if they can make themselves a little harder to penetrate.”  Lineker, who turns 50 next week, scored 80 goals in 138
matches for Spurs as well as 48 for England, one behind record-
holder  Bobby Charlton . Speaking to reporters yesterday at
Wembley Stadium, where he helped Tottenham win the F.A. Cup in
1991, he said the current squad is strong “but is two or three
short of being a side that can challenge for honors.”  The north London club won the last of its two English
league titles in 1961, and two League Cups are its sole trophies
since 1991. Manchester United has won the Premier League 11
times since it started in 1992, with Arsenal and Chelsea taking
it three times each.  Champions League  Spurs are currently sixth in the league, six points behind
leader Chelsea, after letting in 10 more goals than the Blues.
They’re playing in European soccer’s top competition for the
first time in 49 years after coming fourth in the Premier League
last season.  The highs of the European victories have been dented by
dropped points domestically. The victory over Inter was followed
by a 4-2 defeat at Bolton and Spurs had 1-0 losses to strugglers
Wigan and West Ham earlier in the campaign.  If setbacks such as those can be eradicated the team can
become one of Spurs’ best-ever sides, Lineker said, when he was
asked if it could be as good as the 1961 “double”-winning
team, which also took the F.A. Cup.  Much of Tottenham’s recent success has been due to  Luka Modric , new signing  Rafael van der Vaart  and midfielder Gareth
Bale. Known for his surging runs down the left, Bale has scored
a team-leading 10 goals this season.  Keep Bale?  U.K. media have linked some of Europe’s biggest sides,
including Real Madrid and Barcelona, with moves to sign the 21-
year-old. Tottenham’s ability to keep Bale will indicate whether
the team “is a selling club or buying club” able to compete
with the best, said Lineker, who’s now a presenter with the
British Broadcasting Corp.  “Bale could be potentially a truly great player, he can do
it all, ” he said. “He can run all day and he’s quick, which
is an unusual combination. He’s powerful, his delivery is very
precise, and he’s got a wonderful left foot. If he’s fortunate
to avoid injury he could be one of the world’s best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Wembley through the London sports desk 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  