-- Contador Cites Tainted Meat Case as Defense in Tour de France Dope Inquiry
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-26T10:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/tour-de-france-champion-contador-uses-german-athlete-s-case-in-defense.html
Tour de France champion  Alberto Contador  is using the case of a table tennis player in his
defense against doping, his lawyer Andy Ramos said.  The Spanish rider tested positive for what cycling ruling
body, Union Cycliste Internationale, called “very small”
traces of clenbuterol in a urine sample given days before
winning his third Tour de France on July 25. He blames the
irregularity on contaminated beef he ate.  Contador’s legal team will today hand over written
arguments to a Spanish cycling federation panel investigating
the case, his spokesman Jacinto Vidarte said. Ramos said in an
interview the defense is partly based on the case of Dimitrij
Ovtcharov, who was cleared by the German table tennis federation
on Oct. 14 after arguing his positive test for clenbuterol was
down to eating tainted meat in China.  The Ukraine-born German had tested positive for an
“extremely low” concentration of 75 picograms per milliliter,
according to the German federation. Contador’s reading was 50
picograms, according to the UCI. Both tests were done at the
same laboratory in Cologne, Germany. A picogram is one
trillionth of a gram.  Clenbuterol is a drug used to treat respiratory disorders
such as asthma and can increase aerobic capacity by improving
the flow of oxygen in the bloodstream. Farmers sometimes use the
stimulant illegally to bulk up cattle.  Convincing Argument  If found guilty, Contador could be stripped of his third
Tour de France victory and banned for two years.  “Our arguments are very convincing,” Contador told
Television Espanola yesterday. “They will give the people who
make the decisions a lot to think about.”  The Spanish federation on Nov. 8 received hundreds of pages
of arguments by the  Aigle, Switzerland-based UCI , which launched
a preliminary investigation with the World Anti-Doping Agency
after the test result first emerged in August.  In the documents, the UCI says it found no evidence of
blood doping by Contador, according to Ramos. L’Equipe newspaper
reported Oct. 1 that the Cologne laboratory that examined his
urine sample also found high levels of a plasticizer which could
have come from blood bags used in a transfusion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  