-- Black Friday Sales Rise 0.3% as Shoppers Wait for Retailers to Cut Prices
-- B y   M i n a   K a w a i   a n d   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-11-28T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/toys-r-us-sears-open-early-as-black-friday-shoppers-flood-u-s-stores.html
Debbie Schwig joined the throngs at
 Apple Inc.’s  Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan yesterday with her
husband and dog. They didn’t buy a single gadget.  “We’re here to check things out today," said the 47-year-
old nurse from Hoboken, New Jersey. "We’ll wait until vendors
get more desperate.”  Even as stores across the U.S. reported increased traffic
on Black Friday, the busiest shopping day of the year, sales
rose just 0.3 percent to $10.7 billion, ShopperTrak, the
Chicago-based consulting firm, said yesterday.  Still, there were signs of consumer strength. Shoppers took
advantage of earlier-than-usual promotions in the first two
weeks of November, pushing up sales 6.1 percent and 6.2 percent
respectively, according to ShopperTrak. That helps explain why
Black Friday sales weren’t more robust, the firm said.  At the same time, many consumers who pulled back for the
past two years seem prepared to spend more this holiday season,
Neil Stern, senior partner at Chicago-based consulting firm
McMillan Doolittle, said in a Nov. 26 interview.  “There’s no question there’s pent-up consumer demand that
will drive retail growth this season,” he said. “America is
still a consumer-driven society. We just haven’t had the means
to indulge.”  At  Macy’s Inc.’s  flagship store in New York’s Herald
Square, many people were shopping for themselves for the first
time in two years, Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said.  Retailers traditionally have viewed Black Friday -- so
named because that’s when many stores become profitable -- as a
bellwether for the entire holiday season.  Better Deals  That may not hold true this year because many shoppers are
waiting for even deeper price cuts, says Roxanne Meyer, a retail
analyst for UBS Securities in New York.  “The consumer does seem much more willing to spend when
the product and the price is right,” Meyer said. “But
consumers are increasingly waiting closer to Christmas” in the
hopes that the deals will be better. She expects a last-minute
shopping stampede.  Analysts’ estimates for holiday sales vary from little
changed to increases of as much as 4.5 percent. The Washington-
based National Retail Federation predicts a gain of 2.3 percent
to $447.1 billion after an uptick of 0.4 percent last year and a
3.9 percent drop in 2008.  Those forecasts coincided with a rebound in U.S. consumer
spending this year as the economy began adding jobs. Consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the U.S.
economy, increased at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter, according to the Commerce Department. That was the
fastest since the final three months of 2006.  Largest Increase  Same-store sales, a key indicator because new and closed
locations are excluded, rose for 14 straight months through
October. Same-store sales for November and December may advance
as much as 3.5 percent, the largest increase since 2006,
according to the International Council of Shopping Centers.  Andy Bogats, a 38-year-old father of five, braved the
crowds and rain on the morning of Black Friday for the first
time in his life. He bought two 32-inch flat-screen Emerson
televisions for $198 apiece at a  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  location
outside Pittsburgh.  “We targeted these TVs, and were fortunate to get them,”
said Bogats, a former mortgage broker who now works in the
construction industry. “Things are getting better.” So much
so, that he and his wife may splurge on each other this year.
“We didn’t do that last year,” he said.  While some shoppers plan to spend more this season, others
continue to trim their budgets.  Shopping Marathon  Shannon Parker, 39, and her sister-in-law Tracy Knapp, 42,
have made a Black Friday shopping marathon an annual tradition.
This year was no exception. The 12-hour shopathon took them from
Wal-Mart,  Target Corp.  and  Best Buy Co.  to  Kohl’s Corp . and  Bon
Ton Stores Inc.  Along the way, they snagged everything from a TV
to iPod docking stations to Christmas Eve pajamas for their
kids.  There was one difference, however. Parker, a school
administrator from Baltimore, put all of her purchases on
prepaid credit cards to avoid busting her budget. “I’m still
swiping the plastic, but it’s already paid for,” said Parker,
who was visiting her sister-in-law in Allentown, Pennsylvania.  Some Americans opted to avoid the bedlam of Black Friday
and shop online from home. Bridget Hujsa, a teacher from
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, is buying nearly all of her gifts
online at Target and  Gap Inc.’s  Old Navy, where she found
discounts on clothes and baby toys for her 7-month-old son.  “I prefer online," she said. "You don’t have to drive and
deal with the crowds."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mina Kawai in New York at 
 minkawai@bloomberg.net ;
Burt Helm in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  