-- Petrobras Bonds Trounced by Pan American as Vote Looms: Argentina Credit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-11-26T15:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/pan-american-beats-pemex-on-price-speculation-argentina-credit.html
Bonds of Pan American Energy LLC,
Argentina’s biggest oil exporter, are outperforming larger
competitors  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  and Petroleos Mexicanos SA on
speculation a new government may ease price caps on crude oil.  Pan American bonds due in 2021 returned 2 percent in the
past month, compared with a 3 percent decline for the bonds of
Mexico City-based Pemex with a similar maturity, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleos
Brasilero SA’s  bonds due 2020 fell 2.6 percent.  Investors are betting an opposition candidate will unseat
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  next year and ease
restrictions in the oil and power industries. Companies
including Spain’s Repsol YPF are seeking to reduce their
business in Argentina as the nation’s oil fields mature and
price caps limit the price they receive per barrel to $50.  “If there was a change in the regime in 2012, or an
improvement in the rules to sustain the petroleum industry in
Argentina, it would be good for Pan American,” Francisco
Velasco, an analyst with Exotix Ltd., a brokerage specializing
in emerging markets, said in a Nov. 24 telephone interview from
New York  Fernandez maintained the price caps that started during
Argentina’s 2002 economic crisis, the country’s worst, and were
also used by  Nestor Kirchner , her late husband and predecessor
as president. Under current regulations, Argentina takes as tax
any amount above the $50 a barrel that companies sell. Crude
reached $88.63 in intraday trading on Nov. 11, the highest level
in two years.  Pan American Debt  Pan American’s debt is outperforming the  Credit Suisse AG
Latin American Energy Index , which fell 1.3 percent since Oct. 1,
according to Bloomberg data.  Yields on Argentina’s dollar bonds tumbled earlier this
month to the lowest in almost three years and stocks  rallied 
after the death of Kirchner, Fernandez’s husband.  Fernandez in June restructured $12.2 billion worth of debt
remaining from a record $95 billion default in 2001. Yields on
Argentina’s dollar bonds tumbled to 8.35 percent on Nov. 4, the
lowest since December 2007 and down from more than 12 percent in
February. Kirchner’s death on Oct. 27 fueled speculation of
resurgent opposition strength ahead of next year’s election.  Argentine companies including candy maker Arcor SA and real
estate developer IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones SA are
selling the most debt since 2007.  YPF SA, the Argentine unit of
Repsol YPF SA and the country’s largest oil producer, this month
announced the return to global markets after 12 years with a
plan to sell as much as $600 million of bonds.  ‘Further to Go’  An official for Pan American in Buenos Aires, who declined
to be named because he’s not authorized to speak publicly,
declined to comment.  Pan American’s bonds are rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, four levels below the Baa1 rating of both Pemex and
Petrobras.  Argentine bonds “have further to go,”  Ruth Mazzoni , a
corporate bond analyst at Standard Bank, said in a Nov. 24
telephone interview from New York. “When the bonds were priced
there was a greater degree of uncertainty about liquidity within
the Argentine economy this year.”  Pan American Energy, which is 60 percent-owned by  London-
based BP Plc , returned to international bond markets in 2010 for
the first time in more than three years. The other 40 percent
stake is owned by Bridas Corp., which is owned in equal parts by
Argentina’s Bulgheroni family and by Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest
offshore explorer.  Credit Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened two basis point to 523
at 10:02 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged at 659
basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to Argentina’s economic growth climbed 0.8
percent to 13.63 cents from 13.52 cents, according Bloomberg
data.  The peso slid 0.2 percent to 3.9772 per dollar.  Pan American Energy’s annual output grew 8.5 percent
between 2005 and 2009, while national output declined 6.4
percent, according to data published by the Buenos Aires-based
Argentine Oil and Gas Institute, which does not publish older
data.  More Output  BP has considered divesting its Pan American Energy stake,
two people with knowledge of the matter said in October.  Pan American Energy’s crude output has grown over the past
decade as overall production in Argentina dropped amid lower
investment in exploration and development which also led to the
country becoming a net importer of natural gas in the period.  Repsol of Madrid has sought to reduce its 84 percent stake
in its Argentine unit, YPF, for more than two years to about 51
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  