-- Peter Blake, Sgt. Pepper Image Maker, Likes Crowd Scenes, Hirst: Interview
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/peter-blake-sgt-pepper-image-maker-likes-crowd-scenes-hirst-interview.html
Peter Blake  isn’t only an artist,
he’s also a collector, of an unconventional sort.  Blake says he owns “what I’ve begun to bill as the worst
doll collection in the world, which is made up broken, funny,
celluloid dolls.” Another item is a set of small plastic
models, described on the box as “people being frightened in B
movies.”  His collection is on view at the  Museum of Everything ,
London W1 (through Dec. 24). Items culled from Blake’s hoard --
part image bank, part magical mystery tour through the ephemera
of the day before yesterday -- have been glued and fitted into
work in his new exhibition, “Homage 10 x 5: Blake’s Artists”
( Waddington Galleries , 11 Cork St., London until Dec. 11).  This is, as he explains, a tribute to 10 artists he
admires, “the ones I’ve most enjoyed over the years and wanted
to pay homage to.” Some of these tributes, five to each of
Blake’s heroes, are quirky to say the least. On a model 16th-
century warship, those B-movie victims -- wide-eyed and holding
up their hands in horror -- are engaged in one-sided battle with
medieval knights in armor.  This is one of a series of miniature galleons, paying
tribute to the U.S. artist H.C. Westermann, on which Blake has
staged combats between, as he puts it, “people you wouldn’t
expect to be fighting.” This kind of art is what you would
expect of the most whimsically humorous of U.K. Pop artists.  Jagger Neighbors  Blake, wearing a black three-piece suit like a Victorian
farmer and sporting a white goatee, has been a Pop artist since
before such a term existed. Born in 1932, he was brought up in
Dartford, Kent, on the outskirts of London. It was just the kind
of ambience in which British rock music was incubated ( Mick Jagger ’s family lived nearby).  It’s no accident that Blake’s best-known work is the cover
of the  Beatles  “Sgt. Pepper” album (1967). That celebrated
group of kindred spirits from Aleister Crowley to  Fred Astaire 
is an example of one of Blake’s favorite subjects: crowds.  There are more Blake mob scenes in his collaged homages to
 Damien Hirst , youngest of the artists in his top 10, whom he
admires “enormously.” In these landscapes, butterflies (a
Hirst trademark) hover above a motley population of movie stars,
acrobats and onlookers culled from a set of obsolete French
encyclopedias Blake once bought at auction.  If there’s a common thread among the diverse artists he has
picked, Blake muses, “it’s the use of collage.” One of them is
 Kurt Schwitters , who usually included a bus ticket in his Dada
works. “In a way, he invented the idea of making a piece of art
from a piece of rubbish. So I’ve always paid respect to him.”  Quick Nostalgia  Blake says “I bring something different into the painting
world. My art brings in popular art and music.” Part of it, he
says, is “a love of things past, but it’s never been that
slightly cute love of Victorian pots or something. The work is
often nostalgic, but it can be a nostalgia for an hour ago or
last week.”  He grew up a fan of popular entertainments such as fairs,
boxing, circuses and wrestling. These enthusiasms inspired early
works such as “Loelia, World’s Most Tattooed Lady” and
“Siriol, She-Devil of Naked Madness.”  The phrase “Pop Art,” he believes, originated in a
conversation he had with the critic Lawrence Alloway at a party
in London in the late 1950s. “I was describing to him what I
was trying to do,” Blake says. “And he said, ‘Oh, you mean a
kind of pop art?’ That’s how I think the phrase was born, but
there are many other versions.”  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 