-- Pioneer's Taubes Targets Leveraged Loans as Spreads to Junk Bonds Narrow
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2010-11-26T15:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/pioneer-s-taubes-targets-leveraged-loans-as-spreads-to-junk-bonds-narrow.html
Pioneer Investments U.S. Chief
Investment Officer  Kenneth Taubes  hasn’t liked  loans  this much
for more than a decade.  Taubes, manager of the $3.7 billion  Pioneer Strategic
Income Fund , which has beaten 97 percent of its peers over the
last five years, said he’s buying leveraged loans instead of
high-yield bonds after the difference in yields between the two
investments narrowed. The debt makes up the highest ratio of
Pioneer’s U.S. diversified fixed-income funds since at least
2000.  “We had been buying them in lieu of high-yield debt for a
number of reasons,” Taubes, 52, said. “Here’s an opportunity
to buy something that doesn’t give up much yield at all to
protect yourself against rising rates and you’re higher in the
capital structure to boot.”  Debt investors funneled $435 million into leveraged-loan
funds in the week ended Nov. 19, the second-largest amount on
record, while taking $723 million out of high-yield bond funds,
analysts from JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a report. Loans,
which have yields that are linked to the London interbank
offered rate, “will benefit from the dearth of alternatives
available to protect a portfolio against rising rates,” the
analysts wrote.  Leveraged loans account for about 12 percent of the fund,
Boston-based Taubes said in a telephone interview. That compares
with 7.6 percent as of March and 4.4 percent in September 2007,
according to  Securities and Exchange Commission filings . Pioneer
Investments, a unit of  UniCredit SpA , oversees about $257
billion.  ‘Highest Weight’  The fund has “the highest weight in bank loans in the 11
years I’ve been running it,” said Taubes, who also oversees the
$1.3 billion  Pioneer Bond Fund  and co-manages the $97.2 million
 Pioneer Multi-Asset Real Return Fund .  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan Index , which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has returned 7.91 percent this year after gaining a
record 52.2 percent in 2009. Prices of the debt have risen 4.15
cents to 91.83 cents on the dollar this year, the index data
show.  Taubes said loans still have more room to climb compared
with high-yield bonds, which have risen 5.7 cents to 101.2 cents
on the dollar, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. The securities have returned 13.6 percent this year after
gaining 57.5 percent in 2008, the data show.  While high-yield, high-risk loans and bonds are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by Standard
& Poor’s, loans have a more senior claim on assets than bonds
and are repaid first in bankruptcy.  No Defaults  The Strategic Income Fund has acquired loans “much more
assertively” in the past two or three quarters as default rates
declined and junk-bond yields dropped closer to those on loans,
Taubes said. The fund has returned 10.8 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There were no U.S. leveraged-loan defaults in October,
Moody’s said in a Nov. 4 statement. That helped reduce the 12-
month rate of missed payments to 3.6 percent from 11.5 percent
last year, Moody’s said.  As high-yield bonds have rallied, the yield on debt ranked
BB has declined to 6.5 percent from 7.7 percent since 2009, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show. The extra yield investors
demand over Treasuries has narrowed 46 basis points to 593 basis
points, or 5.93 percentage points, over the same period.  Loans with similar credit grades are yielding 5.5 percent,
said Taubes.  Goldman Rates Prediction  The debt is attractive if yields rise because Libor, the
rate banks charge to lend to each other, resets to a higher
level, said Taubes.  Better economic growth and the “stabilization of recent
disinflationary trends” means U.S. rates have reached a
cyclical low, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists  Charles Himmelberg ,  Alberto Gallo ,  Lotfi Karoui  and  Annie Chu  wrote in a
Nov. 19 report.  “Our rates team expects long-dated Treasuries to move
higher on economic recovery, both in the U.S. and globally, and
the normalization of U.S. inflation expectations, with yields on
the 10-year rising to 3.3 percent by the end of 2011,” the
strategists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Abramowicz  in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  