-- Portugal Says EU Can't Force Governments to Accept Rescue Aid
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-11-26T14:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/portugal-says-using-rescue-fund-can-t-be-imposed-jornal-reports.html
Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira  dos Santos said European Union governments can’t impose
a bailout on his country even as speculation mounts that
Portugal will eventually have to ask for one.  “There are those who think that the best way to preserve
the stability of the euro is to push and force the countries
that at this moment have been more under the floodlight to that
aid,” Teixeira dos Santos told Jornal de Noticias in an
interview. The comments, made yesterday, were confirmed by the
finance ministry. “But that is not the vision or the political
option of the countries that are involved.”  Portuguese bonds  have dropped as the government struggles
to convince investors it can avoid the fate of Ireland and
Greece, which have asked for EU bailouts this year. A majority
of euro region governments and the European Central Bank are
putting pressure on Portugal to accept a bailout to stop
contagion spreading to Spain, the Financial Times Deutschland
said today.  A Portuguese official at the office of Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said the government is not facing pressure. A German
finance ministry spokesman declined to comment. The ECB declined
to comment.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year government bond yield fell
7 basis points to 6.93 today, pushing the spread over German
equivalents to 426 basis points. Spain’s spread widened to a
record 252 basis points.  Irish Pressure  Ireland was forced to ask for a rescue on Nov. 21, eight
days after officials were pressed on an ECB conference call to
accept emergency aid. Portugal’s finance minister said his
country doesn’t need a rescue because his country’s position is
not as serious as Ireland’s.  Portugal has almost 10 billion euros of bonds that come due
during the first half of 2011, according to the government debt
agency. It doesn’t face other bond redemptions next year.  “It has been clear that what we are betting on is on
ensuring conditions for Portugal to continue financing itself in
markets to ensure the functioning of public administration, and
also to be able to regularize the financing mechanisms for the
private sector, through the financial sector,” Teixeira dos
Santos told the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 Jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  