-- Pound Drops Versus the U.S. Dollar as Korea Conflict Damps Risk Appetite
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-26T16:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/pound-drops-versus-dollar-as-korea-conflict-damps-risk-appetite.html
The pound dropped to the weakest in
two months against the dollar as tensions between North and
South Korea escalated, driving investors away from assets
perceived to carry greater risks.  The Financial Times Deutschland said euro-area policy
makers are pushing Portugal to seek aid for its economy. North
Korea’s state-run news agency said planned naval exercises by
South Korea and the U.S. moved the peninsula “closer to the
brink of war.” The MSCI World Index of stocks fell.  “We are going to see risk appetite quite severely damaged
by the continued developments coming from Asia,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Sterling is not going to escape that. I would expect
the pound to continue to move lower.”  The pound fell 1 percent to $1.5597 at 4:33 p.m. in London,
after dropping to $1.5590, the weakest since September 21. It
was little changed against the euro at 84.78 pence, after
earlier appreciating 0.7 percent to 84.21 pence.  The pound declined against the dollar for a third week,
falling 2.4 percent. It appreciated 0.9 percent for the week
versus the euro.  Korea, EU Crisis  The U.S. sent aircraft carrier the USS George Washington
the Yellow Sea off the western coast of the Korean peninsula in
a show of strength after North Korea this week shelled a South
Korean island.  Portuguese officials denied reports the country is being
pressed to use the European Union-led rescue fund. Borrowing
costs for Europe’s most indebted nations are at record highs as
Ireland’s capitulation in accepting a bailout of its banking
industry stokes concern that other countries also will have to
seek aid. The average yield investors demand to hold 10-year
debt from Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy reached
7.52 percent yesterday, a euro-era record.  European finance ministers plan to complete an agreement
for an international aid package for Ireland on Nov. 28, a
European Union official said on condition of anonymity.  “Reports that they’re trying to accelerate the process in
Ireland could be seen on the cross as a sterling positive, so
euro-sterling may keep the pressure on the downside as efforts
appear to be stepping up in Ireland,” said Stannard.  Bonds Pare Gains  U.K. government bonds gained, pushing the 10-year yield
down two basis points to 3.34 percent. The two-year note yield
also slid two basis points to 1.01 percent. The 10-year gilt
yield has fallen four basis points in the week, while the two-
year note yield is down seven basis points.  Britain’s Treasury sold 3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) of
30, 91 and 183-day gilt bills today, according to the U.K. Debt
Management Office.  Gilts have returned 6.9 percent this year, compared with a
7.1 percent gain for German bonds and 7.3 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Sterling has weakened 3.9 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone. It
has appreciated 0.9 percent in the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 