-- Provincial Bonds Decline Most in Two Years on Rate Outlook: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-26T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/provincial-bonds-decline-most-in-two-years-on-rate-outlook-canada-credit.html
Canada’s provincial bonds posted
their worst monthly decline in more than two years as borrowing
costs rise amid an accelerating global economy.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial Index
dropped 2.1 percent this month, including reinvested interest,
the most since September 2008. Losses on provincials bonds such
as Quebec and Newfoundland were larger than those of Canadian
government bonds, at 1.8 percent, and corporates, at 1.3
percent.  Bond prices worldwide are falling, tracking Treasuries
lower after the Federal Reserve kicked off a second round of
unconventional stimulus known as quantitative easing on Nov. 3,
and as economic data in North America and globally point to a
gathering recovery.  “It’s a generalized sell off in the bond market that’s
tarred the provincial bonds with that brush,”  Eric Lascelles ,
chief economics and rates strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit, said in a phone interview. “Global growth
has improved. U.S. data is looking generally a lot better.”  Although November returns have dropped, provincial spreads
over benchmarks are unchanged, indicating the weakness is not
related to lack of demand for the asset class, Lascelles said.  The relative underperformance of provincial bonds is “give
back for some pretty impressive gains” this year, he said.
Through the end of October, provincials had risen by 8.4
percent, compared with 7.9 percent for corporates and 7.3
percent for governments, according to the Merrill data.  Longer-Term Bonds  The longer duration of provincial bonds is contributing to
their underperformance this month, according to  Marc Rouleau , a
fund manager at Standard Life Investments in Montreal. Merrill’s
provincial bond index averages 7.3 years of duration, versus
governments at 6.2 and corporates at 5.6.  “Higher rates are a significant source of the weakness,”
said Rouleau, who helps manage about C$20 billion ($19.8
billion) in bonds. “Higher rates hurt longer-duration assets.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporate rather than federal
government debt widened yesterday to 136 basis points, from 135
the day before. Spreads were as high as 143 basis points this
month and as tight as 134. Yields ended at 3.91 percent, from
3.92 the day before.  Tim Hortons Inc., Canada’s largest fast-food chain, sold
C$100 million in a reoffering of its 4.2 percent senior
unsecured bonds due in June 2017, bringing the total outstanding
to C$300 million, the Oakville, Ontario, company said in a
statement yesterday. The proceeds will be used to refinance debt
maturing in February. The debt priced to yield 104 basis points
over government benchmarks.  Provincial Yields  Global corporate bond spreads ended yesterday at 170 basis
points, as yields rose to 3.71 percent.  Relative yields on provincial bonds widened to 53 basis
points yesterday from 52 basis points the day before, the
Merrill data show. They were 53 basis points at the end of
October. Spreads have been as low as 51 basis points in November
and as high as 54. Yields fell to 3.28 percent yesterday.  Merrill’s provincial index has only lost more than 2
percent in a month four times since 1995, with the loss in
November the third largest. It lost 2.2 percent in March 2002
and 2.1 percent in August 1998.  Saskatchewan Finance Minister  Ken Krawetz  said in a
statement yesterday the province expects to finish the fiscal
year with a surplus of C$137 million, as oil and potash sales
increase. Krawetz reduced the province’s expected borrowing
 program  by C$186 million.  Provincial Finances  British Columbia’s Finance Minister  Colin Hansen  said in a
 statement  the province remains on track for a deficit of C$1.7
billion.  Canada’s third-quarter current account  deficit  likely
widened to C$15.2 billion from C$11 billion in the prior three
months, according to the median of nine estimates of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Statistics Canada will release the data
on Nov. 29 in Ottawa.  The agency reported on Nov. 23 that annual  inflation 
accelerated to 2.4 percent in October, more than all 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey had predicted, and retail sales
rose for a fourth straight month.  Canada’s  benchmark  two-year bond  yield  was little changed
at 1.74 percent yesterday as the 1.5 percent security due in
December 2012 held steady at C$99.55.  The  gap  in the Canadian two-year yield over the equivalent-
maturity U.S. security touched 120 basis points on Nov. 23, the
most since January 2004. Two-year Treasuries yielded 0.52
percent. U.S. markets were closed for Thanksgiving.  Provincial Spreads  Spreads in 10-year Ontario bonds over underlying federal
benchmarks narrowed about 0.5 basis point, while yields rose 27
basis points, according to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
data as of Nov. 22. Five-year Ontario spreads narrowed 1 basis
point, as yields climbed 34.5 basis points.  “Higher yields and lower prices on provincial bonds are
entirely due to a selloff in Canadas, which took their direction
from a back-up in U.S. Treasury yields,”  Warren Lovely ,
governments strategist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, wrote
via e-mail. “Demand for provincial bonds remains strong.”  Bonds of Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island and Quebec have
suffered the most in November, with losses of 2.9 percent, 2.9
percent and 2.8 percent, Merrill data through yesterday show.
Ontario, New Brunswick and British Columbia, with declines of
2.4 percent, 2.5 percent and 2.5 percent, fared best.  Quebec Slump  Merrill’s provincial index, with 397 bonds an C$463 billion
outstanding, contains bonds from issuers such as Canada Housing
Trust, Financement Quebec, University of British Columbia and
York Municipality, as well as Canada’s 10 provinces.  The yield on 10-year Treasuries has increased about 30
basis points since Nov. 3, the day the Fed unveiled its plan to
buy $600 billion in bonds to spur the economy in a second round
of quantitative easing.  Bond prices could rally into the end of the month, because
government bonds mature and pay coupons on Dec. 1, according to
TD’s Lascelles, who estimates more than C$15 billion will be
flowing into the hands of Canadian bond investors. He said bond
markets “often” rally into Dec. 1, though this year has been
different because of quantitative easing.  “There’s a reason to think there could be a lot of buyers
going into the end of the month,” Lascelles said. “All else
being equal, that translates into a rally, but of course all
else isn’t equal, and that’s where the complications arise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  