-- Realia Agrees to Sell Almost 30% of SIIC de Paris to SFL for $380 Million
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2010-11-26T09:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/realia-agrees-to-sell-almost-30-of-siic-de-paris-to-sfl-for-380-million.html
Realia Business SA  agreed to sell
29.99 percent of SIIC de Paris SA, its French real estate
investment trust, to  Societe Fonciere Lyonnaise SA  to comply
with tax rules.  Societe Fonciere Lyonnaise,  a Paris-based property company
controlled by Inmobiliaria Colonial SA of Spain, will swap
assets worth 286 million euros ($380 million) in exchange for
shares of SIIC de Paris, according to a filing sent to Spanish
and French regulators today.  “The operation will increase Realia’s exposure to the
French commercial property business and allow SIIC de Paris to
comply with regulations and recover tax benefits,” Carlos Ruiz-
Garma, a spokesman for Realia, said in a separate statement.  The transaction will cut Realia’s stake in SIIC de Paris to
less than 60 percent, enabling the Madrid-based company to
comply with French REIT regulations and avoid losing tax
benefits. Morgan Stanley, Commerz Real AG and the Dassault
family have all cut their stakes in French REITs for the same
reason.  The transaction is subject to approval from SIIC de Paris
shareholders on Dec. 27 and also to  Societe Fonciere Lyonnaise 
obtaining exemption from having to make a full takeover bid for
SIIC de Paris, the filing said.  The assets to be exchanged include two towers with more
than 48,000 square meters (517,000 square feet) of space in La
Defense, Paris’s largest business district, the companies said
in a statement last month.  SIIC de Paris  has a market value of 504 million euros.
Realia has to cut its stake by the end of the year to less than
60 percent, the most shareholders can own to qualify for tax
breaks granted to REITs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 