-- Treasuries Gain Amid Irish Bank's Rating Downgrade, Korean Conflict Update
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-26T19:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/treasuries-gain-amid-irish-bank-s-rating-downgrade-korean-conflict-update.html
Treasuries gained as Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Ltd.,
and tensions mounted between North and South Korea, fueling
demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year notes  pared  their third monthly drop as the
ratings company downgraded the bank to below investment grade,
reinforcing concern about financial stress within euro-zone
countries. A South Korean official said the North may have
conducted artillery drills today and the nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier USS George Washington headed toward the Yellow
Sea.  “We’re back in the fear mode,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. “The peripherals are in crisis again. We are the
beneficiaries so we’re seeing a bit of a flight to quality.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note fell four basis
points to 2.87 percent at 2:07 p.m. in New York, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2.625 percent security due in
November 2020 advanced 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face amount,
to 97 28/32. Thirty-year bond yields fell seven basis points to
4.21 percent.  After Thanksgiving  Ten-year yields have increased 26 basis points since Oct.
29. They are down two basis points this week. U.S. markets were
closed yesterday for Thanksgiving. The bond market will close at
2 p.m.  “The uncertain resolution of the ills in Ireland,
Portugal, Spain, etc., also has the fixed-income markets in
Europe gyrating,”  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in
New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers that
trade Treasuries with the Fed, wrote in a note to clients.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish bonds
instead of benchmark 10-year German bunds widened to a euro-era
record today. Bonds of the euro region’s most-indebted nations
fell yesterday as LCH Clearnet Ltd. increased its margin
requirement for traders of Irish government securities for the
third time this month.  Standard & Poor’s lowered the counterparty credit ratings
on Anglo Irish Bank six levels to B, or below investment grade,
from BBB. The ratings remain on CreditWatch with negative
implications, S&P said. The ratings company lowered the long-
term counterparty credit rating on Allied Irish Banks Plc, Bank
of Ireland Plc, and Irish Life & Permanent PLC by one notch, and
lowered ratings on the senior and subordinated debt of the
banks.  Understanding Europe  “Bad debts and government management practices have been
well known for several years,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency debt
research at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note
to clients. “It was just assumed a return of leverage and the
resulting nominal economic growth would allow everyone to grow
their way out of the difficulty.”  Ireland this week became the second country to seek to tap
a European-Union led 750 billion-euro ($991 billion) bailout
account. The yield on Irish 10-year debt climbed almost 1
percentage point this week to 9.32 percent today, from 8.35
percent on Nov. 19.  Irish officials raced to complete a deal for an
international aid package before financial markets reopen next
week with talks centering on the status of bondholders in
Ireland’s largest banks.  Euro-area finance ministers plan to complete an agreement
on Nov. 28, a European Union official said on condition of
anonymity.  Down Month  The U.S. sold $99 billion of notes this week in auctions
held during the three days ended Nov. 24. The final two sales
drew higher-than-forecast yields and reduced bidding compared
with previous sales.  Treasuries are still down this month after the Federal
Reserve embarked on a plan to pump $600 billion into the
economy. U.S. government securities have handed investors a loss
of 1.3 percent in November, following a 0.2 percent decline in
October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasuries haven’t handed in negative returns in two
consecutive months since they declined June of 2009, when signs
of economic improvement were eating into demand for debt.  The  difference  between 2- and 10-year yields was 2.36
percentage points, versus the five-year average of 1.30
percentage points.  Ten-year Treasury yields will drop to 2.62 percent by year-
end, according to a Bloomberg survey of financial firms with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  A report on Dec. 3 is forecast to show non-farm payrolls
rose by 142,000, according to a Bloomberg survey of 56
economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  