-- Treasury Selling Fewest Bonds Since May After Yields Jump: Brazil Credit
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-26T21:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/treasury-auctioning-fewest-bonds-since-may-brazil-credit.html
Brazil is selling this month the
least amount of  local bonds  since May as a tax increase on
foreign investors and speculation the central bank will raise
interest rates next year erode demand for the securities.  The government has sold 19.5 billion reais ($11.3 billion)
worth of bonds in November, including 5.1 billion reais in
yesterday’s auction, after issuing 38.2 billion reais worth of
securities in October. It sold 13.4 billion reais of debt in
May, when Europe’s growing debt crisis drove  up yields  in
emerging markets.  Yields on benchmark government bonds due in 2021 surged to
a six-month high of 12.77 percent this week after President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva tripled a tax on foreigners’ debt purchases
to 6 percent last month to slow investment and stem a currency
rally. The yield has jumped 54 basis points since the first of
two increases of the so-called IOF tax on Oct. 4, almost double
the 29-basis-point increase in yields on similar-maturity
Mexican peso bonds over that time.  “All they’ve managed to do is just make the cost of
financing more expensive,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage $6
billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Management Plc in
London, including Brazilian local debt. “The market is not
happy right now with the course of policy in Brazil and it’s
voiced that displeasure in the bond market.”  The government sold bonds maturing in 2021 at an average
yield of 12.36 percent and notes due in 2017 at 12.18 percent
yesterday. It rejected all bids on securities due in 2015.  ‘Temporary’  Deputy Treasury Secretary  Paulo Valle  said the government
has scaled back its fixed-rate debt sales to avoid “putting
pressure on the market.”  “This is temporary,” Valle said in a telephone interview
from Brasilia. “These securities were well-quoted before
volatility picked up.”  Brazil will have to step sales back up to avoid cutting
into its cash stockpile, said  Vivienne Taberer , who helps manage
$5 billion in emerging-market debt at Investec Asset Management
in Cape Town. Investec trimmed its “overweight” position in
Brazilian bonds after the tax increase, she said.  “You can’t have your cake and eat it,” Taberer said in a
telephone interview. “You can’t say we want flows to come in
but not too fast. They could probably hold out for a couple of
months but sooner or later they have to come back to the
market.”  The government isn’t concerned about its cash position,
which equals about six months worth of debt principal payments,
said  Fernando Garrido , head of the Public Debt Operations
Department at the Treasury.  Overseas Sales  “It makes no sense to think that this drop in long-term,
fixed-rate bond sales in November will cause cash shortages in
the future,” Garrido said in a phone interview from Brasilia.
“The Treasury has no cash problems.”  He said officials may consider selling more real-linked
bonds overseas, where yields are lower than in the local market.  The government last month issued 1 billion reais of bonds
due in 2028 in its first overseas offering of local currency
debt in three years. The bonds yielded 8.85 percent, below
yesterday’s auction yield on bonds due in 2021, the longest
fixed-rate maturity in the Brazilian market.  Local bonds are also slumping as traders bet  Alexandre Tombini  will begin raising the benchmark lending rate to curb
inflation in his first month as central bank president in
January. President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  nominated Tombini, a
central bank director since 2005, on Nov. 24 to replace  Henrique Meirelles .  Inflation Pickup  The  annual inflation  rate climbed to 5.2 percent in
October, above the central bank’s 4.5 percent target, as a 27
percent jump in government spending in the first nine months of
the year fueled consumer demand. Central bankers have held the
benchmark rate at 10.75 percent since July following 200 basis
points of increases over a four-month period to cool the fastest
expansion since the 1980s in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Yields on overnight rate futures due in January 2012 have
soared 44 basis points, or 0.44 percentage point, since Nov. 17
to 12.02 percent, showing traders expect the bank to boost the
rate to about 12.75 percent by the end of 2011. Tombini, 46,
declined to comment on the outlook for rates at a Nov. 24 press
conference in Brasilia.  “At some point in time, the market is saying inflation is
going to start impacting the requirement on yields,”  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York, said in a phone interview. “Rates at
some point are going to have to be moved higher.”  ‘Overheating’ Economy  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps climbed 3 basis
points this week to 112 through yesterday, according to data
compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 5 basis points this week
to 182 today, according to JPMorgan.  The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.7279 per dollar today from
1.7216 yesterday. It has gained 1 percent this year after
surging 33 percent in 2009, helping push the country’s 12-month
current account deficit to a record $48 billion.  The economy will expand 7.6 percent this year after
shrinking 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the median forecast
in a central bank survey of economists published Nov. 22.  While Brazil’s gross domestic product is  surging , concern
is mounting that the global economic expansion is faltering
after Ireland this month joined Greece in arranging an aid
package to cover its financing needs. Ireland’s long-term debt
rating was lowered two steps by Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 23 to
AA-, undercutting demand for emerging-market debt.  Brazil’s “economy is overheating right now, to be
honest,” Aberdeen’s Gutierrez said. “They need to be
tightening policy and they’re not so the market is signaling
that disapproval. The global risk aversion environment has also
contributed to the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in Chicago at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  