-- Treasuries Rise as Europe Debt Crisis Increases Demand for Safety of Debt
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-11-26T05:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/treasuries-rise-as-europe-debt-crisis-increases-demand-for-safety-of-debt.html
Treasuries rose, paring this month’s
loss, as investors sought the relative safety of U.S. securities
on speculation a debt crisis in Ireland will spread to Portugal
and Spain.  U.S. interest-rate swap spreads widened in a sign investors
are shunning higher-yielding assets. Bonds of the euro region’s
most-indebted nations fell yesterday as LCH Clearnet Ltd.
increased its margin requirements, or cost of trading, in Irish
government securities for the third time this month.  “The Irish problem has a positive effect on Treasuries due
to the flight to quality,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura , who helps
oversee the equivalent of $35.9 billion as a senior investor in
Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded bank. “There is a risk of contagion.”  The 30-year yield slid three basis points to 4.25 percent
as of 2:28 p.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
4.25 percent security due in November 2040 advanced 15/32, or
$4.69 per $1,000 face amount, to 100.  Yields will drop to 4.07 percent by the middle of next year,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  The two-year swap  spread  widened to 24 basis points, the
most in four months, based on closing levels. In a swap,
investors exchange fixed and floating interest rates. The spread
is the difference between the fixed rate and the yield on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  Monthly Loss  Treasuries are still down this month after the Federal
Reserve embarked on a plan to spur economic growth and inflation
by pumping $600 billion into the economy.  U.S. government securities have handed investors a loss of
1.3 percent in November, following a 0.2 percent decline in
October, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasuries haven’t fallen for two straight months since
they declined in April, May and June of 2009, when signs of
economic improvement were eating into demand for debt.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to 2.15
percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage points
in August. The five-year average is 2.09 percentage points.  Irish Bailout  Ireland is planning to tap a European-Union led 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout account. The fund’s size may
be increased if needed, European Central Bank council member
 Axel Weber  said Nov. 24.  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year debt climbed almost 1
percentage point this week to 9.04 percent, the most since 1995.  The extra yield 10-year  Spanish debt  offers over German
bunds widened to 2.46 percentage points yesterday, the most
since the euro was introduced in 1999.  Portugal’s three-year bond yield rose to more than the
likely cost of loans from the European Financial Stability
Facility, making its recourse to a bailout more likely,
according to a Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. research note
yesterday.  Europe’s currency has fallen 2.5 percent over the past
month in a measure of 10 developed-nation counterparts,
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  The private sector should pay some of the cost of financial
rescues such as Ireland’s, according to  Mohamed A. El-Erian  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond  fund .  ‘Unreasonable’  “It is unreasonable to expect the Irish taxpayer” to pay
for it all, he told the BBC World Service Nov 24. “You need a
broader burden sharing that also involves the European Union,
the IMF and private creditors,” said El-Erian, who is chief
executive at the Newport Beach, California, company.  Spanish bonds are attractive, according to Credit Agricole
CIB, a unit of France’s second-biggest bank.  “We have recommended Euro-based bond investors to
overweigh Spanish bonds,”  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
senior strategist for Asia excluding Japan at the company, wrote
in a report today. “Spanish debt is remarkably cheap.”  The U.S. economy is slow enough to keep the Fed from
raising its target for overnight bank lending, said  Masataka Horii , who helps run the Kokusai Global Sovereign Open Fund in
Tokyo, Asia’s largest bond fund.  The Fed cut the target to a range of zero to 0.25 percent
in December 2008.  “U.S. yields will stay around these levels,” said Horii,
one of four investors for the $36 billion fund. “If they go
higher, the upside will be limited.”  Global Sovereign Open extended the maturity of its Treasury
holdings in June and July, seeking higher rates than those
available from short-term debt, he said.  The  difference  between 2- and 10-year yields was 2.38
percentage points, versus the five-year average of 1.30
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 