-- Richemont's Montblanc to Continue Expansion in China, India
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-11-26T07:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/richemont-s-montblanc-to-continue-asia-expansion-as-luxury-spending-grows.html
Montblanc Group, the German maker of
the  Meisterstueck  fountain pen that is owned by  Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA , will continue to expand in Asia as economic growth
boosts consumption of luxury goods in the continent.  The company, which entered China in the early 1990s and has
almost 100 outlets in 48 cities in the country, plans to open 4
to 5 new stores there next year, Chief Executive Officer Lutz
Bethge said yesterday.  “The environment has certainly improved a lot as it shows
in our results and we are very happy that we see a very broad-
based development” in global demand, Bethge said. “We are also
very happy about what has happened and continues to happen in
China, where we still see a lot of potential for us,” he said
in an interview while attending a meeting with German and
Chinese business leaders in Montblanc’s hometown of Hamburg.  Montblanc , founded in 1906, sells its gold and diamond-
encrusted pens, watches, cuff links, jewelry, perfume and
leather accessories in about 70 countries at its own 360
boutiques and through other retailers.  China  has overtaken the
U.S. as Montblanc’s biggest individual market and it sees sales
growth in other Asian countries, said Bethge.  “We have continued to expand in the past years to other
markets, and India has been a very important market -- it is a
market where we see, as well, strong potential for us,” the
Montblanc CEO said. “There are a number of the former Soviet
Union republics, such as Azerbaijan, that also do well for us.”  India Growth  India’s $1.3 trillion economy accelerated to an 8.8 percent
growth pace in the three months through June, while China’s
economy grew 9.6 percent last quarter. Montblanc has about 17
stores in India and expects sales to grow as more consumers in
the world’s second-most populous country are able to afford
luxury pens, watches and jewellery, Bethge said.  Richemont  is the world’s largest jewelry maker and also
owns brands such as Cartier, Lancel, Purdey and Piaget. The
Geneva, Switzerland-based company reported an  increase  of 88
percent in first-half profit to 646 million euros ($879 million)
in the six months ended September, after demand for its products
rose in Asia and America.  Montblanc’s sales in the period rose 28 percent to 303
million euros, from 238 million euros in the six months through
September 2009. The unit’s operating profit increased 66 percent
to 48 million euros. The company accounted for 11 percent of
Richemont’s 2010 sales.  Montblanc  started selling the Simplo Filler Pen with a
built-in ink well in 1908, and a safety fountain pen in 1909
that aimed to prevent staining the owner’s clothes. The
Meisterstueck was introduced in 1924. Since opening shops in
Europe and Asia in the early 1990s, it started to expand its
product range to also include leather bags, watches, jewellery
and perfume.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  