-- Rio Gets Army Help Amid Unrest as Police Occupy Slums
-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 2010-11-26T20:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/rio-police-troops-take-over-crime-stronghold-after-unrest-leaves-21-dead.html
Hundreds of Brazilian soldiers are
reinforcing Rio de Janeiro police and patrolling an occupied
shanty town as squads move into the city’s biggest crime
stronghold.  The 800-strong Army force, including soldiers who were part
of Brazil’s peacekeeping troops in Haiti, is strengthening
security as criminals shoot at police and helicopters while
attacks on cars and buses spread across the beachside city for a
sixth day. About 300 federal police and 21,000 Rio officers are
also securing the streets after dozens of vehicles have been set
ablaze and 25 people died in shootings since Nov. 21.  Rio’s police force has taken back slums, or favelas, from
organized crime control in the past two years as the former
Brazilian capital prepares to stage the 2014 soccer World Cup
and the 2016 summer Olympics. A special police squad deployed
250 troops yesterday to raid the Vila Cruzeiro shanty town in
northern Rio, using  Navy tanks  and armored cars.  “The situation will be under control in the very short
term,” Justice Minister  Luiz Paulo Barreto  said in an interview.
“What we’re seeing is a very strong reaction of criminals to
federal and state government security policies.”  Rio will be ready to host the World Cup and Olympic games
as security forces regain control of the city, he said.  Dozens of men carrying weapons fled by foot and motorcycles
amid the shooting yesterday as Rio’s Special Police Operations
Squad, or Bope, took control of Vila Cruzeiro. They headed for
Complexo do Alemao, which the squad is raiding today with
support from the Army.  Territory War  “Territory has been taken away from them,” Rio de Janeiro
State Security Secretary Jose Beltrame said in televised
comments. “It’s important to arrest these people but it’s even
more important to take over their territory.”  Police will hunt down the criminals who fled, Mario Sergio
Duarte, general commander of Rio de Janeiro state’s military
police, said in an interview on Globo TV, wearing a black
bulletproof vest with Bope’s skull-and-dagger coat of arms.  Bope, depicted by Brazilian film director  Jose Padilha  in
his 2007 “Elite Squad” movie and a sequel released this year,
used snipers and warfare weapons to raid Vila Cruzeiro, along
with another 200 regular troops from the Military Police and men
from the Civil Police.  The deployment of police to crack down on organized crime
in 27 favelas has triggered shootings and attacks on vehicles
since Nov. 21.  Bomb Scare  At least 96 vehicles were set ablaze by organized crime in
the city’s metropolitan area in past days, including cars,
trucks, buses, vans and motorcycles, according to police
reports. The incidents include one car set on fire in the
Ipanema beachside neighborhood and one scorched bus in the city
center last night.  Streets in  Ipanema  and the neighboring Copacabana area were
blocked by police on Nov. 24 because of boxes suspected of
containing bombs and later proven not to hold any explosives.  Officers have arrested more than 192 people in raids and
seized handmade bombs, grenades, guns, war weapons, dynamite and
bottles with gasoline, police said.  Brazilian President Luiz Inacio  Lula da Silva  pledged
support for Rio de Janeiro State Governor  Sergio Cabral ’s drive
to fight organized crime.  “Whatever help he needs from the federal government to
allow good people to live in peace, we will do it,” Lula told
reporters yesterday in Georgetown, Guyana.  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  pledged to continue Lula’s
support in a telephone call with Cabral, according to a
statement on her transition team’s website.  The city’s two main rival criminal organizations, based in
the Rocinha and Morro do Alemao favelas, may unite to react to
growing police efforts to take over shanty towns, Beltrame said
on Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  