-- Rio Says Iron Ore Expansion May Cost $14.8 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-26T17:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/rio-tinto-says-it-sees-18-month-capital-expenditure-at-about-13-billion.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said the planned expansion of its iron
ore operations in Western Australia may cost about $14.8 billion
as it seeks to boost output 50 percent over five years.  The cost of expanding the operation to 333 million metric
tons will be about $130 for each ton of capacity, according to a
slide  presentation  at the company’s annual investment seminar in
London today. The operation, in the state’s Pilbara region,
currently has a capacity of 220 million tons.  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese , 53, is boosting
spending on mines by 50 percent next year and plans a total of
$13 billion of expansions over 18 months to the end of 2011. Rio
is the world’s second-biggest iron ore exporter with the
company’s operations posting earnings of  $7.1 billion  last year.  “At $130 a ton it’s probably middle of the road for new
iron ore capacity, but for Rio Tinto, given their tier-one
operations and that it’s an expansion of existing assets, it’s a
little higher than expected,”  Richard Knights , an analyst at
Liberum Capital Ltd., said by phone from London. “It could just
be a function of the rising cost environment in the mining
industry and the strong Australian dollar.”  Rio  declined  2.1 percent to 4,179 pence at the 4:35 p.m.
close in London, paring its advance  this year  to 23 percent.  Australian Dollar  Credit Suisse Group AG analysts yesterday estimated the
total cost of Rio’s iron ore expansion may be more than $16
billion at $150 a ton of capacity. The strengthening Australian
dollar is boosting the cost of the expansion when priced in U.S.
dollars, the analysts said.  Prices for  iron ore  have more than doubled from $60 a ton
last year, when prices were set annually, to about $133 a ton
this quarter, according to Liberum. Producers shifted to shorter
three-month contracts from April.  Rio Tinto  is Australia’s biggest exporter of the
steelmaking raw material and the estimated cost of the London-
based company’s expansion includes spending on mines, ports and
rail. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest
producer, last week approved an $8.4 billion expansion in the
Pilbara at an estimated cost of $85 per ton of capacity.  Iron ore  is Rio’s most  profitable unit , responsible for 47
percent of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in 2009.  ‘Largest Mine Project’  “We believe the first and best use of our strong cash
flows and robust  balance sheet  is to invest in the excellent
range of value-adding growth projects across Rio Tinto’s product
portfolio,” Albanese said in a statement ahead of the seminar.
The iron ore expansion “is the largest mine project ever
undertaken in Australia,” he said.  Since July, Rio has announced $6 billion of investments in
its iron ore assets in the Pilbara, with $4.4 billion committed
to so-called growth projects. The board is expected to make a
final investment decision on the expansion in 2011, Rio said in
an Oct. 20 statement.  The company’s “port, rail and mine operations have
unrivaled potential to grow significantly beyond this level, if
required by the market,” Rio said in the statement.  The estimated iron ore resource at the company’s 14
deposits in the Pilbara region has increased by 2 billion tons
after new drilling work was completed, Rio said in a separate
statement today. The deposits now hold an estimated 14.4 billion
tons of resources, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  