-- Rosneft Oil Profits to Narrow When Vankor Loses Tax Breaks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-11-26T10:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/rosneft-oil-profits-to-narrow-when-vankor-loses-tax-breaks-in-august.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
producer, may see profits narrow in line with rivals by the
third quarter of 2011 when tax exemptions for the Vankor deposit
are expected to be lifted.  Output from Vankor, Russia’s largest new development, will
likely reach 25 million tons, the limit for exemptions from the
mineral extraction tax, or MET, in August, according to
Bloomberg calculations confirmed by a spokesman for Rosneft who
declined to be identified by name.  Separately, discounts to Russia’s export duties for Vankor
will last until the end of April, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
said last month.  Third-quarter profits at Moscow-based Rosneft more than
doubled from a year ago, compared with a 25 percent increase in
earnings for TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer.
Production from Vankor, which started last August, allowed
Rosneft to produce more tax-free oil.  MET and export duties claimed 48.3 percent of revenue in
the third quarter, according to Rosneft, which currently pays a
discounted export duty on Vankor output and no MET on the field.  “Rosneft’s net will come back to earth,”  Alexei Kokin , an
oil and gas analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said by
telephone from Moscow. “They will probably still be more
profitable than peers in the upstream because of lower costs.”  Clash  Russia’s oil industry has clashed with the Finance Ministry
over taxation. The industry wants tax relief as spending on
remote fields and flagging Soviet era wells hurt margins. At the
same time, the Finance Ministry is seeking a greater tax take to
help meet the nation’s spending plans in coming years.  The tax breaks have enabled Rosneft to keep more cash for
the initial investment phase, Kokin said. Even so, there won’t
be incentives to explore until tax programs become systematic
rather than the result of lobbying, as with Vankor, Kokin said.  Vankor, which reached production of 15 million tons earlier
this week, currently pumps at a rate of 36,000 tons, or 263,000
barrels a day, according to Rosneft’s website. That’s the
equivalent of more than 11 percent of the company’s 2.33 million
barrels a day of overall output.  Rosneft and TNK-BP are partners in an east Siberian venture
producing oil with MET exemptions at Verkhnechonsk. OAO
Surgutneftegas’s Talakan producer in East Siberia also qualifies
for both MET and export duty breaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 