-- Rubber Futures Decline as China Curbs Prices, Indonesia Increases Output
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-26T07:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/rubber-futures-decline-as-china-curbs-prices-indonesia-increases-output.html
Rubber slumped as China, the largest
user, will raise commodity futures margins to cool prices and as
growers in Indonesia, the second-biggest exporter, boost output
to benefit from record prices.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange fell as
much as 3 percent to 351.7 yen per kilogram ($4,191 a metric ton)
before settling at 355.2 yen. The most-active contract, which
reached a 30-year high of 383 yen on Nov. 11, is set for the
worst weekly loss since July 2. Futures in Shanghai tumbled by
the daily limit to the lowest level since Oct. 13.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange will increase margins and
daily price limits in the latest move by China to curb
speculation and cool inflation. Margins on rubber will rise to
13 percent after the market closes on Nov. 29, the bourse said
in a  statement . Daily price limits will widen to 6 percent from
Nov. 30, according to the exchange.  “China is adding steps to curb inflation, boosting
speculation that their demand may weaken,”  Takaki Shigemoto , an
analyst at JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today by phone. “Investors
are becoming concerned that market fundamentals won’t be as
tight as earlier expected.”  Natural rubber supply this year may be more than forecast
last month as growers in Indonesia boost output to benefit from
record prices,  the Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Increased Output  Production may increase 6.6 percent to 9.5 million tons,
more than the 9.4 million tons forecast on Oct. 27, the
producers group said. Supply may drop 3.8 percent in the three
months to Dec. 31 as rain disrupts tapping in Thailand, the
biggest producer and exporter, it said.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai lost as much as 2.9 percent
to close at a daily limit of 30,375 yuan ($4,560) a ton. The
price reached a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  China, the biggest consumer of commodities, pledged to
control prices and may raise interest rates a second time this
year to slow the fastest  inflation  in two years and curb food
costs that jumped 10.1 percent in October.  China’s consumption of natural rubber, including compound
rubber, may drop 2 percent in the fourth quarter as the
government takes steps to cool commodity prices, the association
of producer countries said. Imports of all forms of natural
rubber may climb 7.1 percent to 3.26 million tons this year and
gain 6 percent to 3.45 million tons in 2011, the group said.  “Natural rubber markets do not appear to have received any
notable support from the demand side,” Jom Jacob, the group’s
senior economist, said in the statement. “Concerns over China’s
new policy measures clouded demand expectations.”  The  cash price  of natural rubber in Thailand remained
unchanged at 131.55 baht ($4.38) per kilogram today, as concern
over Chinese measures to curb inflation was offset by limited
supply, according to  the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .
The price reached a record 132.75 baht per kilogram on Nov. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  