-- Russia Scraps Pledge to Hold Rates, Raise Is `Inevitable,' Analysts Say
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-11-29T11:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/russian-central-bank-leaves-rates-unchanged-for-a-sixth-consecutive-month.html
Russia’s  central bank  retracted a
pledge to keep its main interest rates at a record low “for the
coming months,” prompting analysts at UniCredit SpA, Credit
Agricole SA and Nordea Bank AB to predict a raise.  “An increase in interest rates is now inevitable, it’s
just a question of when it happens,” said  Anton Stroutchenevski , an economist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, in a
Nov. 26 phone interview. “It’s evident that something must be
done now that inflation has surpassed the refinancing rate.”  The bank on Nov. 26 kept the  refinancing rate  at 7.75
percent for a sixth month, matching the forecast of all 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Moscow-based Bank Rossii also
left the repurchase rate on one-day and seven-day loans
unchanged at 6.75 percent.  The central bank is trying to contain inflationary pressure
without undercutting the economic recovery from Russia’s 7.9
percent slump last year. While Bank Rossii said it’s committed
to maintaining “monetary stimulus” to support domestic demand,
it removed a pledge to keep the policy “for the coming
months,” which was present in previous statements.  Policy makers may raise the main interest rate next quarter
for the first time since 2008, lifting the benchmark a quarter
point to 8 percent by the end of March, according to the median
estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Ruble Gains, Stocks Fall  The ruble strengthened against the dollar, adding 0.2
percent, the most since Nov. 18, to 31.3485 per greenback at
1:33 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 30 stocks slid 0.4
percent to 1560.34.  The first increase may be announced at the bank’s next
meeting in December,  Vladimir Osakovsky , a Moscow-based
economist at UniCredit, said in a research note today. The
regulator may choose to begin tightening policy by raising
reserve requirements for banks before the end of the year, said
 Maxim Oreshkin , chief strategist for Russia and the Commonwealth
of Independent States at Credit Agricole.  Russia’s main rate is lower than Brazil’s benchmark Selic
overnight rate, which policy makers increased three times this
year to  10.75 percent . India’s central bank raised interest
rates for a sixth time this year on Nov. 2 in Asia’s fastest
round of increases, boosting the  repurchase rate  by a quarter-
point to 6.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate by a
similar margin to 5.25 percent.  ‘Acceptable’ Inflation  The central bank will base its rate policy next year on the
pace of economic expansion, consumer-price growth and current-
account surplus,  Alexei Ulyukayev , the bank’s first deputy
chairman, said in an interview on Nov. 24.  “The inflationary risks that are due to monetary factors
remain at an acceptable level,” the central bank said in a
 statement  on its website , adding that annual inflation rose to
7.8 percent through Nov. 22, exceeding the bank’s benchmark
interest rate.  Chances are increasing that Bank Rossii will raise interest
rates, RIA Novosti news service reported today, citing
Ulyukayev. The removal of the phrase from the bank’s statement
means the bank now “has a free hand” and “isn’t confident”
borrowing costs will remain unchanged in the coming months, RIA
quoted Ulyukayev as saying in Munich.  The annual  inflation  rate reached 7.5 percent in October,
the highest since January, up from 7 percent in September. Bank
Rossii Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  on Nov. 25 said inflation may
exceed a government estimate of 8 percent in 2010.  ‘Take Risks Seriously’  “Since inflation negatively affects consumers, eroding the
purchasing value of incomes, the central bank of Russia will
likely take inflationary risks seriously,”  Aurelija Augulyte ,
an economist at Nordea in Copenhagen, wrote in a Nov. 26
research note. “Provided no liquidity shocks occur in the
global economy, we expect to see the first rate hike in the
first quarter.”  Food prices increased, caused to a “large degree” by
record heat decimating crops in the summer, were the main factor
contributing to faster inflation, the central bank said on Nov.
26.  Removing the reference to keeping rates on hold from the
statement is a “signal of the central bank’s sentiment shifting
towards a possible change of rates in the future,” Trust
Investment Bank said in a note on Nov. 26. Policy makers may
raise borrowing costs as soon as in February, it said.  Still, the slowing economic recovery may prevent a rate
increase in the first quarter, according to analysts at Aton
Capital and VTB Capital in Moscow.  Losing Momentum  The economy of Russia, the world’s biggest energy supplier,
lost momentum after the worst drought in at least half a century
caused crop losses and fanned inflation. The heat wave will cost
the economy as much as 0.8 percentage point of growth this year,
the Economy Ministry estimates.  Russia’s economy expanded in the third quarter at the
weakest pace this year.  Gross domestic product  grew 2.7 percent
from a year earlier after expanding 5.2 percent in the three
months through June. The government may miss its 4 percent
target for economic growth this year “by a little bit,”
Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said on Nov. 23.  “Despite the risk of rising inflation, we believe that
with the recovery proceeding at a more moderate pace than we
previously anticipated, Russia’s central bank will remain on
hold throughout the first half of next year,”  Peter Westin , the
chief strategist at Aton, said in a Nov. 26 note to clients.  Bank Rossii doesn’t have a timeline for when it may
consider changing its policy rates, Ulyukayev said.  “We’ll increase rates if we see that inflationary risks
are rising and conclude that they aren’t linked with the supply
shock as has been the case until now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  