-- Ruth Gruber Plans 100th Birthday as Documentary Marks Epic Life
-- B y   M i c h a e l   L u o n g o
-- 2010-11-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ruth-gruber-plans-100th-birthday-as-documentary-marks-epic-life-interview.html
I had been chatting several times
with an elderly woman at the office of the physical therapist we
both use before I realized she was Ruth Gruber: Holocaust
heroine, pioneering female journalist and author of 19 books.  This singular woman, age 99, is the subject of a new
documentary,  “Ahead of Time,”  directed by Bob Richman.  Born in Brooklyn on Sept. 30, 1911, to Russian-Jewish
immigrants, she went to Germany for her Ph.D., which she had
earned by age 20. In 1935, she was the first foreign journalist
to visit the Soviet Arctic.  Working for the  Department of Interior , she went to Italy
in 1944 to escort nearly 1,000 refugees, mostly Jews, to Oswego,
New York, an event she described in “ Haven : The Dramatic Story
of 1,000 World War II Refugees and How They Came to America”
(1983). It was made into a movie for television starring  Natasha Richardson  in 2001.  Gruber’s 1947 photograph of Jewish refugees whose ship was
attacked by the British navy to prevent it from docking in
Palestine showed them under a British flag painted over with a
swastika. The photo helped draw attention to Jews’ efforts to
establish a homeland in Israel.  “The ingredients for a good documentary are a great story
and superb casting,” Richman said. “The minute I met Ruth I
knew I had both.”  Richman’s film is understated yet powerful, mixing archival
footage with Gruber’s recollections. She comes across as a
 Cincinnatus  figure, called to duty when her country and her
religious heritage needed her, now in repose, looking back on
her life from her sunny, book-filled New York apartment.  ‘A Great Advantage’  While the documentary’s reflections end in 1948, Gruber
continued her humanitarian work, a highlight of which was
relocating Ethiopian Jews to Israel in the early 1980s. The
experience was “like being in Genesis and Exodus,” she says.
“They had these big white robes as they walked out of the
plane.”  Though much of the attention Gruber receives is because she
was a pioneering female journalist, she feels being a woman was
“a great advantage,” and men she worked with “knew that I was
as serious about being a journalist as they were.”  After witnessing almost a century of tumultuous history,
Gruber finds that world leaders still don’t learn from past
conflicts. Afghanistan, she said, “is a hopeless war. It’s been
hopeless since the Russians were there.” U.S. resistance to
resettling Iraqi refugees parallels that of World War II, she
says. Immigration and asylum restrictions blocked the
resettlement in the U.S. of tens of thousands of European
refugees, mostly Jewish, during the war.  Three-Letter Word  “Truman once said to me there would be no problems in the
Middle East if not for that dirty three-letter word, oil,” she
says, a recollection also in the documentary,  Still, Gruber finds hope in the words of another past world
leader,  David Ben-Gurion , Israel’s first prime minister. Gruber
recounted a 1973 deathbed conversation she had with him:  “I said, ‘Master, will there ever be peace between Arabs
and Jews,” and he said, ‘Yes,’ to my surprise.”  She continued, “He said, ‘Not in my time, not in your
time, maybe in your children’s time, your grandchildren’s
time.’”  She then strokes her fingers over her chest and says:
“I’ve written that on my heart.”  She is already planning her 100th birthday, which will be
spread over 10 days because so many people want to celebrate
with her.  As for the secret to her longevity, she says it’s “four
easy words -- never, never, never retire. Keep going, keep
moving, keep thinking, keep fighting. Never retire.”  For information on the documentary “Ahead of Time,” see
 http://www.ruthgruberthemovie.com .  ( Michael Luongo  writes on travel for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Luongo at  mtluongo@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 