-- Saints Beat Cowboys to Hand Garrett First Loss as NFL Coach; Patriots Win
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-26T05:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/saints-beat-cowboys-to-hand-garrett-first-loss-as-nfl-coach-patriots-win.html
Brad Smith  scored two touchdowns,
including an 89-yard kickoff return, to lead the New York Jets
to a 26-10 win over the Cincinnati Bengals.  The victory sets up a match Dec. 6 between the Jets and the
New England Patriots who are tied at 9-2 for the best record
this season in the National Football League. The Jets share the
top spot with the Patriots, who defeated the Detroit Lions 45-24,
in the American Football Conference East Division.  “We have the big one coming up Monday night against New
England. They look like the best team in football,” said Jets
coach  Rex Ryan  in a televised interview. “We know they’ll
outcoach us but we have to overcome that. We always say we know
we’re going to win, we just don’t know how. Our goal is to win
the whole thing.”  In the third Thanksgiving Day game yesterday, the New
Orleans Saints defeated the Dallas Cowboys 30-27.  Smith ran 53 yards for a touchdown 47 seconds into the
third quarter to give the Jets their first lead, 10-7, at the
New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Santonio
Holmes ended the quarter with a score on a 13-yard pass from
 Mark Sanchez .  Sanchez completed 16 of 28 pass attempts for 166 yards, one
touchdown and one interception for the Jets, who have won four
straight games.  Saints Win  Carson Palmer  connected on a 5-yard pass to  Jordan Shipley 
in the second quarter to give the Bengals (2-9) a 7-3 lead. New
York’s  Trevor Pryce  tackled Palmer in the end zone in the final
quarter for a safety. The quarterback completed 17 of 38 passing
attempts for 135 yards, one touchdown and two interceptions.  At Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas,  Drew Brees ’s 12-
yard touchdown pass to  Lance Moore  with 1:55 left lifted the New
Orleans Saints to a 30-27 win over the Dallas Cowboys, handing
 Jason Garrett  his first loss in three games since taking over as
coach.  The Cowboys, who trailed 17-0 after the first quarter, had
gone ahead 27-23 on  Tashard Choice ’s touchdown run with 5:51
remaining. Dallas kicker  David Buehler  missed a chance to tie it
with a 59-yard field goal attempt in the final 30 seconds.  The Thanksgiving Day win improves the defending Super Bowl-
champion Saints’ record to 8-3, leaving them a half-game behind
the Atlanta Falcons (8-2) in the National Football Conference’s
South Division.  ‘Gut-Check Win’  “It was kind of a gut-check win,” New Orleans coach  Sean Payton  said.  The defeat is the first for Garrett since he took over as
the Cowboys’ interim coach on Nov. 8. following the firing of
 Wade Phillips  after a 1-7 start. At 3-8 and with five games left
to play, Dallas is 4 1/2 games behind the division-leading
Philadelphia Eagles (7-3) in the NFC East.  “I think we demonstrated again what we’ve done the last
few weeks -- battle and fight,” Garrett said. “There were a
lot of things to be proud of. Guys played with a lot of passion,
energy and enthusiasm. But you’ve got to get the bottom line
right. We didn’t get it done.”  Dallas has hosted a Thanksgiving holiday game every year
since 1966 except for 1975 and 1977, when the St. Louis
Cardinals were hosts. The Cowboys are 27-14-1 in those games,
while the Saints made their Thanksgiving debut yesterday.  Tom Brady  earlier threw for four second-half touchdowns and
341 yards as the Patriots defeated the Lions in Detroit’s 71st
Thanksgiving Day game.  New England was losing 17-10 at halftime in Detroit before
Brady found  Wes Welker  with a five-yard touchdown pass to end a
four-play drive at the start of the second half. Brady also hit
 Deion Branch  with a 79-yard pass in the quarter. Both receivers
also caught touchdowns in the fourth quarter, when the Patriots
broke the game open.  BenJarvus Green-Ellis  ran for two.  “We showed some resiliency, coming out in the second half
and playing the way we did when the crowd was into it,” Brady
said.  Lions quarterback  Shaun Hill  threw two interceptions, both
made by rookie cornerback  Devin McCourty , and had one touchdown
pass. Detroit got two rushing touchdowns from  Maurice Morris .
The Lions dropped to 2-9, keeping the team in last place in the
National Football Conference North Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 