-- Tsang Says Hong Kong's Efforts to Rein in Home Prices May Be Taking Effect
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-11-26T10:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/tsang-says-mortgage-curbs-show-signs-of-success-in-reining-in-home-prices.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said today the government’s latest measures to curb
property-price speculation have shown some success.  “The preliminary response from the market shows that the
measures have exerted a certain level of impact,” Tsang  said  at
the 2010 Boao Youth Forum in Hong Kong. “We will closely
monitor the situation and will launch further measures if
necessary.”  The city’s government on Nov. 19 announced additional stamp
duties on short-term property holdings and higher down-payments
for some mortgages to curb speculation after prices gained more
than 50 percent since the start of 2009. Home sales fell 83
percent last weekend from the previous week, according to data
from  Centaline Property Agency Ltd.   “The government is worried that banks’ asset quality will
be affected if there is a sudden turnaround in the market,”
 Wong Leung-sing , associate director of research at Centaline,
said by phone. Prices may fall by 5 percent in the next three
months and rebound after investors “have adapted to the new
rules and secured necessary funding to buy property,” Wong said.  The measures will have a “significant short-term impact,”
Credit Suisse Group analysts said Nov. 22, with transactions
declining 40 percent by year end.  Property Curbs  Homes sold within six months of purchase will incur an
extra 15 percent stamp duty. Properties resold within 6 months
to 12 months will incur a 10 percent stamp duty, while those
resold from 12 months to 24 months will be charged 5 percent,
Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said on Nov. 19.  The new stamp duty would come on top of the current stamp
duty of up to 4.25 percent. That rate varies according to the
transaction value of the home purchased.  Down-payments for homes costing HK$12 million ($1.5 million)
or more will rise to 50 percent from 40 percent. Down-payments
for homes costing between HK$8 million and HK$12 million will be
increased to 40 percent from 30 percent, Hong Kong Monetary
Authority Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said on Nov. 19. The
maximum loan to value for non-owner occupied residential
properties will be lowered to 50 percent, Chan said.  New mortgage loans drawn down during October fell 26 percent
to HK$25.1 billion from a month earlier, according to data
published by Hong Kong Monetary Authority today. New housing
loans approved in October fell to HK$30.8 billion, 2.2 percent
lower than in September, the regulator said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dirk Beveridge at 
 Dbeveridge1@bloomberg.net  