-- Saudi Arabia Says Al-Qaeda Arrests Prevented Attacks
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-11-26T14:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/saudi-arabia-says-it-detained-149-al-qaeda-suspects-foiled-terror-plots.html
Saudi Arabian security forces
detained 149 people over the past eight months suspected of
links with al-Qaeda, Interior Ministry spokesman Major General
Mansour al-Turki said.  The arrests foiled about 10 planned attacks, including on
government and military targets and officials and media
personalities, al-Turki told a televised press conference in
Riyadh today. The investigation is ongoing and it’s too early to
determine whether oil installations were also targeted, he said.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil supplier, stepped up
operations against al-Qaeda in 2004 after militants struck an
oil installation and stormed a housing complex in the city of
al-Khobar, killing 22 foreign workers. Many al-Qaeda fighters
seeking to escape the crackdown fled across the border to Yemen,
the source of several recent attempted bombings by the group.  Saudi authorities “have a lid on the situation,” said
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, in a phone
interview. Still, “one slip-up and there could be an
embarrassment,” he said.  Saudi Arabia’s 86-year-old ruler,  King Abdullah , underwent
surgery in New York on Nov. 24 for a blood clot and slipped
disc. He delegated management of the country’s affairs to Crown
Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz during his absence.  The latest arrests prevented some attacks that were “in
advanced stages,” al-Turki said.  ‘Charity Work’  Of those detained, 124 were Saudis and one was a woman, and
other suspects are being pursued, he said. Security forces broke
up 19 cells of the organization, including one tasked with
collecting money, and seized 2.4 million riyals ($640,000).  “No doubt al-Qaeda seeks to raise funds from within Saudi
Arabia,” al-Turki said. “Al-Qaeda wants to exploit the
enthusiasm of Saudis to do charity work and philanthropy.”  Saudi nationals and residents helped authorities uncover
the terrorist cells, al-Turki said. Saudi television showed
seized laptops and bundles of money.  The U.S. said on Oct. 29 that Saudi Arabia helped uncover a
plot last month to ship packages of explosives to the U.S. from
Yemen. U.S., European and Yemeni investigators are working to
uncover more details of a plan involving two bombs concealed in
printer cartridges found in packages that originated in Yemen.  Earlier this month, ten suspects were detained in Belgium,
the Netherlands and Germany following an investigation of a
possible terror attack in Belgium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  