-- Shell Said to Delay FCC, Hydrocracker at Pernis Refinery, Europe's Largest
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-11-26T15:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/shell-said-to-delay-fcc-hydrocracker-at-pernis-refinery-europe-s-largest.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc delayed the
start of processing units at  Pernis , Europe’s largest oil
refinery, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  A fluid catalytic cracker that was shut for unplanned work
at the refinery in Rotterdam, and a hydrocracker, which had been
halted for planned repairs, are expected to resume operations
next month, the people said, declining to be named because the
information is confidential. They weren’t able to give a
specific restart date.  Wim van de Wiel , a Shell spokesman based
at company headquarters in The Hague, declined to comment.  The catalytic cracker, used to make gasoline, was taken
offline for repairs in September, and had been expected to
resume operation in early November, people with knowledge of the
work said on Oct. 15. Similarly, work on the hydrocracker,
involved in diesel production, began in mid-September and was
originally expected to take six weeks.  “We are experiencing some downtime in the cat crackers at
Pernis in the Netherlands and Port Arthur in the U.S.,” Shell
Chief Financial Officer  Simon Henry  said in an Oct. 28 earnings
conference call, without elaborating.  The 416,000 barrel-a-day Pernis refinery has a catalytic
cracking capacity of 50,000 barrels a day and a hydrocracking
capacity of 89,000 barrels daily, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shell has been a consistent buyer of gasoline on the barge
market in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub,
since at least the end of August, according to a survey of
traders and brokers monitoring the Argus bulletin board.  The price of  gasoline  traded on barges in the ARA region
rose 3.9 percent in the two days ended yesterday to $771 a
metric ton, Bloomberg data shows.  Diesel  barges rose 4.2 percent
over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  