-- Simon Property May Bid for Capital Shopping to Boost Its European Holdings
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-11-26T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/simon-property-may-bid-for-capital-shopping-to-boost-its-european-holdings.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. shopping mall owner, may try to expand in Europe by
attempting a takeover of its British counterpart,  Capital
Shopping Centres Group Plc .  Simon, which owns 5.6 percent of Capital Shopping, said in
a Nov. 24 letter that it may make a cash offer for more than the
company’s net asset value, which totaled 2.3 billion pounds
($3.6 billion) at mid-year. The London-based landlord’s shares
have gained 19 percent since it announced Simon’s plans
yesterday.  “They’re more than capable and more than interested,”
Rich Moore, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said of Simon
Property. “Does Capital want to sell and can they agree on a
price that makes sense? Simon will not overpay. That is not
their history.”  Capital Shopping disclosed Simon’s intentions while
announcing an agreement to buy the Trafford Centre mall near
Manchester, England, from closely held  Peel Group  for 747.6
million pounds in securities and 852 million pounds of assumed
debt. To help finance the purchase, Capital Shopping raised
221.2 million pounds by selling shares equal to 9.9 percent of
its equity outstanding. The mall owner said it rejected a
request from Simon to delay the purchase and equity offering.  Les Morris , a spokesman for Simon in Indianapolis, declined
to comment.  Simon Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  has said his
company is looking for acquisitions. The Indianapolis-based
landlord in August bought an outlet-center business and, among
U.S.-based real estate investment trusts, already is the biggest
regional mall owner outside the country, according to Moore.  Cash on Hand  Simon had $1.3 billion in cash and $3 billion available on
a credit line as of Sept. 30. It  raised  more than $1.54 billion
in two stock sales in the first half of 2009, and sold $500
million of five-year notes in August of that year. In January,
Simon sold $2.25 billion of debt, comprising five- and 10-year
notes and 30-year bonds.  When Simon acquired a stake in Capital Shopping about two
years ago, speculation arose that it might buy the whole
company, said Moore, who has a “top pick” rating on Simon.  Capital Shopping shares rose 20 pence to 401 pence today,
bringing its two-day gain to 63.6 pence. With the gain, the
company has a market value of about 2.5 billion pounds.
Yesterday’s 13 percent advance was the biggest since Capital
Shopping became publicly traded in 1992.  Simon  shares  fell $1.43, or 1.4 percent, to $98.84, in New
York Stock Exchange trading at 1:30 p.m. Simon didn’t trade
yesterday because of the Thanksgiving Day holiday in the U.S.  No Price Given  While Simon said it would pay more than Capital Shopping’s
net asset value if it makes an offer, it didn’t indicate a
price, the British company said. Its net asset value was 368
pence a share on June 30, and it had about 629.3 million shares
outstanding before yesterday’s stock sale.  The company would have to offer more than 450 pence a share
“to get people’s attention,” said  Steve Bramley-Jackson , a
London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. That price is 12
percent higher than Capital Shopping’s closing price today and
22 percent more than the estimated net asset value.  Simon also may face an implicit deadline of Dec. 20 for
making a bid, Bramley-Jackson said. That is the date when
Capital Shopping shareholders are scheduled to vote on the
Trafford acquisition. If approved, the mall would make Capital
Shopping a bigger acquisition target for Simon to swallow.  Trafford Purchase  With the Trafford purchase, Capital Shopping will own four
of the seven biggest U.K. shopping centers, the company said on
its website, citing Property Market Analysis. Peel Group will
own 19.9 percent of Capital Shopping when the deal is completed,
making it the largest shareholder, and its holding would rise to
24.9 percent assuming a full conversion of bonds used to help
finance the purchase.  Simon is more likely to make an acquisition than use its
capital for developing new malls, said Moore of RBC. Simon
already has operations and developments in such countries as
Japan, France and China.  “When they allocate capital, they’re astute and they’re
cautious," said  Cedrik Lachance , senior analyst at Green Street
Advisors Inc., a real estate research company in Newport Beach,
California. "They’ve obviously owned a stake in Capital Shopping
for a couple years now so we’ll see what they do. Simon is
careful when making external-growth plays."  Earlier this year, Simon bid unsuccessfully for U.S. rival
 General Growth Properties Inc ., which emerged from the largest-
ever U.S. real estate bankruptcy on Nov. 9.  ‘‘Were they disappointed? They were,” said Moore of RBC.
“But there is no added sense of urgency” about making
acquisitions as a result, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  