-- Singapore’s Curbs to Sustain Market, CapitaLand Says
-- B y   L i n u s   C h u a
-- 2010-12-02T01:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/singapore-s-incremental-housing-curbs-to-sustain-market-capitaland-says.html
(Corrects last paragraph of story published on Nov. 26 to
say CapitaLand’s partners include a unit of Wells Fargo and a
fund managed by a unit of Morgan Stanley.)  CapitaLand Ltd. , Singapore’s biggest
developer, said government measures to curb property speculation
are “incremental” and will help the real estate market
develop sustainably over the long term.  Singapore raised down payment requirements in August for
second mortgages and imposed a stamp duty on homes held for less
than three years to curb speculation after prices surged. It
will sell 17 residential sites in the first half of 2011,
matching the record land sales in the second half this year, it
said yesterday.  “You must let the government test the market with
incremental measures and see the results,”  Liew Mun Leong ,
CapitaLand’s chief executive officer, said in an interview in
Singapore yesterday. “If you’re a long-term player, you’d want
the government to do something incremental if there’s
overheating. You don’t want something big to kill the market.”  Singapore and Asian markets including Hong Kong, Taiwan and
China imposed measures including higher down payments this year
to cool their property markets amid concerns that asset bubbles
are forming.  Home prices  in Singapore climbed for five quarters
to a record in the three months ended Sept. 30 as the island
forecasts a record 15 percent expansion this year.  CapitaLand shares have fallen 6.8 percent since the
government announced its measures on Aug. 30, compared with a
7.5 percent advance in the benchmark  Straits Times Index .  The central bank said yesterday low borrowing costs and
excess liquidity globally may push the property prices higher
again, setting back efforts to cool the market.  More Sites  The government said the 17 sites will yield 8,100
apartments. Another 13 properties may also be sold in the first
half, where developers may build an additional 6,200 homes, it
said in yesterday’s  statement . An auction for the 13 sites will
be triggered when the government gets bids that meet its minimum
prices for each site, it said.  CapitaLand, which yesterday unveiled its latest residential
development in the city, said it’s interested in bidding for the
sites and will study the list of properties. The government
measures haven’t affected prices so far, according to Liew.  “Prices are not falling,” he said. “Demand is still good
and developers are still trying to build up their inventory.”  CapitaLand yesterday priced the first 200 apartments at its
1,715-home d’Leedon residential project close to the city’s
downtown at S$1,680 ($1,284) a square foot. The company spent
S$3 billion on the development previously called Farrer Court,
including land and construction costs.  Partners for the project include Hotel Properties Ltd., a
unit of  Wells Fargo & Co.  and a fund managed by a unit of Morgan
Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linus Chua  at   lchua@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  