-- South African Black Empowerment Failed to Tackle Inequality, Gordhan Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-26T10:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/south-african-black-empowerment-failed-to-tackle-inequality-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s  economic empowerment
policies designed to improve the standard of living of the black
majority after white-minority rule ended in 1994 haven’t worked,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  proposed
legislation to speed up black participation in the economy in
2002, when whites controlled about 95 percent of the companies
listed on the country’s stock exchange. The policies didn’t make
South Africa a fairer and more prosperous country for all,
Gordhan told the  Royal African Society  in London today.  “We today all recognize it was necessary, but it didn’t
meet the goals,” Gordhan said. “It led to a small elite group
benefiting and that’s not good enough in terms of benefitting 45
million people.”  In September, the Congress of South African Trade Unions,
the country’s biggest labor confederation, said the empowerment
policy had failed to redress the inequalities of apartheid and
renewed a call for the part nationalization of key industries.  “In the next few months and the next year that’s going to
be a very intense debate, not nationalization, but how do we
create better opportunities for ordinary South Africans to
participate in our economy,” Gordhan said. “Whilst we have
created appropriate democratic processes and institutions, we
haven’t had an appropriate shift with respect to economic
ownership.”  South Africa’s Gini coefficient, a measure of income
inequality, was little changed at 0.666 in 2008 from 0.665 in
1994. A Gini reading of 1 reflects complete inequality, while
zero represents equality. South Africa is the second worst in
the world after Namibia, the CIA Factbook ranking of latest
available data shows.  Gordhan said the Group of 20 countries all faced the
problem of how to help citizens profit from an expanding
economy.  “The question of how do ordinary folk benefit from
economic growth and benefit from productivity increases is
becoming a serious issue on a global basis,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  