-- South Korea Names General Kim Defense Chief as Tensions With North Worsen
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-26T21:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/south-korea-may-name-ex-general-security-aide-lee-hee-won-to-defense-post.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
appointed a former top military commander as defense minister as
tensions rise before exercises with the U.S. that North Korea
said will take the peninsula to the “brink of war.”  Former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Kim Kwan Jin, 61,
replaces  Kim Tae Young , who quit amid criticism that the
military’s response to a North Korean attack on a disputed
island was inadequate. Kim had offered to leave office in May,
two months after the sinking of the South Korean warship
Cheonan, which claimed the lives of 46 sailors.  Investors sold Asian stocks and made the South Korean won
the worst-performer among major Asian currencies against the
dollar today as North Korea threatened a “shower of terrifying
fire.” The nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS George
Washington was headed toward the Yellow Sea for joint drills
with South Korea.  North Korea on Nov. 23 shelled a South Korean fishing
community and military base with highly flammable ammunition
that killed four people, including two civilian construction
workers. The attack also blew the windows out of a school and
torched houses.  Lee wants to “reconstitute the military policy
landscape,” said Jasper Kim, an associate professor at Ewha
Womans University’s Graduate School of International Studies in
Seoul. “The current Lee Myung Bak administration was already
hawkish, but now it’s entered into a hyper-hawkish foreign
policy mode.”  Ratcheting Higher  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have been ratcheting
higher since the March sinking. Lee’s government said it would
strengthen the military and “more actively” retaliate against
North Korean provocations after the attack on Yeonpyeong island,
the first shelling of South Korean soil since the 1950-53 Korean
War. North Korea said that it was responding to an encroachment
on its territory and that it will “counter confrontation with
confrontation and war with war,” according to the state-run
Korean Central News Agency.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1 percent as of 5:32 p.m.
The won fell 1.9 percent against the dollar, declining for a
third week. The benchmark  Kospi stock  index fell 1.3 percent.  Multiple explosions, coming from the direction of North
Korea, were heard on Yeonpyeong between noon and 3 p.m. local
time today. They are believed to be part of the North’s regular
artillery drills, a defense ministry official in Seoul said. No
shell landed in South Korean territory, said the official,
declining to be named because of military policy.  U.S. Commander  Army General  Walter Sharp , the commander of U.S. forces in
South Korea, visited the island today and renewed calls on North
Korea to stop additional attacks, according to an e-mailed
statement from the United Nations Command. Sharp, also commander
of the UN Command, reiterated that North Korea’s military should
agree to talks with the UN Command, the statement said.  Kim Kwan Jin, a former army general, served as the
country’s top commander between 2006 and 2008. During his 40-
year year military career, he worked in key “strategy and field
units,” Lee’s office said in the statement.  Lee accepted Kim Tae Young’s resignation yesterday “in an
attempt to restore the discipline of the military,” his office
said in a statement. Lee will also replace his secretary of
national defense, according to yesterday’s statement.  South Korea axed Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Lee Sang
Eui in June amid accusations he had been drinking at dinner the
night the Cheonan sank and was too drunk to have given orders
properly. The military had come under public criticism at the
time for not responding properly to the sinking.  Torpedo  A South Korean-led international panel concluded on May 20
that North Korea fired a torpedo from a mini-submarine to sink
the 1,200-ton Cheonan. Almost one in four South Koreans said
they didn’t trust the panel’s finding, according to a poll
commissioned by the Hankook Ilbo newspaper on May 24.  Lee announced he would cut off trade and aid to the North
and take the case to the United Nations. China blocked any
punishment or condemnation of its ally at the UN, and South
Korea’s Red Cross has since given food to the North.  “I think with the Cheonan incident, President Lee Myung
Bak wanted to do more, but couldn’t because he didn’t have the
political will,” Ewha’s Kim said. “Now, if he doesn’t do
something very strongly, then people will view him as weak.”  North Korea has sought to justify the shelling on what it
termed South Korea’s “military provocation” in disputed
waters.  Kim Jong Il ’s regime warned of more strikes if
South Korea violates its territory in at least four statements
this week via the official Korean Central News Agency.  China’s Influence  Yeonpyeong lies about two miles from a border demarcated by
the UN after the war and never accepted by the North. North
Korea claims that the border should be drawn farther south to
include Yeonpyeong and four neighboring islands as part of its
territory. The Cheonan also sank in this disputed area.  President  Barack Obama  sent the USS George Washington to
the Yellow Sea for previously scheduled joint drills with South
Korea between Nov. 28 and Dec. 1. China’s Foreign Ministry
warned today against having military exercises in the country’s
“exclusive economic zone” without its authorization, Xinhua
News Agency said.  “We hold a consistent and clear-cut stance on the issue,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Hong Lei  said in a statement,
according to Xinhua. “As the Korean Peninsula situation is
highly complicated and sensitive, all parties concerned should
stay calm and exercise restraint.”  Chinese Notified  The Pentagon reiterated that the U.S. military notified the
Chinese of the planned exercise, as it has in the past. The
drill was among several announced after the sinking of the
Cheonan.  “This exercise and the whole series of exercises is not
directed at the Chinese,” said U.S. Navy Captain Darryn James,
a Pentagon spokesman. “It’s designed to strengthen deterrence
against North Korea.”  While  Obama , Lee and Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  have
urged China to use its influence to temper North Korean acts of
aggression, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has reiterated calls for
stability on the peninsula, without ascribing any blame to the
North. Hong told reporters in Beijing it was evident that North
and South Korea disagreed on which side started the clash.  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  spoke to U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and South Korean Foreign
Minister  Kim Sung Hwan  by telephone, and directly to North
Korea’s ambassador to China, according to China’s Foreign
Ministry. Yang called on North Korea and South Korea to remain
calm, exercise restraint, and resolve the situation through
dialogue, the ministry said on its website today.  China is the North Korean regime’s main economic and
political benefactor and the two countries fought together
against UN forces during the Korean War.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at   blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  