-- Pioneer Foods, Tiger Brands Win Preliminary Ruling in Bread-Price Lawsuit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-26T11:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/south-africa-group-loses-pre-trial-class-action-bid-against-food-companies.html
Pioneer Foods Ltd. ,  Tiger Brands
Ltd.  and Premier Foods Ltd. won a preliminary ruling in a South
African lawsuit filed by human rights groups and labor unions
seeking class-action status to sue over bread prices.  Acting South Africa High Court Judge Francois van Zyl
dismissed a pre-trial application seeking class-action status at
a hearing in Cape Town today without giving any reasons. While
the case will proceed, the companies may question the
organizations’ right to file a class action during the trial,
said Charles Abrahams, a lawyer for the groups.  The Black Sash, the Congress of South African Trade Unions,
the Children’s Resources Center and the National Consumer Forum
sued the companies on behalf of consumers who they say were
overcharged for bread.  “I don’t think today’s ruling is a blow to the case,”
Abrahams told reporters outside the court. The organizations
“wanted to have certainty that they were duly authorized” to
seek damages on behalf of consumers.  Pioneer agreed on Nov. 2 to pay a 500 million-rand ($70
million) fine by the country’s Competition Commission for
contravening the nation’s antitrust laws in its flour and corn
milling unit and its bakeries, eggs and poultry businesses.
Tiger and Premier Foods were granted conditional immunity for
cooperating with the probe.  In February, the regulator imposed a separate 195.7
million-rand penalty on Paarl-based Pioneer for colluding with
rivals to raise bread prices. Tiger Brands Ltd., which is based
in Johannesburg, admitted guilt in the same case and was fined
98.8 million rand in Nov. 2007.  The companies’ lawyers argued that the pre-trial
application was unnecessary and that the organizations failed to
obtain a certificate from regulators to file for civil damages
for the breach of competition laws as required under South
African law.  The case number is 25302/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 