-- Korea Won Rebounds on Speculation Exporters Repatriated Income
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-29T07:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/south-korean-stocks-slump-as-greatly-enraged-north-pledges-retaliation.html
The South Korean won rebounded from
a two-month low on speculation exporters took advantage of a
more favorable exchange rate to convert overseas earnings.  The shock to financial markets from North Korea has been
mostly absorbed, South Korea’s Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun 
said today. The nation’s Kospi stock index dropped for a second
day and bonds rose the most in two weeks as the navy began
military exercises with the U.S. yesterday that risk escalating
tensions with the North.  “We may see exporters trying to repatriate income, which
may limit weakness in the won,” said  Yun Se Min , a currency
dealer at Busan Bank in Seoul. “Still, there is heightened
nervousness in the market with the joint-military exercises.”  The won strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,152.46 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier dropped 0.4 percent to 1,164. The currency
reached 1,172.50 on Nov. 24, the lowest level since Sept. 9,
after North Korea’s artillery attack the day before on the
South’s Yeonpyeong island.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said in a national
address from Seoul today that  Kim Jong Il ’s regime will pay for
last week’s deadly attacks. China sought talks to improve
relations on the Korean peninsula.  Bonds Rise  China has proposed “emergency” discussions to help
resolve the crisis,  Wu Dawei , China’s top envoy for the
negotiations, told reporters in Beijing yesterday. The talks
would include the two Koreas, China, the U.S., Russia and Japan,
Wu said.  The time isn’t right for such a meeting with North Korea,
Lee told visiting Chinese State Councilor  Dai Bingguo  yesterday
in Seoul, Yonhap News reported.  South Korea’s treasury bonds rose for a fifth day, driving
yields to the lowest level in more than a month.  “China had to do something; they did the minimum, which is
why KTBs rallied,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asian research at
ING Groep NV in Singapore. “The fact that are demonstrating
that they are actually awake is a very important signal.”  The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 dropped
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.21 percent,
according to the Korea Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Hong Kong at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 