-- Soybeans, Corn Decline in Chicago as China Seeks to Cool Commodity Prices
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-26T13:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/soybeans-decline-on-europe-debt-concerns-corn-wheat-advance-on-weather.html
Soybeans fell for the first time in
four days and corn also slipped after Chinese commodity-futures
exchanges announced margin increases, as the government seeks to
crack down on commodity speculation and curb food prices.  January-delivery soybeans declined as much as 1.4 percent
to $12.37 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and were at
$12.40 at 1 p.m. Paris time. The oilseed has gained 3.2 percent
this week, the first weekly advance in three.  “Beans and corn are weak, with the markets concerned about
some decision in China made by Beijing to stem the rise in
cooking-oil prices there,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said in his
daily letter to investors.  China, the world’s biggest importer of soybeans, has
pledged to control prices, and may raise interest rates a second
time this year to slow inflation and curb food costs that jumped
10.1 percent last month. The Dalian Commodity Exchange said
today deposits to trade contracts including soybeans and corn
will increase on Nov. 29.  The country’s top economic planning agency said yesterday
commodity prices had fallen in response to government moves to
“clamp down strictly on market manipulation and other illegal
activity, and curb excessive speculation.”  Corn for March delivery dropped as much as 1.2 percent to
$5.4725 a bushel, before trading at $5.4825. The contract has
advanced 2.5 percent this week, heading for a first weekly gain
in three.  Credit Restriction  “While the attention of traders continues to be on the
increase in inflation in China and the consequences that could
arise from credit-restriction measures, the markets are also
affected by the weakness of the euro,” Paris-based farm adviser
 Agritel  said in a daily market comment.  The European currency fell against the dollar, eroding
demand for commodities amid rising concern that debt problems in
Ireland may spread to Spain and Portugal  “It’s a risk-aversion trade as what’s happening in
Portugal now is likely to strengthen the dollar,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty.  The dollar rose to a two-month high against the euro this
week as Europe’s debt crisis increases the appeal of the U.S.
currency as a safe investment. The euro slipped 1 percent to
$1.3221 in recent trading.  The decline of corn and soybeans “could be profit-taking
ahead of month-end book closing,”  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from Singapore. Fundamentals
of grains remain sound, he said.  Cold Weather  March-delivery wheat gained as much as 0.8 percent to $6.91
a bushel in Chicago before trading at $6.87 amid concern that
cold weather may damage wheat planted ahead of winter.  “Very cold weather is descending upon the wheat-producing
regions of the U.S. without concomitant snow cover to protect
the exposed wheat crop on the ground,” Gartman said. “Winter
kill is now on everyone’s radar.”  Temperatures dropped to 11 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 12
degrees Celsius) in Minneapolis this morning, and 18 degrees
Fahrenheit in Chicago, as a mass of Arctic air moves southeast,
forecaster AccuWeather.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net .
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  