-- Spain Depends on Budget Cuts to Stem Contagion by Luring Local Bond Buyers
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-26T15:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/spain-depends-on-budget-cuts-to-stem-contagion-by-luring-local-bond-buyers.html
Spain is counting on budget cuts and
domestic appetite for its bonds to build a firewall against
contagion as Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  warned
investors would lose money betting against the nation’s debt.  Spain , which has the euro region’s third-highest budget
deficit, says it won’t adopt new measures to protect itself from
Europe’s worsening debt crisis after cutting the central
government’s budget gap by almost 50 percent and taming regional
spending. Providing support is about half of Spanish debt is
held at home, more than in Ireland or Portugal, offering a line
of defense against changes in foreign investors’ moods.  “I should warn those investors who are short-selling Spain
that they are going to be wrong and will go against their own
interests,” Zapatero said in an interview with Barcelona-based
broadcaster RAC1 today. He “absolutely” ruled out Spain would
need a rescue.  Spain is trying to distance itself from other so-called
peripheral nations after Ireland’s request for a European
bailout sparked a bond markets sell-off that pushed Spanish
yields to the highest in eight years. The risk for Europe is
that Spain’s economy is twice as big as that of Greece, Ireland
and Portugal combined, meaning the euro region’s 750 billion-
euro ($994 billion) bailout fund may not be big enough.  Deficit Falling  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said Spain will provide more
information on its banking industry to dispel concerns and
regain investors’ confidence. The government will take measures
if there’s any deviation from its budget targets, she said in
Madrid today.  “I find it easier to argue in favor of Spain than six
months ago because data now shows the deficit is actually
falling,” said  Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London. “Spain is in a very different situation” to Portugal
or Ireland.  The central government’s budget shortfall narrowed by 47
percent in the first 10 months from a year earlier. That
compares with a decline of 30 percent in Greece and a 1.8
percent increase in Portugal. Ireland’s deficit is set to surge
to an estimated 32 percent of gross domestic product this year
on the costs of shoring up its banks, prompting the bailout
request that’s fueling contagion.  Domestic Investors  In Spain’s case, about half its debt is held domestically,
limiting the impact of foreign investors shunning bonds of the
high-deficit nations. That compares with 17 percent for
Portugal, according to debt agency estimates. The Irish Finance
Ministry said on Nov. 24 that about 85 percent of its bonds are
held overseas.  “The advantage that Spain has is it has a big domestic
buyer base for its bonds, namely the banks,”  Joachim Fels , co-
chief global economist at Morgan Stanley said Nov. 24 in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “The problem for Portugal
is that 80 percent of its debt is held by foreigners, so they
have to rely on the kindness of foreign investors and there’s
not much kindness left.”  Spanish banks have a “very different” view of the
country’s bonds than foreign investors and “more faith in
thinking today is a buying opportunity for Spanish debt,”  Banco
de Sabadell SA  Chairman  Josep Oliu  told a conference in Madrid
late yesterday.  Regional Budgets  Spain’s Socialist government has also brought into line the
regional administrations that have enjoyed increasing autonomy
from Madrid since the return to democracy in 1978, announcing on
Nov. 24 that they will publish quarterly, harmonized budget
reports for the first time. The regions are on track to meet
budget targets this year, Salgado has said.  “They’re coming around to see the need for greater
transparency, which is important,” said Angel de la Fuente, an
economist at the National Research Council’s Institute of
Economic Analysis who has written books on regional economics.  Some regions were frozen out of debt markets this year.
That put a break on spending said  Jose Carlos Diez , chief
economist at Intermoney Valores SA in Madrid, Spain’s largest
bond dealer. “It’s not that they didn’t want to spend, it’s
that they couldn’t,” he said in an interview.  Still, the news from the regions did little to tame the
surge in Spanish borrowing costs. Spain’s 10-year bond yield
jumped to 5.158 percent today, pushing the spread over
equivalent German debt to 246 basis points, near a euro-era
record.  EFSF Size  Spanish bonds extended declines after the Financial Times
Deutschland reported that the European Central Bank and a
majority of euro-region states are calling on Portugal to tap
the rescue fund to prevent Spain from also having to seek help.
Portugal denied the report. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  on
Nov. 24 said that if the 750 billion-euro rescue fund isn’t
enough to reassure markets, “it will have to be increased.”  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in a Nov. 8 report that the fund,
financed by the EU and International Monetary Fund, may not be
sufficient.  In practice, the EU may only be able to deploy 367 billion
euros of its 440 billion-euro share of the European Financial
Stability Facility, he says. That’s because the EFSF will raise
the money for the bailouts by issuing bonds and must set aside a
cash pile to secure an AAA credit rating, Major said. A three-
year bailout of Portugal would require 51.5 billion euros and
Spain would need 351 billion euros, HSBC said.  ‘Too Big’  “The big elephant in the room is Spain, which is too big
to fail and too big to be bailed out,” Nouriel Roubini, the New
York University professor who predicted the global financial
crisis, said in an interview Nov. 23. “In some sense though,
Spain is in a better place.”  Asked whether its size would deter an EU bailout, Bank of
Spain chief economist  Jose Luis Malo de Molina  said late
yesterday that “the systemic importance” of a country like
Spain “reinforces the incentives and stimuli for the rest of
the countries to be ready to help in the case that it were
necessary.” He said market tensions can become a “self-
fulfilling prophecy.”  The Spanish government, which has repeatedly ruled out
external help, doesn’t face the first of its 45 billion euros in
bond redemptions next year until April. It has two more bond
auctions scheduled for December, and Spain will issue less than
originally planned, Salgado said.  “We have a commitment to investors, so we won’t suspend
any of the planned auctions from now to the end of the year,”
she told a news conference after the weekly Cabinet meeting
today. “As we have more than enough margin, we will probably
slightly reduce the volumes at each of those issues.”  Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said in an
interview Nov. 24 that spending cuts and higher-than-forecast
revenue make the government’s funding “quite comfortable.”  Campa says there’s no need for additional measures to stem
contagion and instead Spain must show its commitment to
implementing the budget cuts and structural changes already
announced to reduce the deficit to 6 percent of GDP next year
from 11 percent in 2009. The target is “unconditional,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  