-- Spain to Reduce Bond Issuance, Stick to Auction Calendar for Rest of 2010
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-26T15:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/spain-to-reduce-bond-issuance-stick-to-auction-calendar-for-rest-of-2010.html
Spain will issue less debt than
planned in its remaining auctions this year amid a surge in
borrowing costs, though it won’t call off any scheduled sales,
Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said.  “We have a commitment to investors, so we won’t suspend
any of the planned auctions from now to the end of the year,”
she told a news conference after the weekly  Cabinet  meeting in
Madrid today. “As we have more than enough margin, we will
probably slightly reduce the volumes at each of those issues.”  Spain plans to sell three-year debt on Dec. 2, and 10- and
15-year securities on Dec. 16, according to the Treasury. The
budget results have been better than expected, meaning the
state’s financing needs are “covered,” Salgado said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds rather than German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, surged to
the highest since the creation of the euro today as Ireland’s
call for a rescue prompted speculation that Portugal and Spain
may also seek external help.  Spain reduced its central-government budget deficit by
almost half in the first 10 months of the year, after cutting
public wages and raising taxes in a bid to rein in the euro
region’s third-largest public shortfall.  Salgado  also said Spain’s net financing needs for next year
are 45 billion euros ($59.6 billion) and that debt redemptions
are timed to coincide with periods of high tax revenue. Interest
costs amount to 2.2 percent of gross domestic product this year,
which Salgado said was “one of the lowest in the euro zone.”  Yield Surge  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged as high as 5.284 percent
today, pushing the spread over German debt to 264 basis points.
The yield declined to 5.17 percent after the announcement on the
bond auctions.  Spain is trying to distance itself from other so-called
peripheral nations amid contagion from Ireland’s fiscal and
financial crisis. Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  “absolutely” ruled out the need for an international
rescue for his country today and Salgado said there’s “no
need” to talk about aid for Portugal either. Spain has a
“stable” investor base, while Asian investors have increased
their holdings of Spanish debt, she said.  The risk for Europe is that Spain’s  economy  is twice as big
as that of Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined, meaning that
if Spain did need help, it may strain the euro region’s 750
billion-euro bailout fund. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
on Nov. 24 that if the fund isn’t enough to reassure markets,
“it will have to be increased.”  Bank Transparency  Bank of Spain Deputy Governor  Javier Ariztegui  said today
the central bank will demand additional data from lenders on
real-estate holdings and the state of their wholesale funding.
The new disclosures should be ready by the end of March, he said
in a speech in Barcelona today. Stress tests published in July
still “describe adequately the current situation of the banking
system and its risks,” he said.  Spanish lenders have 181 billion euros of “troubled
exposure” to construction and real estate, according to Bank of
Spain data, after a decade-long property boom collapsed,
prompting a surge in  bad loans .  As part of the same drive to win credibility by providing
investors with more information, the government said on Nov. 24
that regional administrations will for the first time start
publishing harmonized budget data every quarter. The regions,
including Catalonia and Andalucia, manage more spending than the
central government and employ half of all public workers, making
their spending plans crucial to the nation’s finances.  Spain has pledged to cut its overall  budget deficit  to 9.3
percent of gross domestic product this year from 11 percent in
2009. Public-wage cuts, a pension freeze and reductions in
infrastructure spending will help push the shortfall to 6
percent in 2011. Salgado said the government will take
additional measures if there’s any “deviation” from targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  