-- Stainless Steel Demand in Asia to Climb as Posco Seeks to Cut Nickel Usage
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2010-11-26T01:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/stainless-steel-demand-in-asia-to-climb-as-posco-seeks-to-cut-nickel-usage.html
Posco , the world’s second-biggest
maker of stainless steel, expects demand from plant builders and
automakers in Asia to climb next year. The company is also 
seeking to cut its use of nickel because of volatile prices.    “As the economy recovers, we expect a better market
environment and improvement in profitability next year,” Suh
Young Sea, a senior vice president of the Pohang, South Korea-
based mill, said in an interview. Output this year may rise to
about 1.8 million metric tons from about 1.4 million tons last
year, he said. He didn’t give a 2011 forecast.  Construction of petrochemical and seawater desalination
plants will increase demand for stainless steel, Posco said.
Global production may grow to 32.7 million tons next year, from
an estimated 31.2 million tons this year, according to Alloy
Metals & Steel Market Research.  The mill sells about 60 percent of the metal in South Korea
and exports the rest to  countries  including Japan, Suh, who’s in
charge of marketing and strategy for stainless steel, said
yesterday in an interview in Seoul. Demand in Southeast Asia
remains ‘solid’, he said.  Posco , which last month cut its full-year profit forecast
by 7 percent, has fallen 27 percent this year, underperforming a
15 percent gain in the local benchmark  Kospi index . The shares
were little changed at 452,500 won at 9:34 a.m. in Seoul.  South Korean builders may win orders worth about $70
billion overseas this year, surpassing an initial target of $60
billion, the Korean government said Nov. 14.  China’s stainless-steel production may rise 13 percent to
11 million metric tons this year, according to Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co., a state-owned metals and mining
research company based in the capital city.  Reduce Nickel  Posco is seeking to reduce the amount of nickel it uses in
making stainless steel because of price fluctuations, Suh said.
Nickel is the second-best performer on the London Metal Exchange
this year, rising 23 percent, on rebounding demand from
stainless-steel mills, led by China, the biggest producer. The
mills are the world’s biggest users of the metal.  “It was a very tough year,” Suh said. “Demand recovered
to some degree this year as you can see from higher operating
rates and higher output, but profitability didn’t fully get back
on its feet because prices didn’t catch up with nickel gains.”  Posco, which can produce as many as 2 million tons a year
of stainless steel, this month raised local prices for a third
straight month. Stainless steel generated 13 percent of the
company’s total  revenue  last year, according to a company filing.  ‘Too Much’  “The high volatility of nickel prices casts too much
uncertainty over business management,” Suh said. “You will see
increasing efforts by mills to reduce impact of nickel prices on
stainless steel in various ways.”  Posco’s sales from stainless steel dropped 12 percent to
3.5 trillion won ($3.1 billion) last year from 2008 after demand
slumped, according to a company filing.  The company will increasingly focus on so-called 400-series
stainless products, which use ferrochrome as a raw material, and
other products that use less nickel, he said.  Posco ranks the second-biggest stainless steel mill by 2009
output, coming after China’s  Taiyuan Iron & Steel Group Co.  and
followed by Taiwan’s  Yieh United Steel Corp.  and Germany’s
 ThyssenKrupp AG , according to the website of Chinese researcher
Mysteel.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  