-- Stocks Drop on Korea Tensions, Europe Debt Woes; Dollar Rises
-- B y   J u s t i n   C a r r i g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-26T19:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/stocks-won-decline-as-north-korea-warns-of-war-euro-weakens-on-debt-risk.html
Stocks dropped, extending a third
straight weekly decline for the MSCI World Index, as tensions in
Korea mounted and concern deepened that Europe’s debt crisis
will worsen. The cost of insuring against defaults by Portugal,
Spain and Ireland surged and the dollar strengthened.  The MSCI World slipped 1.1 percent at the 1 p.m. close of
trading in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8
percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index  fell 1.3 percent and
Hungary’s  BUX Index  slid 2.8 percent. The dollar rose 1 percent
to $1.3233 per euro, a two-month high, as it strengthened
against all 16 major peers. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
commodities index slipped 0.4 percent.  Almost $2 trillion has been  erased  from global stocks in
the past three weeks amid concern Ireland’s debt crisis will
spread to other European Union countries. S&P cut ratings on
Irish banks today, reducing Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s
counterparty credit rating to junk. North Korea threatened a
“shower of terrifying fire” as the USS Washington traveled to
participate in drills with South Korea.  “On top of the tension in Korea, the European situation is
one that’s going to continue to affect the markets in a negative
way,” said  Walter “Bucky” Hellwig , a Birmingham, Alabama-
based senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management, which
oversees $17 billion. “Over here, retail traffic is very good
and that’s fueling some optimism. However, with so many
unknowns, I’d see a choppy market.”  ‘Black Friday’  The  S&P 500  erased about half of its 1.5 percent rally on
Nov. 24. U.S. markets were closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving
holiday and ended trading at 1 p.m. today. The S&P 500 lost 0.9
percent this week and has fallen 3 percent from a two-year high
on Nov. 5, while the MSCI World has slumped 2 percent over the
past five days.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., American Express Co. and DuPont Co.
slumped at least 1.4 percent to lead declines in 29 of 30 stocks
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Trading volume on U.S.
stock exchanges amounted to about 2.8 billion shares today, 38
percent less last year’s Black Friday volume, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average daily trading volume this
year has been 8.7 billion shares.  A gauge of retailers in the S&P 500 slipped 0.4 percent,
the fourth-best performance among 24 groups. Shoppers crowded
U.S. stores for Black Friday, the biggest shopping day of the
year and a bellwether for the holiday season. Analysts’
estimates for holiday sales vary from little changed to
increases of as much as 4.5 percent. The National Retail
Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales will
rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.  VIX Surges  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options had its biggest
weekly gain since May. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index is known, rose 14 percent today and 23
percent this week to 22.22 and has rebounded from a six-month
low of 18.04 last week. The index measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines S&P 500.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slumped 0.4 percent, extending
its weekly drop to 1.1 percent, as almost two companies fell for
every one that gained. Banks and insurance companies led the
retreat.  S&P lowered Anglo Irish Bank’s rating six  levels  to B, or
junk, from BBB, citing concern about sovereign support for the
lender. The bank remains on CreditWatch with “negative
implications,” S&P said.  Irish Bank Ratings  S&P also lowered the long-term counterparty credit rating
on Allied Irish Banks Plc, Bank of Ireland Plc, and Irish Life &
Permanent Plc by one level, and cut ratings on the senior and
subordinated debt of the banks. Moody’s Investors Service placed
the ratings of Irish lenders, including Anglo Irish, under
review yesterday before a probable “multi-notch” downgrade of
the sovereign.  Spanish banks led declines that sent the IBEX 35 index down
1.8 percent. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s biggest lender, dropped
3.7 percent, while Bankinter SA sank 2.2 percent. BNP Paribas
SA, France’s largest lender, slipped 2.2 percent. Rio Tinto
Group lost 2.1 percent.  Hungarian stocks sank for a second day, with the benchmark
BUX Index losing the most among equity benchmarks worldwide,
after the government said citizens must move their privately
managed pension assets to the state or lose 70 percent of their
pension claim. Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  announced the
policy on Nov. 24 as the most indebted eastern member of the EU
steps up efforts to reduce the budget deficit.  Asian Shares Slump  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 1.3 percent to its lowest
level in a month. Hana Financial Group Inc., South Korea’s
fourth-largest financial company, slumped 4.1 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.9 percent after Shanghai
Securities News reported the government may cut its target for
new lending next year.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd.  lost 1.8 percent.  Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd., the petrochemicals unit of
Malaysia’s state oil company, rose in its Kuala Lumpur trading
debut following the country’s biggest initial public offering.
The stock gained 2.1 percent was the most active on the stock
exchange with 637 million shares traded.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default to
the highest level in five weeks. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 2.4 basis points to a mid-price of 95.88 basis points as
of 1 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  Spain’s Deficit  Costs to insure Portuguese, Irish and Spanish government
debt from default rose to records earlier today.  Spain is counting on budget cuts and domestic appetite for
its bonds to build a firewall against contagion as Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  warned investors would
lose money betting against the nation’s debt. Spain, which has
the euro region’s third-highest budget deficit, says it won’t
adopt new measures to protect itself from Europe’s worsening
debt crisis after cutting the central government’s budget gap by
almost 50 percent and taming regional spending.  Treasuries gained, with the yield on the U.S. 10-year note
dropping four basis points to 2.87 percent. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the currency against those of six trading partners,
 jumped  0.8 percent to 80.378 to extend a third consecutive
weekly gain, the  longest  advance since May. The euro depreciated
0.4 percent to 111.26 yen.  Commodities Sink  Cotton futures tumbled 4.1 percent to $1.1176 a pound in
New York and tumbled 9.2 percent this week, the most since
February 2009.  Copper for March delivery slipped 0.1 percent to $3.7625 a
pound in New York, declining for the third time in four days.
Aluminum, nickel and zinc also retreated in London. Gold for
February delivery fell 0.8 percent to $1,364.30 an ounce. Oil
slipped 10 cents to settle at $83.76 a barrel.  Commodities also dropped on speculation that China, the
biggest consumer of everything from aluminum to zinc, will
increase borrowing costs and after the country’s exchanges
increased margins to curb speculation.  China has pledged to contain consumer costs after inflation
sped up to its fastest since 2008 and food prices jumped 10.1
percent in October. The government may cut the target for new
lending next year, Shanghai Securities News reported. The
country’s futures exchanges, where the world’s top four
agricultural contracts are traded, raised margins to discourage
speculators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Carrigan  in London at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net . 