-- Sugar May Advance Next Week as Rains Cut Indian Production, Survey Shows
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/sugar-may-advance-as-rains-cut-indian-production-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may rise on concern
that India, the world’s second-biggest producer, might limit
exports to boost domestic inventories after rains damaged its
cane crop, according to a survey.  All nine traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will advance
next week. Raw sugar was up 6.9 percent this week at 27.95 cents
a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York as of the close on Nov.
24, after falling 0.2 percent last week. Trading was shut
yesterday for the Thanksgiving holiday.  “The recent price increase in raw sugar appears to be
supported by a 29 percent year-on-year decline in sugar
production in Maharashtra” due to “heavy rains causing delays
to harvest,” Barclays Capital analyst  Xin Yi Chen  wrote
yesterday in a report. This “may prompt the Indian government
to defer its decision to allow exports.”  Prices surged this month to the highest level in at least
29 years on concern that supplies from Brazil and India may be
too low to meet demand. Brazil is the world’s largest sugar
producer.  Production in Maharashtra, India’s largest producing region
of refined sugar, dropped 29 percent from Oct. 1 to Nov. 20 as
rains slowed harvests, the Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar
Factories Federation Ltd. told Bloomberg on Nov. 22. About 5
million tons of cane has been crushed, 20 percent less than a
year earlier, managing director  Prakash Naiknavare  said.  K.V. Thomas, a junior farm minister, had already said on
Nov. 15 that India will be “cautious” on ending export
limitations to ensure domestic supplies are adequate.  Premium to Widen?  “Sugar appears to want to set a bottom here” and move
higher, said  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Price Futures
Group Inc. in Chicago. “Talk of good demand and light offers in
the market seem to be the fundamental driving force. Whites
should probably gain on raw if the demand talk is true.”  All nine survey respondents also said white, or refined,
sugar traded in London will gain. White sugar for March delivery
was at $716 a metric ton at 4:45 p.m. yesterday on NYSE Liffe,
up 5.4 percent for the week.  White sugar’s premium over raw sweetener probably will
widen, according to six of nine people surveyed. Two estimated
it will narrow, and one forecast little change.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  