-- Switzerland Votes on Nationwide Minimum Tax Rate for Top Earners, Wealthy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-11-26T07:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/switzerland-votes-on-nationwide-minimum-tax-rate-for-top-earners-wealthy.html
Swiss voters will decide this
weekend whether to increase taxes for the nation’s top
earners, risking the country’s reputation as a low-tax refuge
for well-paid and wealthy residents.  Voters will decide on Nov. 28 whether to enact minimum
taxes on income and wealth. The initiative was started by the
 Social Democratic Party . A poll conducted among 1,207 people
between Nov. 8 and Nov. 13 by  gfs.bern  showed that 46 percent
favor the proposal, while 39 percent said they oppose it. The
poll had a margin of error of 2.9 percentage points.  In Switzerland, 26 cantons are competing for the wealthy by
offering low income-tax rates. This puts middle-income families
at a disadvantage as they aren’t offered those favorable rates,
the Social Democrats say. In addition, the country’s densely
populated cantons such as Zurich can’t afford to offer low tax
rates as they bear higher costs for infrastructure than smaller
cantons such as Schwyz or Obwalden.  “The measure would curb this detrimental tax
competition,” the Social Democrats said on the campaign’s
 website.  The current system “jeopardizes national solidarity
and only has a few winners: the rip-off artists and the super-
rich who can relocate to where they get the best offers at any
time.”  The Alpine country’s reputation as a low-tax haven has
attracted foreigners like  Ingvar Kamprad , the Swedish founder of
Ikea AB furniture stores, and members of the Brenninkmeijer
family who owns retailer C&A Group.  Tax Burden  Residents would have to pay at least 22 percent tax on
annual taxable income higher than 250,000 francs ($249,000),
according to the proposal. In municipalities in 15 cantons, this
so-called marginal tax rate on income is lower than the 22
percent envisaged by the Social Democrats.  The tax burden of a resident in Freienbach in the Swiss
canton Schwyz with an annual taxable income of 500,000 francs
would increase by 36,111 francs to 130,675 francs if Swiss
voters approved the initiative, according to calculations by
Stefan Hostettler, a tax expert with the Social Democrats.  About 1 percent of all taxpayers had an annual taxable
income of more than 250,000 francs in 2007, according to the
Swiss Federal Tax Authorities. A taxable income of 250,000
francs corresponds to a gross income of about 320,000 francs,
Andrea Sprecher, a member of the Social Democrats told Bloomberg
News by telephone.  The campaign also wants to impose a marginal tax rate of at
least 0.5 percent on wealth higher than 2 million Swiss francs.  Cantons’ Autonomy  Switzerland’s  government  and parliament have rejected the
initiative, saying it interferes with the cantons’ tax-autonomy
regulations. The changes may also harm the country’s
attractiveness, the government, led by President Doris Leuthard,
said before the vote.  Swiss newspaper  SonntagsZeitung  reported on Nov. 14 that
executives were threatening to leave the country if voters
approved the new tax system. If the proposal passes, the measure
would automatically become part of the country’s tax code.  In a separate decision, voters will decide on a proposal by
the Swiss People’s Party on whether to automatically expel
foreigners who have committed a crime. According to the
 campaigners , the automatic expulsion would take place in cases
where foreigners have been convicted of murder, rape, robbery,
human trafficking, drug dealing or burglary.  The initiative aims to limit the discretion Swiss cantons
have in deciding whether to expel foreigners convicted of one of
these crimes.  Switzerland’s government and parliament also rejected this
proposal, saying it is against international law. The parliament
submitted a counterproposal saying criminals should be expelled
when the usual sentence is one year or more or if they had been
sentenced previously to a minimum of two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  