-- U.K. to Review Retail Energy Market After Price Rises
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-11-26T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/u-k-s-ofgem-to-review-retail-energy-market-over-safeguards.html
Ofgem, the U.K.’s energy regulator,
said it plans to review the effectiveness of the retail energy
market following recent price increases by three out of six of
the country’s major utilities.  Retail margins for supplying a typical, standard tariff,
dual-fuel customer will widen to 90 pounds ($141.35) for the
year from December 2010, from 65 pounds in September, the
regulator said in a statement today. Ofgem said it plans to
investigate the retail accounts of utilities to make sure the
market is working in the interests of consumers.  “The energy retail market can only be fully effective if
consumers have confidence that the market is transparent and
easy to take part in,” Ofgem Chief Executive Officer  Alistair Buchanan  said in a statement today.  British Gas, a unit of Centrica Plc, the country’s biggest
energy supplier, became the second utility to announce an
increase in natural gas and electricity prices of 7 percent,
following a 9.4 percent increase in household gas prices by
Scottish & Southern Energy Plc. Last week, Iberdrola SA’s
Scottish Power said it would increase gas prices by 2 percent
and electricity prices by 8.9 percent.  “There is a glut of gas available to see us through the
winter months so the recent price rises from suppliers are
completely unwarranted,”  Alastair Hutson , a risk analyst at
energy and carbon management specialists Utilyx, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Energy Efficiency  Margins on residential energy sales in the second half of
2010 will be between 3 and 4 percent on average, Centrica said
in a statement today citing analysts.  “Ofgem’s figures do not take account of the continued and
growing impact of energy efficiency on customers’ bills,”
Centrica said. British Gas consumers use 25 percent less gas
today than in 2006, the Windsor, England-based company said.  Electricite de France SA has frozen current prices through
March 2011. E.ON AG and RWE’s Npower unit haven’t announced
pricing decisions.  “So long as the government accepts the existence of a
vertically integrated business model for energy suppliers, they
must also accept that at times of low upstream prices and
generation spreads that retail margins will expand to
compensate,” Citigroup Inc. analyst  Peter Atherton  said in a
note to investors today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  