-- FTSE 100 Index Declines; Mining Companies Fall on Korea, China Concerns
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-26T17:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/u-k-stocks-drop-mining-companies-fall-on-korea-china-concerns.html
U.K. stocks fell, extending a third
straight weekly loss for the FTSE 100 Index, as banks retreated
amid mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis is spreading and
as tensions between North and South Korea escalated.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc 
and Barclays Plc all tumbled more than 3 percent, pacing a
selloff in European lenders. Antofagasta Plc led a  gauge of
metal producers  down 1.9 percent as copper, zinc and lead
declined in London. Centrica lost 2.6 percent as Britain’s
energy regulator announced a review of the retail energy market.  The benchmark  FTSE 100  slid 0.5 percent to 5,668.7 at the
4.30 p.m. close in London, bringing its decline this week to 1.1
percent. The gauge had rallied for the previous two days as
Ireland unveiled a four-year deficit-cutting plan. The broader
 FTSE All-Share Index  also lost 0.5 percent today, while
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 0.5 percent as officials race to
completely a deal for an international aid package before the
markets open next week.  “Ongoing geopolitical anxieties continue to put investors
off,” said London-based  Anthony Grech , head of research at IG
Index. “The euro finds itself under siege as fears that the
European bailout crisis will intensify. The other elephant in
the room is Korea.”  The FTSE 100 has fallen 3.5 percent since reaching the
highest level in more than two-years on Nov. 5 amid concern the
sovereign-debt crisis will spread from Ireland to southern
Europe and speculation China will raise interest rates to tame
inflation. Stocks extended losses on Nov. 23 after North Korea
shelled a South Korean island.  Lloyds, Barclays  RBS dropped 5.3 percent to 38.69 pence as the cost of
insuring Portuguese and Spanish government debt against default
climbed to record levels, according to data provider CMA. Lloyds
retreated 4.4 percent to 61.85 pence and Barclays declined 3.2
percent to 259.8 pence.  The Financial Times Deutschland reported that euro-area
policy makers are pushing the country to tap a 750 billion-euro
($993 billion) bailout fund. Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said the European Union can’t impose a bailout on
Portugal even as speculation mount it will eventually have to
ask for one.  Antofagasta, owner of Chilean copper mines, fell 3.8
percent to 1,325 pence as base metals retreated.  Vedanta
Resources Plc  declined 3.2 percent to 2,075 pence as Standard &
Poor’s said it may lower its credit rating for the copper
producer if its bid for a controlling stake in Cairn India Ltd.
is approved.  Rio Tinto Group  lost 2.1 percent to 4,179 pence.  Escalated Confrontation  Copper fell after North Korea said “escalated
confrontation” will lead to war. The dollar hit a seven-week
high against the yen on concerns the conflict in the Korean
peninsula could worsen, raising the demand for relatively safe
assets.  Separately, the Shanghai Futures Exchange, where the
world’s top three metals contracts are traded, said yesterday it
will increase margins and daily price-move limits in the latest
move by China to curb speculation and cool inflation.  Centrica, the U.K.’s largest energy supplier, lost 2.6
percent to 316 pence. Ofgem said it plans to review the
effectiveness of the retail energy market following recent price
increases by three out of six of the U.K.’s major utilities.  Bowleven, BT  Bowleven Plc dropped 3.9 percent to 325 pence after the
company raised 72 million pounds in a share sale to finance
drilling in offshore Cameroon.  BT Group Plc  paced advancing shares, jumping 4.4 percent to
174.2 pence after Exane BNP Paribas raised its price estimate
for the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company by 20 percent to
265 pence. Analysts also raised their earnings forecasts for the
company following a “strong first-half performance,” according
to a report sent to clients.  Separately, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., India’s largest maker
of sport-utility vehicles, said it agreed to buy an additional
5.5 percent stake in software-services provider  Tech Mahindra
Ltd . from BT.  Ocado Group Plc rallied 4.1 percent to 151 pence, matching
yesterday’s advance. The online grocer jumped after the Daily
Mail reported that William Morrison Supermarkets Plc may make an
offer for the company. Spokespeople from Ocado and Morrison
declined to comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 