-- U.S. Aircraft Carrier Group Enters Korea Seas as War Talk Rattles Market
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-11-27T19:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/u-s-aircraft-carrier-group-enters-korea-seas-as-war-talk-rattles-market.html
The U.S. and South Korea were set to
begin naval exercises in the waters west of the Korean Peninsula
today, a show of force that North Korea warned would bring the
region to the “brink of war.”  U.S. Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said the U.S. is trying to prevent the tensions over
North Korea’s attack on a South Korean island on the disputed
maritime border from escalating into a more significant
confrontation.  “We’re very focused on restraint and not letting this
thing get out of control,” Mullen told CNN in an interview
scheduled for broadcast today on “Fareed Zakaria GPS” and
posted on the network’s Website. “Nobody wants this thing to
turn into a conflict.”  North Korea’s shelling of Yeonpyeong, which killed four
people and wounded 20 more, raised tensions that flared after an
international inquiry concluded that North Korea torpedoed the
South Korean warship Cheonan in March and more recently
following North Korean claims of advances in its nuclear
program.  The Korean won was Asia’s worst-performing currency against
the dollar Nov. 26 as the conflict continued. The  Kospi  stock
index fell 1.3 percent. The tension also contributed to gains
for the  dollar , which rose the most since August against six
major counterparts.  ‘Defensive’ Drill  The U.S. called the four days of naval drills, which
include the aircraft carrier USS George Washington and four
smaller warships, “defensive in nature” and said they were
initially planned before the Nov. 23 shelling of Yeonpyeong.  The nuclear-powered carrier, which holds about 85 aircraft
and is served by a crew of 6,500, was last in waters off the
Korean Peninsula in July as part of drills after the Cheonan’s
sinking, which killed 46 sailors.  Kim Jong Il ’s regime warned that any infringement of North
Korea’s sovereignty would spark another attack.  “Escalated confrontation would lead to a war,” a North
Korean government agency in charge of relations with South Korea
said in a statement on the state-run Korean Central News Agency.
“Gone are the days when verbal warnings are served only.”  Shipping was warned to avoid an area of the Yellow Sea
parallel to China’s northeastern city of Qingdao while gunnery
exercises take place from Nov. 29 to Dec. 3, according to the
 National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency . Qingdao lies about 615
kilometers west of Seoul.  China’s Involvement  China’s Foreign Ministry warned against having the
exercises in China’s “exclusive economic zone” without its
authorization, Xinhua News Agency reported.  The Pentagon reiterated that the U.S. military notified
China of the planned exercise, as it has in the past.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , along with Japan’s Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ,
have called on China to use its influence to temper North
Korea’s actions. China is North Korea’s main economic and
political benefactor.  China has the most leverage with North Korea and “it’s
really important that Beijing lead here,” Mullen said.  North Korea’s actions destabilize the region, “and China
has as much to lose as anybody in that region with the
continuation of this kind of behavior,” he said.  The shelling of the island, which has a military base and a
civilian fishing community, was the first attack of its kind
since the 1950-1953 Korean War, which ended with an armistice
rather than a treaty.  Main Enemy  South Korea is considering reinstating North Korea as the
“main enemy” in its defense guidelines, Yonhap News reported
yesterday, citing a government official it didn’t identify. The
term may be restored in a Defense White Paper following North
Korea’s artillery attack, the Korean-language news agency said.  Lee appointed former Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Kim
Kwan Jin, 61, to replace Defense Minister  Kim Tae Young , who
quit amid criticism that the military’s response to the shelling
was inadequate.  Lee wants to “reconstitute the military policy
landscape,” said Jasper Kim, an associate professor at Ewha
Womans University’s Graduate School of International Studies in
Seoul. “The current Lee Myung Bak administration was already
hawkish, but now it’s entered into a hyper-hawkish foreign
policy mode.”  Russia’s Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  and his Chinese
counterpart  Yang Jiechi  urged prevention of further escalation
on the peninsula and vowed to “work toward easing the tension
between the two Korean parties as well as resuming the six-party
talks” during a telephone call yesterday, according to an e-
mailed statement from the Russian ministry.  The western sea border, demarcated by the UN after the war
and never accepted by North Korea, was the scene of deadly naval
skirmishes in 1999 and 2002.  North Korea contends the border should have been drawn
further south in order to include Yeonpyeong and four
neighboring islands as part of its territory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  