-- U.S. Stocks Decline on Dollar Gains, European Debt Concerns, Korea Clashes
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-26T19:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-on-europe-debt-escalating-korea-tensions.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for the third time in four days,
as a stronger dollar weighed on commodity prices and banks
declined amid mounting concern about Europe’s debt crisis and
escalating tensions in Korea.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  and Halliburton Co.
dropped at least 2.2 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley lost more than 1.6 percent.  Ford Motor Co.  led car
companies to the only gain among 24 groups in the S&P 500 after
the automaker said it opened 40 dealerships in China.  Del Monte
Foods Co.  rallied 4.7 percent as a KKR & Co.-led group agreed to
buy the company in a $4 billion deal.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.8 percent to close at 1,189.40 as of 1
p.m. in New York, extending its weekly drop to 0.9 percent.
Markets were open for half a day following the Thanksgiving
holiday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average retreated 95.28 points,
or 0.9 percent, to 11,092. Trading volume today on U.S.
exchanges totaled 2.81 billion shares, a 38 percent drop from a
year ago, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg . Average daily
trading volume this year has been 8.7 billion.  “There’s some risk aversion going on,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of
Holland & Co. in New York. “You have a global selloff caused by
two elements which are significant -- the nervousness in Korea
and the European debt situation. Many people are away after the
Thanksgiving holiday. The path of least resistance is down.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen 3 percent since reaching a two-year
high on Nov. 5 amid concern the sovereign-debt crisis will
spread to southern Europe and speculation China will raise
interest rates to tame inflation. Stocks extended losses on Nov.
23 after North Korea shelled a South Korean island.  Global Stocks  Almost $2 trillion has been erased from global equities in
the past three weeks as traders speculated Ireland’s debt crisis
will spread to other European countries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  MSCI World Index  fell for the third
time this week and the cost of insuring against defaults by
Portugal, Spain and Ireland rose to records.  European stocks fell after S&P cut  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. 
to junk on concern Ireland may withdraw support for the bank,
which is considered “of lower systemic importance,” the
ratings company said in a statement.  Portugal’s parliament approved a budget proposal for next
year that includes the deepest spending cuts in more than three
decades.  Spain , which has the euro region’s third-highest
deficit, says it won’t adopt new measures to protect itself from
Europe’s worsening debt crisis after cutting the central
government’s budget gap by almost 50 percent and lowering
regional spending.  ‘Escalated Confrontation’  Global stocks also fell after North Korea warned that any
“escalated confrontation” would lead to war. North Korea is
“ready to give a shower of dreadful fire and blow up the
bulwark of the enemies,” according to a KCNA statement today.  “That’s all bad for investors’ psychology,” said  Jason Pride , director of investment strategy at Glenmede in
Philadelphia, which manages $19 billion. “It’s a global move.
Of course, the fact that trading volumes in the U.S. are light
is something that does not help. We’re hitting some bumps. There
will be enhanced volatility.”  The benchmark measure of U.S. stock options surged 14
percent to 22.22. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, rallied 23 percent this week, the
biggest jump since May. The gauge, which measures the cost of
using options to protect against S&P 500 declines, is still down
by more than half from this year’s peak of 45.79 in May.  Dollar Gains  Raw materials prices slid as the dollar rose, reducing the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment. The dollar
climbed to two-months high against the yen and euro on concerns
the conflict in the Korean peninsula and Europe’s debt crisis
could worsen.  Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer,
declined 2.8 percent to $97.92. Halliburton, the second-largest
oilfield-services provider, fell 2.2 percent to $36.56.  Financial stocks had the third-biggest drop among 10 S&P
500 groups, following a decline of European bank shares.
JPMorgan lost 1.7 percent to $37.50, and  Morgan Stanley  fell 1.8
percent to $24.70.  Car companies had the only gain in the S&P 500 among 24
industries, while retailers had the fourth-best performance as
shoppers crowded stores for Black Friday, the biggest shopping
day of the year.  Ford  climbed 0.9 percent to $16.10. The automaker opened 40
dealerships in China yesterday and plans to add another 26 by
yearend as it aims for record sales in the world’s largest auto
market. GameStop Corp. gained 0.7 percent to $20.50.  Del Monte  jumped 4.7 percent to $18.83 after the company
yesterday said KKR, Vestar Capital Partners and Centerview
Partners will pay $19 a share in cash for the maker of canned
fruit. That would be 21 percent higher than the closing price on
Nov. 18, the day before takeover talks were reported. The buyers
will assume about $1.3 billion in net debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 