-- UBS Bets on Hires to Reverse 4-Year Low in Europe M&A Rankings
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-11-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/ubs-bets-on-hires-to-reverse-4-year-low-in-europe-m-a-rankings.html
UBS AG  is betting on more than 170
investment-banking hires to help it return to the top in
European mergers advisory after the Swiss bank slipped to its
lowest level in four years.  The bank, which added 168 people in its investment banking
department this year, has plans to add a few more senior bankers
in Europe, according to  Liam Beere , co-head of M&A in Europe,
the Middle East and Africa. Among this year’s additions were 10
senior bankers in Europe, including country heads in Russia and
Spain and a senior investment-banker in France, he said.  “We have made a number of excellent hires,” said Beere in
an interview in London. “We are feeling confident about 2011
and are well positioned to benefit from an improvement in the
M&A market.”  UBS has fallen to sixth in European M&A this year after
finishing No. 1 two years ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The drop stems in part from a series of departures at
UBS, which had more than $57 billion of writedowns and losses
from the credit crisis. UBS’s investment-banking revenue,
including advisory and underwriting, was the lowest among its
eight largest rivals in the first nine months of 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from company filings.  Financial challenges have hampered UBS’s ability to pay
bankers what is expected in the industry, said  Scott Moeller , a
professor at  Cass Business School  in London and a former
investment banker at Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.  Banker Defections  UBS lost a group of health-care investment bankers, led by
 Benjamin Lorello , to  Jefferies Group Inc.  after its total 2008
bonus pool was slashed by 78 percent.  Stephen Trauber , UBS’s
global head of energy investment banking, left the bank’s
Houston office in September along with four managing directors
to join  Citigroup Inc.  because of uncertainty about pay.  Dealmakers  Robert Gillespie , who was a vice chairman, and
Rory Tapner, former chief executive officer of UBS’s Asia-
Pacific unit, left in 2009 after more than 25 years each.  UBS, which traces its advisory roots to financier  Siegmund Warburg , has had its lowest year-to-date showing since 2006 in
Europe, the second-biggest market after North America with about
$700 billion of deals this year, Bloomberg data show. In North
America, the bank ranks eighth in mergers advisory this year.  “In Europe and the U.S. there have been problems and the
departure of some bankers has really hurt them,” said  Philip Keevil , a senior partner at investment bank Compass Advisers LLC
and a former head of Citigroup’s European mergers team. “They
have slipped in Europe, which is the home of the Warburg
franchise, all the way back to Siegmund Warburg.”  Bucyrus Deal  Warburg, who founded S.G. Warburg & Co., personified
relationship banking, according to  Niall Ferguson  in his 2010
biography “High Financier.” In the 1950s, Warburg orchestrated
what’s considered Britain’s first hostile-takeover bid and in
the 1960s he was an economic adviser to U.K. Prime Minister
 Harold Wilson . Swiss Bank Corp., one of the predecessor banks to
UBS, bought S.G. Warburg in 1995.  UBS is seventh globally in M&A this year, trailing European
rivals  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Barclays Plc  and U.S. firms
such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  It has advised on $234 billion
worth of global deals including  Bucyrus International Inc.  on
its $7.6 billion  takeover  by  Caterpillar Inc.  announced last
week, according to Bloomberg data.  In Europe this year, UBS advised on Russian
telecommunications company VimpelCom Ltd.’s proposal to merge
with the assets of  Naguib Sawiris ’s Weather Investments SpA and
on Telefonica SA’s deal to buy Portugal Telecom SGPS SA’s stake
in Brazil’s Vivo Participacoes SA.  Asia Leader  The Swiss bank is No. 1 in Asia, the fastest-growing region
for M&A, after advising on transactions including the $10.7
billion sale of Kuwait Mobile Telecommunications Co.’s African
assets to India’s Bharti Airtel Ltd.  Deal activity in Europe has been subdued this year leading
to a drop in the region’s fee pool of more than 20 percent and
leaving less money to pay bonuses, said Beere, who is co-head of
M&A in EMEA with  Pat Guerin .  UBS CEO  Oswald Gruebel  said at an investor briefing in
London last week the bank needs to strike a balance between
building capital, disbursing  dividends  and paying competitively
to retain key employees.  Across the entire investment bank, UBS hired 981 people in
2010 to revamp “intellectual firepower,” said  Carsten Kengeter , CEO of the unit, at the briefing. The 168 hires this
year in the investment-banking department include 44 at the
managing director or executive director level. The majority of
recruitment is complete and the focus in 2011 will be on keeping
talent and getting results, he said.  “If they re-focus their attention on that major group of
European clients and really re-build those relationships for the
long term, then they can start to recover the lost position,”
said Compass Advisers’s Keevil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  