-- Unasur Pledges to Isolate Governments From Coups, Fight Drug Trafficking
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-11-26T22:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/unasur-pledges-to-isolate-governments-from-coups-fight-drug-trafficking.html
Presidents from the Union of South
American Nations, known as  Unasur , agreed to coordinate efforts
to fight drug trafficking and to isolate governments that emerge
from coups, Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  said.  Unasur members met today during the fourth summit in
Georgetown, Guyana, where Correa passed on the temporary
presidency to that country’s President,  Bharrat Jagdeo . The bloc
didn’t propose names for a new secretary general to replace
 Nestor Kirchner , Argentina’s former president who died last
month.  The 12-nation Unasur, formed two years ago in a bid to
bolster regional integration, adopted a charter today that calls
for sanctions on non-democratic regimes. The charter is more
substantial than a similar protocol adopted by the Organization
of American States, Correa told reporters in Georgetown.  “We didn’t limit ourselves to rhetoric,” Correa said.
“The main difference is not in the writing of the document, it
is in the credibility.”  Unasur resolved a political dispute between Colombia and
Venezuela under Kirchner’s leadership and took emergency steps
to show support for Ecuador’s President after protests by police
and members of the military in September left eight dead and 274
wounded in what Correa called a coup attempt.  Unasur’s democratic charter will establish “concrete
sanctions” in the case of a coup against a member country,
including the closing of borders, Correa said.  Organized Crime  The group also created a security council to try and
coordinate the cross-border fight against organized crime in the
region, and called on the U.S. to help in tackling demand for
drugs.  The lower house of Uruguay’s Congress ratified the Unasur
founding treaty yesterday, and the Senate is scheduled to vote
on Nov. 30. Uruguay’s approval would give the bloc a valid
legal framework. The treaty, signed by the presidents in 2008,
needs to be ratified by the legislatures of 9 of the 12
countries to take effect.  Unasur’s next leader will be instrumental in shaping the
future of the group, which is attempting to play a role akin to
the OAS without the involvement of the U.S.,  Chris Sabatini ,
senior policy director at the Council of the Americas in New
York, said.  “It’s really only been, so far, a series of summits and
declarations driven by personalities,” Sabatini said in a phone
interview from New York on Nov. 24. “Clearly, Unasur has
aspirations to become a regional grouping free of the United
States that does what the OAS purports to do, but does it
better. It has to have some sort of life between summits.”  New Secretary  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said that the South
American presidents agreed to meet again in December, in Mar de
Plata, Argentina, to propose names for the next secretary
general.  Brazilian President Luis Inacio  Lula Da Silva , who steps
down on Dec. 31 following the election of his former Cabinet
chief,  Dilma Rousseff , is not interested in heading Unasur, his
spokesman,  Marcelo Baumbach ,  said  on Nov. 23.  Former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet , former Uruguay
President  Tabare Vazquez  and former Argentine Foreign Minister
 Jorge Enrique Taiana  are also potential candidates to replace
Kirchner, Sabatini said.  Kirchner, who became secretary general of Unasur in May,
successfully mediated talks two months later to restore
diplomatic ties between Colombia and Venezuela. On Oct. 1 the
presidents of Unasur member states called an emergency meeting
in Buenos Aires the day after the upheaval in Ecuador.  Kirchner’s Success  Kirchner’s mediation in mending relations between Chavez
and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos was a “political
miracle,” Lula said today, and shows that the group has matured
so that countries with ideological differences can work
together.  “We’ve learned to respect each other and live
democratically in diversity,” Lula said. “Who would have
thought five months ago that Santos and Chavez could have such
harmonious relations? It’s a political miracle.”  Chavez froze ties with former Colombian President Alvaro
Uribe last year in part due to an agreement to allow U.S. troops
access to military bases to combat drug trafficking that Chavez
said was a threat to Venezuelan sovereignty.  The Venezuelan president said today that he hasn’t
discussed the presence of U.S. troops at bases with Santos and
that the relations between the two nations have been
“demilitarized.”  Ecuador’s Correa and Colombia’s Santos also announced at
the summit that the two countries had fully reestablished
diplomatic ties that were severed in March 2008.  With assistance from Helen Murphy in Bogota. Editors:  Harry Maurer ,  Robin Stringer   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in Georgetown at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net  or
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  