-- Unasur Struggles to Find a Successor to Late Argentine President Kirchner
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-11-26T19:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/unasur-struggles-to-find-a-successor-to-late-argentine-president-kirchner.html
The fourth summit of the South
American regional bloc known as Unasur opened with a minute of
applause for the late  Nestor Kirchner , Argentina’s former
president and its last secretary general. The meeting is likely
to end without any clarity over who will lead the group next.  “Of course we want to have a secretary general,” Brazil
Foreign Affairs Minister  Celso Amorim  told reporters in
Georgetown, Guyana today. “We need to choose the right person,
with whom everybody feels comfortable.”  The 12-nation Unasur, formed two years ago in a bid to
bolster regional integration, resolved a political dispute
between Colombia and Venezuela under Kirchner’s leadership, and
took emergency steps to show support for Ecuador’s President
 Rafael Correa  after protests by police and members of the
military left eight dead and 274 wounded in what Correa called a
coup attempt.  Unasur’s next leader will be instrumental in shaping the
future of the group, which is attempting to play a role akin to
the Organization of American States without the involvement of
the U.S.,  Chris Sabatini , senior policy director at the Council
of the Americas in New York, said.  “It’s really only been, so far, a series of summits and
declarations driven by personalities,” Sabatini said in a phone
interview from New York on Nov. 24. “Clearly Unasur has
aspirations to become a regional grouping free of the United
States that does what the OAS purports to do, but does it better.
It has to have some sort of life between summits.”  Lula Award  Guyana President  Bharrat Jagdeo  began the summit of
presidents and foreign affairs ministers for the bloc yesterday
by awarding his Brazilian counterpart Luiz Inacio  Lula da Silva 
the Order of Excellence, the highest distinction in the country
for a head of state.  Lula, who steps down as Brazil’s president on Dec. 31
following the election of his former Cabinet chief,  Dilma Rousseff , is not interested in heading Unasur, his spokesman,
 Marcelo Baumbach ,  said  on Nov. 23.  Former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet , former Uruguay
President  Tabare Vazquez  and former Argentine Foreign Minister
 Jorge Enrique Taiana  are also potential candidates to replace
Kirchner, who died of a heart attack at age 60, Sabatini said.  The lower house of Uruguay’s Congress ratified the Unasur
founding treaty yesterday, and the Senate is scheduled to vote
on Nov. 30. Uruguay’s approval would give the bloc a valid legal
framework. The treaty, signed by the presidents in 2008, needs
to be ratified by the legislatures of 9 of the 12 countries to
take effect.  The group now needs to establish clearer diplomatic
protocols to solidify and expand its activities, Sabatini said.  Kirchner, who became secretary general of Unasur in May,
successfully mediated talks two months later to restore
diplomatic ties between Colombia and Venezuela. On Oct. 1 the
presidents of Unasur member states called an emergency meeting
in Buenos Aires the day after the upheaval in Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in Georgetown at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  