-- Hungary Pension Plan Has `Negative' Medium-Term Impact, Fitch Ratings Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-11-26T14:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/hungary-pension-plan-has-negative-medium-term-impact-fitch-ratings-says.html
Fitch Ratings may cut Hungary’s
credit grade by the end of this year because the government’s
plan to funnel private pension funds to the state may have a
“negative impact” on fiscal sustainability.  Fitch rates Hungary’s debt BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade, with a negative outlook, which means that the
evaluator is more likely to cut the rating than to raise it or
keep it unchanged. The company will make a decision by the end
of this year,  David Heslam , a director at Fitch Ratings in
London, said in a phone interview today.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Cabinet two days ago
approved a plan to strip citizens of state pensions unless they
move their private-pension fund savings to the state. The
government is also levying special taxes on selected industries
until at least 2014 to cut the  budget deficit  below the European
Union limit of 3 percent of economic output next year.  "The reversal of pension reforms has a negative impact on
the medium-term fiscal sustainability of public finances,"
Heslam said, adding that the measure would "reduce the immediate
financing needs" of the government. "We are currently looking at
developments and their medium term implications."  ‘Being Undermined’  Hungary, the first EU member to obtain an  International
Monetary Fund -led bailout in 2008, cut its budget deficit to 4.4
percent of gross domestic product last year from 9.3 percent in
2006. Orban was elected in April on a pledge to end five years
of austerity and boost growth after the worst recession in 18
years. He has pledged narrow the gap to less than 3 percent next
year.  "The fiscal adjustment that has been carried out in Hungary
since 2006 has been significant by EU standards, but recent
announced measures suggest that correction is being undermined
to some degree,’’ Heslam said.  With 3 trillion forint ($14.2 billion) in private pension-
fund assets, Hungary is following the example of Argentina,
which in 2001 confiscated some pension savings before the
country stopped servicing its debt. The government in Buenos
Aires nationalized the $24 billion industry two years ago to
compensate for falling tax revenue after a 2005 debt
restructuring.  The Cabinet in Budapest is also using taxes on the
financial, energy, retail and telecommunication industries to
plug budget holes and fund a reduction in the personal income
tax rate. The government plans to announce spending cuts of as
much as 800 billion forint at the end of February, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said on Nov. 23 without providing
details.  “The initial signals are not particularly encouraging,
with permanent expenditures being funded by temporary tax rises
on utilities and banks,” Heslam said. “We are awaiting full
information of policy as details are made available.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Balazs Penz  at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  