-- Hungary Risks an Exodus of Funds, Investors on Pension Grab, Pioneer Says
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2010-11-26T12:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/hungary-risks-fund-manager-exit-on-pension-grab-pioneer-says.html
Hungary’s plan to take over some
pension assets held by fund management companies will
“frighten” investors and may drive investment firms out of the
country, the head of Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA’s local
unit said.  The government told Hungarians on Nov. 24 to move private-
pension fund assets to government control or lose their state
pension, an ultimatum designed to shift 3 trillion forint ($14.2
billion) of privately managed pension assets.  While the extra funds will move Hungary’s budget into
surplus next year and may drive down government bond yields, the
measure will undermine peoples’ ability to manage their savings,
said  Sandor Vizkeleti , chief executive of Budapest-based Pioneer
Alapkezelo, a unit of  UniCredit SpA .  “It may frighten people who believed in looking after
their own savings that the state can come at any time and alter
the rules, that’s always bad,” Vizkeleti, who is also president
of the country’s fund manager association, Bamosz, said in an
interview yesterday.  Hungary, the first European Union country to obtain an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout during the credit crisis
in 2008, is following the example of Argentina, which in 2001
seized retirement savings by forcing private pension funds to
transfer money to a state bank in exchange for Treasury bills.  Hungary’s Option  The government in Buenos Aires nationalized the $24 billion
industry two years ago to compensate for falling tax revenue
after a 2005 debt restructuring. In Hungary, private fund
members have the option of staying outside the state retirement
system at the cost of giving up 70 percent of their
contributions and the right to a state pension.  Hungary’s government bonds tumbled today, sending five-year
yields to the highest in more than a year. The forint slid as
much as 1.4 percent, the most in seven weeks, and traded 1.2
percent weaker at 280.436 per euro as of 11:40 a.m. in Budapest.
OTP Bank Nyrt. and oil refiner Mol Nyrt. led the BUX gauge of 12
stocks down 3.2 percent to 20,679.11, poised for the lowest
close in five months.  The proposals will hurt fund managers that relied on
pension assets for their profitability, Vizkeleti said.  ‘Very Serious Problem’  “For these managers, it could cause a very serious problem
if, as expected, these pension funds disappear,” he said. “As
a result some may reconsider their operations in Hungary. Some
may leave.”  It may take two to three years for Bamosz members to
recover assets lost from the pension changes, Vizkeleti said.
Members in include units of Munich-based  Allianz SE , Europe’s
biggest insurer, Vienna-based Erste Group Bank AG, eastern
Europe’s second-biggest lender, and OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest bank.  Eszter Szabo, a spokeswoman for the Economy Ministry,
declined to comment.  Since 1998, Hungary has had a three-pillar pension system:
a purely government-run pension, private funds managing
employees’ mandatory pension funds, and voluntary private
pensions.  Apart from the 3 trillion forint in mandatory private
pensions, Bamosz members manage 3.7 trillion forint in
investment funds and 2.8 trillion forint worth of voluntary
pension funds, municipal assets, unit-linked insurance products
and private wealth funds, Vizkeleti said.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban will introduce a flat 16
percent personal income tax next year after cutting the
corporate tax to 10 percent for smaller companies to create jobs
and boost growth after the worst recession in 18 years.  The tax cuts will increase disposable  incomes  and savings,
Vizkeleti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andras Gergely  in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  