-- German Bundesrat to Challenge Merkel Nuclear Plans, Kraft Says
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2010-11-26T09:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/upper-house-set-to-challenge-merkel-s-nuclear-power-extension-kraft-says.html
Members of Germany’s upper house of
parliament, or Bundesrat, are poised to mount a legal challenge
to Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plan to prolong the use of
nuclear power, Bundesrat President  Hannelore Kraft  said.  Lower-house lawmakers passed government bills on Oct. 28 to
permit nuclear plants to run for as many as 14 years longer.
Merkel has opted not to put the extension to the Bundesrat,
where the opposition holds a majority and opposes her plans.  “This is a deal made in the interests of industry and not
in the interests of the people,” Kraft, who is also the prime
minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous
state, said today on ARD television before a meeting of upper-
house lawmakers in Berlin. “We will challenge” the extension
as unconstitutional, she said. The legal challenge “is ready.”  Merkel’s accord with utilities  E.ON AG  and  RWE AG  fulfills
a pledge made during last year’s re-election campaign as a core
element of her policy platform. While public opposition to
nuclear power drove support for the opposition Greens party to a
record last month, Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc is gaining
in polls as she demands fellow euro-area countries tackle debt
to stem the sovereign crisis that forced Ireland to seek aid.  E.ON fell 0.4 percent to 22.63 euros as of 10:50 a.m. in
Frankfurt, while smaller competitor RWE was down 0.7 percent to
48.715 euros. RWE and E.ON, Germany’s two biggest utilities, are
the  worst performers  this year among the 30 stocks in Germany’s
benchmark  DAX index , dropping about 28 percent and 23 percent
respectively.  Bundesrat Role  The Bundesrat, where Germany’s 16 states are represented,
“must be allowed to decide” the future of atomic power, said
Kraft, a member of the opposition Social Democratic Party, which
passed a law in 2002 to phase out nuclear plants when in a
national coalition with the Greens. She and fellow Social
Democratic state premiers are scheduled to hold a press
conference on their plans at 1 p.m. today.  Merkel has said she’s acting within the law and aims to
build a “bridge” to renewable energy, helped by provisions to
be debated in the Bundesrat today that levy 30 billion euros
($40 billion) on utilities over the period of the extension.  “Atomic energy has no future here,” Kraft said. 