-- Erdogan `Hates' Israel in WikiLeaks Disclosure of U.S.-Turkey Discussions
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2010-11-29T16:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/turkey-s-erdogan-proposes-borderless-middle-east-sabah-says.html
U.S. and Israeli diplomats agreed
that the increasingly strained relationship between Turkey and
Israel derives mostly from Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s
hatred of the Jewish state, according to embassy cables posted
by  WikiLeaks.org .  Israeli Ambassador to Turkey Gabby Levy described Erdogan
as a “fundamentalist” who “hates us religiously” in a 2009
meeting with U.S. Ambassador  James F. Jeffrey  in Ankara,
according to a cable sent from the U.S. embassy on Oct. 27 that
year and released by WikiLeaks.  “Our discussions with contacts both inside and outside of
the Turkish government on Turkey’s deteriorating relations with
Israel tend to confirm Levy’s thesis that Erdogan simply hates
Israel,” the U.S. embassy said.  Erdogan has been critical of Israel since its military
operation in Gaza that began in December 2008, which the Turkish
premier called “a crime against humanity.” Ties reached a low
after Israeli commandos killed nine Turks in a raid on an aid
ship headed for the Gaza Strip in May.  Levy said he was urged by Turkish officials to put up with
Erdogan’s criticisms of Israel since they were “for domestic
political consumption,” and received a message from Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  telling him that “things will get
better,” according to the cable.  Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor  declined to
comment on the document. Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said the
WikiLeaks publications are under examination and it’s too early
to comment.  Deborah Guido, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in
Ankara, declined to comment on the documents. She said
diplomatic cables usually represent “candid assessments”
reflecting the writer’s own views that are often rapidly
overtaken by events.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Benjamin Harvey  at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 