-- Hussey's 81 Lifts Australia to 220-5 in Reply to England's 260 in Ashes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-26T09:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/hussey-s-81-lifts-australia-to-220-5-in-reply-to-england-s-260-in-ashes.html
Mike Hussey  hit 81 not out to lift
Australia to 220-5 in reply to England’s 260 before bad
weather cut play short on day two of the series-opening Ashes
cricket Test in Brisbane.  Left-hander Hussey, who came in with Australia struggling
on 100-3 at the Gabba, struck 13 fours and one six in his 144-
ball innings to lead a sixth-wicket recovery with  Brad Haddin ,
who is unbeaten on 22.  The pair shared an unbroken 77-run stand, the second
highest of the match, to take Australia to within 40 runs of
England’s first-innings total after the touring team rallied
with four wickets in the middle session.  “The game’s really interestingly poised, it’s pretty
tight and probably 50-50 at the moment,” Hussey said at a
news conference. “The first hour or two hours tomorrow might
be the pivotal point of the match.”  Play was abandoned with 17 overs left because of bad
light and a rain shower that soaked the bowlers’ run ups. The
third day will start half an hour early at 9.30 a.m. to make
up time.  Hussey, who sealed his place in the team last week with a
century in domestic cricket amid media reports he could be
dropped, will resume 19 runs short of his 12th Test hundred.
He last reached triple-figures in January against Pakistan.  Speculation  “In the lead up there was plenty of speculation,”
Hussey said. “I was trying to block it out as much as I could,
but until you are named in that final 11 players you’re still
a bit nervous.”  After reaching 96-1 at lunch to gain control of the
series opener, Australia collapsed to 168-5 at tea. Steven
Finn took two wickets in the middle session and  James Anderson 
and  Graeme Swann  snared one each.  Anderson removed Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  for 10
in the second ball after the interval when the batsman edged a
leg-side delivery to wicketkeeper  Matt Prior .  Simon Katich 
brought up his 25th half-century in Tests with a boundary
before getting caught and bowled by Finn as Australia lost two
wickets for four runs to be 100-3.  Hussey then edged his first delivery off Finn, though the
ball landed just short of Swann at second slip. He went on to
counterattack either side of the afternoon drinks break with
four boundaries off successive overs from spinner Swann, the
world’s No. 2 ranked Test bowler.  Yard Short  “It would have been nice had it carried another yard,”
Finn told reporters. “He’s obviously a very good player, he
averages over 50 in Test match cricket. We need to bowl to our
plans to make sure that he doesn’t get too many more.”  Prior claimed his 100th Test dismissal when  Michael Clarke  top-edged a Finn delivery on 9 to leave Australia at
140-4.  Marcus North  lasted just 8 balls before edging a Swann
delivery to  Paul Collingwood , who took a low catch at slip.  Anderson got England’s only breakthrough of the morning
when opener  Shane Watson  edged to England skipper  Andrew Strauss . Australia’s openers had taken the score to 59-0 in
the first hour after resuming at 25 without loss.  England’s last Ashes series victory on Australian soil
was in 1986-87. Australia has only lost two home series since
that defeat to  Mike Gatting ’s England team.  Last year’s series in the U.K. was decided on the final
day as England sealed a 2-1 victory. Finn said he expects
another closely fought contest.  “It was billed as a very even series before we came into
it,” Finn said. “Seeing the nature of the way wickets have
fallen and the clusters in which they have done so, it’s going
to ebb and flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Brisbane through the Sydney newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  