-- Western Potash in Talks With China Investors
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-26T21:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/western-potash-says-it-s-talking-with-china-investors-on-milestone-project.html
Western Potash Corp. , a Canadian
explorer for the fertilizer, is in preliminary talks with
potential investors in China to fund development of its
Milestone potash project in Saskatchewan.  The Vancouver-based company said yesterday in a statement
it was “in discussions with third parties who have expressed
significant interest in participating in the company and the
project.”  “We definitely are talking to various entities in China,”
Chief Executive Officer  Patricio Varas  said in a telephone
interview, declining to name the potential investors.  Canadian mineral explorers are competing for capital amid
heightened international interest in potash, a form of potassium
used by farmers to boost crop yields and protect plants from
disease.  K+S AG , Europe’s largest potash producer, said Nov. 22 it
agreed to buy Vancouver-based Potash One Inc. for C$434 million
($426 million) to expand its fertilizer reserves. Vale SA, the
world’s second-largest nickel producer, said last week it is
studying a $2.5 billion to $3 billion project to produce 2.9
million metric tons of potash annually in Saskatchewan.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , based in Melbourne, this month withdrew
its $40 billion bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the
world’s largest fertilizer company, after the Canadian
government blocked the takeover.  China is the world’s second-largest importer of potash
after the U.S., according to 2008 data compiled by the Canadian
government.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  Western Potash said in its statement it retained Lockwood
Financial of Montreal to help advance “a variety of strategic
alternatives designed to fast track” Milestone.  The company plans to raise C$30 million to C$50 million by
April as shareholders exercise warrants and the company
considers a sale of equity through “something like a private
placement,” Varas said in the interview yesterday.  Early estimates suggest Milestone contains about 170
million tons of potash, which would provide annual output of as
much as 2.7 million tons, Varas said. The mine, 30 kilometers
(18.6 miles) southeast of Regina, Saskatchewan’s capital, will
have a life of 40 years, according to the company’s  website .  Western Potash was unchanged at C$1.20 at 3:59 p.m. on the
TSX Venture Exchange trading in Toronto.  The shares  have more
than doubled this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 