-- Woori Finance Employee Group to Submit Bid for S. Korean Government Stake
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-26T06:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/woori-finance-employee-group-to-submit-bid-for-s-korean-government-stake.html
Woori Finance Holdings Co.  employees
plan to submit a preliminary bid for the company today as the
South Korean government tries to sell a stake in the nation’s
largest financial company by assets.  “We’ll bid for entire the 57 percent stake, including
Kyungnam and Kwangju Bank units,” said Kim Hong Dall, a
managing director at Woori Finance, said in a phone interview
from Seoul. Today is the deadline for investors to officially
express bidding interest for the government’s holding.  State-run  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. , Woori’s largest
shareholder, plans to sell its stake as South Korean President
 Lee Myung Bak  privatizes companies to make them more competitive.
Hana Financial Group Inc., which earlier showed an interest in
Woori, dropped its bid yesterday and agreed to buy a controlling
stake in Korea Exchange Bank from Lone Star Funds, prompting
speculation that Woori’s sale may be delayed.  “After the most likely candidate, Hana, turned to KEB, I
think this round of bidding may not proceed well,” said  Lee Chang Wook , a banking analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities
Co. in Seoul. “The whole privatization plan is likely to be
adrift for while.”  Woori fell 0.7 percent to 14,350 won at the 3 p.m. close in
Seoul, valuing the government’s stake at about 6.6 trillion won
($5.7 billion).  Looking for Partners  The employees’ group, led by Kim, is talking to domestic
and overseas investors to help fund an offer, he said without
identifying them. “We’ve secured enough investors for the
purchase even if the stock price goes up,” he said.  KT Corp., South Korea’s largest phone company, is
considering joining the group’s bid, KT spokesman Lee In Won
said by phone today.  Posco , the nation’s largest steelmaker, may
also join, according to spokesman Chung Jae Woong.  The Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-
equity firm, has submitted a competing bid for Woori, Korean-
language online newspaper MoneyToday reported today without
saying where it got the information.  Dorothy Lee , a spokeswoman
for Carlyle, declined to comment.  The actual size of the Woori Finance stake to be sold will
be determined later and parties interested in Woori’s Kyongnam
Bank and Kwangju Bank units must bid for more than 50 percent of
the provincial lenders’ shares or merge with them, the Korea
Deposit said on Oct. 29.  Shortlist  The Financial Services Commission, South Korea’s financial
regulator which is leading the sale, said on Oct. 11 it aims to
have a shortlist of bidders for the government’s stake by the
end of the year and name a preferred bidder in the first quarter
of 2011. Woori’s Kyongnam Bank and Kwangju Bank units may be
sold separately, the FSC said in July.  Investors who express interest in buying the stake will be
required to submit a more detailed proposal by year-end, FSC
spokesman  Ernst Lee  said.  Woori Finance was created in 2001 as a holding company for
banks that the government rescued following the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 and 1998, when South Korea received a $57 billion
bailout from the International Monetary Fund. The government
spent 12.8 trillion won to aid Woori and has recouped 5.3
trillion won so far though block sales of shares.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Samsung Securities Co.  and Daewoo
Securities Co. were hired in September to help Korea Deposit
sell its stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  