-- Zloty Falls to Four-Month Low as Bonds Drop on Europe Debt, Fitch Comments
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-11-26T12:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/zloty-weakens-to-near-three-month-low-bonds-tumble-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Poland’s zloty dropped to the lowest
in four months and local-currency bonds tumbled amid concern
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening, diminishing appetite for
assets of the country that Fitch Ratings yesterday called on to
narrow its deficit. The nation’s stocks sank.  The zloty slid 1.6 percent to 4.0441 per euro as of 12:47
p.m. in Warsaw, the weakest intraday level since July 26. The
decline was the biggest among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on  10-year bonds  rose
11 basis points to 6.18 percent, the highest since January. The
benchmark  WIG20 Index  of equities sank 2.1 percent to 2,611.77
as financial shares and commodity producers slumped. A drop of
that magnitude at the close would be the biggest since Aug. 24.  The euro weakened and global stocks retreated after the
Financial Times Deutschland reported that euro-area policy
makers are pushing Portugal to seek assistance from a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) bailout fund. Bonds of European
countries with the largest budget deficits tumbled as Ireland
this week turned to the European Union and International
Monetary Fund for a Greek-style aid package.  “Now that the debt crisis in the Eurozone has returned to
the radar screens of the markets, the financial policy in Poland
is also attracting more attention again,” Commerzbank AG
analysts led by  Ulrich Leuchtmann  in Frankfurt wrote in a note
to clients. “While risk aversion remains high, the zloty is
expected to remain under pressure.”  Samurai Abandonment  Fitch said yesterday Poland needs to cut its deficit to
prevent “negative pressure building” on its creditworthiness.
A widening of the country’s  general government deficit  to 7.9
percent of gross domestic product this year from 7.2 percent in
2009 has “weakened the credibility of Poland’s fiscal
forecasts,” according to the statement.  Poland abandoned plans to sell Samurai bonds this year
because of the “volatile debt market” following Ireland’s
fiscal crisis, Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said
yesterday. The country has raised the equivalent of $9.44
billion from the sale of international bonds this year, the
largest amount for any year since 2005.  “There is a lot of fear in the market place,”  Luis Costa ,
emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by phone
from London. “We are seeing some reallocation from countries
that have been the biggest recipients of fixed-income flows
recently as some managers are heading for the hills.”  Deficit  Foreign investors bought more domestic debt through the end
of September than in the previous five full years, increasing
their bond holdings to a record 123.6 billion zloty ($40.5
billion), public debt department head  Piotr Marczak  said Oct.
29.  The selling of the zloty, which has lost 2.8 percent this
week, is “bond-related,” BNP Paribas SA emerging-market
strategists led by  Bartosz Pawlowski  in London wrote in a note
to clients. The currency is poised for the biggest one-week
decline since the five days ended May 7.  Poland’s deficit has widened to more than double the
European Union’s 3 percent limit even as the economy avoided
recession through the credit crisis.  Shares of  Bank Pekao SA , controlled by UniCredit SpA,
retreated 3 percent to 175.5 zloty and  PKO Bank Polski SA ,
Poland’s biggest lender, lost 3 percent to 42.35 zloty.  PKN
Orlen SA , Poland’s biggest oil company, declined 1.9 percent to
44.03 zloty as oil fell on concern Ireland’s debt crisis will
spread to Portugal and Spain, limiting economic growth and
diminishing fuel demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  