-- Zoomlion's $1 Billion Hong Kong Stock Offer Said to Win Exchange Approval
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-11-26T12:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-26/zoomlion-is-said-to-win-hong-kong-share-sale-approval-may-seek-1-billion.html
Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Development Co.  won approval from the Hong
Kong stock exchange for a share sale that may raise more than $1
billion, two people familiar with the matter said.  The company, which makes cranes, cement mixers and fire
trucks, aims to start trading in Hong Kong as early as next
month, said the people, who declined to be identified before an
announcement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Morgan Stanley  are among
banks managing the offering, the people said.  Zoomlion, based in Changsha, central China, has jumped 37
percent this year in Shenzhen trading as the nation’s spending
on new roads, factories and houses stoke demand for construction
equipment. The company plans to pursue a Hong Kong listing after
Bluestar Adisseo Nutrition Group and China Datang Corp. withdrew
or delayed sales set to raise a combined total of as much as
$2.6 billion amid falling share prices.  “The IPO frenzy is losing momentum,” said  Michiya Tomita ,
a Hong Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees $65 billion globally. “The
market is concerned about the Korea peninsula, China’s
tightening and Europe’s debt problem,”  Zhan Chunxin , Zoomlion’s chairman, wasn’t immediately
available to comment to calls made to his office in Changsha
city, Hunan province.  Scott Sapp , a spokesman for Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., declined to comment.  Zoomlion  fell 1.9 percent to 14.23 yuan at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Shenzhen. The company has received approval from
the China Securities Regulatory Commission to sell shares in
Hong Kong, according to a Nov. 21 Shenzhen Stock Exchange
filing.  Bluestar, Datang  Bluestar Adisseo, the animal-nutrition producer backed by
Blackstone Group LP, withdrew its IPO this week because of
“continued and excessive” market volatility. Datang delayed a
roadshow for a share sale of its renewable-energy unit because
of market conditions, said two people with knowledge of the plan
who declined to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has slumped 8.4 percent from
Nov. 8, its highest this year, after China stepped up measures
to contain inflation and Ireland accepted a European Union-led
bailout. Hong Kong IPOs have raised a record $44 billion this
year, with companies including Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
and AIA Group Ltd. selling stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg that exclude overallotment options.  Sateri, Greatview  Sateri Holdings Ltd.  and Greatview Aseptic Packaging Co.
said at separate media briefings in Hong Kong this week that
they are pushing ahead with IPO plans. Sateri, a Chinese
cellulose maker, is seeking $600 million and plans to price its
stock on Dec. 2 and start trading on Dec. 8, according to its
prospectus. Greatview, a beverage-packaging company based in
Beijing, is seeking about $214 million.  Zoomlion , which generated more than 90 percent of sales in
China last year, boosted third-quarter net income 45 percent to
924 million yuan. The company has factories in Shanghai, Hunan,
Shaanxi and Guangdong in China, as well as in Milan.  Sany Heavy Equipment International Holdings Co. , which
makes cranes and construction equipment, has risen 26 percent in
Hong Kong this year, compared with a 4.6 percent gain for the
Hang Seng Index. The company trades at about 29 times estimated
earnings for next year.  China’s  urban fixed-asset investment  rose 24.4 percent in
the first 10 months of 2010 from a year earlier, according to
the nation’s statistics bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  