-- Industrial Production in U.S. Rose 1.2% in May, Led by Autos
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-16T13:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-14/industrial-production-in-u-s-climbed-0-8-in-april-most-in-three-months.html

          
          
             Production in the U.S. rose in May
by the most since August, led by increases in automobiles and
utilities and showing manufacturers are weathering the effects
of the European debt crisis.  
 Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 1.2
percent last month after a 0.7 percent gain in April, figures
from the Federal Reserve in Washington showed today. Plant use
increased to the highest level since October 2008.  
 Manufacturers are leading the recovery from the worst
recession since the 1930s as they replenish inventories, sell
more goods abroad and invest in new equipment. A lack of
inflation means the Fed has scope to keep the target interest
rate near zero in coming months to spur growth.  
 “Manufacturing is powering ahead,”  Aaron Smith , a senior
economist at Moody’s Economy.com in West Chester, Pennsylvania,
said before the report. “With the largest chunk of the
inventory adjustment now behind us, we will need to see
domestic demand strengthen if manufacturing is to keep up its
recent pace.”  
 Stock-index futures declined on a Commerce Department
report earlier today showing housing starts fell in May by the
most since March 2009. Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500
index lost 0.5 percent to 1,103.6 as of 9:14 a.m. in New York.  
 Housing  starts  fell 10 percent to a 593,000 annual rate,
from a revised 659,000 pace in April that was less than
previously estimated.  Building  permits, a sign of future
construction, unexpectedly declined to a one-year low. Single-
family home starts suffered the biggest drop since 1991.  
 Producer Prices  
 Prices paid to factories, farmers and other producers fell
0.3 percent, the third decline in four months, figures from the
Labor Department showed today. Excluding food and fuel, so-
called core prices climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  
 Economists forecast industrial production would increase
0.9 percent in May, according to the median of 82 projections
in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from gains of 0.5
percent to 1.6 percent.  
 The Fed’s report showed capacity utilization, which
measures the amount of a  plant  that is in use, rose to 74.7
percent last month from 73.7 percent in April. The gauge
averaged 80 over the past 20 years and suggests inflation
remains low.  
 Motor vehicle and parts production climbed 5.5 percent
last month, the biggest increase since last September, after a
1.4 percent drop.  
 Utility output jump 4.8 percent in May on unseasonably
warm weather, while mining production, which includes oil
drilling, fell 0.2 percent.  
 Business Equipment  
 Production of business equipment increased 1.3 percent
after a 1.6 percent gain in April. Output of computers,
electrical equipment and appliances increased 1.4 percent last
month. Consumer goods production rose 1.2 percent in May.  
 Deere & Co ., the world’s largest farm-equipment maker,
said on its website last week that sales of utility tractors
rose in the “double digits” in May, compared with a 6 percent
increase for the industry overall.  
 Growing global demand for agricultural commodities,
housing and infrastructure are driving sales,  Samuel Allen ,
chief executive officer of the Moline, Illinois-based company,
said last month in a statement. Deere last month raised
earnings and sales forecasts for a second time this year after
second-quarter profit top analysts’ estimates.  
 Manufacturing, which makes up about 11 percent of the
economy, is benefiting from gains in business spending and
global economic growth. The U.S. grew at a 3 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, helped by the biggest increase in
 consumer spending  in three years and a 13 percent rise in
business investment in new equipment, the Commerce Department
said last month.  
 U.S.  exports  have risen 10 of the last 12 months, helped
by surging growth in emerging Asian and Latin American
countries, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  
 The Fed said it plans to issue annual revisions to the
industrial production index and measures of capacity
utilization on June 25.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Cisco Systems network data switch  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Cisco Systems logo appears on the rear of a network data switch as cables run into another piece of network equipment in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Cisco Systems logo appears on the rear of a network data switch as cables run into another piece of network equipment in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 14 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital Inc., talks with Bloomberg’s Margaret Brennan about the outlook for U.S. retail market and equities.
     Retail sales rose for the seventh straight month by 0.4 percent in April, signaling consumers are helping to broaden the economic recovery.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 13 (Bloomberg) -- John Chambers, chief executive officer of Cisco Systems Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about his company's third-quarter performance.
     Chambers also discusses Cisco's stock price and the potential impact of European fiscal crises on the company. Cisco's net income climbed 63 percent to $2.19 billion, or 37 cents a share. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
