-- GM's OnStar Service to Expand Into China in 2009
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2007-11-29T21:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-29/gm-s-onstar-service-to-expand-into-china-in-2009-update3-.html

          
          
             General Motors Corp. (GM) 's OnStar will
expand into  China  in 2009, marking the communication service's
first venture outside  North America , as GM seeks to boost sales
in the world's second-largest auto market.  
 OnStar's offerings in China will be similar to those in the
U.S. and  Canada , including navigation, emergency roadside
assistance and hands-free phone calls, GM said today in a
statement. Voice services will initially be only in Mandarin.  
 The $46 million venture between Detroit-based GM and its
Chinese automaking partner will begin equipping vehicles made by
Shanghai General Motors Co. as soon as 2009's first quarter. The
exact dates and models are still to be determined, said OnStar
spokeswoman Cristi Chojnacki.  
 Taking OnStar to China is part of GM Chief Executive
Officer  Rick Wagoner 's push to increase overseas  sales  to more
than 60 percent of  total  sales, from 57 percent now, as North
American growth slows. GM retook the global-sales lead from
Toyota Motor Corp. through September.  
 GM is also seeking to add OnStar in Europe, because the
service can help make vehicles more attractive to buyers, Vice
President  John Smith , who oversees global product planning, said
in an October interview. There is no start date yet, Nick Pudar,
OnStar's vice president of business development, said yesterday.  
 OnStar and a unit of Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.
each own 40 percent of the China venture. The rest is held by
Shanghai GM, which is equally owned by GM and  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) ,
China's largest carmaker and a listed unit of Shanghai
Automotive.  
 Demand in China  
 China is attracting automakers that want to tap new demand
for private vehicles in the world's fastest-growing major
economy. GM's sales there through September rose 17 percent to
753,686 and may reach 1 million by year's end, spokesman  John McDonald  said. Only the U.S. has a larger auto market.  
 Chojnacki wouldn't say how much GM was spending on the
China expansion.  
 OnStar-equipped vehicles have a button near the driver's
seat that motorists can push to speak with an operator, who can
give directions or summon emergency aid. The system also can
diagnose mechanical problems. Almost all 2008 GM models sold in
the U.S. come with OnStar as a standard feature.  
 The service is free for the first year in new vehicles,
after which motorists can renew for $199 to $299 annually. GM
has said the OnStar program is profitable.  
 GM rose 39 cents to $28.78 at 4:04 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange Composite  trading . The shares have fallen 6.3 percent
this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at 
 dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        