-- New York Times, Dow Jones Accord With Writers Voided
-- David Glovin
-- 2007-11-29T21:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-29/new-york-times-dow-jones-accord-with-writers-voided-update4-.html

          
          
             Freelance writers who had reached
a multi-million dollar settlement of a copyright lawsuit against
publishers including the  New York  Times Co. and Dow Jones & Co.
may get nothing after an appeals court vacated the accord.  
 The writers sued in 2000, claiming the publishers violated
thousands of copyrights by electronically reproducing and
posting their work in databases without permission. The accord
in the class-action, or group, suit was approved by a judge in
2005. It was worth as much as $18 million to freelance writers.  
 A federal appeals court in New York today overturned the
settlement, saying the lower court lacked jurisdiction over much
of the case because most of the works weren't registered with
the  U.S. Copyright Office . The law requires such registration
before an infringement lawsuit may proceed, the court said.  
 ``We haven't yet decided what to do,'' said Charles Sims,
a lawyer for the publishers that also include a unit of  Reed
Elsevier Plc (REL) ,  Thomson Corp. (TRI)  and  Intel Corp .'s Dialog Corp. One
option may be to ask the full appeals court to rehear the case,
in which one of three judges on a panel dissented, he said.  
 The plaintiffs include the Authors Guild and writers E.L.
Doctorow and Andrea Dworkin. Their lawyer, Michael Boni, said
if the appeals court decision isn't reversed, the suit will
move ahead on behalf of writers with registered copyrights.  
 Paul Aiken, executive director of the Authors Guild, called
the decision ``surprising and disappointing.'' The group may ask
the full appeals court to review the case, he said.  
 Electronic Republication  
 ``The registration requirement is a formality,'' Aiken
said. ``We don't believe it should be a bar to jurisdiction
in a class-action case.''  
 The writers said in their lawsuit that they contracted
for their work to be used in print. Electronic republication
constituted an infringement, they claimed.  
 In settlement talks, the publishers said copyright law
bars a suit for infringement until steps are taken to register a
copyright, the appeals court said. Up to 99 percent of all works
at issue aren't registered, the publishers argued, according to
the court. The publishers eventually agreed to settle ``to
achieve global peace'' in the industry, the court said.  
 The writers with unregistered copyrights who objected to
the settlement claimed they were receiving too little money
compared with authors who registered their works, Boni said.
Now all unregistered writers may not get anything, he said.  
 `Blew Up'  
 ``By their appeal, they ended up putting nothing in the
pockets of the unregistered authors,'' Boni said. ``This whole
thing blew up in their face.''  
 Charles Chalmers, a lawyer for the nine writers who
objected to the settlement and appealed, said in an interview
that Boni is ``just posturing'' and that there'd be ``further
proceedings'' in the case. He said the decision may have a
larger impact on how future class-actions are settled.  
 New York Times Co. (NYT)  gained 31 cents to $16.79 on the New
York Stock Exchange. Dow Jones shares fell 21 cents to $59.77.  
 The case is In Re: Literary Works Electronic Databases
Copyright Litigation, 05-5943, U.S. Second Circuit Court of
Appeals (New York).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in federal court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster in New York at 
 poster@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  in New York at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        