-- S&P to Create Credit-Default Swap Indexes Next Year
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2007-11-29T22:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-29/s-p-to-create-credit-default-swap-indexes-next-year-update1-.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor's, owner of the
benchmark index for U.S. stocks, will create three indexes next
quarter linked to credit-default swaps as it attempts to tap into
one of Wall Street's fastest-growing markets.  
 The indexes are intended to track investor perceptions of the
creditworthiness of U.S. companies. S&P, a unit of New York-based
 McGraw-Hill Cos. , ``has received a very strong amount of interest
to create products that are going to be tied to these indices,''
including derivatives and index funds,  David Guarino , a company
spokesman, said. He wouldn't say who has expressed interest.  
 Credit-default swaps, introduced more than a decade ago, are
used primarily to speculate on the ability of companies to repay
their debt or hedge against the risk they won't. The market is
dominated by banks and securities firms including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Deutsche Bank AG that created the CDX credit-default swap
indexes, the most actively traded corporate debt instruments.  
 CME Group Inc. 's Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Chicago
Board of Trade, as well as the Chicago Board Options Exchange,
have failed to break into the market by creating derivatives
contracts linked to their own benchmarks.  
 Of S&P's new indexes, one will be linked to the debt of 100
companies with investment-grade ratings, the company said in a
statement. Another will be tied to 80 companies rated below
investment grade. The third will include companies with actively
traded credit-default swaps that are in the  S&P 100 equity index, 
which includes the top U.S. companies by market value.  
 CMA Datavision, based in London, will provide credit-default
swap pricing levels to S&P and the index level will be calculated
daily as of 5 p.m. in New York, Guarino said.  
 Fastest-Growing Market  
 Credit-default swaps, created to cover losses on underlying
debt if the borrower fails to meet payments, are traded in the
privately negotiated over-the-counter market.  
 The contracts make up the fastest growing derivatives market
and have become the best gauge of shifts in credit quality. The
market as of the end of June expanded to cover more than
$45.5 trillion in debt, according to the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association. It has doubled in the past three years.  
 London-based Markit Group Ltd., which is majority-owned by 16
broker dealers, earlier this month bought the owner of the CDX
indexes.  
 Derivatives are financial instruments derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events like changes in the weather or interest rates.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Emma Moody  at 
 emoody@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        