-- T-Mobile, Orange U.K. Merger Wins Approval From EU
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-03-01T17:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-01/t-mobile-orange-u-k-merger-wins-approval-from-eu-update3-.html

          
          
             Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  won European Union approval to merge their U.K.
mobile-phone units, after agreeing to share cellular networks
and give up some radio spectrum for high-speed data services.  
 Without these remedies the deal could have threatened the
“viability” of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s (13)  3, the smallest U.K.
mobile service, and may have eliminated it, the European
Commission in Brussels said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The
merger will create the U.K.’s largest cellular operator. In a
separate statement, U.K.’s  Office of Fair Trading  said it is
satisfied with the remedies.  
 “I am happy that we managed to resolve the competition
issues in this case quickly in close cooperation with the member
state concerned,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition
commissioner, said.  
 Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile and  France Telecom ’s Orange
will have about 43 percent of U.K. mobile subscriptions,
overtaking  Telefonica SA’s (TEF)  O2 unit, the current market leader.
The 50-50 venture will result in savings of more than 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) in network maintenance, marketing and
administrative costs, the companies said when the deal was
announced in September.  
 The savings target “continues to remain the case,”
Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom said in a joint statement
today.  
 ‘Pooling Resources’  
 “Now the way is clear for pooling our resources to create
an outstanding high-speed mobile broadband network in one of the
most competitive markets in  Europe ,” Tim Hoettges, chief
financial officer of Deutsche Telekom, said in the statement.
The two companies said they expect to close the merger “in
spring.”  
 Telefonica spokesman Simon Lloyd and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) 
spokesman Simon Gordon didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  
 The approval makes it “urgent for key competition and
consumer issues to be addressed,” including the rates providers
charge to connect calls from other networks and the system for
moving numbers between operators, 3 U.K. Chief Executive Officer
 Kevin Russell  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The U.K.’s OFT initially asked EU authorities for national
jurisdiction over the merger, a step requested by 3 and
Telefonica.  
 ‘Future Consolidation’  
 “A U.K. investigation could have been a lot worse” for T-
Mobile and Orange, Will Harris, an analyst at Enders Analysis
Ltd. in London, said by phone. “The fact that the commission
concluded there are no direct concerns potentially opens the
door for future consolidation in Europe.”  
 T-Mobile and Orange agreed to expand a network-sharing deal
that allows 3 to use Deutsche Telekom’s cellular towers, two
people familiar with the situation said Feb. 22.  
 The merging companies also offered to sell some of their
combined wireless spectrum on a band that’s useful for
transmitting data to smartphones like Apple Inc.’s iPhone, two
people familiar with the situation said Feb. 17. Telefonica and
3 had called for the concession.  
 The commission said amending the network sharing agreement
with 3 would “ensure that there remain sufficient competitors
in the market.”  
 ‘Combined Spectrum’  
 The EU agency said today’s decision is also conditional on
“the divestiture of a quarter of the combined spectrum of the
merging parties in the 1800 MHz band, which is one of three
frequency bands currently used for mobile communications in the
U.K.”  
 With five current mobile operators, Britain’s market has
been more competitive than France and  Germany , which have three
and four full-service providers, respectively.  
 The two companies have agreed to retain both the T-Mobile
and Orange brands.  
 The case shows “healthy engagement,” between Ofcom, the
U.K.’s communications regulator, the OFT and the commission,
Suzanne Rab, an antitrust lawyer at Hogan & Hartson LLP in
 London , said today in a phone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        