-- TNK-BP Seeks Acquisitions After Posting Profit on Oil
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-03-01T17:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-01/tnk-bp-seeks-acquisitions-after-posting-profit-on-oil-update2-.html

          
          
             TNK-BP International Ltd. ,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Russian oil venture, is seeking acquisitions after posting a
quarterly profit on higher crude prices and new field output.  
 TNK-BP is looking for production, refining and retail
assets in  Russia  and the former  Soviet Union , Chief Operating
Officer Bill Schrader told reporters today in Moscow. The
company may consider mature-field development, an area in which
it specializes, he said.  
 Russia’s third-biggest oil producer has benefited from
higher prices for  Urals crude , the country’s benchmark export
blend, which rose 33 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier. Output from new fields in Verkhnechonsk, Kamennoye and
Uvat also helped TNK-BP return a profit in the period.  
 Net income  was $1.28 billion, compared with a year-earlier
loss, the company said today in a statement. Sales rose 25
percent to $10 billion, TNK-BP said in a presentation in Moscow.
Earnings and sales fell from the third quarter.  
 With production rising and  oil prices  recovering, 2009 was
a “very strong year,” Schrader said. TNK-BP may boost output 1
to 2 percent this year, led by the Verkhnechonsk development in
eastern Siberia and the Uvat fields in western Siberia, he said.  
 TNK-BP started production at Verkhnechonsk in late 2008 and
at Uvat’s new fields in 2009.  
 Output Expands  
 The company raised production 2.9 percent to 1.69 million
barrels of oil equivalent last year, while liquids output gained
2.4 percent. Mature oilfields in the Orenburg region boosted
output by more than 6 percent and will deliver further growth in
2010, Interim Chief Executive Officer  Mikhail Fridman  said.  
 TNK-BP also benefited from a weaker ruble and lagging oil-export duty in 2009, Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Muir  said.  
 Russia sets monthly duties according to crude traded as
much as 1 1/2 months earlier. As prices climbed last year, the
duties paid by producers were based on cheaper oil.  
 Russia even removed the tax on oil exported from 13 fields
in eastern Siberia on Dec. 1 as it sought to spur production of
crude from the area for shipment to  Asia . The fields included
TNK-BP’s Verkhnechonsk.  
 Capital spending  will total $4.4 billion this year, Muir
said. The company may raise $700 million to $1 billion of debt,
which will be sufficient to meet financial needs notwithstanding
“any major transaction,” he said. That’s on top of the $1
billion sale of dollar-denominated bonds completed Feb. 2.  
 Bond Sale  
 “We will look opportunistically over the next 10 months or
so in order to fund the remaining requirements we have,” Muir
said on a conference call. He didn’t rule out selling Eurobonds
again this year. In 2009, the oil producer raised $1.8 billion
in new debt, he said.  
 TNK-BP reduced  net debt  by about 6.2 percent last year to
$5.97 billion, according to the presentation.  
 TNK-BP is seeking incentives to develop fields in remote
areas with poor infrastructure as the government studies further
export duty exemptions for eastern Siberia. Projects in this
region and in Yamal may slow without economic support, prompting
producers to wait for higher oil prices, Schrader said.  
 TNK-BP replaced 177 percent of its proven reserves last
year under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards,
the company said today. The producer, which accounts for about a
quarter of BP’s  reserves and output , said total proven reserves
rose to 8.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent as of Dec. 31.  
 Under  Petroleum Resources Management System  methodology,
TNK-BP’s replacement ratio was 329 percent, with proven oil and
gas reserves climbing to 11.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        