-- Poland Seeks Legal Answer to Currency-Options Losses
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2009-02-17T16:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-02-17/poland-seeks-legal-answer-to-currency-options-losses-update3-.html

          
          
             Poland’s government is looking for
the best way to limit damage to the country’s businesses from
currency-option transactions, Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said.  
 The cabinet will adopt a schedule of actions to investigate
whether the options were legal and help companies in their
negotiations with banks, Tusk told a news conference in Warsaw.
Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  said earlier today that he may
push for a parliamentary vote on his proposals to annul some of
the transactions if the Cabinet doesn’t agree to them.  
 Polish companies lost on bets the zloty wouldn’t weaken,
after the currency reversed its advance last year because of a
slump in the economy. Odlewnie Polskie SA, the steel-products
maker that last week won court protection from creditors,
reported a record quarterly loss yesterday from such options.  
 “We discussed the options and other derivative instruments
at the cabinet meeting today and we reached two conclusions: we
will audit state-owned companies to see who was responsible for
those contracts and we will not take any steps that would burden
taxpayers with the costs of those deals,” Tusk said.  
 The country’s financial-services regulator last week almost
tripled its estimate of potential losses from option contracts to
as much as 15 billion zloty ($3.8 billion).  
 Ministers’ Objections  
 Pawlak, who heads the  Polish Peasants’ Party , the junior
partner in Tusk’s coalition government, last week proposed a rule
that would allow companies to unwind transactions if banks didn’t
make them aware of the risks involved. Some ministers object to
his proposals, PAP newswire reported yesterday.  
 Pawlak’s proposal itself may have pushed the zloty lower,
central banker  Andrzej Wojtyna  said, calling the exchange rate a
“barometer” of investor sentiment.  
 “There is a connection between the decline of the currency
and other events, including comments by government members on the
possibility of canceling currency-options contracts,” he said in
an interview in Warsaw today. “These kind of comments may have
undermined investor confidence in Poland.”  
 “There is absolutely no legal means of annulling the
contracts in a country governed by the rule of law,” said  Witold Orlowski , chief economic adviser at PricewaterhouseCoopers in
Warsaw. “But the government needs to do something, for example
assist companies in their talks with banks.”  
 Exporters  
 To protect against possible further strengthening of the
euro last year, some Polish exporters bought so-called put
options, which gave them the right to sell Europe’s common
currency against the zloty at a fixed price.  
 Some companies also sold call options to the banks, betting
the zloty wouldn’t depreciate. A call option gives its holder the
right to buy currency. The 34 percent decline in the zloty since
a record high in July means that on the settlement date, the
companies have to pay the bank the difference between the current
zloty rate and the level written in the option deal.  
 “I expect a lot of words from the government on the
currency-options issue, but very little action,”  Jacek Wisniewski , chief economist at Raiffeisen Bank in Warsaw, said by
phone. “Making the atmosphere so tense isn’t helping either --
the state should leave these bilateral contracts alone for the
companies and banks to sort out.”  
 The list of companies affected by the options also includes
Zelmer SA, a home appliance maker, which cut its 2008 profit
forecast after setting aside 18.6 million zloty for bad currency
bets. Erbud SA said profit in 2008 will be 80 percent lower than
the builder’s earlier forecast and Ciech SA, Poland’s biggest
chemical company, last month reported its first quarterly loss
since going public in 2005 after betting on currency moves.  
 “Contrary to the Financial Supervisory Commission’s view,
we believe that companies affected could struggle to offset these
losses with higher export revenues, due to the deteriorating
outlook for exports to developed Europe,”  Paul Formanko , a
London-based analyst at J.P. Morgan, wrote in a research note.
“Banks who sold the hedges are exposed to counterparty risk
related to failure to meet the obligations from the option
contracts by corporates.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        