-- Balkans Should Link Gas Grids to Balance Supply, Bulgaria Says
-- Elizabeth Konstantinova
-- 2009-04-24T14:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-24/balkans-should-link-gas-grids-to-balance-supply-bulgaria-says.html

          
          
             Balkan nations should link up their
natural-gas grids, broadening the regional gas market to ensure
steady supplies, Bulgarian President Georgi Parvanov said.  
 “The gas market in southeastern  Europe  consists of small,
closed networks, which are very vulnerable to price fluctuations
and disruptions,” Parvanov said today at an energy conference
in Sofia. “It’s necessary to speed up linking the national
networks and form a large regional gas market, which will be
stronger and weather external shocks.”  
 Bulgaria, which receives all its gas from Russia, was one
of the worst-affected countries by a two-week halt in shipments
via  Ukraine  in January. The eastern European nation, seeking to
reduce reliance on a single supplier, has begun talks with
neighboring  Greece  and  Romania  to link to their pipeline systems.  
 The European Union will finance construction of the
connections to Greece and Romania to safeguard future supply,
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said at the
conference.  
 “We need the political will and technical means to help
each other out” in the event of another crisis, Barroso said.
“In Bulgaria we need to build and modernize infrastructure and
interconnectors. The EU is investing heavily in Bulgaria’s
European energy future.”  
 OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, pumps 17.8
billion cubic meters a year to Turkey, Greece and Macedonia via
Bulgaria under a 30-year contract that started in 2006. About
3.5 billion cubic meters of that is consumed by Bulgaria under a
separate agreement that expires next year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        