-- Siemens May Report Record Profit Amid Bribery Scandal
-- Philipp Grontzki
-- 2008-01-23T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-23/siemens-may-report-record-profit-amid-bribery-scandal-update3-.html

          
          
             Siemens AG (SIE)  will probably report
record quarterly profit as Chief Executive Officer Peter Loescher
overhauls  Europe 's biggest engineering company in the wake of a
bribery scandal.  
 Net income probably surged more than sevenfold to 5.32
billion euros ($7.7 billion) in the quarter through December, the
median of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Munich-based Siemens
has said it probably earned about 4.5 billion euros from the sale
of its car-electronics division to Continental AG.  
 Loescher will confront about 10,000 shareholders tomorrow
with his strategy to whittle down Siemens to three units from
nine and accelerate sales growth. Loescher took over in July as
the first ever outsider to become CEO at 160-year-old Siemens,
after a probe into bribes prompted his predecessor,  Klaus Kleinfeld , to leave.  
 ``Siemens in the past had problems implementing change,''
said Christoph Berger, a  fund manager  at Cominvest Asset
Management in Frankfurt, which owns Siemens stock. ``Loescher has
somewhat more freedom because he came from outside the company.''  
 Siemens is pooling its nine operating units into industry,
energy and health-care divisions to cut administrative costs and
speed decision processes. The company, whose  products  range from
trains to medical scanners and  light bulbs , will report earnings
under the new structure starting in April. Operating profit in
the quarter probably slipped 2 percent to 1.46 billion euros.  
 The company will release  earnings  for the quarter before the
stock market opens tomorrow in  Frankfurt . Loescher and Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser will discuss the figures with
reporters before the shareholders meeting starts at 10 a.m. local
time.  
 Automation, Health  
 In the fiscal first quarter, the  largest earnings 
contribution probably came from the main factory automation
division, followed by the health-care technology unit, according
to the analyst survey. Siemens  sold  its VDO automotive unit to
Continental AG last year for 11.4 billion euros to raise funds
for expansion in areas such as energy generation and healthcare.  
 Loescher, who most recently worked at U.S. drugmaker Merck &
Co., also aims to base profitability targets on the performance
of Siemens's main  rivals , which include General Electric Co.,
Royal Philips Electronics AV, Alstom SA in  France  and Rockwell
Automation Inc. in the U.S. Sales may have gained 12 percent to
18.7 billion euros in the quarter, the Bloomberg survey showed.  
 Siemens has already raised the operating margin target for
the medical division to between 14 percent and 17 percent of
sales by 2010, from a previous range of 13 percent to 15 percent.
Loescher will likely give new goals for the other two divisions
before the shareholders meeting tomorrow.  
 Bribery Probes  
 Morgan Stanley analyst  Ben Uglow , who rates the shares
``overweight,'' predicted Siemens will set an operating margin
target of 10 percent to 14 percent for the energy division, and a
goal of 11 percent to 14 percent for the industrial unit.  
 Of 30  analysts  who issued reports on Siemens since the start
of November, 25 recommend buying the shares, while two rate the
stock ``sell,'' according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 shares  fell 3.45 euros, or 4 percent, to 82.25 euros in Frankfurt
trading today. They are up 7.4 percent in a year.  
 ``The task for Loescher is clearly to further push forward
the company in terms of profitability and also to clarify the
bribery issues,'' said Christoph Niesel, who manages about $2.9
billion at Union Investment GmbH in Frankfurt, including Siemens
stock.  
 Slush Funds  
 The meeting in Munich, at the site of the 1972 Summer
 Olympic Games , will likely be dominated by the bribery probe that
became public in November 2006. Kleinfeld, who left after 2 1/2
years as CEO, was criticized by investors at last year's meeting
for what DWS Investment GmbH Henning Gebhardt called ``such an
inexcusable letdown.'' Loescher earned 2.7 million euros in the
three months through September and has a five-year contract.  
 Allegations that employees used slush funds to bribe
customers for orders also prompted the resignation of Chairman
Heinrich von Pierer last year. Siemens has unveiled 1.3 billion
euros in ``questionable'' payments from past years.  
 Siemens said in November the entire investigation had cost
about 1.3 billion euros in charges and fines as  employees  trawled
through years of old orders to establish their legality.  
 Probes are continuing in countries including  Austria ,
 Liechtenstein ,  Italy  and the U.S., where the Securities and
Exchange Commission started its own investigation. Siemens may be
fined as much as 4 billion euros after the SEC's probe, German
magazine WirtschaftsWoche reported Jan. 21, citing unidentified
Siemens board members.  
 Recommendations  
 Siemens will recommend shareholders don't release any member
of the  executive board  except Loescher from liability for fiscal
2007 and to postpone the vote. Siemens recommends also postponing
the liability vote on von Pierer.  
 The liability vote follows new information U.S. law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLC received recently through an amnesty
program Siemens is offering to employees willing to unveil
incidents of corruption. Siemens hired Debevoise in December 2006
as an independent investigator.  
 ``One of the main consequences of not releasing people from
liability is negative publicity,'' said Gregor Bachmann, a law
professor at the University of Trier,  Germany . Being discharged
doesn't protect managers at listed companies from potential
damage claims, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Philipp Grontzki in Frankfurt at 
 pgrontzki@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter Loescher, chief executive officer of Siemens, gestures during a press conference in Munich on Nov. 29, 2007. Photographer: Thomas Langer/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
