-- Yokohama Rubber, PepsiCo: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2008-01-23T22:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-23/yokohama-rubber-pepsico-intellectual-property-update2-.html

          
          
             Yokohama Rubber Co. , Japan's third-
largest tiremaker, sued China's  Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co. ,
accusing it of using a patented tread design for luxury tires
without permission.  
 Hangzhou ``damaged'' Yokohama by making and selling into
the U.S. tires that copy its ``S.drive'' design, Tokyo-based
Yokohama said in a complaint filed Jan. 17 in federal court in
Miami.  
 The tire is marketed to customers ``who are willing to pay
a premium price for a high-performance tire that has the
distinctive look and tread pattern of the S.drive,'' Yokohama
said in the complaint. The tires are typically bought for high-
end autos such as Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Lexus and Infinity,
according to the complaint.  
 The lawsuit targets so-called ``luxury'' tires sold under
the Stamford  Sumo Firenza  ST-08 and Stamford  Sumo Akina  ST-08
names.  
 High-end tires are more lucrative for companies such as
U.S.-based  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.  and  Cooper Tire & Rubber
Co. , which face diminishing profit margins on cheaper, private-
label tires because of competition and rising rubber prices.
Shares fell for Japanese tire companies yesterday after the
Nikkei newspaper reported high rubber prices and stronger yen
would cause a 7 percent drop in operating profits.  
 Yokohama has sued Hangzhou and other tiremakers before,
accusing them of copying patented designs. It sued Singapore's
 Stamford Tyres Corp.  a year ago over the same patents and tire
models, as well as Hangzhou and Findlay, Ohio-based Cooper Tire
in 2006. One company, Southern China Tire & Rubber Co., agreed
to stop selling copycat tires anywhere in the world.  
 Design patents are granted for ornamental aspects of
products that lack a useful function, such as car tailfins and
grillwork. The patent terms are for 14 years, shorter than those
for inventions. Yokohama is seeking cash compensation for past
infringement and an order blocking Hangzhou from using the
design.  
 Japan's Bridgestone Corp. is the world's largest tiremaker.
Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. is the second-largest in Japan.  
 Patent D512-014, which was issued in November 2005, is at
issue. The application for the patent was filed in August 2004
and  Rader, Fishman & Grauer  of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan
handled the application process.  
 Yokohama is represented by  Mary Leslie Smith  of Milwaukee's
 Foley & Lardner .  
 The case is Yokohama Rubber Co. v. Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber
Co., 08-cv-20142, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  
 Mattel Receives Patent for Telling Stories With Game Pieces  
 Mattel Inc. , the world's largest toymaker, has received a
patent for games that involve a narrative line.  
 Patent 7,320,467 covers methods of playing narrative games
in which one player selects a playing piece, tells a part of a
story, then moves on to tell a second part of the story. It also
covers having a second player retell part of the story and then
adding a new story element.  
 The playing pieces may include tokens, coins, cards or
sculptures, according to the patent document. The playing pieces
could move in linearly or in ``any suitable fashion.''  
 Patent 7,320,467 was issued yesterday. Mattel applied for
the patent in April 2006, and the application was handled by
Portland, Oregon's  Kolisch Hartwell .  
 All in all, 2,224 U.S. patents were issued yesterday.
Others include:  
 --  International Business Machines Corp.  received a patent
for a wireless system to detect the presence of a child in a
baby car seat.  
 The invention triggers an alarm that opens car doors and
rolls down the windows if a child is left in the safety seat of
an unattended vehicle. Children have died from exposure to high
temperatures inside a car when they've been left in a car with
the windows rolled up.  
 IBM applied for Patent 7,321,306 in August 2005. The
application was handled by  Driggs Hogg & Fry   of Willoughby
Hills, Ohio.  
 -- A method to detect the location of a front-end collision
for the activation of safety systems was issued to  Ford Motor
Co. 's Global Technologies.  
 This technology helps the vehicle's sensors determine
whether the collision requires deployment of passenger-restraint
systems, such as air bags. Ford applied for patent 7,321,817 in
December 2003. Frank MacKenzie of Detroit's  Dickinson Wright 
handled the application.  
 --  Sun Microsystems Inc.  of Santa Clara, California,
received a patent for a ``method and apparatus for forwarding
references to objects concurrently with space-incremental
garbage collection.''  
 This invention relates to reclaiming unused memory space on
a device that can be used in real time without disrupting normal
processing, according to the patent document.  
 Sun applied for patent 7,321,909 in December 2004. The
Houston firm of  Osha Liang  handled the application process. Osha
Liang is listed as the attorney on 179 of Sun's issued U.S.
patents and 134 published and pending patent applications.  
 --  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world's largest retailer,
received a patent for a cart for stocking inventory and a method
of making such a cart. The cart's upper face, front face and
inside face form an open cargo bay.  
 This invention is needed, according to the patent document,
because ``as profit margins continue to narrow, it has become
necessary for retail stores to increase the number of hours of
operation and to increase customer traffic as much as
possible.'' The increased number of customers in the aisles and
the increased length of shopping hours have made it
``increasingly difficult to perform the restocking function in
an efficient manner,'' according to the patent.  
 Wal-Mart applied for patent 7,320,472 in March. No patent
attorney is listed on the patent.  
 For other patent news from yesterday click here.  
 Copyright  
 Louisiana Film Group Says It Doesn't Infringe Copyright  
 A non-profit organization formed to promote northwestern
Louisiana as a location for feature films has asked a federal
judge in Shreveport, Louisiana, to declare it's not infringing a
filmmaker's trademark.  
 Louisiana Films North, formed in 2005 to entice filmmakers
to make movies in rural Cameron and Webster parishes, contracted
with Michael Haynes to make a promotional film for $55,000.
Hynes is a former movie stunt coordinator, according to the
complaint.  
 By contract, Haynes was to deliver 1,000 copies of the film
to the non-profit organization, Louisiana Films North said in
its complaint. Hayes delivered a single copy of ``North
Louisiana: A Filmmaker's Dream'' and presented a pricing sheet
for the purchase of additional copies, according to court
papers.  
 The non-profit group paid Haynes $2,825 for additional
copies, but ``the vast majority of the copies were defective,''
the group alleged. Haynes didn't provide replacements, so the
film group ``was forced to retain the services of a third party
to make duplications so that the film could be distributed.''  
 Haynes sued the group for breach of contract in state court
in September. He also stated an ``intention to commence an
action for copyright infringement in the immediate future absent
a settlement,'' according to the film group's court papers.  
 The film group asked the court to declare that it's not
infringing copyrights by using, copying and distributing the
promotional film, and for court costs and attorney fees.  
 Louisiana Films North is represented by  Michael K. Leachman 
and  Sidney Earl Cook Jr.  of Shreveport's  Cook Yancey .  
 The case is Louisiana Films North Inc. v. Haynes, 5-cv-
00081, U.S. District Court, Western District of Louisiana
(Shreveport).  
 For other copyright news from yesterday click here.  
 Trademark  
 PepsiCo Says Importer of Mexican Soda Infringes Trademarks  
 PepsiCo Inc. , the maker of Pepsi-Cola, Gatorade and Naked
Juice, sued an Iowa importer for trademark infringement.  
 Senor Express of Sioux City, Iowa, is importing made-in-
Mexico soft drinks bearing the PepsiCo trademarks, according to
the complaint. PepsiCo Sued Senor Express in federal court in
Iowa Jan. 21.  
 The imported beverage doesn't comply with U.S. labeling
requirements, and may not have had sufficient quality control in
its manufacturing process, according to PepsiCo's complaint.  
 The Mexican product has ``inferior paper labels,'' and the
product may leak from the bottles, lose carbonation and
deteriorate, PepsiCo alleged. Additionally, the Mexican bottles
aren't marked with PepsiCo's U.S. bottle-return policies.  
 PepsiCo, the world's second-largest soft-drink maker, asked
the court to order Senor Express to stop importing any foreign
soft drinks with the PepsiCo trademarks, and wants all profits
from the company's sales of infringing products.  Coca-Cola Co. 
is the largest maker of soft drinks.  
 Because of allegations the infringement is deliberate,
PepsiCo is seeking triple damages. The company is also seeking
destruction of any of the infringing soft drinks, and attorney
fees.  
 PepsiCo is represented by Matthew T.E. Early and Maurice Bi
Nieland of Rawlings Nieland Probasco Killinger Ellwanger Jacobs
of Sioux City, and  Phillip Barengolts ,  David C. Hilliard  and
 Jonathan S. Jennings  of Chicago's  Pattishall, McAuliffe,
Newbury, Hilliard & Geraldson .  
 The case is PepsiCo Inc. v. Senor Express, 5:08-cv-04004,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Western
Division).  
 For other trademark news from yesterday click here.  
 IP Talk  
 Australia's tax office  is considering rules to make it more
difficult for multinational corporations to transfer
intellectual-property rights overseas, the Sydney Morning Herald
 reported  Jan. 21.  
 Australia is reviewing royalties paid and received by large
companies and is taking a look at databases that register
offshore transfer of IP rights, according to the Herald.  
 Australia is looking to Germany's policies relating to IP
rights transfers, the Herald reported.  
 ``We look at economic data and one of the things we are
seeing is that royalties as far as international-related party
dealings are increasing quite sharply,'' Anne Connon, head of
the office's transfer-pricing unit, told the Herald.  
 IP Moves  
 Sherman & Sterling's Veenker New Women's Soccer General Counsel  
 Sherman & Sterling  IP partner  Vicki Veenker  has been named
general counsel of the  Women's Professional Soccer  League, the
firm announced in a  statement  Jan. 17.  
 Veenker, who will remain with her firm, began her work with
the soccer group two years ago, when it was the Women's Soccer
Initiative. She is the founder of the intellectual-property
group at Sherman & Sterling's Silicon Valley office.  
 According to Bloomberg data, Veenker  has served as a
court-appointed mediator in a number of intellectual-property
cases including a trademark dispute between Plant Development
Services Inc. and El Modeno Gardens Inc; a patent case between
NET Networks Inc. and Etilize Inc.; and a patent dispute between
MIPS Technologies Inc. and Trident Microsystems Inc.  
 Before she was a lawyer, Veenker was an associate at the
 Kettering Foundation .  
 Veenker has undergraduate degrees in biochemistry and
political science from Indiana University, and received her law
degree from Georgetown University Law Center.  
 Crowell & Moring Hires Seven IP Specialists from Buchanan Firm  
 Crowell & Moring  hired seven IP specialists away from
Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney, including the president-elect of
the American Intellectual Property Law Association, the
Washington-based firm announced in a statement yesterday.  
 The group includes three partners, E. Joseph Gess, Melissa
M. Hayworth and Teresa Stanek Rea. Rea is the incoming AIPLA
president. The new associates are Asaf Batelman, Mary R. Bram
and Deborah H. Yellin. Additionally, C. Randolph Ross will join
the firm in an of counsel position.  
 Rea , who will work from the firm's Washington office, is
former co-chair of Buchanan Ingersoll's intellectual property
executive committee and chair of its biotechnology practice
group. She is a former pharmacist who has corporate experience
as a patent attorney for a multinational chemical company.  
 She handled patent applications and does patent-
infringement and validity-opinion work. She will become AIPLA
president in October 2008.  
 Rea has an undergraduate degree in pharmacy from the
University of Michigan and received her law degree there.  
 Gess , a litigator, was the head of Buchanan Ingersoll's
Alexandria and Silicon Valley offices, and led the firm's
chemical practice. He has worked for clients in the chemical and
gas processing, polymer chemistry, petrochemicals, photographic
materials, paper chemistry and processing, fiberglass materials,
and emulsions technology sectors.  
 He will work from the firm's Washington office. He has an
undergraduate degree in chemistry from the University of
Michigan, and received his law degree from George Washington
University National Law Center.  
 Hayworth , who does patent-application and opinion work, is
a former corporate patent attorney at  Roche  Bioscience and 3M
Innovative Properties. She has also worked as a research chemist
at Burroughs  Wellcome .  
 She has represented clients in the organic chemistry,
pharmaceutical chemistry, polymer chemistry, petroleum chemistry
and biochemistry industries.  
 She received an undergraduate degree in chemistry from
North Carolina State university, and her law degree is from Duke
University.  
 Ross , in the New York office, is a litigator. He focuses
his practice on patent litigation and other commercial
litigation. He represented Breckenridge Pharmaceutical Inc. in a
patent infringement case brought by Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corp.  
 He has an undergraduate degree from the University of
Virginia, and a master's degree in divinity from Yale
University. He received his law degree from Cornell Law School.  
 Batelman handles patent applications. He has an
undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from Case Western
Reserve University and received his law degree from the
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.  
 Bram does patent application work in the areas of chemical
compositions, chemical processes and chemical engineering. She
has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from the
University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science
and received her law degree from the University of Washington.  
 Yellin, who does patent application work in the areas of
pharmaceutical, cosmetics and drug delivery systems, formerly
did research in the areas of molecular genetics, endocrinology,
and biochemistry. She has an undergraduate degree in biology and
biochemistry from Tufts University, a master's degree in public
health and her law degree from the George Washington University.  
 For Bloomberg articles by lawyers on intellectual property
topics click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Oster  at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        