-- Forget Geithner's Job, We'd Rather Run China: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-02-15T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-15/forget-geithner-s-job-we-d-rather-run-china-william-pesek.html

          
          
             Would you rather fill Timothy F.
Geithner's shoes or Xie Xuren's?  
 It's a question I recently asked investors, economists and
academics in Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo. The near unanimous
response is that it would be far less fun to be America's
finance minister than China's right now. Why? The ability to
snap your fingers and get things done.  
 Geithner must navigate around a restive Congress and
anxious voters as he works to boost growth. Xie runs a command
economy. More stimulus? Just do it. Too much froth in stocks?
Tighten the screws. Construction companies want bank loans? Here
you go. Human rights activists will disagree, but from an
economic standpoint, it's good to be China in today's world.  
 Let's consider, too, another possibility: corruption.
China's corruption woes are well known and formidable. Less
appreciated is the extent to which the phenomenon is tying the
Obama administration's hands behind its back. If you're not
convinced, Richard Duncan's book, "The Corruption of
Capitalism," is worth a read.  
 The capacity of Americans to debate who's to blame for the
subprime-loan meltdown seems endless. Truth is, fat-cat bankers,
Alan Greenspan and his contempt for regulation and borrowers
lying on loan applications are all to blame. The more important
issue is the underlying theme behind this collective financial
recklessness.  
 Abandoned Principles  
 It's all about abandoned principles in financial systems we
no longer control, even if our denial tells us we can. It's the
economic equivalent of animals running the zoo, and things could
end badly if the U.S. doesn't address the causes of its credit
crisis, not just the symptoms.  
 Corruption is indeed the right prism through which to view
where markets are in 2010, and why Geithner's task is so
Herculean.  
 "The U.S. economy simply doesn't work anymore," Duncan, a
partner at Blackhorse Asset Management, told me in Singapore
recently. That's a problem because, until a couple of years ago,
the U.S. model and its "Washington consensus" formed the basis
for global markets.  
 "The financial industry has become a menace to society,"
Duncan said. "Its ability to create credit has brought it undue
political influence, enabling the industry to deregulate itself
and to engage in such excesses that only a massive infusion of
taxpayers' money has saved it from extinction. It should be
broken into small pieces and very tightly regulated. Credit
creation is too dangerous to be left to the discretion of
bankers."  
 Fall of Rome  
 With warnings of a fall-of-Rome scenario for the U.S.,
Duncan can make Nouriel Roubini seem like an optimist. Over-the-
top pessimism aside, an argument can be made that the U.S.
suffers from "boiling frog syndrome." That's when you sit in
water that heats up so gradually that you fail to realize you're
being cooked. By then, it's too late to jump out.  
 Government stopped feeling constrained by its ability to
spend and international trade no longer needed to balance.
Regulation was passé -- an antiquated impediment to economic
growth. Advice was sought from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and its
peers, not skeptics warning we risked taking all the guardrails
off our financial highways.  
 All the while, policymakers and economists remained
oblivious to how capitalism had been corrupted and economic
dynamics changed so much that neither Adam Smith nor John
Maynard Keynes nor Friedrich von Hayek would recognize them.  
 Corruption Perceptions  
 This isn't to pooh-pooh China's corruption problems. It
ranks behind Burkina Faso and Colombia in Transparency
International's latest Corruption Perceptions Index. We'll never
know how much of China's 4 trillion-yuan ($586 billion) stimulus
package was siphoned off by illicit hands. One-party rule numbs
the forces of accountability.  
 China also faces daunting risks, including economic
overheating, social instability and environmental disaster.
Still, it's not like the U.S.'s two-party system is a bastion of
integrity these days. It may surprise many than the U.S. ranks
19th on Transparency International's list. Events at Toyota
Motor Corp. in America show why.  
 It turns out that former regulators hired by Toyota helped
end at least four U.S. investigations of unintended acceleration
by company vehicles in the last decade, warding off possible
recalls, Bloomberg News reported on Feb. 12. As a company,
Toyota has acted appallingly in this crisis. Yet how is this U.S.
practice not corruption?  
 Wall Street Excesses  
 An equally disturbing tale involving Goldman Sachs was
reported by The New York Times on Feb. 13. Turns out, Wall
Street shenanigans not unlike those that brought us subprime
mortgages worsened the crisis slamming Greece and the euro by
enabling European governments to hide their mounting debts. And
here we thought the worst of Wall Street's excesses had already
been uncovered.  
 President Barack Obama's team seems to think all the U.S.
needs is more stimulus. What's also needed is a bold
restructuring of the U.S. financial system. Even modest
proposals put forth by former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul
Volcker -- which limit a bank's size and risk-taking -- are
being strongly opposed. Reform has yet to begin.  
 Good luck fixing that mess, Secretary Geithner. If you're
looking for an easier gig, try moving to Beijing.  
 (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        