-- Four Bargains Emerge Amid Knocked-Down Stocks: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-02-16T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-15/four-bargains-emerge-amid-knocked-down-stocks-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             Most stock-market declines are not
the end of the world -- just a confirmation of  J. Pierpont Morgan ’s famous dictum that stocks “will fluctuate.”  
 So far, the  retreat  that began on Jan. 19 looks like a
garden-variety contraction to me. Investors who buy on such dips
should achieve better returns than those who jump in on
upswings.  
 So what opportunities is the current sell-off serving up? I
believe these four stocks knocked down by the slump are worth
buying now.  
 DynCorp International Inc. , a contractor that provides
security services and trains police officers worldwide, has
fallen about 21 percent since Jan. 19. The Falls Church,
Virginia, company has helped train personnel in trouble spots
such as Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides guard services,
removes land mines, maintains aircraft, and performs other
related services.  
 Dyncorp had $3.1 billion in  revenue  in its last fiscal
year, which ended in April. While some private-security
companies have been dogged by accusations of using excessive
force, I believe DynCorp has had fewer such issues than some of
its competitors.  
 Three Risks  
 DynCorp’s name goes back to 1987 although the company’s
origins reach back to 1946. It went public in 2006 and has
increased its  earnings  each year since. Per share earnings were
$1.22 in 2009, and analysts look for about $1.44 a share in
2010.  
 After its tumble in the recent correction, DynCorp  shares 
seem to me attractively cheap. They trade for a little more than
$10, down from about $20 last summer. The price is now only
seven times earnings and a bit more than book value (corporate
net worth per share).  
 Why is DynCorp stock inexpensive? There are at least three
risks to consider. First, the world could become more peaceful,
but regrettably that seems unlikely. Second, the U.S. military
could bring more functions under its direct purview, rather than
using consultants.  
 Third and most likely, Congress might grow weary of
widening deficits and dwindling revenue and slice defense
spending. In my opinion,  DynCorp  is currently cheap enough to
compensate investors for taking such risks.  
 Brutally Competitive  
 Multi-Fineline Electronix Inc. , located in Anaheim,
California, has fallen about 13 percent since Jan. 19. It
assembles flexible circuit boards used in laptops, smart phones,
and other mobile devices. It also makes other electronic
components.  
 Most of the drop came after Multi-Fineline said sales in
the second quarter of fiscal 2010 will probably be $160 million
to $180 million, instead of $193 million as analysts expected.  
 I’d be the first to admit that making circuit boards is a
brutally competitive business. Yet the company has some
strengths that attract me.  
 Since its initial public offering in 2004, Multi-Fineline
has reported a  profit  every year. Last year was its best, with
earnings of $1.81 a share. (For this year, analysts foresee only
$1.50.)  
 I also like Multi-Fineline’s  balance sheet , with debt less
than 3 percent of equity. The stock sells for 12 times earnings
and 1.4 times book value, cheap for a technology stock.  
 Switching to the financial industry,  Employers Holdings
Inc. , a workers’ compensation insurance company based in Reno,
Nevada, looks interesting. It is down about 11 percent in recent
weeks.  
 Holding Up Well  
 Employers Holdings has a market value of more than $500
million and is covered by six  analysts , who are evenly split
between “buy” and “hold” ratings.  
 At first glance, you might think Employers Holdings is
stuck in reverse. The company went public in 2007 and reported
earnings of $2.32 a share that year. The following year earnings
fell to $2.07. In the fiscal year just ended, analysts estimate
the figure was $1.92.  
 Yet in my view, earnings held up pretty well considering
the recession. Workers’ compensation is affected by the economy,
partly because workers are more likely to file a claim during
bad times.  
 At $12 to $13, the stock is modestly valued at six times
earnings and a little more than book value.  
 If Employers Holdings can get back to earning $2 a share,
and if the stock were to sell for 10 times earnings -- hardly a
towering multiple -- this would be a $20 stock.  
 Pounding the Table  
 Finally, consider  Rock-Tenn Co.  of Norcross, Georgia, a
maker of folding cartons and corrugated packaging. It is down 25
percent.  
 Packaging companies are famous for being sensitive to the
movements of the economy. In recent columns I have pounded the
table regarding my belief that the U.S. economy is getting
better.  
 If I’m right,  Rock-Tenn , now selling for eight times
earnings and 0.5 times revenue, is a logical beneficiary. Rock-
Tenn’s debt is high, at 150 percent of equity, but the company
seems to be gradually bringing it down.  
 Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        