-- Libido Control Is How to Get Ahead at the Office: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-02-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-15/libido-control-is-how-to-get-ahead-at-the-office-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             Add another item to the list of
career details that business schools neglect to teach their
students: how to keep your hormones from threatening your
livelihood.  
 We’ve already seen  Tiger Woods  and  Eliot Spitzer  trash
their careers because of libidos on overdrive, and sex-rehab
outfits are emerging as the ultimate recession-proof businesses.
For all the high-profile examples of sexual appetites getting in
the way of employment continuity, though, there doesn’t seem to
be much of a decline in the rate of on-the-job monkey business.  
 The latest example: Viewers of Australia’s “7 News” got
an unexpected soft-porn sideshow when they tuned in Feb. 2, as
an unwitting  Macquarie  Private Wealth trader scrolled through
photos of lightly clothed supermodel Miranda Kerr on a computer
while a colleague gave a live interview about monetary policy.  
 The trader, as it turns out, was clicking on e-mails sent
by a prankster. Kerr, bless her exposed heart,  told  Melbourne’s
Herald Sun newspaper that she “of course” would sign a
petition to save the job of the trader caught on camera; indeed,
after a brief suspension, David Kiely was back at his desk, the
bank said on Feb. 5.  
 It was one minute and 52 seconds that prompted more than 3
million hits on YouTube. In lieu of a cold shower, here are some
areas managers and worker bees might consider in this teachable
moment:  
 Fake It  
 Lesson One -- Brokerage firms should never allow computers
to be in view when the  trading room  cameras are on. That’s
problematic, though, considering that broadcast outfits want all
those screens in the background to conjure up the sense that
you’re there with all the smart guys when all they’re really
doing is devoting airtime to a boring talking head.  
 What to do? There is always the Enron Method: Hire a bunch
of people to pretend to be analysts or traders and stuff them in
a room when the media comes calling. Just be sure the computers
don’t actually work.  
 More practical, perhaps, is to try blocking all the X-rated
stuff. But that doesn’t always work, either.  
 That leads us to:  
 Lesson Two -- Management has to pay attention when the smut
alarm goes off.  
 If you work at a place with more than two technology
wizards, chances are a big  NSFW  warning comes up on your office
computer screen if you try to catch a peek of your favorite skin
site. That’s enough to send the wimps running, but not the real
men who know something about the securities markets, including
the ones charged with regulating them.  
 Slow Learners  
 At the Securities and Exchange Commission, where some
employees are apparently slow learners (but you knew that), an
unnamed regional supervisor got 1,880 access denials over a
period of 17 days related to attempts to inspect a little bare
flesh, according to a recent  story  by the Washington Times,
which got its hands on some steamy documents via a Freedom of
Information Act request.  
 One regional office branch chief got 271 porn-related
access denials, the paper said. Another SEC employee told an
investigator from the inspector general’s office that he
justified his salacious surfing because “I would work late and
I rarely would put in for any kind of comp time or anything like
that.”  
 SEC spokesman  John Nester  said in an e-mail statement that
some clicks on a Web page can result in multiple hits,
suggesting that the numbers might be overstated. Whew, don’t you
feel better knowing that?  
 If you get the boss mad enough, he or she might really
embarrass you over your creepy personal habits, which brings to
mind:  
 Play at Home  
 Lesson Three -- Don’t bring your sex toys to work.  
 The Los Angeles investment firm TCW Group Inc. got into a
tiff with its former chief investment officer,  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
in December, firing him for allegedly making secret plans to
leave with other TCW managers to set up his own firm. Last
month, TCW sued Gundlach, who countersued Feb. 10, denying TCW’s
claims and saying he was owed as much as $1.25 billion.  
 Amid the 39 pages of accusations by TCW was this
description of items TCW claims to have found in Gundlach’s
offices: “a collection of 12 sexual devices, 34 hardcore
pornographic magazines and 36 hardcore sexually explicit DVDs
and videocassettes.”  
 In a letter written after the lawsuit was filed, Gundlach
said he had been concerned that TCW’s parent, Societe Generale,
was winding down its involvement in the money-management
business and that his overtures to purchase the business were
“rebuffed.” As for the items, he wrote that that these were
“vestiges of closed chapters” of his life.  
 Breaking the Habit  
 People in finance aren’t the only ones who display risky
sexual behavior at work, Maureen Canning, author of “Lust,
Anger, Love: Understanding Sexual Addiction and the Road to
Healthy Intimacy,” told me in a telephone interview. But with
its living-on-the-edge, competitive intensity, Wall Street is a
particularly good match for a person with addictive behaviors,
including sexual ones, she said.  
 Sexual-addiction clinics like the one she consults with in
Wickenburg, Arizona, are getting more business. Women, by the
way, make up about 30 percent of the patients she sees.  
 These days employers can monitor every computer move a
worker makes, so it’s obvious how much time is being lost to
searching for scuzz. Play with your toys at home, boys and
girls. The same profit motive that gets your competitive juices
flowing is inspiring your bosses to take an interest in your
triple-X antics.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 For Related News and Information:
More Antilla columns: NI ANTILLA <GO>
More Bloomberg columns: OPED <GO> or NI COLUMNS BN <GO>
Top financial stories: FTOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        