-- Olympic Luger's Death Shouldn't Surprise Anyone: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-02-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-15/olympic-luger-s-death-shouldn-t-surprise-anyone-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             There are plenty of words we can
attach to the death of Nodar Kumaritashvili, the 21-year-old
Georgian luger who lost his life while trying to win an Olympic
medal.  
 Tragic applies. So, too, do heartbreaking, horrific and
just plain old sad. One word that does not belong, however, is
unexpected.  
 The way things are going in sports, where extreme isn't
extreme enough anymore, someone was going to die. It was
inevitable.  
 The only question now is whether any lesson is learned or,
in the more likely outcome, memories fade and it's back to the
drawing board for even higher degrees of difficulty. And, of
course, more danger and, ultimately, death.  
 The most telling comments came from Australian luger Hannah
Campbell-Pegg who the day before Kumaritashvili died -- the day
before -- made clear that she was displeased with the speedy
track, which has the steepest slope of any luge venue in the
world and includes 16 turns and a 498-foot drop.  
 Top speed so far: 96 miles per hour.  
 "They are pushing it a little too much," Campbell-Pegg
said of track designers. "To what extent are we just little
lemmings that they just throw down a track and we're crash-test
dummies? I mean, this is our lives."  
 Is her life. Was his life, past tense.  
 Kumaritashvili's father, David, who competed in luge when
Georgia was part of the Soviet Union, told reporters that his
son called a few days before the Olympics to say that he was
terrified of the track.  
 'Too Much'  
 "I know that he should never have been going that fast,"
the grieving father said. "That kind of speed is too much in
this sport."  
 The International Luge Federation placed blame for the
crash on Kumaritashvili, who, the organization said, didn't
compensate properly while coming out of the track's second-to-
last turn. The federation didn't mention in its statement that
the track's signature turn, No. 13, has been dubbed "50-50,"
which, according to competitors, are the odds of escaping
without a crash.  
 The federation's finger-pointing drew a swift response from
Republic of Georgia President Mikheil Saakashvili, whose take is
right on target.  
 "No sports mistake," he told reporters in Vancouver, "is
supposed to lead to death."  
 No, but that's where we're headed. Fast.  
 Twisted Tomato  
 American snowboarder Shaun White wouldn't be the "Flying
Tomato" if he didn't contort his body -- this way, that way,
and upside down -- while floating above the halfpipe. White's
mop of red hair wouldn't adorn the billboard in New York's Times
Square if he didn't take chances. He wouldn't have a $9 million
endorsement portfolio if he didn't court danger.  
 Here's the problem, though: It's never enough. Once you've
mastered three upside-down, twisting revolutions, the fans want
four. Then five. Then another twist. And then something else.
Athletes cannot, it seems, satiate the public's desire for
danger.  
 Which is why White has concocted something called the
double McTwist 1260 for these Olympics. Please don't ask for an
explanation. White explains it by saying he added another 180-
degree spin to something he previously called the double-cork
1080.  
 The Flying Tomato could soon be the Crushed Tomato. While
he hasn't been seriously injured practicing the maneuver, White
told the Denver Post that he hit his head hard enough on three
occasions to warrant changing his helmet.  
 'Scared'  
 "I was scared. I've never admitted that, but I was scared
to do this trick," White said. "It's really intimidating. It's
such a commitment right off the bat, and to not know what the
outcome is going to be before you go into it just takes all your
energy and focus."  
 Let's just hope it doesn't take his life.  
 Did you see the X Games in 2007, when skateboarder Jake
Brown plummeted about 50 feet, his sneakers popping off -- after
losing control during the co-called Big Air competition? He's
lucky to be alive.  
 Nevertheless, the tricks get trickier, the ramps get higher
and the speeds get faster.  
 Heck, even some of the Olympic luge participants in
Vancouver objected to the shortening of the course for the men's
singles competition, saying the decision is unfair to top
sledders and gives less-skilled athletes a better chance.  
 That's after a man died.  
 Athletes never think catastrophe will happen to them, which
is why limits get pushed, records get broken, endorsements get
signed and tragedy strikes.  
 Serious injury and, yes, even death, are going to happen
more regularly.  
 Senseless is the word that best applies.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Patrick Singleton, a former Olympic luger, talks with Bloomberg's Bernard Lo about the death of Georgian luger Nodar Kumaritashvili. 
     Kumaritashvili crashed during a training run in Whistler, British Columbia before the op 
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
