-- BP's Russian Venture to Increase Output in Five Years
-- Torrey Clark
-- 2008-02-27T17:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-27/bp-s-russian-venture-to-increase-output-in-five-years-update2-.html

          
          
             BP Plc (BP/) 's Russian oil venture plans to
increase output 18 percent to 1.9 million barrels a day in 2012,
developing $15 billion of projects to resume production growth.  
 New fields will boost output after 2009, TNK-BP Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said today at BP's strategy
presentation in  London , according to a company statement.  
 TNK-BP pumped 1.6 million barrels a day last year, according
to data from the Russian Energy Ministry's CDU-TEK statistics
unit. That figure includes the company's half of OAO Slavneft.
TNK-BP, Russia's third-largest oil producer, has said output will
be little changed this year.  
 New projects may help increase output by 100,000 barrels a
day next year, Dudley said in Paris last month. In 2009, TNK-BP
plans to produce about 1.5 million metric tons of oil (30,000
barrels a day) at the Uvat fields in western Siberia and 1
million tons at Verkhnechonsk in eastern Siberia.  
 The Moscow-based producer replaced ``well over'' 100 percent
of the oil reserves it pumped out last year, about 50 percent of
that at new fields, Dudley said during a Webcast today.  TNK-BP (TNBP) 's
board will review 2007 reserves data ``soon,'' he said.  
 Mature deposits such as Samotlor, TNK-BP's largest, may
provide recoverable reserves of as much as 2 billion barrels of
oil equivalent through the use of new technologies, ``given the
investment environment,'' Dudley said.  
 The government will probably cut oil-export and extraction
taxes after the presidential election on March 2 to stimulate
investment in production,  Alfa Bank  said in a report today.  
 Investment Plans  
 TNK-BP  invested  $3.5 billion last year and will spend about
$4 billion in 2008 to develop new projects as well as refining
and retail, Dudley said.  
 BP shares ownership of TNK-BP with a group of companies
controlled by billionaires  Mikhail Fridman ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and
Leonard Blavatnik.  
 TNK-BP and OAO Gazprom Neft, the oil unit of natural-gas
producer OAO Gazprom, equally own Slavneft.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        