-- Nortel to Cut Jobs on Wider Loss; Sales Miss Forecast
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2008-02-27T21:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-27/nortel-to-cut-jobs-on-wider-loss-sales-miss-forecast-update7-.html

          
          
             Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,  North
America 's largest telephone-equipment maker, posted its biggest
loss in two years and announced 2,100 job cuts as sales slump.  
 Nortel dropped the most in four years in Toronto trading
after a writedown of tax assets led to a fourth-quarter loss of
$844 million, or $1.70 a share. Revenue fell 3.7 percent to
$3.2 billion. In November, the company said sales would be
``approximately flat'' in the quarter.  
 The company faces slowing demand for traditional phone gear
as customers upgrade to wireless systems. Since taking over in
2005, Chief Executive Officer Mike Zafirovski has pledged to spur
growth by focusing on new products. The plan to cut 6.5 percent
of the workforce is part of an effort to improve profit margins.  
 ``There are always more layoffs, more writedowns, more
layoffs, more writedowns, more layoffs, more writedowns,'' said
Rob Callander, portfolio manager at Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto, which manages at least C$1 billion ($1.02 billion).
``This is still a very difficult business.''  
 Nortel, founded in 1895 to make telephones for Bell  Canada 's
forerunner, fell C$1.53, or 14 percent, to C$9.68 at 4:10 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange  trading , the biggest drop since July 2004.
The stock has lost 35 percent this year.  
 The loss last quarter widened from $80 million, or 19 cents
a share, a year earlier.  
 Economic Slowdown  
 U.S. economic growth may slow to between 1.3 percent and 2
percent this year, Federal Reserve officials said last week, down
from an earlier forecast of as much as 2.5 percent. That may curb
phone-equipment orders from carriers and businesses.  
 ``It was a challenging environment,'' Zafirovski said today
on a conference call. ``There's pressure in North America,
particularly on the carrier side.''  
 The outlook contrasted with comments from Siemens AG last
week. Siemens,  Europe 's biggest engineering company, said it
would probably meet its sales and profit goals this year. CEO
 Peter Loescher  said he hadn't seen an impact from the slowing
economy on his business.  
 Revenue from Nortel's carrier networks unit, including sales
to Verizon Communications Inc., fell by 9 percent last quarter.
That division accounts for more than 40 percent of total  sales .  
 ``In a weakening U.S. environment, it's going to be a tough
go for the company,'' Laura Wallace, a managing director at
Coleford Investment Management in Toronto, said in an interview.
Coleford, which oversees C$300 million, doesn't own the stock and
isn't considering buying it. ``There are better opportunities,''
she said.  
 Job Cuts  
 In addition to the job cuts, Nortel expects to relocate
1,000 workers to lower-cost locations. The cuts should save about
$300 million a year, Nortel said. It employed about 32,500 people
at the end of 2007.  
 Nortel, based in Toronto, wrote down the value of its
Canadian deferred tax assets, benefits used to lower future
taxes, partly to reflect the drop in Canada's corporate tax rate
in 2007 and the rise in value last year of the Canadian dollar,
according to a fact sheet sent by spokesman  Mohammed Nakhooda .  
 Profit, excluding the $1.04 billion tax adjustment and other
items, was 30 cents a share, missing the  average estimate  of 44
cents on sales of $3.28 billion in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  
 The company's operations had a strong quarter, Chief
Strategy Officer George Riedel said.  
 Gross Margin  
 Fourth-quarter  gross margin , the percentage of sales left
after production costs, widened 386 basis points to 43.7 percent,
the highest in 12 quarters. That topped the 43 percent estimate
of RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Sue in  New York .  
 Its operating profit margin, or sales excluding the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, widened 339 basis points
to 7.6 percent, also the highest in 12 quarters, Riedel said. A
basis point is one one-hundredth of a percentage point.  
 ``The important thing is where we've placed our bets,''
Riedel said in an interview. ``We think we can demonstrate real
traction, real performance, real growth.''  
 Zafirovski has sought to replace revenue from Nortel's
traditional copper-line phone equipment as companies upgrade
networks to wireless technology.  
 ``They're trying to find their place in the world,''
American Technology Research's  Mark McKechnie  said in an
interview before today's report. The San Francisco-based analyst
 predicts  the shares will perform in line with their peers.  
 Revenue this year will grow in the ``low single digits,''
and gross margin will be around 43 percent, Nortel said today.  
 Nortel paid a $35 million fine in November to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission claims that it defrauded
investors by manipulating earnings from 2000 to 2003. The company
didn't admit or deny wrongdoing. Nortel also recorded costs in
the fourth quarter of 2006 to settle a shareholder lawsuit.  
 (Nortel held a conference call at 8:30 a.m. New York time to
discuss results. Click  http://www.nortel.com/  to listen.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        