-- Democrats Ride Into Sunset, Your Wallet in Hand: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-01-04T02:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-03/democrats-ride-into-sunset-your-wallet-in-hand-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             The U.S. enters 2010 the way many bad
movies end, by riding into the sunset.  
 Back in the early days of George W. Bush’s administration,
opponents of his tax cuts were as helpless as Republicans have
been during the health-care debate. But a U.S. Senate rule named
for Democrat Robert Byrd allowed Bush’s opponents one seeming
victory. To satisfy the Byrd rule, most of the tax cuts had to
be considered temporary, so they were written to be rescinded in
the then-distant year of 2010.  
 Welcome to the sunset.  
 As bad as you might have felt on New Year’s Day, the goal
of this column is to make you feel worse. Before reading
further, you might consider grabbing the Excedrin. The list of
tax provisions set to expire is long and significant.  
 Bush cut income tax rates, dividend tax rates and the
capital gains tax. He reduced the estate and gift taxes,
expanded the earned income tax credit, reduced the marriage
penalty, expanded the child tax credit and allowed small
businesses to deduct a more generous share of their expenses.  
 Those are just the big ones. An analysis by Congress’s
Joint Committee on Taxation listed 113 tax provisions expiring
in 2009 or 2010.  
 If you are married, have kids, have income or run a small
business, your taxes are in play this year.  
 The question is, will Democrats let these sunsets happen?
For some of the provisions, the crystal ball seems clear. With
others, it’s anybody’s guess what might happen.  
 Campaign Pledge  
 First let’s look at income taxes. During the campaign,
President Barack Obama and most Democrats promised not to
increase taxes on taxpayers with incomes below $250,000. Even
though the Senate’s health-care bill clearly violates that
pledge, it doesn’t constitute income-tax legislation in the most
literal sense. It seems reasonable to expect that Democrats will
otherwise try to honor Obama’s $250,000 floor.  
 That means the expanded earned income tax credit, the more
generous child credit and all of the tax-rate reductions that
apply to those with incomes below $250,000 are probably safe.
Indeed, extensions of those tax breaks were incorporated into
Obama’s long-term budget outlook last year.  
 If your income is above $250,000, on the other hand,
horrors may await you. Major tax hikes appear inevitable, and
the sunsets of 2010 are just the opening that Democrats need.  
 Here is the problem. Back in March, the Congressional
Budget Office estimated that the tax provisions in Obama’s
budget would increase the deficit by about $2 trillion over 10
years. That estimate counted on revenue from so-called cap-and-
trade legislation that is now widely viewed as dead.  
 Bill Grows  
 Making matters worse, the overall budget outlook has
deteriorated since then. Policy changes and economic
developments since March have increased the CBO’s baseline
deficit over the next 10 years to $7.1 trillion from $4.4
trillion. Add in the extensions of the favored tax breaks, and
that number climbs to almost $10 trillion. Somebody is going to
be stuck with the bill, and if your income is above $250,000,
you can bet it will be you.  
 If the Bush tax cuts expire, then the marginal tax rate on
high incomes climbs to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. My guess is
that technical tricks like phasing out deductions and imposing
some version of a so-called millionaire surtax and war surtax
get stuck in there too, perhaps lifting the top rate to around
45 percent.  
 That would be very bad news for equity markets. The tax
rate on dividends received by those with high incomes is also
set to jump from 15 percent to whatever the top income tax rate
will be. This will be the largest increase in dividend taxes in
history, severely undermining income from equities.  
 Batting Zero  
 To be sure, during the campaign, Obama promised that he
would lift the dividend tax only to 20 percent. Given that he is
batting approximately zero for a thousand on the political
promises he made to moderates, it seems unlikely that such a
pleasant outcome will be achieved. By the way, the capital gains
tax rate is going to go up as well, probably from 15 percent to
20 percent.  
 The estate tax is, as of this moment, zero. However, it
seems likely that last year’s rate of 45 percent, on
inheritances greater than $3.5 million for an individual, will
be restored, retroactive to the start of this year.  
 All these tax hikes are a big deal for taxpayers, political
handicappers, and economic forecasters.  
 Be Prepared  
 For individuals, the best way to get ready is to load your
income into 2010, before the tax rates go up. If you have
capital gains, realize them. If you have a big bonus coming,
don’t let it wait until 2011.  
 Economic forecasters will have to factor the higher taxes
into their calculations. It seems likely that the recovery will
be threatened by them late next year.  
 And political handicappers should ask themselves how low
the approval of the Democrats will go in this election year.
American politics has never seen an attempt to follow a massive
and unpopular health bill with the mother of all tax increases.
Until 2010, that is.  
 (Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona in
the 2008 presidential election. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        