-- Democrats Know Make-or-Break Year Turns on Jobs: Albert Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-01-03T14:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-03/democrats-know-make-or-break-year-turns-on-jobs-albert-hunt.html

          
          
             This year will be a difficult one for
Democrats. The only issue is how tough.  
 If conditions and circumstances take a negative turn,
Democrats could lose 40 seats in the U.S. House of
Representatives and more than a half-dozen in the Senate in the
November midterm elections. With this prospect, any lingering
clout enjoyed by President  Barack Obama  would evaporate.  
 If things break the right way for the Democrats, however,
the congressional losses might be minimal -- 15 to 20 in the
House and several in the Senate -- and the president, while
weakened, would still govern with some authority.  
 As in economics, there are leading indicators in politics.
For 2010, they are:  
 Health Care: If, as expected, Congress gives final approval
to a health-care bill over the next few weeks, the public
perception will be crucial. Most of these policies won’t take
effect for several years, so initial impressions will be
politically decisive.  
 The Obama White House has only mixed success in these
communications wars. The administration lost on the stimulus
package, which most economists think is successful but the
public sees as largely ineffective and ridden with special-
interest pork.  
 ‘Short-Term Drag’  
 The Obama strategy of not advocating specific policies has
come at a political cost. Polls show support for the health-care
overhaul has dropped; The Democratic Senate Budget Committee’s
chairman,  Kent Conrad , said in an interview last month that the
measure would be a “short-term drag” for Democrats.  
 Whether the sweeping health-care changes are seen as a
long-due step in expanding coverage and controlling costs or as
just another costly big government plan will weigh on voters in
November.  
 Jobs: High unemployment punishes the party in power. The
levels and direction, however, matter, which is why Democrats
were heartened by a better-than-expected report last month that
showed the jobless rate dropping to 10 percent.  
 Ray Fair , an economist at  New Haven , Connecticut-based  Yale
University  who for years has forecast elections based on
economic models, sees Democrats winning about 50.5 percent of
the popular vote in House races this fall, down from 53.4
percent in 2008. That suggests a loss of about 25 to 30 seats.  
 Maki Forecast  
 Whether Democrats do better or worse may depend on which of
two respected economic forecasters is right.  Dean Maki , the
chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York , sees
unemployment dropping steadily this year to a 9.4 percent
average in the third quarter and not much above 9 percent on
Election Day.  
 Jan Hatzius, chief U.S. economist at New York-based  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , forecast joblessness rising consistently
through this year and hitting a peak of 10.75 percent in 2011.
If Maki, who was rated the most-accurate forecaster in a
Bloomberg News survey, is prescient, the economy may be a wash
for Democrats; if Hatzius is closer to the mark, look for big
losses.  
 Casualties: How big an issue Afghanistan is in the off-year
elections will hinge on American casualties, how many kids are
coming back in body bags.  
 “It’s much easier to quantify the casualties than the
benefits of a war,” says Peter Feaver, a political-science
professor at Durham, North Carolina-based Duke University who
served on the national security staffs of Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  George H.W. Bush  and worked on the  Iraq  War for
George W. Bush. “The American people view each soldier who dies
as somewhat of a tragedy.”  
 Off Radar Screen  
 The  Iraq War  went off the radar screen and front pages as
casualties dropped to 150 in 2009 from a high of 904 in 2007.
Last year, for the first time, American losses in Afghanistan,
at 319, exceeded those in Iraq.  
 If next year U.S. losses in Afghanistan approach the peak
level in Iraq, public anxiety and antiwar feelings will
escalate.  
 Retirements: In the House, it’s easier to win an open seat
with no incumbent than to topple an officeholder. Democrats
currently enjoy a 257 to 178 majority in the House and a 60 to
40 advantage in the Senate, where two independents caucus with
the majority party. To date, four House Democrats have announced
their retirements, and Republicans like their prospects in each
of those contests.  
 Flurry of Retirements  
 California  Republican Congressman Kevin McCarthy, who is
helping direct his party’s campaign to take control of the
House, says his “magic number” would be 15 Democratic
retirees. He expects the Democratic withdrawals to be “fast and
furious” in the next few weeks as filing deadlines approach.  
 The Republicans’ major impediment, however, may be internal
struggles as conservatives mount challenges to front-running,
more centrist candidates (and arguably stronger general-election
candidates) in a few House districts and in Senate contests in
 Connecticut ,  Florida , California and  Illinois . If these
skirmishes become bitter, Republican prospects will dim.  
 Crisis: Obama will face one, most likely international;
perhaps soon with the al-Qaeda presence in Yemen. How he handles
it will affect his party’s performance in November.  
 Shaping Perceptions  
 Crises aren’t always major events. President Ronald Reagan’s triumphs over the air-traffic controllers or Obama’s
handling of Somalian piracy last April weren’t sweeping
historical moments, but helped shape presidential perceptions,
or in Obama’s case mitigate concerns about weakness. Conversely,
the botched U.S. policy in Somalia haunted Clinton through the
first midterm elections.  
 For all the tragedy of 9-11, it was a political bonanza for
President  George W. Bush . The country was united and the rally-
around-the-flag mindset carried through to the midterm elections
in 2002. Republicans were even able to successfully question the
patriotism of Georgia Democratic Senator Max Cleland, who lost
three limbs in the  Vietnam War .  
 If a major crisis occurs and the president rises to the
occasion, it will lift other Democrats. President John F. Kennedy’s deft handling of the Cuban missile crisis in 1962
resonated with the country and helped his fellow Democrats in
the congressional elections a few weeks later.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        