-- Finding Prospects Among the 10 Least-Liked Stocks: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-01-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-03/finding-prospects-among-the-10-least-liked-stocks-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             To make good profits in the stock
market, it pays to go against the crowd.  
 One way I force myself to do this is by focusing
periodically on the 10 stocks least popular with investors, as
measured by their price-to-earnings ratios. The P-E ratio is
simply a stock’s price divided by its earnings per share for the
past four quarters.  
 Stocks with very low ratios are, almost by definition,
scorned by investors. But over the past 10 years I have found
them to be a fruitful field of stocks that might achieve
dramatic gains. They are often off the beaten path and little
followed by analysts.  
 I wrote about these stocks from 1999 through 2007 and
called them “The Robot Portfolio.” Now I prefer the more
descriptive term Low P-E Outliers.  
 In looking at these stocks, I eliminate those with debt
greater than stockholders’ equity (to reduce the chance of
bankruptcy) and focus on ones with a market value of $500
million or more. As of Dec. 30, 1,261 stocks met those two
qualifications. Here are the 10 with the lowest P-E ratios.  
 The cheapest is BreitBurn Energy Partners LP, a publicly
traded master limited partnership (MLP) based in Los Angeles
that acquires and develops gas and oil properties. It trades for
about three times earnings.  
 Dividend Quashed  
 Why is BreitBurn so cheap? MLPs are usually income
vehicles, but BreitBurn suspended its dividend in April to
comply with loan covenants. The dividend used to be 52 cents a
quarter. Optimists hope the payout will be restored in the
second quarter of 2010. Pessimists say it may take much longer.
The company says it will “re-establish distributions when
leverage has been reduced to acceptable levels.”  
 Also, BreitBurn is being sued by its largest shareholder,
Quicksilver Resources Inc. of Fort Worth, Texas, in a dispute
that BreitBurn says is over “working control” of the company.  
 The bullish case is that BreitBurn has a rich pool of
energy assets, with gas and oil reserves in Michigan, California
and elsewhere. I believe BreitBurn will eventually restructure
its debt and resume dividend payments. I consider the stock a
good speculation at $11 or less.  
 Four other outliers, all based in Houston, are also energy
companies. Plains Exploration & Production Co., with a P-E of
about four, has much of its oil and gas reserves in and off the
coast of California, and may benefit if Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger succeeds in reviving oil drilling off the coast.
Famed hedge fund manager George Soros is a major shareholder.
Trading at less than book value (corporate net worth per share),
the stock looks appealing to me.  
 More Energy  
 EV Energy Partners LP, which is an oil and gas MLP, has a
P-E of about four. The company provides good dividend income,
but I am a bit put off by it since it sells for more than four
times revenue.  
 I’ll pass on Linn Energy LLC, with a P-E of five, as the
company has posted losses in three of the past five years.  
 Gulfmark Offshore Inc., with a P-E of six, operates a fleet
of supply vessels that ferry men and equipment to and from
offshore rigs, mostly in the North Sea and Southeast Asia. I
like it, even though the supply-boat business tends to be
volatile.  
 Conseco Inc., an insurer in Carmel, Indiana, with a P-E of
five, sells life insurance and policies covering long-term care
and cancer among other products. Only one of six analysts who
cover the stock says to buy it. I like to be contrarian, but
Conseco doesn’t excite me.  
 Against the Crowd  
 I prefer Atlanta-based Mirant Corp., with a P-E of five.
The company owns electric power generating stations. Only two of
11 analysts consider it a buy, but I would go against the crowd.
Mirant beat Wall Street’s profit estimates in 2006 through 2008.
It earned a 28 percent return on equity in 2008, a tough year
for many companies. And its stock sells for only about half of
book value.  
 Earthlink Inc., an Internet service provider also based in
Atlanta, has a P-E of five. I fear it is a value trap. The
company’s earnings declined 42 percent in the third quarter, and
its subscriber base has been shrinking. It specializes in dial-
up service, which continues to lose market share to broadband.  
 Concord, North Carolina-based Speedway Motorsports Inc.
which has a P-E of five, owns auto-racing tracks and sponsors
and promotes car races. Lack of earnings growth in recent years
has crippled the stock, which has fallen to about $17 from more
than $43 in 1999. I think shares will rebound in 2010. In my
opinion, Speedway, as a mature company, should raise its
dividend, aiming to get the yield up to 4 percent or more from
the current 2 percent.  
 Lindner Family  
 American Financial Group Inc., located in Cincinnati, has a
P-E multiple of six. I find this insurer’s stock attractively
cheap, at below book value and 0.7 times revenue. Stay away if
you don’t like family-dominated companies, though. Chairman Carl
Lindner Jr. and his relatives control the corner offices and
about 24 percent of the shares.  
 Disclosure note: Personally and for clients, I own shares
of Mirant. I have no long or short positions in the other stocks
discussed in this week’s column.  
 (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column: John Dorfman at 
  jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        