-- Dubai's Young Women: Single and Determined
-- Lisa Weinert
-- 2010-02-03T18:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-03/dubai-s-young-women-single-and-determined.html

          
          
             This post was co-authored by Sylvia Ann Hewlett and Lisa Weinert  

 The world over, well-educated young women are choosing different pathways — in their careers and their lives — than their older peers.  

 This is particularly striking among young Arab women, a group thought to be more embedded in — and confined by — traditional values and cultural restrictions. 

 Last month, as delegates to the Second Arab Women's Leadership Forum in Dubai, we participated in a focus group of young professional women in their late twenties and early thirties. The conversation was thoughtful, candid and emotionally charged. 

 These young women from Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and the Emirates work for the likes of PepsiCo and Emirati Airlines. They're kicking over the traces in two ways. Many are moving away from the secluded, family-bound lives of their mothers. And they're also questioning — and rebelling against — the rigid structures of conventional corporate careers. This was a big surprise. It turned out that the attitudes voiced by these young professionals were remarkably similar to Gen Y conversations we've had in other parts of the world. 

 Five drumbeats reverberated through our focus group conversation: 
 High Achieving:  Everyone in the room was well-qualified and ambitious. 
 Unmarried:  Of the nine women in the room, seven were single and none had children. This is no longer unusual in the Middle East. Across the region women are delaying childbearing and birth rates are falling. 
 Questing:  Most want something more than a paycheck and a standard lockstep career. They're willing to work hard but are looking for flexibility in the way they work, as well as for opportunities to be creative and find meaning. 
 Entrepreneurial:  Several were extremely serious about entrepreneurial options. One of the participants had already left a promising corporate career to start her own business, and another was contemplating that step. 
 Male Role Models:  Many cited the men in their lives, especially their fathers, as being key influences in encouraging them to pursue their ambition. 
 Could you replicate these themes back in New York? In London? In Shanghai? 

 Sure. 

 The drumbeats echo the findings of a recent study from the Center for Work-Life Policy, which found that young people the world over are diverging from traditional career paths and striking out in new directions. According to "Bookend Generations" (published last year by the  Harvard Business Review  in the article  "How Gen Y and Boomers Will Reshape Your Agenda" ), the newest generation of college grads to enter the workforce are seeking  meaning  and  purpose  as well as money. Rather than plush paychecks alone, this generation — both men and women — are driven by a remix of rewards. Five motivators rank equal to or higher than compensation: new experiences; flexible work arrangements; opportunities to "give back" to the world; recognition; and cool, collaborative teams. 

 As demonstrated by the young women in Dubai, this rewards remix is percolating around the globe and permeating even traditional cultures. The women in Dubai were looking for their careers to open doors to personal fulfillment — and had no qualms about jumping ship if their company isn't prepared to help. 

 What does this mean for the Middle East's economic dynamo? With birth rates plummeting faster than almost anywhere else in the world, a war for talent is heating up in this region. Employers may well need to step up to the plate and take smart women's demands much more seriously. 

 "I think of my life as pieces of a puzzle waiting to be completed," as one of the woman we met in Dubai muses in her blog. "There's so much out there." 

