-- Kill Your Favorite Subsidy to Win the Deficit War: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-02-04T02:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-03/kill-your-favorite-subsidy-to-win-the-deficit-war-david-pauly.html

          
          
             The Deficit. The  Debt . Americans are
strangling themselves economically. So:  
 1) Restore all income taxes to the pre-President  George W. Bush  level, not just those for people earning $250,000 or more.  
 2) Tax the banks $90 billion as proposed by President
 Barack Obama  to pay for their bailout. Then break them up --
making them small enough to fail and eliminating the need for
more trillion-dollar rescues.  
 You will find these measures repellant, of course, if
you’re happy with the estimated $1.6 trillion U.S.  budget 
deficit for the year ending Sept. 30.  
 Since excessive government encouragement of home ownership
contributed to the subprime mortgage crisis:  
 3) Eliminate income-tax deductions for property taxes and
mortgage interest. Phase it in over five years so it hurts less.  
 4) Break  Fannie  Mae and Freddie Mac into four mortgage-
buying companies and get them off the federal dole.  
 You’ll be against these moves, naturally, if you think we
can easily afford a budget deficit of $1.3 trillion in fiscal
2011.  
 Because we need curbs now on out-of-control entitlements:  
 5) Raise the retirement age for collecting full Social
Security benefits to 72. Cut cost-of-living increases for
beneficiaries to half the inflation rate for 10 years.  
 The president said the other night that fixing Social
Security was easy. Let’s prove it.  
 Work Longer  
 6) Raise the age for  Medicare  eligibility to 68. Try the
Obama health-care changes. What’s there to lose? Extended
coverage might lead to more preventive medicine that saves money
in the long run.  
 You won’t want to do any of this, certainly, if you’re
delighted that the national debt now stands at $12.3 trillion,
compared with $900 billion 30 years ago.  
 There’s money to be saved on diverse fronts:  
 7) End the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan on the current
schedules. Not levying a war tax to pay for these conflicts --
which Americans initially would have supported -- was a blunder.  
 8) Kill farm subsidies. It’s true that nature can damage
farmers. It’s also true that in another industry, a rival’s new
product can ruin a company.  
 There are other possibilities. We could start a national
sales tax -- with rebates for those with low incomes. We can tax
excessive health-insurance benefits. Personally, I would like a
special income tax on college presidents who make more than half
a million and college teachers who don’t teach.  
 Ten-Year Outlook  
 New taxes won’t appeal to you if you’re looking forward to
annual budget deficits of $700 billion to $1 trillion for the
next 10 years.  
 Finally:  
 9) Reduce government.  
 Without denigrating what these folks do, can we ask if the
president really needs both a Council of Economic Advisers and a
National Economic Council?  
 Government housing officials will have less to do if we cut
Fannie and Freddie loose.  
 Whole agencies might be suspect. We, for instance, have a
 Selective Service System  but no draft.  
 The government has both the U.S. Postal Service and the
Postal Regulatory Commission. Doesn’t competition from e-mail
and FedEx Corp. keep postal rates in line?  
 Did you know that we also have a Merit Systems Protection
Board? Its Web site says one of its jobs is to make sure
government workers are qualified.  
 Of course, you will have no problem with these government
entities if you’re not worried about the national debt
increasing to an estimated $18.5 trillion by 2020.  
 But the noose is getting tighter.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Fort Myers, Florida 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        