-- Debt Raters Have No Place in Brave New World: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2009-08-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-17/debt-raters-have-no-place-in-brave-new-world-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             It boggles the mind that the ratings
companies are getting what amounts to a pass from Congress as it
imposes wholesale repairs on other parts of our broken financial
system. This is one of the places where big changes could matter
most, so we will regret it if we waste this opportunity.  
 Many of the new financial regulations fall into the high-
time category, but they also won’t stop the never-ending boom-
and-bust cycle. The three major assessors -- Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings -- are different.
If they didn’t exist, the market would never invent a system
that lets securities issuers give secret information to their
paid agent to publish a widely relied-on rating for which the
rating company has no legal liability. Even when the opinion
isn’t timely and, as so often happens, is dreadfully wrong.  
 It’s unfortunate that the proposed changes tinker around
the edges and take for granted most of this status quo. We
shouldn’t sit by and let this happen without objecting loud and
clear and proposing real alternatives.  
 Let’s consider how bad the situation really is by using an
analogy. Ratings worked like the ancient Roman Catholic practice
of indulgences, in which professional “pardoners” sold
certificates to sinners as recognition that their penance had
washed them free of sin.  
 Indulgence Peddlers  
 Anyone with a license to sell get-out-of-hell-free cards
will quickly start acting as though they have one of their own.
Sure enough, the pardoners went wild peddling indulgences and
before long, an outraged  Martin Luther  nailed his theses to the
cathedral door. The Protestant Reformation was born.  
 It’s hard to understand why there hasn’t been a similar
outrage fueling an overhaul of the ratings system. The bill
pending in Congress is too timid even to switch to “user pays”
instead of the issuer, which despite all the teeth-gnashing is
actually a minor proposal that would have limited impact.  
 The ratings system shouldn’t be so hard to fix. We have
just three companies whose business model should never have been
allowed to exist.  
 Plan A, therefore, is to pull the requirements for ratings
out of loan covenants, investment guidelines, swap
documentation, and collateral triggers. Allow lenders and
insurers to demand from issuers the data they now give the
ratings companies. Better yet, turn that data loose on the
Internet and let the free market handle the rest.  
 Fame and Fortune  
 Wiki-raters, bloggers, ratings boutiques would quickly
emerge to analyze their way to fame and fortune. This is where
the world is headed anyway -- a barbell. At one end, cheapie
analysis done on the fly by strivers; at the other end, deep
research purchased by the deep-pocketed few.  
 The ratings companies are an impediment to this natural
evolution of efficient capital markets. Without them, the
markets may value securities more accurately, closer to real
time, and without the obfuscation of torturous “negative
outlooks.” Sure, there probably still would be crackups and
crashes, but how could it be any worse than what we have now?  
 I can already hear the howling against this proposal. It
would make issuers disclose “proprietary competitive
information” to organizations that haven’t sworn the Super
Secret Rating Company Oath of Silence. Issuer A would know what
Issuer B isn’t telling us in its financial statements, such as
how much money it really makes.  
 Know Your Sins  
 That howling will be the main obstacle to this fundamental
change. Remember, ratings companies are like the pardoners: They
know your sins and tell you what is required to make them
disappear, so that nobody else finds out.  
 If investors liked this idea, though, they could start
implementing it anyway. They could start dismantling
requirements to use ratings. The assessors insist their gradings
are only “opinions” anyway. That’s why they can’t be sued for
negligence.  
 Let’s move on to Plan B, which admits the truth, that
ratings aren’t an opinion. They are a classic form of third-
party insurance in which the issuer pays the rating company to
insure the investor against loss. Specifically, a grading allows
a paper pusher at a state pension fund to nod off to sleep at
his desk, then say, “It was rated AAA the day before it went
bankrupt,” and avoid getting sued.  
 Under Plan B, therefore, we officially turn the ratings
companies into insurers. On Day One of Plan B, they begin
writing credit-default swaps. They charge a premium based on
whatever their “opinions” tell them to charge. They pay up to
the counterparty on default.  
 No Wiggle Room  
 There is no wiggle room in Plan B. As long as the
insurer/raters are allowed to keep their oligopoly, they may not
swap, hedge or reinsure away the risk. Their activities must be
overseen by regulators of impeccable quality who never have
worked for, and agree they never will work for, either a ratings
company or  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  
 Plan B works by putting ratings-company skin in the game.
But it is complicated, and it may be hard to find a regulator
who hasn’t worked for Goldman Sachs.  
 Also, because the assessors actually behaved as though
their gradings were opinions, who would want to buy insurance
from them now?  
 This is why I prefer Plan A, which is clean and
uncomplicated, and relies on the market.  
 Either way, it’s time for real change. It has been said in
Washington that you never want a serious crisis to go to waste,
so let’s not waste this one. Here is how to fix the broken
ratings system: Waste the ratings companies.  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball: Warren Buffett
and the Business of Life” and a senior adviser to Morgan
Stanley, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  
          
          


  


        