-- `Fockers' Tops U.S. Christmas Weekend Box Office With $34 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-27T23:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/-fockers-tops-u-s-christmas-weekend-box-office-with-34-million-in-sales.html
“Little Fockers,” a comedy sequel
with  Ben Stiller  and  Robert De Niro  that was largely panned by
critics, led the Christmas weekend box office in the U.S. and
Canada, taking in $30.8 million for Universal Pictures.  “True Grit,” the Western drama from directors and
brothers  Joel  and  Ethan Coen , opened in second place with $25.6
million for Paramount Pictures, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-
Office  said in an e-mailed statement.  The total for “Little Fockers” was $3.2 million less than
Sunday’s estimate. Comedies typically do well during the
holidays as families look for films that appeal to kids and
adults, said  Gitesh Pandya , editor of the Box Office Guru
website. Still, sales were 33 percent below the last “Fockers”
movie because of poor reviews and bad word-of-mouth, he said.  “Even though it’s the No. 1 opening, I don’t think it’s a
spectacular result,” Pandya said in an interview. “I don’t
think it’s going to have long-term playability because it’s not
a very good movie. I found it painfully unfunny.”  Of 115 reviews of “Little Fockers” posted on the website
Rottentomatoes.com, 103 were negative.  Overall ticket revenue fell for a seventh consecutive
weekend, dropping 49 percent from a year earlier. The industry
will need about $275 million in sales this week to match last
year’s record $10.6 billion, according to the latest data from
Hollywood.com’s box-office service.  “Avatar” was the top movie at this time last year, with
Christmas weekend sales of $75.6 million before going on to
become the top-grossing film of all time.  Smaller Audiences  Although the industry expects smaller audiences when
Christmas Eve falls on a Friday, this past weekend attracted
fewer moviegoers than in 2004, when the holiday last occurred on
a weekend, said  Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo.  “Little Fockers” is the third film in the series about
two incompatible families linked by marriage. The first two
movies generated $847 million worldwide for Universal, which is
owned by  General Electric Co .  In the latest version, De Niro reprises his role as an
overbearing father and Stiller is a hapless son-in-law who is
unable to please him. In the latest film, Stiller’s character
must once again prove himself as the families get together to
celebrate a birthday.  “True Grit,” from  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures, stars
 Jeff Bridges  as the grizzled, trigger-happy U.S. Marshal Rooster
Cogburn. A 1969 version of the film brought a best-actor Oscar
to  John Wayne  for his portrayal of Cogburn.  Strong-Willed Teen  In the new movie, based on the novel by Charles Portis,
Hailee Steinfeld plays Mattie Ross, a strong-willed teen who
seeks Cogburn’s help in tracking down the man who killed her
father.  Matt Damon  and  Josh Brolin  co-star.  “Tron: Legacy,”  Walt Disney Co. ’s sequel to the 1982
movie about a man trapped inside a video game, fell to third
from first with $19.2 million. The film also stars  Jeff Bridges ,
this time as a programmer who has remained in the cyber world
for two decades. His son, played by Garrett Hedlund, is pulled
into the game to help him plot an escape. Olivia Wilde co-stars.  “The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn
Treader,” the third film based on the C.S. Lewis books, fell to
fourth place with $9.5 million.  “Yogi Bear,” based on the television cartoon, was fifth
with sales of $8.8 million. The film from Time Warner Inc.’s
Warner Bros. features the voices of  Dan Aykroyd  as Yogi and
 Justin Timberlake  as his pal, Boo Boo. In the movie, the bears
join forces with a park ranger to keep Jellystone Park out of
the hands of a private developer.  ‘Tangled’  “The Fighter,” distributed by Paramount, was sixth with
sales of $8.5 million. Disney’s “Tangled,” a retelling of the
Rapunzel fairy tale about a girl locked in a tower, was seventh
with $6.4 million. “Gulliver’s Travels,” the weekend’s other
new film, opened in eighth with $6.3 million in sales for News
Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox.  In a modern update of the  Jonathan Swift  novel,  Jack Black 
stars as an aspiring writer who is transported to a Lilliput, a
land of tiny people.  Sales for the weekend’s top 12 films dropped to $135.3
million from last year’s $264 million, according to
Hollywood.com. This year’s domestic box-office sales total $10.3
billion, down 0.5 percent from a year earlier. Attendance is
down 5.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
24 through today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 