-- H&R Block Shares Drop as U.S. Decision Scuttles HSBC Tax-Refund Loan Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-12-27T16:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/h-r-block-says-11th-hour-u-s-decision-prevents-hsbc-s-tax-refund-loans.html
H&R Block Inc.  fell almost 10
percent after saying U.S. regulators blocked funding for its
tax-refund loans and that alternative products may not be ready
for the 2011 season.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency told HSBC
Holdings Plc not to make refund-anticipation loans, according
to a statement H&R Block released after business hours on Dec.
24. The order scuttled a deal the two companies reached after
H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, sued to force HSBC to
offer the loans under a contract that was set to expire in 2013.  “The OCC’s 11th-hour timing will make it difficult for us
to put alternative products in place at all of our locations in
time for the early part of the 2011 tax season,” Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Bennett  said in the statement. “Millions
of taxpayers will be deprived of credit, or they will be forced
to use higher-priced alternatives.”  H&R Block dropped 90 cents, or 7.1 percent, to $11.79 at
11:51 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading and
earlier fell as low as $11.43, the most in more than two months.  The Internal Revenue Service said in August it will no
longer help banks, including HSBC and  Republic Bancorp Inc. ,
underwrite refund loans, which consumer groups say carry
unfairly high interest rates. H&R Block’s struggle to offer
loans in 2011 helped drive down its shares 44 percent this year
through last week, making it the second-worst performer in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . Only  Dean Foods Co.  fell more.  Oppenheimer & Co. reduced its 2011 profit forecast for H&R
Block to $1.44 a share from $1.57.  ‘Significantly Weakened’  “With less than three weeks before the 2011 tax season
begins, HRB’s competitive position appears significantly
weakened,”  Scott Schneeberger , an Oppenheimer analyst, said
today in a note to clients.  H&R Block still offers customers a way to speed refund
checks and is developing “other financial products we intend to
put in place by the early part of the tax season,” said Kate
O’Neill Rauber, a spokeswoman for the Kansas City, Missouri-
based company. “We have no doubt that our 11,000 retail tax
offices will be ready to serve any taxpayer that needs
assistance.”  The firm learned of the OCC’s order on Dec. 23, she said.  Rob Sherman, an HSBC spokesman, said the bank is
terminating its relationship with H&R Block. Spokesmen for the
agency didn’t respond to messages.  IRS Move  Tax firms such as H&R Block, Liberty Tax Service and
 Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc.  advertise refund loans as a way
for customers to get immediate cash. The IRS has said it will
withhold a digital indicator that tells banks when taxpayers
qualify for refunds claimed on their tax forms and that a
deposit is imminent.  Jackson Hewitt, the second-biggest U.S. tax preparer, said
Dec. 10 that it expects to provide refund loans nationwide in
2011 through agreements with Republic, based in Louisville,
Kentucky, and Santa Barbara Tax Products Group.  Shares of Jackson Hewitt, based in Parsippany, New Jersey,
surged 37 percent to $2.42, the highest since March. The stock
plunged 23 percent on Christmas Eve last year and fell as low as
75 cents in August after the OCC told  Pacific Capital Bancorp 
that it wouldn’t be allowed to originate refund loans in 2010.  Legal Action  H&R Block sued HSBC in October as the London-based bank
sought to exit the U.S. refund-loan business. The two companies
had since reached an agreement for the 2011 season, under which
H&R Block would have covered defaults, according to its
statement. The tax preparer also agreed to fund instant loans at
a “substantially reduced rate to consumers,” it said.  The company prepared 20.1 million U.S. tax returns in
fiscal 2010 and 17 percent of those clients took refund loans,
according to Standard & Poor’s.  The company’s possible inability to offer refund loans,
“its most prominent settlement product, may hurt revenue and
earnings for the 2011 tax season,” wrote  Rian Pressman , an S&P
analyst, in a Dec. 22 report.  At least three senior executives, including CEO Russ Smyth,
left H&R Block earlier this year as the company lost market
share to TurboTax maker  Intuit Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  