-- AIG Gets $4.3 Billion of Credit as Insurer Sees Bailout Exit `Finish Line'
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-12-27T21:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/aig-gets-4-3-billion-of-credit-as-insurer-sees-bailout-exit-finish-line-.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the insurer bailed out by the U.S., garnered $4.3 billion in
bank credit lines in another step toward repaying taxpayers and
gaining independence.  The credit, provided by more than 30 banks and administered
by JPMorgan Chase & Co., includes two $1.5 billion facilities,
one for three years and the other for 364 days, AIG said today
in a regulatory filing. AIG’s property-casualty division Chartis
Inc. got $1.3 billion, the insurer said. The firm rose $5.05, or
9.3 percent, to $59.38 at 4:15 p.m. New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  AIG, which is seeking to replace government funds with
private capital, said Dec. 8 that it struck a deal to repay a
$20 billion Federal Reserve Bank of New York credit line and
would then turn to stock sales to repay the U.S. Treasury
Department. The insurer must demonstrate access to capital
markets before the U.S. fully withdraws its support, Treasury
Chief Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein  has said.  The credit lines are “another important vote of confidence
by the market in AIG,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche 
said in a separate statement. “We believe we are close enough
to completing our recapitalization plan that we can see the
finish line.”  The deals are contingent upon the insurer paying down its
New York Fed credit line by March 31, the filing said. The New
York-based insurer returned to debt markets this month for the
first time since its September 2008 rescue, selling $2 billion
in bonds. AIG also established a $500 million contingent
liquidity facility on Dec. 15, the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  