-- Taiwan Curbs Access to Derivatives in Bid to Curb Speculation on Currency
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-12-28T04:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/taiwan-to-cut-limits-on-banks-currency-derivatives-to-fight-speculation.html
Taiwan’s central bank said it will
step up curbs on the use of exchange-rate derivatives to combat
currency speculation by foreigners.  Banks’ holdings of non-deliverable forwards and options in
the Taiwan dollar will be limited to 20 percent of their
positions in the local currency with immediate effect, the
central bank said in an  e-mailed statement  late yesterday. The
 ceiling  was previously one-third. Deliverable forwards are
exempt from the restrictions as they are used by local companies
to protect earnings against exchange-rate fluctuations, it said.  The change is designed “to maintain order in the currency
market and to prevent foreign speculative capital from
intervening in the market,” the statement said.  Developing economies have stepped up attempts to curb
volatility in their currencies as near-zero interest rates in
the U.S. and Japan spur demand for higher-yielding emerging-
market bonds and equities. Taiwan on Nov. 9 announced curbs on
foreign investment in its debt, only allowing offshore funds to
have up to 30 percent of their portfolios invested in all types
of government bonds and money-market products.  “The new regulation won’t have too much impact on the
currency,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange
trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “The market was
already expecting new regulations and so took it pretty well.”  Capital Controls  The island’s dollar has appreciated 3.3 percent versus the
greenback in the past month, Asia’s best performance, and today
touched a 13-year high of NT $29.450.  The U.S. currency is still under pressure to weaken,
Minister of Economic Affairs  Shih Yen-shiang  said in Taipei
today. “This means continued pressure for the Taiwan dollar to
rise,” he said.  The island’s gross domestic product will expand more than
10 percent this year and Taiwan faces inflation risks in 2011,
Shih also said.  Emerging economies have been introducing capital control
measures in recent months to cool investment from overseas as
the Federal Reserve’s bond purchases make more funds available
for investment in higher-yielding assets.  South Korea aims to apply a levy on banks’ foreign-exchange
borrowings and will strengthen punishment for inappropriate
reporting of currency trades, according to a joint statement
from the government and central bank on Dec. 19. A cap may also
be placed on banks’ holdings of currency derivatives after a
review in January, said Finance Minister Yim Jong Yong.  Brazilian Tax  Brazil tripled a tax on purchases of local fixed-income
assets by overseas investors in October, while the Thai
government removed a 15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on
domestic bond income.  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened in the foreign-
exchange market on most days for eight months to check
appreciation that may hurt exports, according to currency
traders who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity
of the matter.  “I don’t think the new rules will really affect the Taiwan
dollar,” said  Pin Ru Tan , a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group in Singapore. “Investors can still do NDFs
trading offshore without restrictions. The fact the central bank
chose to do this instead of reining in the domestic market show
the authority doesn’t dare go that harsh.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  