-- Alcatel-Lucent to Pay $137 Million in Bribe Probes
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2010-12-28T16:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/alcatel-lucent-will-pay-137-million-to-settle-u-s-bribery-investigations.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA  agreed to pay $137
million to resolve U.S. criminal and civil probes and admitted
it bribed government officials in “many countries,” including
Taiwan, Malaysia and Costa Rica.  Prosecutors yesterday charged Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent
with violating the internal controls and books and records
provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Justice
Department will defer prosecution and drop the case after three
years if the company improves its compliance program.  Alcatel-Lucent, the world’s biggest supplier of fixed-line
phone networks, will pay a $92 million criminal penalty. Three
subsidiaries agreed to plead guilty to anti-bribery provisions
of the FCPA. The company also will pay $45 million to settle
civil charges by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Alcatel and its subsidiaries failed to detect or
investigate numerous red flags suggesting their employees were
directing sham consultants to provide gifts and payments to
foreign government officials to illegally win business,”  Robert Khuzami , SEC enforcement director, said in a statement.  Three subsidiaries -- Alcatel-Lucent France SA, Alcatel-
Lucent Trade International AG and Alcatel Centroamerica SA --
will plead guilty, according to the deferred-prosecution
agreement filed yesterday in federal court in Miami. The company
also will pay an independent French monitor to oversee its
compliance with anti-bribery measures.  The conduct involved the worldwide sales practices of
Alcatel SA before its 2006 merger with Lucent Technologies Inc.  ‘Third-Party Agents’  Alcatel “pursued many of its business opportunities around
the world through the use of third-party agents and
consultants,” according to a statement of facts admitted by the
company in deferred-prosecution agreement.  “This business model was shown to be prone to corruption,
as consultants were repeatedly used as conduits for bribe
payments to foreign officials (and business executives of
private customers) to obtain or retain business in many
countries,” the company admitted.  A decentralized corporate structure also permitted
corruption, as “the local employees were more interested in
obtaining business than ensuring that business was won ethically
and legally,” the company admitted.  The company admitted subsidiaries made improper payments to
obtain and retain business in Taiwan, Malaysia, Costa Rica and
Honduras. Alcatel-Lucent also admitted FCPA violations relating
to the hiring of third-party agents in Bangladesh, Nigeria,
Kenya, Angola, Ivory Coast, Uganda, Mali, Ecuador and Nicaragua.  Perfume Distributor  Alcatel Standard, based in Basel, Switzerland, hired a
Honduran consultant who was a perfume distributor with no
telecommunications experience to perform “vaguely described
marketing and advisory services,” the company admitted.  Alcatel Malaysia made at least 17 improper payments from
2004 to 2006 to employees of Telekom Malayasia, the state-run
telecommunications company, for “nonpublic information relating
to ongoing tender offers,” the company admitted.  In a related case, two former Alcatel executives, Christian
Sapsizian and Edgar Valverde Acosta, were criminally charged
earlier with FCPA violations. Sapsizian pleaded guilty in 2007
and is serving a 30-month prison term at a federal prison in
Youngstown, Ohio. Valverde, who was president of Alcatel de
Costa Rica, is considered a fugitive.  The company made $48 million in profit through the
payments, prosecutors said in court papers. It provided
“limited and inadequate cooperation for a substantial period of
time” before it “substantially improved” its assistance to
the government.  ‘Radically Different Company’  The company outlined the basic terms of the agreement
announced yesterday in a February regulatory filing.  Alcatel-Lucent is now a “radically different company,”
with different managers and a culture “that reflects integrity
and transparency,” spokeswoman  Mary Ward  said in a statement.  “We have a zero-tolerance policy regarding bribery and
corruption and a system in place with processes and training
designed to prevent these types of situations,” she said.  Steve Reynolds , Alcatel-Lucent’s general counsel, said in a
statement: “We take responsibility for and regret what happened
and have implemented policies and procedures to prevent these
violations from happening again.”  The company said in February that it would no longer use
sales and marketing agents and consultants.  Cases Settled  The U.S. settled nearly 50 corporate FCPA cases since 2005
without trial, reaping more than $3.4 billion for the U.S.
treasury. Settlements this year involved BAE Systems Plc,
Europe’s largest defense company, which agreed to pay $400
million; Daimler AG, maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, which will pay
$185 million; and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil
company, which agreed to pay $48.1 million.  The FCPA bars corrupt payments to foreign officials for
obtaining or keeping business. The law requires companies with
securities listed in the U.S. to keep accurate books and records
of transactions and maintain internal accounting controls.  The case is U.S. v. Alcatel-Lucent SA, 10cr20907, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Olga Kharif  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 