-- Ally Settles Fannie Buyback Demands for $462 Million
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-12-27T22:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/ally-s-rescap-reaches-462-million-loan-buyback-agreement-with-fannie-mae.html
Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and
home lender majority owned by the U.S. government, said its
mortgage unit reached a $462 million settlement to resolve
repurchase claims by  Fannie Mae  on $292 billion in home loans.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., said the settlement
covers loans serviced by its GMAC Mortgage unit for Fannie Mae
before June 30 and mortgage-backed securities it sold to Fannie
Mae. The accord was reached on behalf of Ally’s Residential
Capital unit and some of its subsidiaries, the Detroit-based
company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter , preparing Ally
for a share sale that would allow the government to withdraw
support, is trying to resolve ResCap’s losses linked to
representations and warranties on home loans. Mortgage buyers
invoke the clauses to force lenders to buy back faulty loans.  “At the start of 2010, we set a goal to substantially
reduce risk in our mortgage operation,” Carpenter, 63, said in
the statement. “We have successfully completed a series of
steps toward that objective and are largely complete.”  Janis Smith , a spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae,
declined to comment.  `Modestly' Exceeds Reserves  The agreement “modestly” exceeds prior reserves, Ally
said. ResCap and Fannie Mae also reached an accord regarding
ResCap’s payment of mortgage insurance proceeds where coverage
is rescinded or canceled.  “ResCap does not expect this exposure to be material,”
Ally said.  In July, Fannie Mae’s regulator, the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, said it issued subpoenas for documents related
to private-label mortgage-backed securities in which Fannie and
its smaller rival, Freddie Mac, had invested. The agency, which
is under pressure from lawmakers to stem losses to the two
companies, is trying to determine whether misrepresentations or
omissions might require lenders to repurchase failed loans.  In connection with the settlement, the FHFA will withdraw
subpoenas to “certain ResCap parties” that relate to Fannie
Mae, Ally said today in a filing to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. FHFA spokeswoman Stefanie Johnson declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 