-- Wenger Says Arsenal's 3-1 Win Means the End of Being `Bullied' by Chelsea
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-12-28T01:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/arsenal-beats-chelsea-3-1-to-move-into-second-in-england-s-premier-league.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said
his club’s 3-1 victory over Chelsea last night is a sign that
his soccer team has matured and is a threat to win the Premier
League title.  Arsenal got goals on either side of halftime at Emirates
Stadium in north London to move into second place in England’s
top soccer league. The home side broke a string of 11 games
without a win against Manchester United or Chelsea, the last two
clubs to win England’s league championship.  “We aren’t being bullied anymore,” Wenger said to
reporters. “Over the last two years, we have matured.”  The win gives the Gunners 35 points, two behind United,
which has played one fewer match. Chelsea is in fourth place
with 31 points, having failed to win any of its six league games
since Nov. 10.  Arsenal opened the scoring in the 44th minute, when  Alex Song  took advantage of collisions in the penalty area and struck
a left-footed shot past  Petr Cech . In the first 10 minutes of
the second half,  Theo Walcott ’s speed opened up the Chelsea
defense, setting up an easy goal for  Cesc Fabregas . Walcott then
scored himself in the 53rd minute after stealing the ball.  Chelsea got a goal back four minutes later when  Branislav Ivanovic  headed home from a free kick. The defending Premier
League champions kept pressing after that, without being able to
crack the Arsenal defense.  Blues manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said his team hasn’t been
able to gel after injuries to players including the defender
Alex and midfielder  Frank Lampard . The club hosts Bolton
tomorrow night.  Difficult Moment  “The moment remains difficult,” the Italian told
reporters after the match. “We didn’t play well. We didn’t have
a good transition from the back. We missed a lot of passes.”  He said that he’s in discussions with owner  Roman Abramovich  about a budget for the January transfer window,
although he’s not expecting to be able to sign many players.  “We’ve been sleeping,” the coach said. “We have to wake
up.”  Arsenal travels to Wigan tomorrow. Manchester United is at
Birmingham tonight. This afternoon, third-place Manchester City
hosts Aston Villa and Tottenham, one point behind Chelsea, will
play Newcastle at home.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Chris Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  