-- Bacchic Bra, Stomping Pachyderms, Cow Plonk Top 2010 Wine Tales
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2010-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/bacchic-bra-stomping-pachyderm-cow-plonk-top-2010-wine-tales-elin-mccoy.html
George the elephant made a great
impression crushing riesling grapes for southern Oregon’s
 Reustle-Prayer Rock Vineyards  during harvest this year. Winery
owner Stephen Reustle partnered with nearby  Wildlife Safari  for
the U.S.’s first-ever elephant grape stomp, conceived as a way
to raise funds for the zoological park.  Initially he was dubious of the scheme, worried that the
elephant’s weighty step would pulverize the grapes, break the
seeds inside and release harsh tannins. He gained some
confidence after George lifted one huge foot and Reustle felt
its soft, fleshy pads.  Still, the 29-year-old pachyderm wasn’t exactly a grape-
pressing natural. Wildlife Safari’s general curator Dan Brands
explains that the staff spent two months training him and back-
up elephant Alice. Both learned in 30 minutes to step into an
empty crushing bin and do a little leg-lifting dance. Since
they’d been trained long before to be cautious about what they
step on, it took plenty of positive reinforcement to convince
them to tromp on slippery grapes.  Though it was billed as a one-time event -- 750 bottles of
the wine go on sale in February -- the winery plans to repeat
the fundraiser next year.  Red With Beef  Elephants aren’t the only quadrupeds to figure prominently
in this year’s wackiest wine stories.  In British Columbia’s vineyard-laden Okanagan Valley, wine-
drinking cows are opening up a whole new consumer category.
Sadly, they only get to guzzle their daily liter of red for the
last 60 days of their lives.  “This gives the beef a unique, more beefy flavor, a very
red color, and the fat tastes sweeter,” says Janice Ravndahl of
 Sezmu Meats , a business started a year ago in West Kelowna, B.C.
“It really has this umami thing.” (Umami is a Japanese term
for the “fifth” taste, a kind of savory flavor.)  Ravndahl got the idea of plying her family’s grass-fed
Angus cattle with local wine while watching  Gordon Ramsay  feed
beer to pigs on his TV cooking show  “The F Word.”   For the first cow wine-sipping experiment, she let one
drink its daily ration from a pail. It eagerly lapped up the red
blend, but that method proved too time-consuming for 8,000 head
of cattle. She now mixes wine with feed in a food-and-wine
pairing for bovines and says the cows prefer cabernet and pinot
noir to shiraz, even though the reds she uses are price-driven
plonk.  Boozer Baboons  According to Ravndahl, wine-fed cows moo more to one
another and are much more relaxed, so their meat is more tender.  The one-liter-per day regimen for a 1,000-pound cow is
about the equivalent of a glass a day for a human. “That’s what
doctors order for health,” says Ravndahl. She reports that
thanks to wine-feeding, her beef is in big demand from local
chefs and has ignited interest from researchers at  Thompson
Rivers University . Inquiries are coming from as far away as
France. Sounds like a good way to get rid of unsold production
to me.  In South Africa, wine grapes, not the finished product,
attract the animals. Hundreds of wild Chacma baboons descended
on vineyards in the Cape’s Franschhoek Valley to feast on
lusciously ripe chardonnay and pinot noir, apparently their
favorites. Growers say this year was especially bad because wild
fires destroyed the baboons usual foraging areas. The stakes are
high. One winery reported losing 40 percent of its crop.  According to researchers at the  University of Cape Town ’s
Baboon Unit, it’s the sugar in the grapes they’re after, not the
subtler taste elements.  Cup Runneth Over  Determined baboons dig underneath electrified fences. Some
winemakers swear the primates are scared off by rubber snakes
among the vines; others trumpet the virtues of loud noises. But
regardless, the baboons sneak in, even scarfing up fallen grapes
fermenting in the sun, and sleep off the effects of alcohol
right under the vines.  Still, the wackiest wine item this year has nothing to do
with other species. It’s the “Wine Rack” ($29.95) for the
Bacchic-minded woman. Essentially a sports bra with a hidden
polyurethane bag that holds up to a bottle of wine and a
drinking tube you can sip from, it’s being touted as a “bust
enhancer.” I can’t quite picture anyone wearing this to movies
or ball games as suggested on the  baronbob.com  website. The
enhanced wine experience it offers is doubtless best enjoyed in
private.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 