-- Bank Pay Should Be More Transparent, Basel Group Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-27T15:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/bank-remuneration-needs-stricter-transparency-rules-basel-committee-says.html
Bankers’ pay should be more
transparent to investors to prevent lenders from hiding policies
that encourage irresponsible risk taking, global regulators said
in draft proposals.  International rules on the disclosure of pay “will allow
market participants to assess the quality of a bank’s
compensation practices and the incentives towards risk taking
they support,” Fernando Vargas, chairman of the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision’s task force on remuneration, said in a
 statement  published on the group’s website today. The proposals
will “support effective market discipline,” said the
committee, which is seeking views on its plans until Feb. 25.  Countries are imposing rules on bankers’ pay to prevent a
repeat of the excessive risk taking that they say contributed to
the global financial crisis. European Union regulators earlier
this month imposed limits on cash payouts and the size of
bonuses in the industry.  The Basel committee’s proposals will “let the markets
judge” whether a bank is behaving responsibly “rather than
just the supervisors,”  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of
the  Centre for European Policy Studies , said in a telephone
interview today.  Banks should disclose the main criteria used to decide on
bonus awards, according to the Basel committee. Lenders should
also release figures showing whether they are cutting planned
bonuses when the person’s or the bank’s performance is weaker
than expected, releasing the “number and total amount” of any
reductions, the group said. Cuts on deferred payments from past
bonus awards would also have to be revealed.  ‘Diminish or Disappear’  Regulators have called for the size of bonuses to be linked
to success. “Bonuses should diminish or disappear in the event
of poor firm, divisional or business unit performance,” the
Financial Stability Forum said in a set of principles in 2009.
The organization, which brought together regulators from some
industrialized nations, was replaced last year by the Financial
Stability Board.  The requirement to disclose whether bonuses are reduced in
line with performance is “probably the most important point”
in the proposals, Lannoo said. “Now they should explain, if the
performance of a bank is not what it should be, how they would
adjust remuneration.”  Disclosing Information  Lenders should also reveal the policies and criteria they
have in place for deciding on these reductions, the Basel group
said, as well as for determining when to claw back money that
has already been paid out in bonuses. Banks should disclose the
information covered by the proposals at least once a year.  “It’s hard to see what benefits, in terms of making the
financial system more efficient or reducing risk, would be
achieved by requiring firms to publish further information”
than already required by regulators,  Rob McIvor , a spokesman for
the  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , said in a
telephone interview before the publication of the Basel
committee’s proposals.  AFME’s members, which include Switzerland’s UBS AG,
Deutsche Bank AG of Germany and France’s BNP Paribas SA, will
“fully” implement rules on the payment of bonuses that have
been agreed by EU regulators, McIvor said.  Banks should reveal the amount they pay out in bonuses each
year, and how many staff receive one, the committee said. They
should also release information on what percentage of bonus
payments have been deferred, and how much is paid out in shares
instead of cash, as well as disclose the number and total amount
of “guaranteed” bonuses paid out during the financial year.  ‘Lift the Lid’  “Transparency will lift the lid on what exactly is going
on,” said  Sharon Bowles , head of the  European Parliament’s 
economic and monetary committee. “We should welcome the push
from Basel to have more convergent international standards,”
she said by telephone today. Looking into the methods of how
bonuses are calculated is “a very good way forward,” according
to Bowles.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including Brazil, China, India, Germany the U.K. and
the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net . 