-- Blankfein, Palin Toy With New Year’s Resolutions: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-27T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/blankfein-palin-toy-with-new-year-s-resolutions-caroline-baum.html
Breaking New Year’s resolutions is
as commonplace as making them. Yet each year we faithfully
pledge to lose weight, stop smoking, imbibe less alcohol, spend
more time with the family, look for a better job and find a
healthier way to deal with stress.  What about public figures? Do they stoop to our level and
focus on personal peccadilloes? Or do they aim high, think big,
live large and put our well-being ahead of their own self-
interest, consistent with their role as public servants?  One can only imagine what sort of pledges people like
President  Barack Obama  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
make for the 2011.  Heck, why imagine? Let’s write their New Year’s resolutions
for them.  President Obama promises his base he will attend a weekly
meeting of Tax Cutters Anonymous. He promises the business
community to find another scapegoat when he wants to rally
support for pet legislation. He promises labor unions it won’t
be them.  The Securities and Exchange Commission pledges to find
someone, somewhere who is responsible for some kind of
wrongdoing and actually do something about it.  Lloyd Blankfein , chairman and chief executive officer of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., resolves to perfect his  Wallace Shawn 
 imitation  so that the next time he’s called to testify before
Congress, the audience will take him seriously.  Ben Bernanke promises to cut up his U.S.A. credit card,
explain why the Q is irrelevant in  quantitative easing  and
recognize that only death and taxes are 100 percent certain.
Bernanke resolves to try again to convince the public that lax
regulation, not low  interest rates , bear primary responsibility
for the housing bubble. Good luck.  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  resolves to leave public
service for Goldman Sachs so that reality can finally catch up
with public perception.  Julian Assange , self-described Internet activist and
founder of WikiLeaks, pledges to continue his crusade of
releasing classified government information. All he asks in
return is that the media respect his privacy.  Sarah Palin , former governor of Alaska and Republican
phenom, pledges to sign on as an unofficial adviser to Fed chief
Bernanke as soon as she finishes digesting the 800-odd pages
(paperback edition) of  Milton Friedman  and  Anna Schwartz ’s, “A
Monetary History of the United States.”  Larry Summers , Obama’s top economic adviser who is leaving
Washington (again) to return to Harvard (again), pledges to
patent his unique brand of intelligence. He further promises to
introduce a new seminar at Harvard’s Kennedy School to train
tomorrow’s leaders in today’s survival arts. According to the
Spring 2011 course catalogue, students “will learn the skills
needed to become a  bipartisan  leader, defined as one who is
demonized by both the Left and the Right.” Registration is
limited to 10 students.  Bill Dudley , president of the New York Fed, resolves to
explain how it is the Fed can target inflation to the nearest
0.5 percentage point when it missed the mother of all housing
and credit bubbles and failed to foresee the repercussions, even
as the bubble was deflating, for the U.S. and global economy.  Wall Street bankers promise to underwrite monthly seminars
for employees and spouses/significant others on “Business
Ethics for the 21st Century.” The three-day, New Year’s weekend
seminar at the Ritz-Carlton, Laguna Niguel, is oversubscribed,
but there are still openings for February’s retreat to
Honolulu’s Halekulani Hotel on Waikiki Beach.  As for yours truly, I pledge not to pick on  Alan Greenspan 
(OK, so another New Year’s resolution doesn’t make it past Jan.
1), to bring you clear, insightful commentary, to shrug off the
hate mail and name-calling as your problem, not mine (at least
I’ll try), and to keep telling it like it is to the best of my
ability.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  