-- Cephalon Drops Nuvigil Development for Jet Lag After Second FDA Rejection
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-27T21:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/cephalon-drops-nuvigil-development-for-jet-lag-after-second-fda-rejection.html
U.S. regulators won’t allow  Cephalon
Inc.  to sell its sleep disorder pill Nuvigil for jet lag, a use
analysts said may have tripled the treatment’s sales.  Nuvigil, a longer-acting version of Cephalon’s Provigil, is
used to treat fatigue caused by sleep apnea and shift work. The
medicine generated $73 million in revenue last year. Approval
for jet lag may have added as much as $150 million in revenue,
said  Bret Holley , an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  Cephalon, based in Frazer, Pennsylvania, is seeking Food
and Drug Administration approval for new uses for Nuvigil to
help retain revenue when Provigil, the company’s  top-selling 
medication, loses sales to generic-drug competition, starting in
April 2012. In June, Cephalon abandoned plans to sell Nuvigil to
treat schizophrenia. Provigil sales may drop to $75 million in
2013 from about $1 billion next year, said  Eric Schmidt , an
analyst for Cowen & Co. in New York.  “I think probably the FDA has moved the goalpost back a
bit due to its greater concerns on safety in approving new
medications and some question mark about whether jet lag is a
true disorder, a real medical need,” Schmidt said today in a
telephone interview. “That’s probably why it wasn’t approved.”  Cephalon dropped 51 cents, less than 1 percent, to $63.49
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading. The rejection for jet lag wasn’t a surprise for
investors since the FDA first turned down the jet-lag
application in March, Schmidt said.  “The company believes that further communications with the
FDA will not result in an approval of this application,” said
 Lesley Russell , Cephalon’s chief medical officer, in today’s
statement. “As a result, the company is no longer pursuing this
indication.”  Nuvigil sales may rise to $500 million in 2012 and 2013,
Schmidt said. By 2013, combined sales of the two drugs will be
about $575 million, he said. That compares with $1.1 billion in
combined sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 