-- China Stocks Rise on Speculation Interest Rate Increase to Tame Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T01:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/china-stocks-rise-on-speculation-interest-rate-increase-to-quell-inflation.html
China’s stocks  rose for the first
time in four days, led by financial companies and commodity
producers, on speculation a second interest-rate increase since
mid-October will curb inflation.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp. led gains among lenders on the prospect
higher rates will boost net interest margins.  China Life
Insurance Co.  and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. gained more than
2 percent as increasing rates will push up yields of fixed-
income products, boosting investment returns.  “The impact of the rate increase will be very limited on
stocks,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund
Management Co. “The recent decline has already reflected the
tightening of monetary policies.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, climbed 16.7, or 0.6 percent, to
2,851.83 at 9:35 a.m. The  CSI 300 Index  advanced 0.7 percent to
3,183.45.  The Shanghai Composite, the worst performer among major
Asian benchmarks this year, has dropped 13 percent in 2010 after
the central bank ordered lenders to park more money as reserve
six times this year and cut last year’s record new lending
growth to combat inflation. The measure has dropped 5.6 percent
since Oct. 19, when the People’s Bank of China boosted interest
rates for the first time since 2007.  The benchmark  one-year lending rate  will rise by a further
25 basis points to 5.81 percent and the one-year deposit rate
will climb by the same amount to 2.75 percent, the People’s Bank
of China said in a  statement  on its website on Dec 25. It became
effective yesterday.  Prudent Policy  The interest-rate increase is the first since Chinese
leaders on Dec. 3 announced a shift to a “prudent” monetary
policy from the “moderately loose” stance adopted to support
the economy amid the global financial crisis.  China’s second interest-rate increase since mid-October is
positive for stocks, according to Citic Securities Co., the
nation’s biggest brokerage.  “The shoe has dropped,” analysts led by Xi Feng wrote in
a report. The Shanghai Composite may gain to 3,500 in the first
quarter because of “fair” valuations and faster corporate
earnings growth, they said. Banks will benefit from the rate
increase as it will widen lenders’ net interest margins, they
said. The brokerage recommends so-called cyclical stocks such as
producers of coal, steel and cement.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to slow gains in
property values and consumer prices that are making it harder
for families to buy homes and pay for food. There were rumors
about a 50 basis point increase so “some may even take this as
a positive,”  Ting Lu , an economist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a Dec. 25 note.  China reported 5.1 percent  inflation  for November, the
highest in 28 months. Also in November, exports reached a record
$153.3 billion and the  trade surplus  exceeded $20 billion for
the fifth time in sixth months, indicating a recovery in
international trade from the global financial crisis.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  