-- Taiwan's China Life to Invest in Insurance Venture With Construction Bank
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T10:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/china-construction-bank-to-own-51-of-pacific-antai-life-after-investment.html
China Construction Bank Corp.  tied
up with Taiwan’s  China Life Insurance Co.  to invest in Pacific
Antai Life Insurance Co., the first insurance venture since
China and Taiwan signed a trade accord six months ago.  Construction Bank, China’s second-largest lender, said in a
 statement  today it bought 1 percent of Shanghai-based Pacific
Antai, boosting its stake to 51 percent. The Taiwanese insurer
plans to pay 379 million yuan ($57 million) for a 19.9 percent
stake. Both companies bought the shares from China Pacific
Insurance Co., which held a 50 percent stake in Pacific Antai.  The investment is the first by a Taiwanese financial
company in China since the trade agreement on June 29, as both
sides seek to forge closer ties after being separated by a civil
war six decades ago. The purchase also made Construction Bank
the biggest shareholder in the Chinese insurer.  China Life aims to use Construction Bank’s network and
client base to develop the life insurance business as it enters
the mainland, the Taipei-based company said in a statement to
the Taiwan stock exchange today.  The island signed its first trade accord with China in June
after relations across the Taiwan Strait improved. Tensions have
eased since Taiwanese President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office in May
2008, dropping the pro-independence stance of his predecessor
and making economic relations with the mainland a priority.  Construction Bank first bought 50 percent of Pacific Antai
from  ING Groep NV  a year ago. The Beijing-based bank plans to
rename Pacific Antai as Jian Xin Life Insurance Co.  China is letting banks expand into insurance, brokering and
funds management, winding back former Premier  Zhu Rongji ’s 1993
restrictions, to help them diversify revenue and reduce reliance
on loans. Lenders including Bank of Communications Ltd. and
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  have also invested in
insurers.  China Life Rises  Shares of  China Life , one of Taiwan’s five biggest life
insurers, rose the most in 10 months to NT$26.95 in Taipei
trading ahead of the announcement. The stock has gained 23
percent this year, compared with an 8.6 percent rise in the
benchmark Taiex index.  China Jianyin Investment Securities Co. will own 19.35
percent of Pacific Antai while the remainder will be held by two
investment firms, according to Construction Bank’s statement.
The purchase is pending regulatory approval, it said.  Pacific Antai, formerly an insurance venture between ING
and China Pacific Insurance, had more than 300,000 policy
holders and 3.7 billion yuan of assets by the end of 2009.  Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd. is the financial
adviser for China Life.  -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Adela Lin  and  Janet Ong  in
Taipei. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Chitra Somayaji   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  