-- Copper in New York Gains to Record as China Raises Rates to Ease Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T05:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/copper-fluctuates-after-china-rate-rise-damps-further-tightening-concern.html
Copper in New York climbed to a
record and Shanghai gained after China raised interest rates for
the second time since mid-October, spurring expectations that
the government may refrain from further tightening measures in
the short term.  Metal for March delivery on the Comex in New York gained as
much as 0.9 percent to $4.2985 a pound, the highest ever, and
traded at $4.2925 by 1:39 p.m. in Shanghai. The contract earlier
dropped 1.3 percent. Copper in Shanghai advanced 0.5 percent to
69,270 yuan ($10,453) a ton. The London Metal Exchange is closed
today and tomorrow for public holidays.  “Following the two interest-rate hikes and three reserve
requirement ratio hikes in the past two months, we may not see
further tightening moves at least in the next couple of weeks,”
said  Zeng Chao , an analyst at Everbright Futures Co.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday raised interest rates
for the second time since mid-October to counter rising
inflation rates. The benchmark one-year  lending rate  increased
by 25 basis points to 5.81 percent and the one-year deposit rate
climbed by the same amount to 2.75 percent.  China’s inflation rate reached 5.1 percent in November, the
highest in 28 months. The central bank has also increased
commercial lenders’ required reserve ratio three times since
November.  The Chinese government is confident of being able to
control inflation and inflationary expectations, and property
prices, Premier Wen Jiabao said in an interview with the China
National Radio yesterday.  “The interest-rate increase was no surprise to the market,
as it’s already a consensus that the central bank needs to mop
up the liquidity,” Li Qiang, an analyst at Xinhu Futures Co.,
said by phone today.  Stocks Advance  China’s stocks rose for the first time in four days, led by
financial companies and commodity producers, on speculation the
interest-rate increase will curb inflation. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, climbed 0.6 percent to 2,852.46.  “The gains in the stock market may be taken as a positive
sign by the commodities,” Everbright’s Zeng said.  Aluminum for March delivery in Shanghai dropped 0.2 percent
to 16,715 yuan a ton, while zinc fell 0.7 percent to 18,735 yuan
a ton.  -- Helen Sun . Editor: Richard Dobson.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  