-- Oil Trades Near 26-Month High on China Growth Speculation, U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-27T13:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/crude-slips-after-reaching-26-month-high-on-china-growth-u-s-stockpiles.html
Oil fell from a two-year high in New
York amid concern that China’s second interest-rate increase
since October may slow economic growth in the world’s biggest
energy consumer.  Futures snapped a five-day rising streak after the People’s
Bank of China boosted benchmark one-year lending and deposit
rates by 25 basis points Dec. 25 to tackle the fastest inflation
in more than two years. Oil advanced earlier as temperatures
fell and storms blanketed the eastern U.S. with snow, raising
demand for heating fuels.  The Chinese rate increase “cools the economy and hence oil
demand,” said  Thorbjoern Bak Jensen , an analyst at Global Risk
Management in Middelfart, Denmark. China overtook the U.S. last
year as the largest energy user.  Crude for February delivery fell 58 cents to $91.93 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
as of 1:18 p.m. London time. The contract earlier rose to $91.88
a barrel, the highest price since Oct. 7, 2008. Brent crude for
February settlement fell 32 cents to $93.62 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London, after climbing to $94.52.  Futures in New York gained 4 percent last week. Floor
trading was closed Dec. 24 for the Christmas holiday.  Oil, which advanced 78 percent in 2009, has gained 15
percent this year as the global economic recovery bolstered
demand, reducing supplies held in storage.  U.S. Inventories  Crude inventories  in the U.S. dropped 5.33 million barrels
to 340.7 million even as imports increased, the Energy
Department said Dec. 22 in its weekly report. Stockpiles have
decreased so far this month by 19 million barrels, or 5.3
percent, the most since December 2006.  “Despite the two or three draws we have had, inventories
are still above average,” said  Tobias Merath , head of
commodities at Credit Suisse Group in Zurich. “When we move
into mid-January and early February, the risk is that oil prices
could fall again, not by a lot, but into the 80s.”  Sixteen of 30 analysts and traders, or 53 percent, forecast
oil prices will rise this week as supplies decline further, the
Bloomberg News survey showed. Eight respondents, or 27 percent,
predicted crude will fall and six estimated they will be little
changed. Last week, 53 percent of survey respondents said the
market would drop.  New York City may get as much as 20 inches (51 centimeters)
of snow by tonight with temperatures dropping as low as 22
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 6 Celsius), according to weather
forecaster AccuWeather.  “Crude oil came under pressure due to what happened in
China but the bad weather on the east coast is causing traders
to think demand will increase,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at   rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  