-- Dai-Ichi Life Plans to Buy Remaining Stake of Tower Australia
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-12-28T02:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/dai-ichi-life-plans-to-buy-70-stake-of-tower-australia-for-1-2-billion.html
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. , Japan’s
second-biggest life insurer, plans to buy full control of  Tower
Australia Group Ltd.  for about 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion),
its biggest overseas acquisition.  Dai-ichi Life, which owns about 30 percent of Tower
Australia, aims to buy the remaining shares in the first half of
next year, said  Yasuhiro Kunii , an investor relations official
at the Tokyo-based firm, without elaborating.  The Japanese insurer sold shares to the public in April to
fill its war chest for acquisitions as the economy stagnates and
the population declines. Australian workers will increase
pension savings to A$6.1 trillion ($6.1 trillion) by 2035, from
A$1.1 trillion in July, according to a government study.  “It is vital for insurers to move and conduct business
overseas,” said  Winston Barnes , head of sales and trading for
Asian markets at WJB Capital Group Inc. in San Francisco. “It
is hard to judge whether this is a wise use of their capital at
present, for investors will have to wait years to potentially
realize a possible return on investment.”  Dai-ichi Life  fell 0.2 percent to 130,700 yen at the 11 a.m.
trading break in Tokyo. The shares have fallen 20 percent since
listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Tower Australia  slid 1.1
percent to A$2.73 in Sydney.  Australian Pension Growth  Philippa Ellis , a Tower investor relations official in
Sydney, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  The purchase follows the Australian government’s move to
cut pension fees earlier this month for retirement savers by
A$2.7 billion.  The MySuper plan may cut fees savers pay to asset managers
by 40 percent, helping the average worker retire with an extra
A$40,000, according a government-commissioned study overseen by
Jeremy Cooper, former deputy chairman of Australia’s markets
regulator.  In November, Sydney-based Tower Australia said full-year
net income rose 88 percent to A$87.4 million.  Currently one in five  Japanese citizens  is over 65 years
old. Only 13 percent are under 15, according to government
statistics. Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s government forecasts
economic growth will slow to 1.5 percent next fiscal year from
3.1 percent.  Dai-ichi Life purchased about 30 percent of Tower Australia
from Guinness Peat Group Plc for 37.6 billion yen in 2008 to
seek an alliance with the Australian life insurer.  Last month, Dai-ichi Life said first-half  net income  fell
42 percent to 29.4 billion yen from a year ago as premium income
and the value of investments declined. Premium income fell 15
percent to 1.67 trillion yen.  “It’s a positive growth scenario for a life insurer to go
overseas as the Japanese market will continue to shrink due to
the dwindling birthrate and aging population,” said  Hidemasa Mizumoto , an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“The acquisition will spur Dai-ichi Life to accelerate its
overseas acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  