-- BMW, Daimler, Volkswagen Lead Auto Stocks' Drop as Beijing to Limit Sales
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-12-27T15:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/daimler-volkswagen-lead-decline-in-auto-stocks-after-beijing-limits-quota.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Daimler
AG  and  Volkswagen AG  led a decline in European automakers’
stocks after Beijing’s city government decided to limit the
number of new passenger cars to ease road congestion.  BMW, the world’s leader in luxury-car making, slumped as
much as 5.8 percent in Frankfurt trading, the steepest intraday
decline since May 19.  Daimler  fell as much as 5.1 percent, the
biggest drop since July 27. Preferred shares of  Volkswagen ,
Europe’s largest carmaker, dropped as much as 5.7 percent.  Beijing,  ranked  as having the world’s worst traffic
congestion, will issue a quota of 240,000 new vehicle license
plates through a lottery system next year, with about 88 percent
allocated to individual buyers, according to a Dec. 23
statement. The quota is one-third of the number of new passenger
cars registered this year, said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at
KB Investment & Securities Co.  “It remains to be seen to what extent traffic limitations
are eventually realized but it’s possible that Beijing may only
be the beginning,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler who  recommends  buying VW, Daimler
and BMW shares. “There’s no doubt that this announcement is
creating a considerable element of uncertainty.”  BMW  was down 5.3 percent at 59.89 euros as of 4:04 p.m.
Daimler, whose Mercedes-Benz division ranks second among luxury
brands after BMW, fell 4.4 percent to 51.68 euros. VW declined
4.8 percent to 122 euros.  Investment Plans  Volkswagen , counting China as its biggest market, said last
month that its two joint ventures in the country will spend 10.6
billion euros ($13.9 billion) in the world’s biggest auto market
through 2015, adding two factories to help double production to
3 million cars a year. VW has nine Chinese plants and its 11-
month sales in the country, including Audi, Skoda and VW brands,
surged 38 percent from a year earlier to 1.82 million vehicles.  Volkswagen’s global spending plans in the next five years
total 51.6 billion euros, including 11.6 billion euros for Audi,
outlined by division Chief Financial Officer  Axel Strotbek  on
Dec. 13 and reiterated by the unit today.  Mercedes-Benz delivered 130,100 vehicles in China between
January and November, a surge of 119 percent, to beat the
company’s full-year target of more than 120,000 deliveries. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker’s sales-growth rate in China
has doubled this year to make the Asian nation Mercedes-Benz’s
third-largest market after Germany and the U.S.  Chinese Sales Double  BMW  will add smaller models at its Chinese factories, which
will have capacity to build as many as 300,000 vehicles annually
by 2013, more than triple the Munich-based company’s sales in
the country last year. BMW’s Chinese sales more than doubled
last month to 17,302 vehicles.  “China still is, and has for some time, been the main
cause for German carmakers’ booming business,” Pieper said.
“Should some of this momentum now really be capped, then this
would surely ring an alarm bell.”  The steps planned by Beijing authorities pose “no reason
for concern,” said Konstanze Carreras, a BMW spokeswoman,
adding that the manufacturer will monitor any further debate.
“What matters is how the plans will be translated into
practice.”  Verena Mueller , a Mercedes-Benz spokeswoman, said by phone
that it’s too soon to gauge the effects of Beijing’s planned
measures. The company is sticking by its estimates of double-
digit sales growth in the Chinese premium-car market next year,
she said.  Peugeot, Renault  Michael Brendel , a VW spokesman, couldn’t immediately be
reached.  PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-largest carmaker, fell
as much as 3.5 percent to 28.41 euros in and was down 2.3
percent in Paris trading. Renault, France’s No. 2 carmaker after
Peugeot Citroen, declined as much as 2.1 percent to 42.80 euros
and was down 0.6 percent.  Carmakers are also bracing for the expiration at the end of
this year of Chinese government stimulus measures, including a
consumption-tax rebate for smaller vehicles, subsidies for rural
car-buyers and incentives to trade in older models. China’s
auto-industry lobby said Dec. 9 that the incentives are unlikely
to be extended beyond 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Dusseldorf, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 