-- Dark Pools Boost Share of Japan Equity Trades, Bourse Data Show
-- B y   T a k a k o   I w a t a n i   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-12-27T00:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/dark-pools-boost-share-of-japan-equity-trades-bourse-data-show.html
The share of Japanese equity trades
taking place in dark pools, or private systems that don’t
display prices publicly, is growing, according to data from the
Tokyo Stock Exchange’s alternative share trading platform.  The share of Japanese stocks traded on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange Trading Network, or  Tostnet , increased to 10 percent in
November from 7 percent in March, when regulators first required
dark pools to connect to the system, the bourse said. Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets is among the operators of dark pools
that uses Tostnet, according to the brokerage’s Global Head of
Electronic Trading Services  Punit Mittal .  “The increase in Tostnet’s share of trades shows use of
dark pools is growing in Japan,” said  Lee Porter , Hong Kong-
based managing director for Liquidnet Holdings Inc.’s Asian dark
pool operations. “Most of the major broker-dealers have now
deployed their dark pools in Japan. You are now seeing the
Japanese domestic brokers doing the same too, so clearly there
is appetite.”  Japan’s Financial Services Agency in March ruled dark pools
must register as proprietary trading systems or connect to
financial markets via systems such as Tostnet. Foreign brokers
including Credit Suisse, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley operate
dark pools in Japan alongside domestic operators like Daiwa
Securities. Tostnet trades accounted for 6.6 percent of domestic
share volume at the Tokyo exchange in 2009 and 6.2 percent in
2008, according to bourse data.  Income May Drop  The portion of trades handled outside of public exchanges
in the Asia-Pacific region is forecast to rise to 5 percent of
transactions within three years from about 2 percent this year,
 John Feng , New York-based managing director of research company
Greenwich Associates, said.  Tostnet’s increased share “signals more dark pools exist
here,”  Tsuyoshi Masuda , deputy director of the stock-market
department at the exchange, said. The exchange’s “income may
drop if more money shifts to dark pools from the auction as
Tostnet’s fees are cheaper than those for auction trades.”  The commission for Tostnet is about one-seventh of that
charged for regular auction trades, according to TSE. The
alternative trading system was launched in 1998 as a venue for
block share transactions after regular trading hours. The
service was re-established as an equities and derivatives
platform in 2008.  “As traders and their trading needs become more
sophisticated they will need to broaden their execution
options,” Porter said. “You will see a gradual increase in the
percentage of trades reported to Tostnet as opposed to executed
directly on the TSE.”  Record Volume  Trading volume is at a record on  Tostnet , with about 39
billion shares changing hands so far this year, according to
preliminary TSE data. That compares to the previous record of
36.4 billion shares in 2009.  “It’s very difficult to estimate percentage growth because
dark pool statistics are not officially published anywhere,”
said Daiwa’s Mittal. Requiring dark pools to connect to Tostnet
or similar systems at other exchanges “is a positive move as
all trades will be published and consolidated on one venue to
provide greater market transparency and efficiency.”  The growth of dark pools in Asia has lagged behind the U.S.
and Europe because regulators in the region have been slow to
accept the systems, Greenwich’s Feng said.  Trades through dark pools this year in the U.S. accounted
for 10 percent of the total, and 5 percent in Europe, he
estimates.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 