-- DAX Index Falls; Daimler, BMW Lead Carmaker Retreat as China Limits Quotas
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-12-27T16:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/dax-index-declines-daimler-bmw-lead-retreat-after-beijing-limits-quotas.html
German stocks declined, trimming
this year’s rally, after China and Russia moved to cool their
economies to avert inflation.  Daimler AG  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s
biggest makers of luxury cars, sank more than 4 percent, pacing
declines in the benchmark DAX Index.  The  DAX  lost 1.2 percent to 6,970.73 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt following the three-day Christmas holiday. The
index is still headed for a gain of 17 percent this year as
companies beat earnings estimates and central banks around the
world moved to protect the economic rebound. The broader  HDAX
Index  retreated 1.1 percent to 3,545.28 today.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, increased
the key one-year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points on
Dec. 25 in its second move since mid-October. Russia’s central
bank a day earlier left its key interest rate unchanged for a
seventh month and increased the rate charged on ruble deposits.  “China reminded investors on Christmas Day that next year
will clearly be one of tightening policy further,” said  Luis Benguerel , a trader at Interbrokers Espanola de Valores in
Barcelona, Spain. “Carmakers have had a great 2010 and they
will be at the center of any selling.”  Daimler , the second-biggest maker of luxury cars, plunged
4.6 percent to 51.57 euros. BMW, the largest, sank 6.4 percent
to 59.22 euros, the steepest drop since April 2009.  Volkswagen
AG , Europe’s biggest carmaker, fell 4.8 percent to 122 euros.
Automobile shares were the worst performers among 19 groups in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, losing 3.9 percent. China is the
world’s largest car market.  Symrise, Lufthansa  Last week, the city of Beijing said it will limit the
number of new passenger cars in the nation’s capital to ease
congestion on the roads.  BMW  and Volkswagen doubled in price
since the start of this year through last week, while Daimler
rose 45 percent.  Allianz SE , Europe’s biggest insurer, slipped 0.9 percent
to 89.39 euros. German financial regulator BaFin has ordered
life insurers to raise provisions on some contracts as early as
next year to be able to meet interest-rate guarantees to
customers, Financial Times Deutschland reported, without saying
where it got the information.
      Singulus Technologies AG  jumped 3.9 percent to 3.93 euros.
The world’s largest maker of machines to produce blu-ray optical
discs expects to post an operating profit next year as sales of
television sets compatible with the discs and video players
grow, Handelsblatt reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 