-- Yen Gains Against Kiwi, Aussie Dollars as China Increases Borrowing Costs
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-27T22:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/dollar-falls-yen-reverses-gain-as-stocks-counter-china-cooling-concern.html
The dollar touched a three-week low
against the yen after China raised interest rates for the second
time in just more than two months to contain inflation, boosting
demand for refuge.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars weakened against
most of their major counterparts as China’s rate increase damped
the outlook for spending in one of the biggest export markets
for commodities from the two South Pacific countries. The euro
gained against 13 of its 16 most-traded counterparts after
failing to break through a technical level.  “The timing is significant because the Chinese authorities
had the option of changing the rate in 2011,” said  Steven Englander , head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in New York. “They clearly wanted the rate increase to
have more teeth. The market is taking that as a signal that
there’s some determination behind the move.”  The yen gained 0.1 percent to 82.81 versus the dollar at
5:02 p.m. in New York, compared with 82.88 on Dec. 24. The
Japanese currency touched 82.66, the strongest since Dec. 7. The
dollar declined 0.3 percent to $1.3165 per euro from $1.3122.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.1 percent against its U.S.
counterpart to 74.97 U.S. cents from 74.92 cents. The Aussie
fell 0.1 percent to $1.0036 from $1.0045.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, declined 0.3 percent and touched the lowest
since Dec. 17.  Stocks, Commodities  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials dropped as
much as 0.8 percent and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained
0.1 percent after falling as much as 0.4 percent.  “There’s a mild risk-off move and people are buying yen,”
said  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at Bank of
Montreal in Chicago.  The People’s Bank of China increased key one-year lending
and deposit rates by 25 basis points to 5.81 percent on Dec. 25
in its second move since mid-October. The change took effect
yesterday.  The benchmark lending rate compared with 7.47 percent
before cuts from late 2008 to counter the global financial
crisis. It will climb to 6.56 percent by the end of next year,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month.  China Forecast  China may raise rates as many as three times in the first
half of next year, according to Morgan Stanley, while JPMorgan
Chase & Co. forecasts two increases in that period.  “The point from now on will be how aggressively the
central bank of China will raise the rate,” said  Hidetoshi Yanagihara , a senior currency trader at Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. in New York.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  The euro has dropped 10.4 percent so far this year, the
biggest loss among the 10 developed nations measured in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
lost 1.6 percent and the yen has added 12 percent.  The euro has added 1.2 percent versus the dollar this month
and the yen has climbed 1 percent.  The 16-nation currency is trading above its 200-day moving
average at $1.3089, which it has attempted to break every day
since Dec. 20.  200-Day Moving Average  “It’s managed to hold off reasonably well having
stabilized above the 200-day moving average,” said  Mary Nicola ,
a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York.  The euro gained after Fitch Ratings trimmed Portugal’s
rating to A+ on Dec. 23, citing concern about government
financing and the country’s banks.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said a
“cacophony of messages” threatens to undermine confidence in
euro-area governments’ handling of the region’s debt crisis, and
called on political leaders to speak out less, De Morgen
reported from an interview.  “It is indeed a problem that we heard so many opinions
during the crisis,” Barroso told the newspaper. “I appeal to
political leaders to be more quiet. Leave commentaries to the
commentators and realize that the financial markets are
listening.”  The Swiss franc traded at 1.2641 versus the euro, compared
with 1.2627, after touching 1.2439 on Dec. 22, the strongest
level since the European currency began trading in 1999.  Franc Record  The franc strengthened to a record against the euro last
week as investors sought safety from Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Swiss National Bank President  Philipp Hildebrand , who
ended 15 months of intervening in foreign-exchange markets this
year, may prove powerless to stop the currency from extending a
record rally that he calls a “burden.”  Options traders are more bullish on the franc for the next
three months than any major currency except the yen, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
says the franc may appreciate to 1.17 per euro in six months
after rising more than any major peer since intervention ended
in June. Standard Bank Plc estimates an advance to 1.20.  Investors are betting Hildebrand probably won’t renew
efforts to stop the gains after previous sales failed to halt
the appreciation that made exports more expensive and saddled
the SNB with $22 billion of exchange-rate losses in the first
nine months of 2010. While policy makers said on June 21 that
intervention was no longer needed as the risk of deflation had
ebbed, price increases have since slowed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  