-- Most U.S. Stocks Gain as AIG Leads Rally in Financial Shares; Cisco Rises
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-12-27T22:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/dollar-strengthens-oil-retreats-on-china-rate-increase-u-s-futures-fall.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, recovering
from an early drop, as American International Group Inc. led
financial shares higher after announcing $4.3 billion in bank
credit lines. Treasury two-year notes erased losses after a $35
billion auction, while oil retreated from a 26-month high.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended up 0.1 percent at
1,257.54 at 4 p.m. in New York after following European shares
lower earlier on an interest-rate increase by China. AIG rallied
9.3 percent to lead gains on the slowest full trading day on the
 New York Stock Exchange  in 12 years. The 10-year Treasury yield
lost five basis points to 3.34 percent after gaining five basis
points in early trading. Oil slipped as much as 1.1 percent.  The S&P 500 extended what so far would be its biggest
 December  rally since 1991, with the index up 6.5 percent this
month and 13 percent in 2010 amid signs the economic recovery is
gaining momentum. The S&P 500’s group of banks, insurers and
investment firms climbed 1 percent collectively to  lead gains 
today as AIG moved closer to repaying taxpayers and gaining
independence.  “The economy continues to grow and the market is reflecting
that,” said  Bruce McCain , who oversees $25 billion as chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
Cleveland. “We’ve been getting positive news out of companies
that accepted government funding. That’s a positive for
investors’ perception.”  Snow Slows Trading  Some 468 million shares  changed hands  on the NYSE, the
fewest for a full-day session since May 1998, as trading slowed
following a snowstorm. NYSE Euronext, operator of the Big Board,
said in an email alert this morning that trading systems were
operating normally after the city received about 20 inches of
snow. About four stocks rose for every three that fell on U.S.
exchanges.  “There are no  sellers  in the market,” said  Tim Hartzell ,
who oversees $300 million as chief investment officer for
Houston-based Sequent Asset Management. “We should have sold
off on the rate increase in China, but no one wants to take a
stab at it. The market is up and everyone is making sure their
cash is invested here at the end of the year.”  H&R Block Inc. fell 7 percent, the most since October,
after saying an order by U.S. regulators bars a lending partner
from offering tax-refund loans and that it’ll be hard to fully
roll out alternative products in time for the 2011 season.  Retailers in the S&P 500 slipped 0.3 percent as a group.
Stores expecting to ring up sales in the days after Christmas
may have to intensify discounts after the snowstorm disrupted
one of the busiest shopping days of the year.  Benchmark indexes retreated from Shanghai to Frankfurt
earlier after the People’s Bank of China boosted its key one-
year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points on Dec. 25,
with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley predicting further
tightening in the first half of 2011.  ‘Main Themes’  “China will be one of the main themes for 2011,” said
 Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $13.8 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “Demand drives prices. If that
doesn’t manifest, it could be a lackluster year. In addition,
there’s a feeling that expectations may have overshot. So, the
market may have to do some adjustments and the risk is to the
downside.”  China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.9 percent, the most
since November. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.8 percent
for its biggest loss since Nov. 29 as Germany’s DAX slid 1.2
percent. Reports today showed U.K. house prices fell for a sixth
month and the number of mortgages for Spanish homes sank the
most since April 2009. The market was closed in London for a
holiday.  ‘Realization Setting In’  About four shares fell for every one that rose on the  Stoxx
600 . Daimler AG, the world’s second-largest maker of luxury
autos, tumbled 4.6 percent, while Volkswagen AG, Europe’s
biggest carmaker, slid 4.8 percent. China is the world’s largest
car market.  “There’s a realization setting in that perhaps China’s
problems are a bit more serious, and this is the first of many
increases and this is going to result in tighter liquidity,”
said  Peter Elston , a Singapore-based strategist at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc, which oversees about $277.3 billion.
“Tighter liquidity is bad for stock prices.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.2 percent as Japanese
shares advanced, while Chinese stocks reversed earlier gains.
China’s policy makers may keep raising interest rates and banks’
reserve requirements, and sell bills to soak up cash and allow
more gains by the yuan against the dollar, according to
JPMorgan.  ‘Front-Loaded’  “These policy moves could be front-loaded in coming
months, as headline inflation figures remain high and economic
growth faces overheating risks early next year,” said  Wang Qian , the brokerage’s Hong Kong-based chief China economist.  Three stocks fell for every two that rose in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index , which was little changed as gains in
financial and technology stocks offset declines in commodity
producers. Brazil’s Bovespa sank 1 percent and Russia’s Micex
Index slipped 0.7 percent.  The dollar weakened against 11 of 16 major currencies,
losing 0.3 percent to $1.3157 against the euro.  The yield on the two-year Treasury note lost less than one
basis point to 0.65 percent. The notes erased losses that sent
the yield up as much as seven basis points earlier after today’s
auction drew the highest level of demand in three months.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.71, the
highest since a reading of 3.78 on Sept. 27. The 0.625 percent
securities maturing in December 2012 produced a yield of 0.740
percent, compared with an average forecast of 0.761 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven primary dealers.  Oil slipped 0.6 percent to $91 a barrel in New York. Copper
on the Comex in New York pared gains after climbing as much as
0.9 percent to $4.2985 a pound, the highest ever, amid declining
stockpiles in China, the largest user of the metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  