-- Trott Century Lifts England to 346-Run Lead in Ashes; Ponting Handed Fine
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-27T11:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/england-leads-australia-by-206-runs-as-middle-order-collapses-in-melbourne.html
Jonathan Trott  hit an unbeaten
century to lift England to a 346-run lead over Australia on day
two of the fourth Ashes Test at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.  Trott scored 141 and shared an unbroken stand of 158 with
 Matt Prior , who made 75 not out, as the touring team reached
444-5 at stumps after slipping to 286-5 before the tea break.  England, which would retain the Ashes by winning at the MCG,
has three days remaining to try to force a victory after
dismissing Australia for a record-low 98 on day one. Not since
1907 has any team scoring under 100 in the first innings of a
Test fought back to win.  “It’s an important Test match,” Trott said in news
conference comments broadcast on Fox Sports. “I work hard on my
game and it’s good to be able to contribute to put the team in a
good position.”  The best-of-five contest is tied at 1-1. As Ashes holder,
England would keep the trophy by tying the series. The English
last successfully retained the Ashes in 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s team secured a 2-1 win in Australia.  The Australians went wicket-less in a final session that
yielded 140 runs as Trott and Prior racked up a record sixth-
wicket partnership for England at the MCG.  Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  was later fined for dissent
under the International Cricket Council’s code of conduct after
remonstrating with umpires Aleem Dar and Tony Hill after
unsuccessfully challenging a caught behind decision against
 Kevin Pietersen .  ‘Unacceptable’  Ponting spent more than a minute arguing with Dar and also
exchanged words with Hill and Pietersen. The Dubai-based ICC
said Ponting pleaded guilty to a Level 1 offence and was fined
40 percent of his match fee by Match Referee  Ranjan Madugalle 
without the need for a full hearing.  “Ricky’s actions as captain of his country were
unacceptable,” Madugalle said in an ICC  statement . “A captain
is expected to set the example and not get involved in a
prolonged discussion with the on-field umpires and question
their decision.”  Trott’s Ton  Trott reached triple figures for the third time in five
matches against Australia with a boundary off Ryan Harris. It
was his fifth century in 17 Tests since making his debut against
the Australians 16 months ago.  Prior, who was given a life on 5 when  Mitchell Johnson  had
him caught behind off a no-ball, became the fourth England
batsmen to make a half-century in the innings following  Andrew Strauss ,  Alastair Cook  and Pietersen.  Prior had joined Trott after England lost three middle-
order batsmen for 24 in the afternoon session.  Australia fast bowler  Peter Siddle , who has taken 3-58,
broke a 92-run stand between Trott and Pietersen by trapping
Pietersen leg-before-wicket for 51 and then took two catches off
Johnson’s bowling to remove  Paul Collingwood  for 8 and  Ian Bell 
for 1.  Resuming at 157 without loss, England’s openers could only
add two runs before Cook, on 82, edged a Siddle delivery to
 Shane Watson . Siddle then had Strauss caught by  Mike Hussey  for
69 to make it 170-2.  James Anderson  and  Chris Tremlett  each took four wickets
yesterday as Australia slumped to its lowest first-innings total
in 133 years of elite Tests at the MCG after Strauss won the
toss and chose to bowl first.  “It’s going to be tough to win from here, that’s pretty
obvious,” Siddle told reporters. “There’s still a lot of work
to be done before we can worry too much about batting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  