-- Tesla Falls the Most Since July After Lock-Up Ends
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-12-27T21:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/tesla-shares-fall-the-most-since-july-after-lock-up-period-ends.html
Tesla Motors Inc. , the unprofitable
electric-car maker, fell the most since July after insiders were
allowed to sell shares in the company.  Tesla shares  fell  $4.54, or 15 percent, to $25.55 at the
close of Nasdaq Stock Market trading for the steepest drop since
July 6. Capstone Investments Inc. initiated coverage Dec. 23
with a “sell” rating on the expectation that plug-ins and
other hybrids will continue to outsell pure electric cars such
as Tesla’s.  The end of the lock-up period on Dec. 25 allows Tesla’s
early investors to sell for the first time since the company’s
June 28 initial public offering. Other holders may have sold in
anticipation of insiders’ sales, said  Carter Driscoll , senior
analyst for clean technologies with Miami Beach, Florida-based
Capstone. His long-term price estimate is $22 a share.  “A lot of it is the lock-up expiring,” Driscoll said
today in a telephone interview. “A lot needs to go right to
justify the current valuation. They have never mass-produced
cars. They start paying back government loans in 2012.”  The Department of Energy loaned Tesla $465 million in March
in part to develop its second electric car, the Model S sedan.
The car is due to market in 2012. Driscoll said he doesn’t
expect the Palo Alto, California-based company to report a
profit or positive earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization until 2013.  About 7.46 million shares are listed as  sold short  while
10.3 million shares have been floated to public investors,
according to Bloomberg data.  New Holders  Panasonic Corp., the largest maker of rechargeable
batteries, last month bought a $30 million stake.  Toyota Motor
Corp.  and Daimler AG have each invested about $50 million. Chief
Executive Officer  Elon Musk  is the company’s biggest
 shareholder .  Tesla shares have fallen 22 percent since the close of
trading on  Dec. 22 . U.S. markets were closed Dec. 24 in
observance of the Christmas holiday.  Khobi Brooklyn, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the decline in Tesla’s share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at =827-7131 or
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 