-- Euro Pain Turns to 23% Gain for Europeans Pumping Cash Into S&P 500 Rally
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-12-27T08:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/euro-pain-turns-to-23-gain-for-europeans-pumping-cash-into-s-p-500-rally.html
For all the losses facing Europeans
this year, investors from the region who bought U.S. stocks as
the euro weakened are getting the best returns in a decade.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 23 percent this year
when translated to euros, the most since the currency was formed
in 1999 and almost double the 13 percent gain for Americans,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buying the  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  in Tokyo produced a 20 percent increase for
Europeans, compared with a 2.5 percent loss when priced in yen,
the data show.  Record budget deficits and bailouts of Greece and Ireland
sent the European currency down 8.4 percent in 2010, boosting
winnings for anyone converting dollar-denominated investments
back into euros. Concern about further declines may spur more
overseas investment in 2011, according to  Dirk Pattyn  at Degroof
Fund Management Co. in Brussels, whose U.S.  fund  gave European
investors a 24 percent return this year.  “The focus is still the debt problem in Europe, and many
clients might be looking at the U.S. as a first alternative,”
said Pattyn, who held Chevron Corp. and  Microsoft Corp.  among
$33 billion in investments at his company this year. “It’s been
an excellent year for U.S. investors in Europe. You have the
currency that added a lot, and also you had the performance of
the underlying index.”  Most Since 2007  Investors outside the U.S. purchased American stocks at an
annual pace of $146 billion in the third quarter, on course for
the biggest annual gain since 2007, data from the Federal
Reserve show. Europeans bought a net $18.3 billion of U.S.
stocks in September, the most since May 2007, just as credit
markets started to freeze, the data show.  While the benchmark  Euro Stoxx 50 Index  slipped 3.5 percent
this year up to the end of last week, traders in the 16 nations
that share the single European currency made an average 29
percent by investing in 62 non-euro nations tracked by
Bloomberg.  The Euro Stoxx 50 slid 1.4 percent at 8:40 a.m. in London
today, while futures on the S&P 500 fell 0.5 percent.  The euro’s retreat against the dollar this year has been
the biggest since 2005 even as the U.S. deficit swelled to a
record in February and the unemployment rate rose to seven-month
high of 9.8 percent in November, according to Bloomberg data.  “We were expecting a good performance of the U.S. market.
What we didn’t expect is that the dollar would be as strong as
it has been,” said Paris-based  Hubert Goye , who helps oversee
$707 billion for BNP Paribas Investment Partners. “Given the
budget situation in the U.S., given the fact that the economy
was not extremely strong, there were many reasons why the dollar
could remain under pressure.”  Boosting Returns  Goye’s  Actions USA  fund rose 28 percent in euros this year
and 17 percent in dollars, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Currency movements boosted his return from holding
shares of Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc.  to 68 percent
and doubled the value of his investment in Norwalk, Connecticut-
based Priceline.com Inc.  Chevron in San Ramon, California, the second-biggest U.S.
energy company, has gained 18 percent this year, the equivalent
of 29 percent in euros. Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft’s
7.2 percent drop turns into a 1.5 percent rally when the largest
software maker is priced in Europe’s currency.  The debt crisis in Europe has made the U.S. economy look
strong by comparison. Surging borrowing costs in the region’s
so-called peripheral nations forced the European Union to lead
bailouts of Greece and Ireland for a combined 195 billion euros
($256 billion). Greece’s  ASE Index  has plunged 34 percent this
year and Spain’s IBEX 35 has tumbled 14 percent, the worst
performances among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Flight to Safety’  “It has been a flight-to-safety trade from Europe to the
U.S.,” said  Jason Brady , a managing director at Thornburg
Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico, which oversees
more than $72 billion. “They will continue to move their money
out of the less well-capitalized countries of Europe and the
U.S. is still considered one of the safer places to invest.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating five
levels on Dec. 17, put Greece on review for a potential
downgrade, and said Dec. 15 that Spain’s ranking was at risk.
Fitch Ratings trimmed Portugal’s rating to A+ on Dec. 23, citing
concern about government financing and the country’s banks. In
contrast, Moody’s said last month the U.S.’s top Aaa rating
won’t be under pressure this year or next.  ‘Nice Situation’  “We’ve seen quite a nice situation due to the credit
crisis,” said  Henrik Drusebjerg , a senior strategist at Nordea
Investment Management, which oversees $76 billion in Copenhagen,
where the Danish krone has declined 8.7 percent against the
dollar in 2010. “Equities have done very nicely, partly because
the reporting season was much better than expected.”  Denmark’s benchmark OMX Copenhagen 20 Index soared 36
percent this year, the best performance among 24 developed
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Profit for companies in the  S&P 500  rose 42 percent in the
third quarter, with 79 percent of members beating analyst
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index , 57 percent of firms topped predictions,
the data show.  Bearish Call  As concern about Europe’s debt crisis deepens, the euro may
slide to $1.18 by the third quarter from $1.31 at the end of
last week, according to  Stephen Hull , head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in London, who has the
second-most bearish call among 46 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Investors should buy the dollar and sell the euro
because governments in the monetary union don’t want a strong
currency, the New York-based bank wrote in a Dec. 9 report.  The survey’s consensus suggests the euro will finish 2011
little changed from last week. Nordea’s Drusebjerg said the
European currency may find support if the region’s governments
present a “sensible” strategy to tackle their budget deficits.  Betting on dollar-denominated assets has “been fairly good
in 2010, but it’s a theme you should be careful about,” he
said.  This year’s  gain  for the S&P 500 in euros would be the
highest since the 39 percent return in 1999, according to
Bloomberg data. Euro-based investors that have held money in S&P
500 shares since the start of 2000 are worse off than their U.S.
counterparts, having lost 34 percent compared with the
Americans’ 14 percent decline.  Bullish on Franc  In addition to winning from moves against the dollar this
year, investors based in the euro area have benefitted from the
common currency’s 18 percent depreciation against the yen and 12
percent slide versus Sweden’s krona. The euro’s losses are
helping boost the value of the Swiss franc. Options traders are
more bullish on the franc for the next three months than any
major currency except the yen, Bloomberg data show.  A 22 percent gain by the  OMX Stockholm 30 Index , the
second-best performing gauge in 2010 among 24 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg, translated into a 39 percent surge for
euro-region investors. The currency effect makes the Swedish
benchmark gauge the best-performing developed-market index
worldwide when measured in euros, overtaking Denmark’s
 Copenhagen 20 .  Pattyn at Degroof Fund Management says the U.S. may keep
luring European investors, even without help from currency
fluctuations, because it has faster economic growth.  “We do still have a positive view on U.S. investment,”
said the fund manager. “With the returns this year, I can
believe our European clients are quite happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 