-- Hewlett-Packard Unit Wins $2.5 Billion NASA Contract
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-12-27T23:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/hewlett-packard-services-unit-wins-2-5-billion-nasa-contract.html
Hewlett-Packard Co.  landed a NASA
information-technology contract valued at as much as $2.5
billion over 10 years, putting the space agency’s computers
under HP’s management.  The agreement with the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration involves personal-computing hardware,
standardized software, peripherals and other technology, the
agency said today in a statement.  “It’s basically everything that’s plugged into the wall
that’s IT,” Michael Sweigart, a spokesman for NASA, said in an
interview. “This contract combines some services on a number of
different contracts across the agency.”  The deal brings a high-profile customer to HP as it builds
up its computer-services business. The company bought  Electronic
Data Systems Corp.  for $13.2 billion in 2008, vaulting HP to No.
2 in services behind International Business Machines Corp. Palo
Alto, California-based HP leads the market for PCs and printers.  Lockheed Martin Corp.  currently provides the bulk of the
services for NASA, Sweigart said. The new agreement doesn’t
include computer networks and data centers.  “Our team is disappointed that NASA selected another
solution,” Sheila Collins, a spokeswoman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed , said in an e-mailed statement. “We
submitted a ‘best-value’ solution based on our knowledge of the
program and our understanding of NASA’s mission. We continue to
serve NASA on other contracts.”  HP, whose offices are closed for the holidays, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  HP rose 8 cents to $41.82 in New York Stock Exchange
 trading  today before the news was announced. The shares have
declined 19 percent this year. Lockheed gained 6 cents to
$69.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  