-- Fed’s Free Money Beckons This Important Writer: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-12-27T02:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/fed-s-free-money-lures-this-important-writer-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
If AIG was too important to fail,
can’t I be, too?  The U.S.  Financial Stability Oversight Council  is working
to identify parts of our financial system that can’t be allowed
to go under. Once called “too big to fail,” these companies
are now referred to as “systemically important” and fall under
the authority of the Federal Reserve.  Therein lies my opportunity.  I’m no  American International Group Inc. , the huge insurer
that needed a $182.3 billion federal rescue to survive its
central role in the financial crisis. So no, I’m not too big.
But I’m important.  See, I’m a Ph.D. economist with a reputation for parsimony
fostered by a somewhat infamous wardrobe. My teenage son, for
instance, can’t believe I still wear “that sweater.”  If I were to default on my debts, the world would see that
even trained economists who spend little on their appearance
can’t make ends meet. Imagine the global panic, the massive
selloff, that would follow.  Clearly, then, I meet the definition of systemically
important. Not convinced? The Dodd-Frank financial law, in
creating the Financial Stability Oversight Council, empowered it
to consider, in addition to a company’s leverage, size and
exposure, “any other risk-related factors the council deems
appropriate.”  Bear Stearns Precedent  What might those factors be? Given what has already
happened, it could be anything at all. And when it comes to
determining whom to lend money to, suffice it to say that if we
can lend to Bear Stearns and AIG at ridiculously low interest
rates, we can lend to me.  Sure, I’ve been paying my bills lately, but given the line
of cut-rate credit waiting for me at the discount window should
I need it, my creditors are rightly worried that I might stop
payment at any moment.  Once I have access to the Fed, I will borrow at close to
zero percent interest and invest in longer-term Treasuries that
pay a higher interest rate. A few hundred billion dollars of
such transactions, and I’ll be looking at some nice profits.  And for that I say: Thanks, America!  We shouldn’t fight the spread of the Fed’s power in the New
Year; we should embrace it, rejoice in it, even baste ourselves
in it. Looking back at the past two years with the benefit of
hindsight -- that phrase always makes people think the
forthcoming observation must be wisdom-filled -- it becomes
clear that policy makers have not been creative enough. The
policy that could take this fledgling recovery and turn it into
an unprecedented boom has eluded them.  But I’m here now.  Not Stimulating  Many of our leading financial institutions have been handed
the same free cash I’m seeking, but they’re sitting on it, not
making loans, slowly recapitalizing after incurring massive
losses. So much for stimulus.  While I might seem small by contrast, I’m a better risk
than many of the troubled institutions that have been playing
this game. I have no huge losses to tie me down. Right here,
right now, I promise that I will spend every penny of my
multibillion-dollar windfall. Hello, new  Bentley . Ready for a
spin?  Why should you, dear reader, support me in my quest to
achieve systemic importance?  Once our financial overseers realize how stimulative I
become, they will want to share their largesse with you as well.
Before long, we’ll all be important, and the free money that
previously was limited to banks will be available to us all. How
great is that?  In the old days, we had to work hard to make ends meet. If
the broad new powers granted by Congress are used to declare me
systemically important, those sweat-filled days will be gone
forever. The path to your personal fortune will become no more
laborious than the well-worn path to your refrigerator.  And for that I say: You’re welcome.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  