-- Ferraris Show Poland Narrows Gap as Europe Weakens
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-12-28T10:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/ferraris-show-poland-narrows-gap-as-peripheral-europe-weakens.html
Dante Cinque had buyers lined up
even before opening Ferrari’s first Polish showroom, taking over
the Warsaw site formerly occupied by the Communist Party.  “Poland is much better than it’s perceived abroad, in
every way,” Cinque, general manager of  Ferrari  Warszawa, said
in the store on Nowy Swiat Street, which opened in October. “I
get the feeling in Poland that wealth is being created.”  Poland passed the Netherlands in 2009 to become the sixth-
biggest economy in the 27-nation European Union, according to
exchange-rate adjusted  figures  from the World Bank. The country
of 38.2 million people was the only one in the EU to avoid a
contraction last year, with growth of 1.8 percent. While most
nations struggle to emerge from the worst recession since World
War II, the World Bank forecasts growth of 3.5 percent in 2010.  Poland’s  WIG20  blue-chip stock index gained more than 9
percent to the end of November in dollar terms, compared with 3
percent for the region’s benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600  Index.
Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley are expanding in Warsaw as domestic and foreign
companies list on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange  and the government
plans to sell 40 billion zloty ($13.2 billion) of state assets
in 2010-2011.  The country’s $430 billion economy has been propelled by
manufacturers of products such as car parts and machinery that
are exported by Germany; tax cuts from the beginning of 2009
that slashed the top personal income tax rate to 32 percent from
40 percent; the 9.7 percent drop in the zloty against the euro
since the beginning of 2008, which has helped make Poland’s
competitive position; and 67 billion euros ($88.2 billion) of EU
grants earmarked through 2013.  ‘Bastion of Growth’  “We’ve built a bastion of growth,” Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  said in a Nov. 16 press conference on the third anniversary
of taking up office. Poland is prepared for a “test of wills,”
he said, referring to the EU’s next seven-year budget, which may
pit the bloc’s largest aid recipient against U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron , who wants to curb spending to reduce Britain’s
record budget deficit.  The spread between Polish and German 10-year bonds narrowed
on Dec. 16 to a seven-month low of 290 basis points. Costs to
insure Polish five-year debt were at 146.500 basis points as of
yesterday. That compares with 496.305 for Portuguese credit
default swaps, indicating that investors are betting that the
east European country is less likely to default than the euro
member. Fitch Ratings downgraded Portugal’s debt rating one
level on Dec. 23, saying the economy faced a “deteriorating”
outlook.  ‘10 Ferraris’  Average gross wages have increased by almost a third over
the last five years, statistics office data show.  “I have clients who have 10 Ferraris in the garage,”
Cinque said, adding that most of his customers own companies and
work in industries including banks and real estate.  Unemployment was 9.7 percent in October, according to EU
figures, compared with 14.1 percent in Ireland and 20.7 percent
in Spain. The economy  grew  at an annual rate of 4.2 percent in
the third quarter, the fastest pace in two years, buoyed by the
9 percent increase in  retail sales  in October.  Liebrecht & wooD is helping build Plac Unii, a 550 million-
zloty retail and office complex in Warsaw, to capitalize on
rising consumer demand. The company is betting that the country
will turn economic gain into political clout, adding to the
attractiveness of real estate in the capital.  Drawing Closer  “In 10 to 20 years, Poland will be one of ‘the’ countries
in Europe,” said Marc Lebbe, a Warsaw-based managing director
at Liebrecht & wooD. “There’s no reason why it shouldn’t wield
as much power one day as France or Spain or Italy.”  Domestic politics are still scarred by an April 10 plane
crash, which killed President  Lech Kaczynski  and 95 others in
Smolensk, Russia, as they traveled to honor Poles murdered by
Stalin’s secret police. Some of the victims belonged to the main
opposition party, Law & Justice, run by Kaczynski’s twin
brother,  Jaroslaw , who said the government bears “moral
responsibility” for the accident.  Early presidential elections called after the crash were
won by  Bronislaw Komorowski , former parliamentary speaker and a
leading member of the ruling Civic Platform party. Tusk faces an
election challenge from Law & Justice in parliamentary elections
in the second half.  Poland’s general government deficit has more than
quadrupled since 2007, swelling this year to 7.9 percent of
gross domestic product, according to EU forecasts. The Finance
Ministry estimates public debt will reach 53.2 percent of GDP
this year compared with 44.8 percent in 2007.  Credit-Rating Concerns  Fitch Ratings said in a report last month that Poland
should curb its deficit to avoid a credit-rating reduction. If
the country’s public debt rises above 55 percent of GDP, it
would breach the second of three legal thresholds anchored in
Polish law, triggering mandatory budget cuts.  Those legal limits, tougher than the EU’s, keep bondholders
“relaxed,” even with Poland set to run the EU’s sixth-widest
budget gap next year, said  David Hauner , head of emerging-market
economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London.  “Poland has a long way to go to draw even with ‘old’
Europe,” said  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA.
“But we have great potential -- and we’ve been able to use the
crisis to do some catching up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  