-- Fischer Holds Israel's Benchmark Rate at 2% as House Price Growth Slows
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-27T17:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/fischer-leaves-israel-s-benchmark-rate-at-2-as-house-price-growth-slows.html
The Bank of Israel held the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a third consecutive month
as the shekel appreciated and growth in housing prices slowed.  Governor  Stanley Fischer  kept the rate at 2 percent, the
Jerusalem-based central bank said today in an e-mailed
statement. Thirteen of the 17 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
had forecast the decision, while four expected a quarter-point
increase.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe have
spurred record inflows into Israel and other countries where
rates are higher, driving gains in currencies and undermining
exports. The shekel has strengthened about 6 percent against the
dollar since August 2009, when Fischer began raising the rate,
even as the central bank bought foreign  currency  to cap gains.  “Fischer held the rate due to the interest rate gap and
concern that this could hurt exports,”  Ayelet Nir , chief
economist at Tel Aviv-based Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd.,
said by phone. “Other factors include lower inflation
expectations and a slowing down in the rise of housing prices.”  The bank said in its statement that the gap between higher
interest rates in countries such as Israel and other developed
nations “present a serious challenge for policy makers.”  The shekel strengthened by 0.3 percent to 3.5803 per dollar
as of 6:21 p.m. in Tel Aviv, little changed from before the
announcement.  Fischer has lifted the benchmark rate by 1.5 percentage
points since last August. The Bank of Israel has been buying
foreign currency since March 2008, more than doubling  reserves 
to $68.3 billion by the end of November.  Shekel Strengthens  The central bank said its decision to leave rates unchanged
was also due to a slowing in the growth in housing prices.  Fischer said Dec. 22 that there are “preliminary signs”
that the expansion in housing prices is slowing, after warning
in November of the risk of a “bubble” that could destabilize
the financial system.  Inflation , which has been fueled by
increases in housing prices for the past two years, slowed last
month to 2.3 percent, the first time it has eased since July.  To contain prices, the bank has tightened requirements for
mortgages, while the government has taken steps to free up more
land for development. Growth in housing rental costs slowed to
3.9 percent last month, from 4.5 percent the previous month, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 15.  Economic Growth  Economic growth slowed to an annualized 3.8 percent in the
third quarter, from 4.5 percent in the second quarter, as
exports fell 9.6 percent. About 40 percent of Israel’s gross
domestic product is export-based. The economy is expected to
expand 3.5 percent next year, compared with 4 percent this year,
Bank Hapoalim Ltd. said last week.  Fischer, who has sole responsibility for setting interest
rates, was appointed for a second term as governor in March. He
is in the process of implementing a new law that calls for the
creation of a six-member Monetary Policy Committee to make rate
decisions.  The benchmark TA-25 stock index has gained about 15 percent
in the past 12 months, led by Avner Oil Exploration LP, a
partner in gas fields off Israel’s coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  