-- Carlos Andres Perez, President of Venezuela in 1970s Oil Boom, Dies at 88
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2010-12-27T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/former-venezuelan-president-carlos-andres-perez-dies-at-88-of-heart-attack.html
Former Venezuelan President  Carlos Andres Perez  died Dec. 25 in a Miami hospital of a heart attack,
his daughter Maria Francia Perez said in an interview broadcast
on the  Globovision  network. He was 88.  Representing the Accion Democratica Party, Perez served as
president of Venezuela in the 1970s during an oil boom and again
from 1989 until 1993. In his second term, Perez was beset by
corruption scandals, an economic crisis that led to riots known
as the Caracazo and a coup attempt by now-President  Hugo Chavez .
Venezuela’s highest court forced Perez to step down in 1993, one
year before the end of his term, on charges of corruption and
illicit enrichment.  In frequent statements, Perez criticized Chavez for
weakening the country’s industry, concentrating power at the
expense of state institutions, politicizing the armed forces,
high crime, corruption and inefficient public services.  “Till the last minute, he felt a concern for his country
and the path Venezuela is taking,” Maria Francia Perez said in
the telephone interview.  Perez, born in the Andean state of Tachira, suffered a
cardiovascular attack in 2003.  Perez, employing policies similar to Chavez’s, lavished
petrodollars on public works projects, foreign aid and
nationalizations in the late 1970s, setting the stage for a 1983
currency devaluation known as “Black Friday” and spending cuts
that sent millions of Venezuelans into poverty.  Consumer Prices Soared  By the time Perez replaced  Jaime Lusinchi  in early 1989,
the country was running out of foreign reserves and food
shortages were mounting. Perez eliminated a multi-tier exchange
system, unifying the currency at the free-market rate, and
lifted price controls.  Consumer prices soared 21 percent in one month alone,
leading to the deadly Caracazo uprising in which at least 3,000
people were killed after Perez called in the army to suppress
looting. Those events spurred Chavez, then an army officer, to
accelerate his coup plans.  Chavez failed to overthrow Perez in a 1992 coup attempt
amid widespread distrust of the Venezuelan political
establishment. After the country’s highest court forced Perez to
step down in 1993, he was sentenced to more than two years of
house arrest for the illegal use of state funds.  Venezuela’s Supreme Court approved an extradition request
for Perez earlier this year because of his alleged involvement
in the 1989 riots.  “Rest in peace and may that way of governing that he
personified forever leave this place,” Chavez said of Perez in
comments carried by state television.  Chavez said that Perez’s family “has every right” to bury
him in Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  