-- Goldman Sachs's Petershill Agrees to Buy Stake in Mount Lucas Hedge Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-27T18:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/goldman-s-petershill-fund-to-buy-minority-stake-in-mount-lucas-hedge-fund.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s
Petershill Fund agreed to buy a minority stake in Mount Lucas
Management Corp., a global macro hedge-fund manager with $1.8
billion under management.  Mount Lucas will keep autonomy over management, operations
and investment strategies, the Newtown, Pennsylvania-based fund
said today in a statement. The size and value of the investment
weren’t disclosed.  Andrea Raphael , a spokeswoman at New York-
based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on the Petershill
investment.  Goldman Sachs’s Petershill fund is part of the firm’s
asset-management division and invests in hedge-fund managers.
The fund has acquired stakes in Capula Investment Management
LLP, Trafalgar Asset Managers and Shumway Capital Partners LLC.
Level Global Investors LP, a New York-based fund that sold a
stake to Petershill in April, had its offices raided by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation last month in connection with an
insider-trading probe. The fund told clients that the government
said it wasn’t a target of the investigation.  Paul DeRosa , 69, a principal at Mount Lucas, will become
chairman of the firm at the end of this year, the company said
today. DeRosa is assuming a position that has been vacant since
 Frank Vannerson  died in March 2008.  DeRosa will no longer be involved in daily management of
the $1.2 billion MLM MacroPeak, the company’s global macro
strategy, Mount Lucas said.  Robert J. Barbera , Mount Lucas’s
chief economist, will take over DeRosa’s role in MLM MacroPeak’s
portfolio management, the firm said. That strategy has returned
15.8 percent a year, on average, since it began in February
1996.  Mount Lucas was co-founded in 1986 by Vannerson and  Tim Rudderow , the firm’s president. The pair, along with two other
co-founders who have since left, had previously worked at
Commodities Corp., the Princeton, New Jersey-based company that
helped start the careers of macro hedge-fund managers  Bruce Kovner ,  Louis Bacon  and Paul Jones.  In 1987, Mount Lucas won Eastman Kodak Co. as a client, one
of the first pension funds to hire a futures manager.  In addition to the macro fund, Mount Lucas manages $500
million in its MLM Index, a diversified index of major futures
markets, and $100 million in a long-only stock fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 