-- Goldman, Intel Are on My Top 10 List for 2011: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-12-27T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/goldman-intel-are-on-my-top-10-list-for-2011-john-dorfman.html
As investors make their resolutions
for 2011, many should resolve to take on more risk.  Seared by losses in 2008, millions of investors have
slashed their stock allocations, preferring the relative safety
of bonds or cash. This represents a triumph of fear over
experience.  History shows that the stock market is the right place to
keep a percentage of your money. For most people, I recommend 60
percent of liquid assets. In the 30 years from 1980 through
2009, the compound average annual return in U.S. stocks was 11
percent. So far this year the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  is up
15 percent, including dividends.  Yes, 2008 was awful. And no, you shouldn’t have money in
the market unless you can afford to risk its loss. Yet owning a
piece of American businesses has been a wise strategy, long-run.
In that spirit, here are my 10 favorite stocks for the coming
year.  I expect the information-technology sector to have a good
year in 2011 as the economy picks up, so I will start with two
technology companies. One is  Western Digital Corp. , which I
believe is undervalued at six times earnings. The Lake Forest,
California, company is the world’s second-largest maker of
computer disk drives in terms of revenue. In its last fiscal
year, which ended in June, Western Digital increased its
earnings to $1.4 billion from $470 million the year before.  Cues From Management  The other tech company I like is  Intel Corp.  This year nine
Intel insiders have bought their company’s shares. In addition,
Intel raised its dividend six times in the past five years. Both
of these are indicators that management believes better times
are ahead.  I also have two selections in the energy industry.
 Transocean Ltd. , with headquarters in Vernier, Switzerland,
appeals to me as a leader in deep-water drilling. The stock took
a whack in 2010 because of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill; it
owned the rig that blew up and sank. Its 16 percent decline this
year sets it up for a rebound in 2011, I believe. The stock
sells for only 10 times earnings.  GT Solar International Inc. , based in Merrimack, New
Hampshire, has had a good run this year, up about 62 percent.
Yet it sells for only 10 times earnings, and I believe there is
room for further gains. The company makes furnaces that melt and
purify silicon for use in solar panels. More recently it has
developed furnaces for making synthetic sapphires used in light-
emitting diodes. The company is debt-free.  Scorned, Now Cheap  In the financial sphere, my choice is New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The investment bank has been vilified
for betting against a mortgage security it created, for high-
speed trading and for paying its executives handsomely. These
criticisms have helped to whittle Goldman’s stock price down to
about $168, which is less than nine times earnings. That’s a low
valuation for a talent-rich company.  I like several of the big drug companies, notably  Johnson &
Johnson . The New Brunswick, New Jersey, company has increased
its dividend five times in the past five years. Its stock, which
has sold for a median of 18 times earnings the past decade,
currently fetches only 13 times earnings.  I think owning some Chinese stocks is desirable for U.S.
investors. China’s economy is currently one of the fastest-
growing in the world. Its budget is in better shape than ours in
the U.S., and its population is younger.  Concrete Advice  One Chinese company I like is  China Advanced Construction
Materials Group Inc. , which produces concrete and provides
technical advice for large development and infrastructure
projects such as high-speed railroad beds. The company has
headquarters in Beijing, but its stock trades on the Nasdaq
market in the U.S. It sells for only four times earnings.  Mantech International Corp. , located in Fairfax, Virginia,
provides information-technology services for the government,
especially the military and intelligence agencies. In a world of
terrorist threats, this seems a promising niche. The stock has
lagged behind the market this year, falling about 14 percent. At
about $42, down from a high of more than $61 in 2008, I think it
is a good rebound candidate.  Sparton Corp.  is a micro-cap (market value $84 million)
company based in Schaumburg, Illinois. I like it as a
restructuring play. The company has three divisions
manufacturing sonic buoys for the Navy, medical equipment
(mainly for in-vitro fertilization) and electronics. I think the
latter division could be improved and then sold, providing cash
to fuel the growth of the first two, which are more profitable.  Riskiest Stock Pick  Rounding out my list is a risky pick,  Amedisys Inc.  The
Baton Rouge, Louisiana-based home-nursing company is under
investigation by the U.S. Justice Department and two other
agencies on suspicion that it overcharged Medicare. The likely
outcome in my opinion is an out-of-court settlement. It’s worth
remembering that without home nursing for elderly patients, many
would be hospitalized, an unpleasant and costly alternative.  Some perspective: Before investing in stocks, you should
have the equivalent of six months’ salary in a savings account,
adequate health insurance and life insurance if you have
dependents.  Disclosure note: Personally and for clients, I own all 10
stocks discussed in this week’s column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  