-- Guinea's President Retains Finance Minister, Names Central Bank Governor
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-28T16:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/guinea-s-president-retains-finance-minister-names-central-bank-governor.html
Guinean President  Alpha Conde 
appointed a finance minister and central bank governor as he
opted for “experienced” administrators to develop the country.  Assuming the post of defense minister himself, Conde
retained Finance Minister Kerfalla Yansane and named former
Mines Minister Lounseny Nabe as governor of the central bank,
according to a statement read on Radio Television Guineenne late
yesterday in Conakry, the capital. Both have previously worked
in government ministries.  “The president knows that he’ll only move forward by
relying on experience and expertise,” said Mohamed Camara, a
political analyst and law professor at Conakry’s Kofi Annan
University. Yansane, a former central bank governor, “has been
able to handle development partners with great diplomacy,”
Camara said today in an interview from Paris. “He inspires a lot
of confidence.”  Conde’s victory in a Nov. 7 election runoff marked the end
of two years of military rule, which followed the death of
 Lansana Conte , who ruled the West African nation for two
decades. The vote was Guinea’s first democratic transfer of
power since its independence from France in 1958.  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, more than 4 billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron
ore and “significant” deposits of diamonds and gold, according
to the U.S. State Department. Bauxite is the ore used to make
aluminum.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s second-largest mining company,
 United Co. Rusal , the biggest aluminum producer, and Brazil’s
 Vale SA , the world’s No. 1 iron-ore producer, are among mining
companies operating in Guinea.  General Keleti Diallo was named as the chief of staff of
the country’s army, taking the place of Nouhou Thiam, Conde’s
statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 