-- Microsoft Tablet Aimed at Fighting Apple IPad Faces Long Odds in Las Vegas
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-27T21:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/microsoft-tablet-aimed-at-fighting-ipad-faces-long-odds-in-vegas.html
Microsoft Corp . Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer , said to unveil  new  software for tablets
at the Consumer Electronics Show next week, will face skeptics
who say his company won’t soon narrow  Apple Inc .’s iPad lead.  “By the time Microsoft gets it figured out everybody will
already own an iPad,” said  Keith Goddard ,  CEO  of Capital
Advisors Inc. an investing firm in Tulsa, Oklahoma, that holds
Apple shares. “That train has left the station.”  Microsoft will announce a full version of the Windows
computer operating system that runs on  ARM Holdings Plc 
technology at the  show , which begins in Las Vegas on Jan. 6, two
people familiar with Microsoft’s plans said last week.  Allying with  ARM  is Microsoft’s way of stepping up rivalry
with Apple, which has garnered the largest share of the tablet
market with its iPad, a touch-screen device introduced in April
that handles video, music and computing tasks. The effort may
falter unless Ballmer can match the features consumers have come
to expect from the iPad, Goddard said.  The new Windows version would be tailored for battery-
powered devices, such as tablets and wireless handsets, the
people said. Chips based on ARM technology are made by  Qualcomm
Inc .,  Texas Instruments Inc . and  Samsung Electronics Co.   Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment, pointing instead to remarks by
Ballmer in July.  “We’re tuning Windows 7 to new slate hardware designs,”
Ballmer told analysts then. He also said, Apple has “sold
certainly more than I’d like them to sell.”  IPad Gains Share  Computer makers have unsuccessfully been trying to sell
tablet-style computers based on Microsoft’s Windows for about a
decade. Before the iPad, tablets made up only about 2 percent of
the PC market.  Apple , based in Cupertino, California, has sold
7.46 million iPads through September. According to analysts at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., it may sell as many at 37.2 million
iPads next year.  That indicates that the tablet computer’s share of the PC
market may rise to 9.2 percent next year, based on a prediction
by research firm IDC for 402.7 million PC shipments in 2011.  Microsoft  dropped 23 cents to $28.07 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined
7.9 percent this year.  Besides gaining share, Apple has also redefined consumer
expectations for what a tablet computer should do, says  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc. Instead of requiring the
use of a stylus pen to serve as a computer mouse, the iPad
allows people to navigate using their fingers.  ‘Square Peg’  “Apple did this year what no one had done in the previous
10 -- crack that space between the PC and the phone,” said
 Gartenberg , who’s based in New York. “Microsoft has been
working very hard at putting a square peg in a round hole.”  Still, an introduction at  CES  gives Microsoft a chance to
win over some of the more than 100,000 people expected to attend
the premier technology trade show, he said.  “It’s a wonderful opportunity for Microsoft and Ballmer to
put a stake in the ground,” said Gartenberg. “Now that Apple
cracked the market no one wants to get left behind.”  By adapting its computer operating system for a tablet,
Microsoft is taking a different approach from Apple, which used
a mobile-phone  operating system  as the basis for the iPad.
Apple’s software enables instant startup, longer battery life,
and access to the more than  300,000 applications  already
developed for the iPhone.  ‘Frankentablets’  Microsoft  is taking software designed for use with a mouse
and keyboard and adapting it to a touch screen, according to the
people familiar with the matter. That will require developers to
rework PC programs to make them useful on a tablet.  Chips based on ARM technology are used in most smartphones,
as well as Apple’s iPad. Still, they don’t crunch numbers and
handle other computing tasks as quickly as  Intel Corp . chips,
which run the majority of PCs.  Loading a full version of Windows onto a tablet powered by
a chip designed for mobile phones may result in an unresponsive
or slow-moving machine, said  Michael Cherry , an analyst at
Directions on Microsoft, a Seattle-based research firm. Existing
tablets based on Windows are difficult to use, he said.  “Current Windows tablets are what I call Frankentablets --
part laptop” and part tablet, he said. “They do neither role
well.”  Microsoft should leave Windows in the PC environment, where
it works best, and focus instead on scaling up its mobile-phone
software to work on the bigger screen of a tablet,  Cherry  said.  Then There’s Google  Microsoft has sparred with Apple since the birth of the PC.
Windows won early rounds, relegating Macintosh computers to less
than 10 percent of the market.  Now, it’s also contending with  Google Inc ., the Mountain
View, California-based Internet company behind the Android
mobile-phone operating system. Earlier this year, Android
surpassed Apple by number of devices running the software in the
U.S., according to  NPD Group .  Companies such as  Dell Inc.  and Samsung, which use
Microsoft’s software in their PCs, are already working on
tablets based on Android as they try to keep from losing ground
to Apple.  The longer it takes Microsoft to get an operating system
into tablets, the less likely the company can challenge Apple
and Google, said  Tim Bajarin , president of Creative Strategies,
a research firm in Campbell, California.  “Given this late move by Microsoft, it would still be
quite an uphill battle,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  