-- Hildebrand Unable to Unload `Burden' of Record Franc as GDP Seen Slowing
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-12-27T11:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/hildebrand-unable-to-unload-burden-of-record-franc-as-gdp-seen-slowing.html
Swiss central bank President  Philipp Hildebrand , who ended 15 months of intervening in foreign-
exchange markets this year, may prove powerless to stop the
franc from extending a record rally that he calls a “burden.”  Options traders are more bullish on the franc for the next
three months than any major currency except the yen, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
says it may appreciate 8.3 percent to 1.17 per euro in six
months after rising more than any major peer since intervention
ended in June. Standard Bank Plc estimates an advance to 1.20.  Currency traders say Hildebrand probably won’t renew
efforts to stop the gains after previous sales failed to halt
the appreciation that made exports more expensive and saddled
the Swiss National Bank with $22 billion of exchange-rate losses
in the first nine months of 2010. While policy makers said on
June 21 that intervention was no longer needed as the risk of
deflation had ebbed, price increases have since slowed.  “The SNB cannot do much, they are just observers,” said
 Beat Siegenthaler , a Zurich-based currency strategist at UBS AG,
ranked by Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc as the world’s
second-biggest foreign-exchange trader. “Of course they are
very worried. Their options are limited.”  The franc advanced 1.2 percent last week to 1.2627 per
euro, climbing to a record 1.2439 on Dec. 22. It gained 0.7
percent against the dollar to 96.23 centimes, extending its 2010
rise to 7.6 percent. The Swiss currency weakened 0.3 percent
against the euro and was little changed versus the dollar as of
11:05 a.m. in London today.  Monetary Union  Switzerland’s currency, a haven in times of economic
turmoil, has strengthened 17 percent against the euro this year
amid concern the fiscal crisis engulfing Greece, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain will curb growth in the 16-country region and
may force some nations out of the monetary union.  The franc’s gain against the euro is an additional
“burden” for Swiss exports, which account for about 50 percent
of gross domestic product, Hildebrand, 47, told reporters in
Zurich on Dec. 16. Growth in Switzerland’s $492 billion economy
is likely to be “significantly lower in the quarters ahead,”
partly because of the currency’s strength, he said.  Werner Abegg , a spokesman for the central bank, declined a
Bloomberg News request to arrange interviews with policy makers.  The SNB said it had started selling on March 12, 2009, its
first solo foreign-exchange intervention since 1992. The policy,
designed to ward off deflation, protect exports and revive
growth, sparked the biggest one-day decline since the euro’s
1999 start. The franc slumped 3.4 percent to 1.5299 per euro. By
the end of June 2010, it had strengthened 16 percent to 1.3184.  SNB’s Losses  The central bank said on Nov. 12 that it had a nine-month
loss of 8.46 billion francs ($8.8 billion) after depreciation in
the euro and dollar caused its holdings to decline in value by
21.2 billion francs. A year earlier, the  103-year-old bank 
reported a profit of 6.89 billion francs.  “The SNB tried intervening, and that clearly didn’t work,
so they stepped away,” said  Richard Benson , a London-based
executive director at Millennium Asset Management, who oversees
$14 billion of currency funds. The franc “will carry on
strengthening whilst the stresses and strains of the euro zone
cease to be resolved,” he said.  Derivative traders are paying a 2.56 percentage-point
premium for three-month call options, which grant the right to
buy the franc against the euro, relative to puts, which allow
for sales, Bloomberg data show. That compares with an average
premium of about 1 percentage point over the past two years.  Ratings Downgrades  The franc may strengthen toward 1.10 per euro next year as
the debt crisis in Europe intensifies,  Lee Hardman , a London-
based strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, wrote in a note to
clients on Dec. 22.  Fitch Ratings cut Portugal’s debt rating one level to A+ on
Dec. 23, citing concern about the “financing environment” for
the government. Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 15 it may
reduce Spain’s Aa1 credit rating and a day later placed Greece’s
Ba1 classification on review for a possible downgrade. Ireland
was cut five levels by Moody’s on Dec. 17. Switzerland has top
AAA rating from the three companies.  Analyst forecasts remain bearish on gains by the franc. As
recently as Nov. 30, the median of 28 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for the franc to end 2010 at 1.33 per euro. The
currency will trade at 1.30 by the end of March, a separate
survey of 34 strategists showed.  Some investors say the franc is too strong, with the
nation’s benchmark  interest rate  0.75 percentage point below the
European Central Bank’s 1 percent. Two-year notes  yielded  48
basis points less than German securities of similar maturity on
Dec. 23, compared with 39 basis points at the end of September.  Relative Value  The currency is 34 percent overvalued against the euro,
based on the relative costs of tradable goods and services as
measured by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris.  “The market is getting a little carried away with its
concern over the European sovereign-debt risks,” said  Jurgen Buscher , Zurich-based head of JB Private Asset Management and
the former director of foreign exchange at Deutsche Bank Private
Wealth Management. The franc may weaken to the 1.30 per euro to
1.40 over the next year, he said.  Switzerland’s trade surplus, which frees the country from
dependence on foreign capital and can prompt purchases during
times of turmoil, declined to 1.93 billion francs last month
from 2.05 billion francs in October, the Federal Customs Office
said on Dec. 21.  While the stronger franc helped spur a 3.4 percent drop in
exports last month, the Swiss economy is benefiting from its
proximity to Germany, according to  Steven Barrow , head of Group
of 10 currency strategy at Standard Bank in London.  ‘Saving Grace’  German gross domestic product will grow 3.6 percent this
year, more than double the 1.7 percent for the euro region,
according to economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Switzerland’s GDP will rise 2.7 percent, the forecasts show.  The currency gain “is obviously detrimental as far as
trade is concerned,” Barrow said. “The saving grace has been
that Switzerland’s closest trading neighbors, northern Europe
and Germany in particular, have actually been quite strong.”  Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index  of stocks has rallied 18
percent this year, while the Swiss Market Index is little
changed from the end of 2009.  Swiss economic growth will probably slow by a percentage
point next year to 1.7 percent, according to the median in a
Bloomberg survey of 13 economists. That compares with 1.45
percent for the euro area and 2.5 percent in Germany, surveys
show. Greece and Portugal will likely contract, with Spain’s GDP
increasing by 0.6 percent.  Inflation Forecast  Hildebrand cut the central bank’s 2012 inflation forecast
to 1 percent on Dec. 16 from 1.2 percent, almost six months
after SNB Vice Chairman  Thomas Jordan  said that intervention was
no longer necessary because the threat of deflation had largely
disappeared.  Consumer prices  increased 0.2 percent in November
from a year earlier, down from a 1.1 percent gain in May.  Policy makers said in their  quarterly report  on Dec. 24
that “if a deflation risk emerges, the SNB would take the
measures necessary to ensure price stability,” repeating a
statement made from their meeting a week earlier.  They may still have to live with a stronger currency as
long as the euro area remains in crisis, according to  Collin Crownover , head of currency management at State Street Global
Advisors Inc. in Boston, which manages $1.9 trillion of assets.  “The issues in the euro-zone periphery won’t be solved,
they will continue into next year,” said Crownover. “I don’t
see the SNB coming back in again. Of course there is always a
set of circumstances where they feel they have to. But in
absence of really strong appreciation, they are most likely
going to be on the sidelines. They got very little for their
intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  