-- U.S. Stocks Advance as AIG Leads Rally in Financial Shares
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-27T21:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/index-futures-drop-after-china-moves-to-cool-economy-ford-gm-shares-drop.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, extending the
biggest December rally since 1991 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as  American International Group Inc.  led financial shares
higher after obtaining $4.3 billion in bank credit lines.  AIG surged 9.3 percent, leading the gains in the S&P 500.
 Cisco Systems Inc.  advanced 2.4 percent after Barron’s reported
that the largest maker of networking equipment may initiate a
dividend. Halliburton Co. and Baker Hughes Inc. declined at
least 0.9 percent as oil retreated from a two-year high amid
concern demand will slow after China raised interest rates to
cool its economy.  About four stocks advanced for every three that declined on
U.S. exchanges. The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent to 1,257.54 as of 4
p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined
18.46 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,555.03.  “We’re in a transition period from a government-sponsored
economy to a private-sector-driven economy,” said  Kevin Caron ,
a market strategist in Florham Park, New Jersey, at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $90 billion in client
assets. “AIG is one of the milestones for that. On a global
basis, there’s obviously concern about how investors, especially
in commodities, will respond to tightening in emerging markets
like China. Over here, most of the economic and corporate data
seem to be moving in the right direction.”  Best December Since 1991  The S&P 500 has risen 13 percent in 2010 after the Federal
Reserve extended a plan to stimulate growth and reports from
home sales to service industries this month pointed to a
continuing economic recovery. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
equities is up 6.5 percent this month.  About 3.71 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges,
below the average over the past 50 days of 7.66 billion and the
lowest full-day total this year, as trading slowed following 20
inches of snow in New York.  Financial shares had the  biggest gain  in the S&P 500 among
10 industries, rising 1 percent. AIG surged 9.3 percent to
$59.39, its highest price since October 2008. The insurer
seeking to replace government funds with private capital after
its 2008 bailout signed $4.3 billion of credit agreements.  Cisco  rallied 2.4 percent to $20.16. The largest maker of
networking equipment may rise as demand for the equipment grows
and the company initiates a dividend, Barron’s reported.  Earlier today, U.S. stocks fell after China increased the
key one-year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points on
Dec. 25 in its second move since mid-October. The country’s
monetary tightening in 2011 may be mainly in the first half as
officials tackle the fastest inflation in more than two years,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley said.  Energy Shares, Oil Drop  Energy shares slumped. Crude oil fell from a two-year high
in New York as China’s rate increase fueled concern that
economic growth will slow in the biggest energy-consuming
country. Houston-based Halliburton dropped 1.1 percent to
$39.86. Baker Hughes Inc. fell 0.9 percent to $56.20.  “The news out of China gets investors’ attention,” said
 Mark Luschini , chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which has $53 billion of assets
under management. “There’s a very delicate balance between
raising rates in an effort to slow down speculation or inflation
while trying not to get their economy into a hard landing. On
top of that, there’s a sense of toppiness in the market. We’re
due for a modest pullback.”  Most Expensive  The S&P 500 last week advanced to the highest since before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008
and reached its  most expensive  since June at 15.7 times its
members’ reported earnings.  The U.S. East Coast faced a second day of travel disruption
after snowstorms blanketed cities from New York to Boston,
halting some commuter trains and buses, contributing to the
light volume.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, rose 7.4 percent to 17.68.  Retailers  declined. U.S. chain stores expecting to ring up
sales after Christmas may have to intensify discounts as the
East Coast snow keeps shoppers at home. Spending may shift into
January, said  Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD Group
Inc., a research firm. Seattle-based Nordstrom Inc. dropped 1.6
percent to $42.09.  H&R Block Inc.  tumbled 7 percent to $11.80. The U.S. tax
preparer said an “11th-hour” decision by U.S. regulators
prevents a lending partner from offering tax-refund loans and
that it’ll be hard to fully roll out alternative products in
time for the 2011 season. The Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency told HSBC Holdings Plc not to make refund-anticipation
loans, prompting the bank to end an exclusive contract with H&R
Block three years early, the tax preparer said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 