-- Investors Attempting to Dump Bonds Push Bid Index Near Record: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/investors-attempting-to-dump-bonds-push-bid-index-near-record-muni-credit.html
Municipal bond investors are trying
to unload holdings at the fastest  pace in at least 14 years  amid
increasing mutual fund redemptions and rising U.S. Treasury
rates.  Bondholders looked for buyers for about $896 million in
municipal securities daily this month through Dec. 22,  the most
on record , according to a Bloomberg bids-wanted index that dates
to Aug. 8, 1996. Sellers sought bids for $783 million on average
in March 2008, the second-highest monthly tally, the index
shows.  Investors pulled the biggest weekly amount of money from
fixed-income funds in two years after signs of an economic
recovery pushed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks to a
two-year high Dec. 22.  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said selling picked up after
 Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst, on Dec. 19 forecast
“hundreds of billions of dollars” in municipal defaults.  “Many retail investors were expecting big declines in the
value of their portfolios because of all the credit problems,”
said LeBas, who is based in Philadelphia.  Investors withdrew more than $2.72 billion from municipal-
bond mutual funds in the week ended Dec. 15, the fifth straight
week of outflows, according to data compiled by  Lipper FMI , a
Denver-based research company. Investors have pulled $9.12
billion from municipal funds since the week ended Nov. 11.  Mutual fund redemptions lead to bond sales because managers
must sell the securities to repay investors. Individual
investors make up about  37 percent  of the $2.86 trillion muni
market, according to Federal Reserve data.  ‘Spate’ of Defaults  States’ fiscal stress may trigger a “spate” of defaults
among municipalities, said Whitney, who correctly predicted
 Citigroup Inc.’s  dividend cut in 2008, during a segment on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  The daily value of holdings put out for bid exceeded $1
billion on Dec. 21, before falling to $546 million Dec. 22,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average default rate for investment-grade municipal
debt evaluated by Moody’s Investors Service from 1970 through
2009 was 0.03 percent, compared with 0.97 percent for corporate
issues, the New York-based company said in February. General-
obligation bonds and debt for essential services such as water
and sewers are safer than unrated bonds and securities for not-
for-profit hospitals, it said.  Lighter Supply  Yields, which move inversely to prices, have jumped at
almost every maturity this month amid the selloff, according to
Bloomberg Valuation indexes tracking top-rated tax-exempt debt.  A lighter sales calendar next month will likely meet
increased demand as bondholders reinvest Jan. 1 coupon and
maturity payments, boosting prices, according to  Mark Steffen ,
who oversees $450 million in munis as chief operating officer at
Belle Haven Investments Inc. in White Plains, New York.  “People who were willing to put up with the forced selling
and distressed selling will be well-off at the beginning of the
year,” LeBas said.  Yields on  10-year Treasuries  have jumped about 60 basis
points in December, the biggest monthly increase since January
2009, as a selloff of U.S. government debt accelerated after the
Fed last month pledged to buy $600 billion in assets to revive
the economy. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that tracks the Standard & Poor’s municipal-bond
index, fell to $99.12 on Dec. 23 from $102.36 on Nov. 30. The
price plummeted to $97.30 on Dec. 14, the lowest since Jan. 26,
2009.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO ,
a wastewater utility that serves more than 5 million people,
plans to sell $500 million in taxable and tax-exempt debt as
soon as Jan. 3. The securities are top-ranked by all three major
credit-rating companies. JPMorgan Chase & Co. will lead
underwriters marketing the securities. (Added Dec. 22)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  