-- Iraq's Crude Oil Production Reaches Highest in 20 Years, Oil Minister Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-12-27T11:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/iraq-s-crude-oil-production-reaches-highest-in-20-years-oil-minister-says.html
Iraq’s oil production exceeded 2.6
million barrels a day for the first time in 20 years, newly
appointed Oil Minister  Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi  said at a press
conference in Baghdad.  The rising output will boost Iraq’s oil exports by 5
percent to 2 million barrels a day next month,  Falah al-Amri ,
head of the country’s State Oil Marketing Organization, said
today in an interview in Baghdad. The nation sells about 60
percent of supplies to India, China and other Asian countries
where demand is increasing, he said  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
is seeking foreign investors to help boost oil and gas
production, which was affected by insurgent attacks and a lack
of spending. Oil output hovered around 2.4 million barrels a day
since the 2003 U.S.-led attack that ousted the regime of
President  Saddam Hussein . The government awarded 12 oil and
three gas development contracts to since the invasion.  Al-Luaibi vowed to speed up the increase in output and
development of exploration and drillings in collaboration with
international companies operating in the country.  “We will work on rehabilitating energy industry-related
infrastructure, including oil and gas pipelines,” he said
during the handover ceremony with his predecessor, Deputy Prime
Minister for energy affairs  Hussain al-Shahristani . “We will
back the foreign energy companies working in Iraq to raise
output, exports and storage.”  ‘Within Days’  The delayed contract for the Akkas natural gas field will
be signed “within days,” al-Luaibi said. The Oil Ministry had
planned to sign an agreement for the field on Nov. 14 with  Korea
Gas Corp. , known as Kogas, and Kazakhstan’s state fuel producer,
 KazMunaiGaz National Co.   Iraq postponed the deal for Akkas to “clear the
misunderstanding” over the planned use of fuel from that
deposit, al-Luaibi said in November.  Akkas is the largest of the three fields for which the
government awarded licenses on Oct. 20. Kogas and  KazMunaiGaz 
agreed to produce 400 million standard cubic feet of gas a day
at a price of $5.50 a barrel of oil equivalent.  Negotiations were continuing with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and
 Mitsubishi Corp.  on a project to capture associated gas at oil
fields in southern Iraq, Al-Luaibi said.  “There is nothing new so far on that,” he said.  An agreement with Shell and Mitsubishi is due to be signed
by the end of January, Ali Hussain Khudair, the director-general
of Iraq’s South Gas Co., said on Nov. 25.  The government gave initial approval on June 29 for the
creation of a venture with Shell and Mitsubishi, to be called
Basra Gas Co. The venture would be owned 51 percent by state-run
South Gas, with Shell holding 44 percent and Mitsubishi the
remaining 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  