-- Mizuho's Tsukamoto Expects Higher-Than-Basel Capital Ratio, No Share Sales
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-12-28T07:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/mizuho-expects-higher-than-basel-capital-ratio-no-share-sale.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s
third-biggest bank by market value, expects to exceed global
capital requirements without additional stock sales, the
lender’s president said.  “We won’t need a share sale as an emergency measure to
boost our capital,” CEO  Takashi Tsukamoto  said in an interview
this month. The Tokyo-based bank plans to meet the capital rules
by “steadily” building profit, managing risk assets and
reducing costs to buffer the effects of possible economic
slowdowns or increases in bad loans, he said.  With a lower capital ratio than those of its two bigger
local rivals, Mizuho plans to cut operating costs by 50 billion
yen ($600 million) in three years. Slowing  loan demand  at home
is prompting Japan’s largest banks to seek growth in Asia led by
China and India, where infrastructure projects need financing.  Mizuho “has a lot of things to do internally such as a
reduction of personnel expenses,” said  Yoshinobu Yamada , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “They should then go
ahead with their growth plans by boosting businesses in Tokyo
and Asia.”  Mizuho, the most actively traded stock in the Nikkei 225
index today, rose 1.3 percent to close at 155 yen. Rivals
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. each rose 0.5 percent  Asia Focus  Tsukamoto, 60, said he is seeking to expand in Asia to help
combat a decline in domestic syndicated loans. The bank plans to
relocate more than 200 staff to offices outside Japan, including
China and India, to bolster earnings from abroad, he said in the
Dec. 2 interview in Tokyo.  Syndicated loan demand in Japan dropped 8 percent to 9.4
trillion yen in the six months ended Sept. 30, said Tsukamoto,
who became CEO in April 2009. Mizuho captured the biggest slice
of the market, increasing its share by 1 trillion yen to 43
percent, he added. Overall bank lending in Japan fell for a 12th
month in November, central bank figures show.  Mizuho has already bolstered its  capital  by raising more
than 1 trillion yen over the past two years through share sales.  The bank plans to hold common equity between 8 percent and
9 percent of its risk-weighted assets by March 2013, Tsukamoto
said, compared with a 5 percent ratio on Sept. 30 estimated by
UBS AG. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision agreed in
November to boost the minimum capital requirements in stages to
3.5 percent by January 2013 and 7 percent by January 2019.  Capital Ratio  Bigger rival  Mitsubishi UFJ ’s core Tier 1 capital ratio
stood at 7.2 percent on Sept. 30 and  Sumitomo Mitsui ’s was 6.5
percent, according to UBS.  Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui also sold shares over
the past two years, raising a total of about 3 trillion yen to
bolster capital ahead of the stricter global requirements.  Mizuho will be able to withstand any capital surcharge that
may be imposed should the company be deemed too big to fail by
banking supervisors, Tsukamoto said, without elaborating.  International regulators have yet to determine which banks
should be categorized as global systemically important financial
institutions and whether they should hold more capital than the
minimum requirements under the so-called Basel III regime.  Earnings  grew at Japan’s three megabanks in the six months
to Sept. 30, though the improvements were mainly the result of
bond trading and a reduction in bad-loan costs that made up for
lower net interest income. Mizuho last month raised its profit
forecast 16 percent to 500 billion yen for the year ending March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 