-- Japan November Consumer Prices Fall for 21st Month as Deflation Persists
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-12-27T23:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/japan-november-consumer-prices-fall-for-21st-month-as-deflation-persists.html
Japan’s  consumer prices  fell for a
21st month in November, a sign sustained deflation may prompt
the central bank to revise its price projections.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food declined 0.5 percent
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said today in Tokyo.
That compared with a median 0.6 percent drop predicted by 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Entrenched deflation is weighing on an economy at risk of
contracting this quarter as the effects of Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus spending fades.  Miyako Suda , a Bank of Japan
policy maker, said this month the persistent price falls will
continue in the year starting April, an outlook that conflicts
with the bank’s forecast of moderate inflation in the period.  “The BOJ will probably be forced to reconsider its price
projections,”  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at Nikko
Cordial Securities in Tokyo, said before the report. “It’s
highly likely that the period of deflation end will be pushed
back further.”  The BOJ board forecast in October core prices will rise 0.1
percent next fiscal year and 0.6 percent the following year.  Also lowering the chance of an end to deflation is the
rebasing of the price index next August, BOJ’s Suda said. The
statistics bureau reshuffles the basket of goods used to measure
CPI every five years, a move that Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimates may lower the inflation rate by about 0.4 percentage
point. The last government revision pushed down prices by about
half a percentage point.  Cut Forecasts  “Prices will keep falling, though the pace of declines
will likely moderate,” said  Jun Ishii , chief fixed income
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. “The BOJ
will probably have to cut its consumer price forecast following
a rebasing, which may intensify deflationary expectations.”  The central bank in October reduced its key  interest rate 
to the range of zero percent and 0.1 percent and pledged to
maintain the policy until it can forecast stable price increases,
which board members consider around 1 percent.  Falling prices tend to erode corporate earnings, putting
pressure on wages, weakening consumption and making debts harder
to pay off. Deflation has afflicted Japan for more than a decade.  Companies are cutting prices to prompt penny-pinching
consumers to loosen their purse strings.  Zensho Co. , a nationwide beef-bowl restaurant chain, this
month lowered prices by 11 percent to increase sales, its third
price-cut campaign this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  