-- Jay-Z’s New Year’s Eve, LeBron Jersey Fuel Charitybuzz Auctions
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/jay-z-s-new-year-s-eve-lebron-jersey-fuel-charitybuzz-auctions.html
After the dot-com bubble burst and
took down his online grocery store,  Webvan Group Inc .,  Coppy Holzman  got back in the game by auctioning unique experiences
for charities, like a backstage meeting with  Paul McCartney .
Then he took it global on the Web.  With his Charitybuzz.com, Holzman serves as a broker who
finds the celebrity and runs the online auction. Instead of an
upfront fee, he gets 20 percent of the sale proceeds.  “Charitybuzz collects the money and makes sure it gets to
the charity,” said Merri Lee Kingsly, vice president of Saveur
magazine’s publisher, Bonnier’s Luxury & Lifestyle Group.
According to Kingsly, she hired Charitybuzz to help raise
$42,000 because without its help, her company “couldn’t handle
the transactional part of the event.”  “My model is very simple,” said Holzman. “The auctions
raise money to help nonprofits, and we operate as though we’re
an extension of their development office.”  Holzman, a native of Altoona, Pennsylvania, and a former
Federated Department Stores executive, doubled Charitybuzz’s
business to $25 million this year over 2009 and has increased
its bidders to 45,000 from 30,000. His 600 clients include
nonprofits such as the  Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice &
Human Rights , hip-hop mogul  Russell Simmons ’s  Rush Philanthropic
Arts Foundation  and fashion designer  Donna Karan ’s Urban Zen
Foundation, which aids health and education causes and empowers
children.  Most bids come from the U.S, followed by the U.K., Canada,
Germany and Japan, he said. This year, several participants from
Australia and South Korea are among the 110 nations represented.
They bid on everything from LeBron James’s  old Cleveland
Cavaliers Jersey  to the chance to meet reality-television stars
Kim and Kourtney Kardashian.  Like Starbucks  “Using pop culture, we can change how people use the
Internet and technology to raise money,” Holzman, 55, said.
“Just like Starbucks changed how you drink a cup of coffee,
this changes how you think about raising money for charity.”  Online donations during the holidays this year are expected
to reach more than $6 billion, up 30 percent from last December,
according to a study released last month by  Convio Inc ., an
Austin, Texas-based online software maker.  While Holzman saw auction items plateau at $50,000 during
last year’s recession, this year’s bids have rebounded strongly.
In May, a bidder won a golf date with former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  for $80,000. The proceeds went to  Christie’s  Green
Auction. Then an Audemars Piguet watch signed by Jay-Z went for
$220,000. This month, a woman paid $130,000 to meet Paul
McCartney backstage at New York’s Apollo Theater to benefit the
Green Schools Community Initiative.  Tables Top $25,000  “We knew the recession was over when gala tables began
selling for more than $25,000,” Holzman said.  With the New Year approaching, Charitybuzz is lining up
more celebrity experiences for charities. Future auctions
include a three-night New Year’s Eve package with a concert
featuring  Jay-Z  and Coldplay, and Super Bowl packages sponsored
by Cadillac.  “Our bidders are philanthropic,” Holzman said. “The
money goes to a great cause and you get something back in
return, so it’s a win-win.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 