-- JBS May Abandon U.S. Unit's IPO in Bid to Extend Debt Sale to State Bank
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-12-27T13:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/jbs-may-abandon-u-s-unit-s-ipo-in-bid-to-extend-debt-sale-to-state-bank.html
JBS SA , the world’s largest beef
producer, may abandon plans for an initial public offering of
its U.S. unit as it seeks to extend the terms of a convertible
debt sale to Brazil’s development bank, known as BNDES.  The Brazilian company is in an “advanced stage of
negotiations” to sell 4 billion reais ($2.3 billion) of 8.5
percent local bonds to BNDES that must be converted into shares
in five years. Should the agreement be reached, the notes would
replace 3.48 billion reais of debt BNDES already holds and
eliminate the need for the planned IPO of  JBS USA Holdings Inc. ,
according to a regulatory filing.  JBS, the Sao Paulo-based company led by Chief Executive
Officer Joesley  Mendonca Batista , controls more than 10 percent
of global beef processing after  takeovers  including Swift & Co.
in 2007 and two Smithfield Foods Inc. units in 2008. The
transaction increases the likelihood holdings of existing stock
owners will be diluted because of the conversion of bonds into
shares, Link Investimentos SA analyst  Rafael Cintra  said.  “Previously, dilution was a possibility,” Cintra, who
rates the stock “outperform,” said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “Now it’s practically certain.”  The stock  dropped  1.7 percent to 7.44 reais in Sao Paulo
trading at 8:44 a.m. New York time, more than the 0.6 percent
loss in the benchmark  Bovespa  index. It fell as much as 1.9
percent earlier today, the most in a week. JBS said it would
convert the bonds for BNDES at a price of 9.5 reais per share.  The conversion of the new bonds into stock may increase the
number of shares by 17 percent, Raymond James & Associates Inc.
analyst  Daniela Bretthauer  wrote in a report today.  Extended Deadline  JBS also said it paid 521.9 million reais to BNDES to
extend the deadline of the U.S. unit initial sale to December
2011, according to the filing, sent to Brazil’s regulator
yesterday evening. The initial bonds sold to BNDES were to be
exchanged for Brazilian depositary receipts of the U.S. unit
should it go public no later than the end of this year. In case
the IPO didn’t happen, the bonds would be exchanged for shares
of JBS SA by the end of next month, according to the original
terms.  JBS postponed the planned U.S. unit IPO twice this year,
citing market conditions.  The beef company is seeking to extend the maturity of its
debt to BNDES to expand its distribution network after buying
Greeley, Colorado-based Pilgrim’s Pride and Brazil’s Bertin SA.  Sara Lee Corp. , the U.S.-based maker of Jimmy Dean foods
and Ball Park hotdogs, recently rejected a takeover offer from
JBS, deeming the price too low, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  