-- Brazil's JBS Heads for Biggest Drop in a Month on Convertible Bond Plan
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-27T20:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/jbs-heads-for-biggest-drop-in-month-as-bond-plan-may-dilute-shares-value.html
JBS SA , the world’s largest beef
producer, declined the most in a month as plans to renegotiate
terms of a convertible bond sale to Brazil’s development bank
increased concern that the value of shares will be diluted.  JBS  fell 28 centavos, or 3.7 percent, to 7.29 reais in Sao
Paulo trading, leading a decline in the Bovespa index. The drop
was the biggest since Nov. 16.  The Brazilian meatpacker is in talks to sell 4 billion
reais ($2.4 billion) of 8.5 percent local bonds that must be
converted into stock in five years to the state bank known as
BNDES. The notes would replace existing debt and eliminate the
need for an initial share sale of JBS’s U.S. unit, according to
a  regulatory filing  last night. The deal increases the
likelihood holdings of current stock owners will be diluted when
the debt is converted, according to Link Investimentos SA.  “Previously, dilution was a possibility,”  Rafael Cintra ,
an analyst at Link Investimentos who rates the stock
“outperform,” said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Now it’s practically certain.”  The conversion of the bonds into stock may increase the
number of shares by 17 percent, Raymond James & Associates Inc.
analyst  Daniela Bretthauer  wrote in a report today.  JBS, the Sao Paulo-based company led by Chief Executive
Officer Joesley  Mendonca Batista  , controls more than 10 percent
of global beef processing after takeovers including Swift & Co.
in 2007 and two Smithfield Foods Inc. units in 2008.  Negotiations  JBS said it’s in an “advanced stage of negotiations” with
BNDES over the debt sale. The company also said it paid 521.9
million reais to BNDES to extend the deadline of the U.S. unit
initial sale to December 2011, according to the filing, sent to
Brazil’s regulator yesterday evening.  The initial bonds sold to BNDES were to be exchanged for
Brazilian depositary receipts of the U.S. unit should it go
public no later than the end of this year. In case the IPO
didn’t happen, the bonds would be exchanged for shares of JBS SA
by the end of next month, according to the original terms.  JBS postponed the planned U.S. unit IPO twice this year,
citing market conditions.  The beef company is seeking to extend the maturity of its
debt to BNDES to expand its distribution network after buying
Greeley, Colorado-based Pilgrim’s Pride and Brazil’s Bertin SA.  Sara Lee Corp., the U.S.-based maker of Jimmy Dean foods
and Ball Park hotdogs, recently rejected a takeover offer from
JBS, deeming the price too low, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 