-- Jets' Mark Sanchez May Play in Season Finale as Playoffs Loom, Ryan Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-27T20:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/jets-mark-sanchez-may-play-in-season-finale-as-playoffs-loom-ryan-says.html
New York Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  may play in the team’s regular-season finale against the
Buffalo Bills even with a sore shoulder and a playoff berth
clinched, coach  Rex Ryan  said.  Ryan’s first instinct was to sit Sanchez for the Jan. 2
game at New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey,
after learning that the National Football League team qualified
for the postseason, he told reporters today.  “That was my first thought, to just not even play him,”
Ryan said. “Obviously, his health is the No. 1 concern. It’s
kind of a fine line because he is hot right now. We can’t afford
for him to take a dip. We need him to stay at this level.”  Sanchez went 24-for-37 passing with a touchdown and an
interception in yesterday’s 38-34 loss to the Bears. He has
minor cartilage damage in his shoulder after taking a hit in New
York’s win last week at the Pittsburgh Steelers, according to
ESPN.com.  “I think he came out well,” Ryan said today, according to
a transcript of the news conference. “He’s had treatments.”  Both the Jets and New York Giants were unable to make it
home from road games last night due to the blizzard that
blanketed the East Coast.  Ryan said winning the Bills game, which would improve the
Jets to 11-5, remains a goal.  “I think it’s important to win this game,” he said. “If
we can get to 11 wins, I think it’s only been done five times in
the history of the franchise. That would be huge.”  The Jets qualified for the postseason as a wild-card team,
with one of the two best records among clubs that failed to win
their division, and so will have their first playoff game on the
road regardless of whether they beat Buffalo. They could move up
to the No. 5 seed from No. 6 with a win.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 