-- Joe Montana’s Modern Bank Hires Citigroup’s Kozlowski
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-27T18:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/joe-montana-s-modern-bank-hires-citigroup-s-kozlowski-as-chief-executive.html
Modern Bank NA , a lender to the
wealthy where former football quarterback  Joe Montana  is vice
chairman, hired  Citigroup Inc.  veteran  Damian Kozlowski  to lead
a turnaround after almost $30 million of losses in five years.  Kozlowski, who ran Citigroup’s private bank from June 2005
through April 2007, said he joined New York-based Modern as
chief executive officer on Nov. 8. In October 2009, the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency declared the bank in
 “troubled condition”  and ordered it to improve management and
capital while diversifying holdings of real-estate loans.  “My job is to put the right strategy and team in place, to
make sure that the bank ongoing is profitable and can grow,”
Kozlowski, 46, said in an interview. Kozlowski also joined
Modern’s board of directors.  He replaced  Jeffrey B. Lane , 68, who resigned Nov. 1 after
serving as CEO since June 2008, according to Kozlowski. Lane is
the former Travelers Group Inc. and Neuberger Berman Inc.
executive who ran Bear Stearns Cos.’ money-management arm for a
year following the near-collapse of two hedge funds in June
2007. Lane didn’t return a call for comment.  Modern caters to clients with a net worth of at least $25
million, with specialties serving Latin Americans and private-
equity and real-estate entrepreneurs, Kozlowski said.  Super Bowl Titles  Montana, 54, who played in the National Football League for
the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs and won four
Super Bowl titles, was one of four original officers at Modern,
according to a September 2006 press release. While not currently
a member of Modern’s executive team, he serves on the board of
directors, according to the bank’s  website .  “Being Joe Montana, he can be effective with client
contact,” Kozlowski said.  Modern’s 2009 revenue of $16.6 million is a fraction of
Citi Private Bank’s  $2.07 billion . Still, for Kozlowski the new
post marks a return to being a banker for wealthy people.  After a series of jobs at  Bank of America Corp.  early in
his career, he joined New York-based Citigroup in 2000 as head
of strategy at Citi Private Bank, which caters to people with
more than $20 million. In November 2002, he was named president
of the private bank’s U.S. region and was promoted to global CEO
of the unit in June 2005.  Shakeup  Two years later, he was forced out in a shakeup under
 Sallie Krawcheck , 46, the head of wealth management who herself
was later pushed out and now works at  Bank of America . Kozlowski
formed a private-equity group to buy a bank or obtain a charter
for a new one, then abandoned the effort this year because
regulators were reluctant to approve such deals, he said.  After taking the Modern job, he becomes “the latest in a
line of Citi Private Bank executives who have gone on to run
other private banks,” said  Richard Lipstein , a managing
director at headhunter Boyden Global Executive Search in New
York.  Peter Scaturro , a former Citi Private Bank CEO, later
headed U.S. Trust, when it was a unit of Charles Schwab Corp.,
and the wealth-management division of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
 Patrick Campion , Mark Peters and Thomas Bowers, who were senior
executives at the Citigroup unit, have since held posts at HSBC
Holdings Plc, Jefferies Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG.  Modern History  Modern was formed in December 2005 by Chairman  Bippy Siegal , 43, through a buyout of Excel Bank NA for an undisclosed
price. Siegal is CEO of New York-based private-equity firm
Raycliff Capital and a Boston University trustee.  Regulatory
records  show $6.83 million was pumped into Modern in late 2005.  The September 2006 press release called Modern the “first
new private bank in New York in 25 years,” with a goal of
serving “a select clientele of high-net-worth individuals and
families.”  Other board members include David House, a  J. Crew Group
Inc. director  and former American Express Co. executive, and
Jonathan Linen, another former AmEx manager who serves on the
boards of Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc and Yum! Brands Inc.  Modern was unprofitable before Siegal bought it, and the
net loss almost tripled to $16.9 million in 2008 from $5.8
million in 2005, regulatory records show. The bank loaned at
least $10 million to William “Boots”  Del Biaggio , the co-
founder of investment firm Sand Hill Capital, who filed for
bankruptcy in June 2008 after being accused of fraud, according
to an Associated Press report at the time.  Departed Executives  Several executives departed before Lane.  Leslie Bains ,
Modern’s head of private banking, was hired by Citi Private Bank
in October 2009 to oversee new-client development in the New
York area.  Theresa Yoon , who was a managing director at Modern,
joined First Republic Bank as a senior relationship manager in
New York, according to a September 2010 press release from the
San Francisco-based bank.  Modern has required $54.7 million of capital infusions
since the Siegal-led buyout, regulatory records show. In July
2009 the real-estate firm Fisher Brothers Realty Corp. bought a
16 percent stake for an undisclosed price.  Under the October 2009 OCC order, known as a “formal
written agreement,” Modern is restricted from paying dividends
unless it adheres to a three-year capital program, according to
a  copy on the agency’s website . The company also was ordered to
adopt “commercial real estate exposure limits,” reduce its
sensitivity to interest-rate changes and put “competent
management in place,” according to the agreement. It was signed
by Siegal, Lane, Montana and the other board members.  The bank plans to raise capital for growth once regulators
are satisfied with improvements under the OCC agreement,
Kozlowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 