-- JPMorgan, Citigroup Delay Branch Openings in U.S. Northeast After Storm
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-12-27T17:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/jpmorgan-citigroup-delay-branch-openings-in-u-s-northeast-after-storm.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Citigroup
Inc.  were among U.S. banks that closed or delayed opening most
of their branches in the Northeast today after a blizzard dumped
more than a foot of snow on the region.  Business in cities from Philadelphia to Boston ground to a
crawl and travel was disrupted for a second consecutive day as
airports closed and train service was interrupted or halted amid
waist-high snow drifts and winds gusting to 30 mph (48 kph).  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
Citigroup closed all retail branches in New Jersey where
authorities declared a state of emergency and closed state
offices, according to company representatives. Citigroup closed
branches in Boston and will open some in New York and
Connecticut late today, said  Natalie Riper , a company
spokeswoman.  While most of JPMorgan’s New York branches and all its
Connecticut branches are closed, they may open later today as
managers evaluate whether employees can safely get to work, said
 Christine Holevas , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase’s retail
bank in Chicago. Retail locations in Syracuse and Rochester, New
York, are open.  “It’s based on the safety of employees getting there and
the security of the branch,” Holevas said. “We want to open
more branches, but we’d like to be smart about it.”  JPMorgan also closed three office buildings on Long Island
and in New Jersey and employees worked from home. The bank’s
Manhattan headquarters remained open.  Bank of America  Most Bank of America Corp. branches in Manhattan will
remain closed today, said  Tara Burke , a spokeswoman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender, the largest U.S. bank by
assets. Several branches were open in New England, and customers
should check the bank’s website for updates, she said.  “It’s really on a case-by-case basis,” Burke said in a
telephone interview. “We thought they would reopen by noon, but
if you look at the transit updates, a majority of the lines are
having issues.”  New York City’s Central Park had 20 inches (51 centimeters)
of snow by 8 a.m. local time as the center of storm that started
in the city at mid-day yesterday shifted north and east, the
National Weather Service said.  The storm, which began in the South over the Christmas
holiday, also brought snow as far south as parts of
Jacksonville, Florida, AccuWeather said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net 
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  