-- Khodorkovsky Faces More Jail After $29 Billion Russian Oil-Theft Verdict
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-12-28T11:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/khodorkovsky-probably-found-guilty-in-oil-theft-trial-defense-lawyer-says.html
Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the imprisoned
former head of Yukos Oil Co., faces more jail under a new
conviction for embezzling $29 billion of crude oil, a verdict
that governments in the U.S. and Europe said further weakened
the rule of law in Russia.  Khodorkovsky and his former business partner,  Platon Lebedev , already serving eight-year sentences for fraud and tax
evasion under a 2005 conviction, may be sentenced this week or
after Jan. 10 when Russia’s New Year holidays end, their lawyers
said. The men face six more years in prison, the defense team
said.  “The trial was a charade of justice, the charges were
absolutely false, but I fear the sentencing will be very real,”
Vadim Klyuvgant, the lead defense lawyer, said yesterday in a
statement. The defense team plans to appeal the decision, he
told reporters outside the courtroom. “There isn’t the
slightest doubt that there was pressure on the court.”  Khodorkovsky, 47, was due for release in October 2011. Once
Russia’s richest man, he has called the charges retribution for
political opposition to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who was
president at the time of his 2003 arrest. During Putin’s
presidency, Yukos, once Russia’s largest company by market
value, was declared bankrupt with about $30 billion of tax
claims and sold off in pieces. Putin has denied any involvement.  Climate for Business  U.S., German and U.K. officials said the trial undermines
confidence in Russia’s commitment to a fair legal climate for
business.  The case “raises serious questions about selective
prosecution -- and about the rule of law being overshadowed by
political consideration,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a statement yesterday. The U.S. will monitor the
case, and others that have “a negative impact on Russia’s
reputation for fulfilling its international human-rights
obligations and improving its investment climate.”  The European Union said it was following the proceedings
“very closely.”  “The circumstances of the trial are highly worrying and a
step back on the country’s way towards modernization,” German
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said in a statement.  Richard Ottaway , chairman of the U.K. Parliament’s Foreign
Affairs Select Committee, said in a statement that the outcome
“has serious implications for the confidence of overseas
investors and on British investment in Russia.”  ‘Unacceptable’  Russia’s Foreign Ministry said today the U.S. and European
criticism of Khodorkovsky’s trial is “unacceptable.” The
ministry said the process is a domestic matter and told the U.S.
and Europe to stop pressuring Russian courts, according to a
statement posted on its website.  Speaking in an annual call-in show with the nation Dec. 16,
Putin said “a thief should sit in jail,” referring to
Khodorkovsky’s earlier conviction. President  Dmitry Medvedev 
told Russian officials last week to abstain from commenting
before the trial is over.  Khodorkovsky’s parents sat in the front row, listening to
Judge Viktor Danilkin read the verdict. Supporters gathered in
the street chanting “freedom,” and could be heard inside the
court. The police detained as many as 20 activists, Interfax
reported.  Khodorkovsky’s wife, Inna, said she expected her husband to
remain in jail until at least 2012, when a presidential election
will be held that could return Putin to the Kremlin for 12
years.  ‘Stay in Prison’  “My husband will stay in prison until at least 2012, and
after that who knows what will happen? No one does,” she said
in an  interview  with Snob magazine published Dec. 25.  Prosecutors have been seeking a 14-year sentence for
Khodorkovsky and Lebedev. The lawyers say time already served on
their eight-year prison terms will be deducted from the sentence
in the current trial.  The court found Khodorkovsky and Lebedev guilty of stealing
892 billion rubles ($29 billion) of oil, more than the 824
billion rubles the prosecution said was stolen, Interfax
reported, citing Klyuvgant.  Maxim Dbar , a spokesman for the
defense team, said he couldn’t immediately confirm the number.
The court may have returned to the charges in the original
indictment, Dbar said. During the trial, prosecutors lowered the
volume of oil they said was stolen to 219 million metric tons
from 350 million tons.  Amnesty International called on the Russian courts to
overturn the conviction on the grounds that Khodorkovsky’s trial
was unfair and appeared politically driven.  ‘Disregard for Due Process’  “The Russian authorities’ consistent disregard for due
process in this trial only strengthens the impression that this
second round of convictions has been politically motivated,”
Nicola Duckworth, the London-based human rights group’s director
for Europe and Central Asia, said in an e-mailed statement.  Khodorkovsky’s imprisonment is “one of the irritants that
investors traditionally react to,”  German Gref , chief executive
officer of  OAO Sberbank , Russia’s largest lender, said in an
interview earlier this month.  “We have our work cut out for us to improve the investment
climate,” said Gref, who was economy minister when Khodorkovsky
was arrested.  A full conviction and long sentence is priced into the
markets, said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp. in Moscow.  The 30-stock  Micex Index  retreated 0.7 percent to 1,663.55
at the 6:45 p.m. close yesterday in Moscow, tracking a decline
in Asian stocks.  ‘A Sideshow’  “Investors already active in Russia have factored it in as
a sideshow,” Weafer said in a research note. A reduced
conviction would be “positive factor for those strategic and
portfolio investors that remain distant from Russia.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released Oct. 26, sliding to 154th among 178
countries and placing it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  Khodorkovsky said he’s prepared to die in jail. The verdict
will be “predictable,” he said in his  closing statement  at the
trial Nov. 2. “No one believes that you can get an acquittal in
the Yukos affair in a Moscow court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  