-- Korea Won Gains as Global Recovery Optimism Spurs Stock Inflows
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-12-27T08:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/korean-won-steady-as-derivatives-controls-counter-global-recovery-optimism.html
South Korea’s won rose as signs the
global economy is improving spurred demand for the nation’s
shares, outweighing concern limits on currency derivatives be
tightened. Bonds slid.  Foreign investors  bought more South Korean equities than
they sold for a fourth day before data tomorrow that economists
predict will show U.S. consumer confidence reached a seven-month
high in December. Regulators will limit currency derivatives
holdings at domestic banks to 40 percent of equity capital from
50 percent, the Korea Economic Daily reported today, after Vice
Finance Minister Yim Jong Yong on Dec. 19 said the government
may lower the cap.  “They want the won to be stable, not too strong or too
weak, and that’s why they are planning the curbs,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a currency trader at Kookmin Bank in Seoul. “The won has
been rising since mid-year reflecting the improving economic
fundamentals and people were looking for a stronger won.”  The won rose 0.1 percent to close at 1,149.10 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
gained 6.3 percent since June and 1.3 percent this year.
Overseas investors pumped $19.3 billion into Korean equities
this year as of Dec. 24, exchange data show.  Currency derivatives holdings at local branches of foreign
lenders will be reduced to 200 percent from 250 percent, the
Korea Economic Daily said, citing unidentified officials at the
finance ministry and the Bank of Korea. The government will
likely implement the changes in March, according to the report.  South Korea’s Ministry of Strategy and Finance said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday that it was undecided about changes
in the rules.  China, the biggest buyer of Korean exports, raised interest
rates on Dec. 25 for the second time this quarter to help tame
inflation. The nation’s last increase on Oct. 19 was the first
since 2007.  South Korean government bonds slid. The yield on the 4
percent notes due September 2015 climbed one basis point to 4.04
percent, according to the Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  