-- News Corp.'s Bid Plan for BSkyB Should Face Independent Inquiry, Poll Says
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/news-corp-bid-for-bskyb-needs-independent-inquiry-poll-finds.html
News Corp. ’s plan to buy  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc  should be subject to an independent
investigation, according to the results of an ICM poll published
today.  Of those surveyed, 63 percent support an independent probe
into the 7.8 billion-pound ($12 billion) bid by News Corp.,
owner of four of the largest U.K. newspapers, for the remaining
61 percent stake in BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company.  Media regulator Ofcom will report to Culture, Media and
Sport Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  by Dec. 31 on how the deal might
affect British media and whether to refer the case to the
Competition Commission.  The ICM survey was commissioned by BT Group Plc, Guardian
Media Group Plc, Associated Newspapers Ltd., Trinity Mirror Plc,
Northcliffe Media Ltd. and Telegraph Media Group Ltd.  Eighty-four percent of those questioned said a single
organization should not be allowed to control too much of the
news media, while 75 percent said it was important to have
competing independent sources of news in the U.K.  Some 44 percent said they were opposed to the News Corp.
deal, compared with five percent in favor.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  was stripped of the
authority to decide whether the transaction gives News Corp. too
much power on Dec. 21 after he was quoted as saying he had
“declared war” on News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch . Prime
Minister  David Cameron  transferred that responsibility to Hunt,
who earlier this year said that the range of voices in the media
won’t change following the deal.  ICM interviewed 2,006 adults online between Dec. 10 and
Dec. 12. Interviews were conducted across Britain and the data
were weighted to be nationally representative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  