-- Oil Rise to $100 May Stall as Refiners Curb Tax: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-12-27T19:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/oil-rise-to-100-may-be-checked-as-tax-move-threatens-glut-energy-markets.html
Oil supplies may come back to the
U.S. Gulf Coast in January, sapping crude’s drive toward $100 a
barrel, after stockpiles tumbled the most in 30 years this month
as refiners sought to avoid year-end tax liabilities.  Supplies in states along the Gulf of Mexico, home to more
than half of U.S. stockpiles, have fallen 9.2 percent this month
to 167.3 million barrels, data from the Energy Department in
Washington show. Oil settled at a two-year high of $91.51 a
barrel on Dec. 23, bringing this year’s gain to 15 percent.  “I wouldn’t suspect plus-$90 is sustainable past the
middle of January, because I think we’re going to see some stock
builds” from Jan. 1, said  Ken Medlock , an energy fellow at the
 James A. Baker III Institute  for Public Policy at Rice
University in Houston.  Accounting rules allow refiners to take a bigger 2010 tax
deduction by cutting stockpiles that have jumped this year as
prices increased. Gulf Coast supplies fell in 27 of the past 29
 Decembers . They have risen in four of the past five Januaries.  Gulf Coast inventories were 4.1 percent above the Jan. 1
level in the week ended Dec. 17, down from 15 percent at the end
of November. The decline so far this month is almost double the
4.8 percent average drop in the past five Decembers.  “I would expect to see more and continued draws into early
January and then see those barrels replaced later in January and
into February,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  LIFO Accounting  Oil traded above $90 a barrel for three straight days last
week as signs the U.S. economic recovery is gaining pace fanned
optimism fuel demand will rise in 2011.  Crude for February delivery fell 51 cents, or 0.6 percent
to settle at $91 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It touched $91.88 earlier today, the highest price since Oct. 7,
2008, on an intraday basis. Oil last traded above $100 a barrel
on Oct. 2, 2008.  Companies typically expense the cost of items they have
sold from their taxable income. Many refiners use an accounting
method known as “last in, first out,” or LIFO, which allows
them to deduct the cost of the more-expensive crude they have
purchased most recently and assert for tax purposes that the oil
in their tanks was bought before at cheaper prices.  “You don’t want to build large increments at high prices,
because what winds up happening is that remains on your balance
sheet,” said Scott Rabinowitz, a director at  PwC’s  national
tax-services practice in Washington. “You’re taxed on your net
income, your receipts minus your expenses. One of your expenses
is the cost of the item you’ve sold.”  In years when prices rise, companies get a bigger tax
deduction via LIFO accounting if they manage their supplies so
that their inventories at year-end are close to the levels at
which they started the year.  Higher-Priced Oil  “The higher-priced oil that’s going into their storage
system is the one they get off the books first,” said  Doug MacIntyre , senior oil-market analyst at the Energy Information
Administration in Washington, the Energy Department’s
 statistical arm . “They’re trying to get that crude oil out of
their system so they’re not priced on the value of the crude.”  LIFO accounting benefitted oil and gas companies when crude
topped $100 a barrel in 2007 and 2008. President  Barack Obama 
proposed eliminating it in the budget announced in January 2009.  The accounting method has been used since the 1930s and is
viewed as the most accurate measure of income for financial-
statement purposes, according to the congressional  Joint
Committee on Taxation , a nonpartisan panel, in 2009.  Texas, Louisiana  Texas and Louisiana, the two states with more drilling rigs
and  refineries  than any other, provide an added incentive to oil
companies to reduce their supplies on hand because companies are
subject to local property taxes, based on the fair-market value
of oil as of Jan. 1.  The two states are among the minority that impose property
taxes on business inventories, according to the Tax Foundation,
a nonpartisan policy center in Washington.  “If they’re managing their business efficiently, they’ll
pay attention to how much crude oil or distillate or whatever is
in storage and try to reduce it as much as possible,” said
 Michael Cooper , an attorney who specializes in energy taxation
issues with  Haynes and Boone LLP , the largest Dallas law firm.  U.S. oil imports  have dropped 22 percent since July to 8.74
million barrels a day in the week ended Dec. 17, based on Energy
Department figures. They tumbled 15 percent in the seven days
ended Dec. 10 to the lowest level since September 2008. Imports
into states along the Gulf of Mexico have fallen by 28 percent
since July.  Falling Supplies  Total U.S. inventories have plunged 19 million barrels this
month to 340.7 million in the week ended Dec. 17, poised for the
biggest monthly decline since December 2006. Stockpiles were 4.1
percent higher than at the start of the year, down from 9.9
percent at the end of November, Energy Department data show.  “There may be some movement in inventories to adjust for
these things, but there’s much more movement in inventories for
normal day-to-day business reasons,” said  Bill Day , a San
Antonio-based spokesman for  Valero Energy Corp.,  the largest
U.S. refiner. “There’s much more demand in the summertime, so
you may build up inventories in the middle of the year and then
draw down inventories at the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  