-- Crude Oil Declines From 26-Month High on Concerns China's Growth May Ease
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-27T20:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/oil-trades-near-26-month-high-on-china-growth-speculation-u-s-stockpiles.html
Crude oil fell from a two-year high
in New York as China’s second interest-rate increase since
October bolstered concern that economic growth will slow in the
biggest energy-consuming country.  Futures snapped five days of gains after the People’s Bank
of China boosted benchmark one-year lending and deposit rates by
25 basis points Dec. 25 to curb inflation. Oil advanced earlier
as temperatures fell and storms blanketed the eastern U.S. with
snow, raising demand for heating fuels.  “There’s a feeling that the Chinese interest-rate move
will slow economic growth,” said  Peter Beutel , president of
Cameron Hanover Inc., a trading-advisory company in New Canaan,
Connecticut. “This could diminish demand for energy or at least
slow projected growth, which has powered the recent rally.”  Crude oil for February delivery fell 51 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $91 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Futures earlier climbed to $91.88 a barrel, the
highest intraday level since Oct. 7, 2008. Prices are up 15
percent this year.  The New York exchange delayed the open of floor trading
until 11 a.m., two hours later than usual, because of a snow
storm, said  Brenda Guzman , a spokeswoman. Electronic trading on
the NYMEX was not affected, she said.  Brent crude oil for February settlement rose 8 cents to end
the session at $93.85 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Rising Prices  Futures in New York gained 4 percent last week. There was
no floor trading on Dec. 24 for the observance of Christmas.  Chinese officials may keep raising interest rates and
banks’ reserve requirements, according to JPMorgan.  “The market is trying to figure out whether the Chinese
move will be enough to thwart the move to $100, and the jury’s
still out,” said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst and trader
at PFGBest, an investment adviser. “This is a signal that they
are serious about slowing the economy and reducing inflation,
which will make the bulls nervous.”  The U.S. East Coast faces a second day of travel disruption
after snowstorms blanketed cities from New York to Boston,
closing airports and halting trains with waist-high drifts and
blinding winds. New York City’s Central Park had 20 inches (51
centimeters) of snow by 8 a.m. local time as the storm’s center
shifted north and east, the National Weather Service said.  “The inability of some people to trade is the most obvious
impact of the storm,” Flynn said. “We don’t know what the
overall impact on demand will be yet. Heating oil demand is sure
to rise but there may be a large drop in consumption of
transportation fuels.”  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S.  crude oil inventories  dropped 5.33 million barrels to
340.7 million in the week ended Dec. 17, the Energy Department
said last week. Stockpiles have decreased by 19 million barrels,
or 5.3 percent, so far this month.  “Despite the two or three draws we have had, inventories
are still above average,” said  Tobias Merath , head of
commodities at Credit Suisse Group in Zurich. “When we move
into mid-January and early February, the risk is that oil prices
could fall again, not by a lot, but into the $80s.”  Supplies in the week ended Dec. 17 were 6.8 percent above
the five-year average, the Energy Department said.  Stockpiles  probably dropped 3 million barrels last week,
according to the median of nine analyst  estimates  before this
week’s report. The department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. on Dec. 29 in Washington, a day later than
usual because of Christmas.  Reduced Volume  Oil volume on the Nymex was 167,950 contracts as of 3:18
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 266,736
contracts Dec. 23, the lowest since Dec. 31, 2009, and 60
percent below the average of the past three months. Open
interest was 1.39 million contracts.  “Thin, between-holiday trading can have a big impact on
the market,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “The market either settles in a narrow
range and sits there, which is what is happening today, or there
are wild, erratic movements. It doesn’t take a large order to
have a major impact on prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 