-- More H.K. Property Measures Could Hurt ‘Real Buyer,’ HSBC Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-27T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/more-h-k-property-measures-could-hurt-real-buyer-hsbc-says.html
Any additional measures by Hong
Kong’s government to cool house-price gains would run the risk
of crimping demand among “real buyers” as well as speculators,
a senior  HSBC Holdings Plc  executive said.  Hong Kong’s government on Nov. 19 announced additional
stamp duties on short-term property holdings and higher down-
payments for some mortgages, stepping up measures to curb
speculation after  housing prices  surged more than 50 percent
since the start of 2009.  “What we want to just be careful is that any further
tightening would definitely be impacting the real buyer, the
person who wants to live in that house,”  Mark McCombe , chief
executive officer of HSBC’s Hong Kong unit, said in an interview.
“It’s important that Hong Kong doesn’t lose sight of property
ownership being an important driver” of the economy.  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said when the latest
measures were announced that the government was targeting
“speculative activity” and the curbs “will not affect the
users.” On Nov. 26, Tsang said he’s prepared to take further
action if needed to stem price gains.  McCombe said he supports the steps taken so far, which
include a 15 percent stamp duty on homes sold within six months
of purchase. “That was a good move because it takes a little
bit of the froth out of the market,” he said.  In the first weekend after the measures were introduced,
 sales of used homes  in some of Hong Kong’s biggest private
housing estates fell 83 percent from a week earlier, according
to data from Centaline Property Agency Ltd. Sales have
stabilized since then, Centaline said.  Rates Raised  The property market’s rebound from the global financial
crisis was powered by falling interest rates, an expanding
economy and an influx of buyers from mainland China. Banks
rushed to undercut each other on mortgage costs as they vied to
lock in new customers and sell them additional financial
services.  HSBC  is Hong Kong’s biggest mortgage provider, accounting
for 19 percent of all home loans in the city in the first 11
months of this year, according to Centaline.  McCombe said that while there are signs the market has
recovered, it’s too early to judge the impact of the latest
property curbs because of the Christmas and Chinese New Year
holiday season.  “What I’m most interested in is what the behavior from
February through April will be,” he said. “I think that will
give us a better sense of whether or not this has had any real
cooling impact on the market.”  The top five mortgage lenders in Hong Kong -- HSBC, BOC
Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., Hang Seng Bank Ltd., Standard
Chartered Plc and Bank of East Asia Ltd. -- last month raised
costs for home loans tied to the Hong Kong Interbank Offered
Rate, after mortgage competition hurt margins.  “I don’t think there’s going to be some kind of price war
in 2011,” said McCombe. “Aggressive price competition is
unlikely in the short term. But it’s very difficult to predict
how other banks will behave.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  