-- Most Asian Stocks Rise; Japan Climbs on Tie-Ups as China Reverses Advance
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-12-27T10:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/most-asian-stocks-rise-as-commodity-prices-boost-suppliers.html
Most  Asian stocks  climbed, with the
regional benchmark near a 2 1/2-year high, as Japanese shares
advanced after news reports of business alliances. Chinese
stocks reversed earlier gains after the country’s official
interest rates were raised over the weekend.  Elpida Memory Inc., the world’s third-largest maker of
computer-memory chips, gained 1.6 percent after Kyodo news
reported it is in talks with Taiwan semiconductor companies on a
business tie-up. Canon Inc. and Hitachi Ltd. climbed at least
0.7 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said Taiwan’s Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. plans to acquire control of their liquid-
crystal display venture. Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd., the world’s No. 1 lender by market value, fell 0.7 percent
after gaining as much as 1 percent in the wake of China’s
decision to increase interest rates as it battles inflation.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.2 percent to 135.52 as
of 7:33 p.m. in Tokyo, with four stocks gaining for every three
that fell. The gauge earlier touched an intraday high of 135.72,
its topmost level since July 24, 2008.  “There’s selective buying on company news,”  Koichi Kurose ,
chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which manages
about $57 billion. “The business environment for manufacturers,
especially semiconductor-related makers, is gradually getting
better.”  Regional Benchmarks  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.8 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index slipped 0.4 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index
climbed 0.4 percent. India’s Sensex Index slipped 0.2 percent.
Markets in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong are closed today
for a holiday.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1.9 percent, reversing an
earlier gain of as much as 1.5 percent. China raised interest
rates for the second time in just over two months on Dec. 25
after consumer prices jumped the most in 28 months and the
government forecast “relatively high” inflation in the first
half of 2011.  The benchmark one-year lending rate will rise by a further
25 basis points to 5.81 percent and the one-year deposit rate
will climb by the same amount to 2.75 percent, the People’s Bank
of China said in a statement on its website on Dec 25. It became
effective yesterday.  “There’s a realization setting in that perhaps China’s
problems are a bit more serious, and this is the first of many
increases and this is going to result in tighter liquidity, and
tighter liquidity is bad for stock prices,” said  Peter Elston ,
a Singapore-based strategist at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc,
which oversees about $281.6 billion.  S&P 500 Futures  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.4
percent today. The gauge declined on Dec. 23 after a five-day
rally sent the average price to earnings ratio of stocks in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the most expensive level since
June, offsetting a rebound in orders for durable goods and a
drop in unemployment claims. The measure was closed on Dec. 24.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index has risen 12 percent this year
through Dec. 24 on speculation that growth in corporate profits
will weather Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb
property-price inflation and concern about the pace of the U.S.
economic rebound. Stocks on the Asian benchmark trade at 14.8
times  estimated earnings , compared with about 22 times at the
beginning of the year.  Elpida gained 1.6 percent to 942 yen. The company is in
talks with Powerchip Technology Corp. and other Taiwanese chip
companies on business tie-ups including mergers and capital
alliances, Kyodo news agency reported.  Hitachi, Hon Hai  Dai Nippon Printing Co., a provider of printing services,
rallied 1.8 percent to 1,122 yen. The company will triple
production of film used for lithium-ion batteries and solar
cells, the Nikkei newspaper reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Hitachi Ltd. rose 0.7 percent to 411 yen and Canon Inc.
climbed 0.9 percent to 4,310 yen. The Nikkei newspaper said
Taiwan’s  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.  plans to acquire control
of Hitachi and Canon’s liquid-crystal display venture for 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion). Hon Hai was unchanged at NT$117.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. advanced 2.9
percent to 37,400 won in Seoul. The shipyard said it estimates
orders will reach $11 billion next year, with operating profit
at 1 trillion won ($869 million) and sales at 10 trillion won.  Hero Honda Motors Ltd., India’s biggest motorcycle maker,
gained 0.4 percent to 1,937.85 rupees, after the Mint reported
Dec. 25 that Hero Group is considering a yen-denominated loan to
fund a buyout of Honda Motor Co.’s holding in the venture. Hero
Group’s spokesman Ashwani Sharma declined to comment. The report
didn’t say where it obtained the information.  Beijing Car Curbs  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s biggest automaker by
market capitalization, declined 3.4 percent to 172,500 won. The
stock fell for a second day after the city of Beijing decided to
limit the number of new passenger vehicles in the Chinese
capital to ease congestion. Affiliate Kia Motors Corp. declined
3.5 percent.  “Beijing’s move to limit the number of new cars as well as
China’s fresh monetary tightening have raised some concern about
demand there and are affecting sentiment today,” said  Song Seong Yeob , a fund manager at KB Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
which oversees the equivalent of $17 billion in assets.  ICBC fell 0.7 percent to 4.15 yuan in Shanghai. China Vanke
Co., the country’s largest-listed property developer, fell 2.9
percent to 8.75 yuan in Shenzhen. Vanke earlier increased as
much as 1.7 percent.  “Investors were initially relieved as this interest-rate
increase has been priced into stocks for a long time,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. “However they’re now thinking about the future;
that one increase won’t be enough to bring inflation under
control and more rate hikes will be needed. That’ll keep
depressing valuations of stocks.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  