-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Fall as China Raises Interest Rates
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-27T13:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/most-emerging-market-stocks-decline-after-china-increases-interest-rates.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell on
speculation China’s central bank will accelerate increases in
interest rates to slow the economy, after boosting borrowing
costs for the second time since October.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,126.67 as of 7:50 a.m. in New York, with about three stocks
falling for every two that gained. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
sank 1.9 percent, the most since Nov. 23. Turkey’s ISE National
100 Index sank 0.8 percent, while Russia’s Micex index and the
Czech PX Index both lost 0.6 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa futures
slipped 0.8 percent.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  dropped to the
lowest level in 11 weeks after the People’s Bank of China
increased key one-year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis
points on Dec. 25. China may raise rates as many as three times
in the first half of 2011, according to Morgan Stanley, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts two increases in that period.  “Investors were initially relieved as this interest-rate
increase has been priced into stocks for a long time,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management &
Consulting Co. “However they’re now thinking about the future;
that one increase won’t be enough to bring inflation under
control and more rate hikes will be needed. That’ll keep
depressing valuations of stocks.”  Rate Outlook  ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value, slipped
0.7 percent in Shanghai.  China Everbright Bank Co . declined 3.7
percent. The rate increase took China’s benchmark lending rate
to 5.81 percent, compared with 7.47 percent before cuts from
late 2008 to counter the global financial crisis. It will climb
to 6.56 percent by the end of next year, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists this month.  In Taipei,  First Financial Holding Co.  gained 2.9 percent
to the highest since Aug. 11, 2008. First Commercial Bank signed
an agreement for financial cooperation with Bank of China Ltd.,
parent First Financial said in a statement to the Taiwan Stock
Exchange on Dec. 24.  Hyundai Elevator Co. , South Korea’s largest elevator maker,
jumped 15 percent in Seoul after a filing showed Schindler
Holding AG increased its stake. Schindler Holding, the world’s
second-biggest elevator maker, increased its stake in Hyundai
Elevator to 6.7 percent this month, sparking speculation that
the South Korean company may become a takeover target, said Byun
Sung Jin, an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Seoul.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined five basis points to 2.36
percentage points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at   rfrost4@bloomberg.net  