-- Ivory Coast General Strike Called to Pressure Gbagbo
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-27T11:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/ouattara-s-supporters-call-for-strike-in-ivory-coast-to-force-out-gbagbo.html
Ivory Coast opposition parties
supporting President-elect  Alassane Ouattara  called for a
general strike in the world’s biggest cocoa producer to put
pressure on incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  to step down.  “We must not accept our victory to be stolen,” the
coalition of opposition parties said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday. While Ouattara won the Nov. 28 election with 54
percent of the vote, Gbagbo said in an interview published today
in French daily newspaper, Le Figaro, he remains the president.  Ouattara has been holed up in a hotel in Abidjan, the
commercial capital, protected by United Nations peacekeepers
since the crisis began. The dispute has fueled violence in the
West African nation, with at least 173 people being killed and
90 more being tortured, according to the UN.  Leaders of the Economic Community of West African States,
or Ecowas, said on Dec. 24 they may use “legitimate force” to
oust Gbagbo if he refuses to step down peacefully.  “It would be the first time that African countries were
willing to go to war against another country because an election
went wrong,” Gbagbo told Le Figaro. “While I take the threats
seriously, I remain calm.”  The presidents of Benin, Sierra Leone and Cape Verde are
scheduled to meet with Gbagbo tomorrow in a final bid to
persuade him to step down, according to Ecowas.  In the past month, 14,000 Ivorians living in the western
region have fled to neighboring Liberia because of political
instability, the UN’s High Commissioner for Refugees said in
statement on its website on Dec. 25.  The  Central Bank of West African States , known by its
acronym BCEAO, has given control over Ivory Coast’s state
reserves to Ouattara, whom the bank recognizes as president.  “It’s annoying, but there is always a solution,” Gbagbo
told  Le Figaro . “It’s not the central bank that pays the
salaries of civil servants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Johnnesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 