-- Palm Oil Advances on Expectation Demand to Gain in Asia Amid Supply Drop
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-12-27T10:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/palm-oil-advances-on-expectation-demand-to-gain-in-asia-amid-supply-drop.html
Palm oil climbed for a sixth day on
supply concerns as bad weather curbs harvests of oilseeds and on
expectation that food demand will expand in Asia next year.  The March-delivery contract on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange gained 2.5 percent to settle at 3,756 ringgit ($1,214)
a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur. Palm oil futures earlier gained as
much as 2.8 percent to 3,767 ringgit a ton, the highest in 33
months.  The La Nina weather event has lowered oil-palm yields and
disrupted harvesting in Indonesia and Malaysia, the two largest
producers, while drought in South America has affected soybean
crops. Increased demand for food in Asia will help boost prices
next year, fueling faster inflation,  Yougesh Khatri , a senior
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said on Dec. 24.  “The heavy rains in the palm oil-producing countries and
also the dry spell in soy-exporting countries have boosted the
vegetable oil market,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst with Phillip
Futures Pte, said from Singapore today.  The soybean harvest in Argentina may shrink 21 percent next
year as dry weather delays planting and worsens growing
conditions, Oil World said on Dec. 21. Output in five South
American growing nations may drop by 8 million to 10 million
tons, the researcher said. Brazil and Argentina, the world’s
second-and third-largest producers, harvest around March.  The Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange cut its estimate for this
year’s planted soybean crop by 200,000 hectares to 18.5 million
hectares because of dry conditions, it said in a Dec. 23
statement. Palm oil competes with soybean oil in food and
biofuel uses.  Annual Gain  Palm oil has risen 41 percent this year, heading for a
second annual gain, on concern that rising demand from China and
India, the biggest users, may strain global cooking-oil supplies
curbed by rain and drought.  Prices could rise further as “China builds up their
importing activities preparing for the Lunar New Year
holidays,” Ker said. Cooking oils demand typically rises in the
weeks before the Chinese Lunar New Year, which is in early
February next year.  China raised interest rates for the second time in just
over two months on Dec. 25 after consumer prices jumped the most
in 28 months and the government forecast “relatively high”
inflation in the first half of 2011.  Positive Sentiment  Still, “underlying sentiment is still positive” for palm
oil and the market hasn’t reacted to the rate increase,  Ryan Long , a dealer at OSK Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, said
today in an e-mail.  The market may test the 3,750 ringgit a ton level again
amid quiet trading expected this week, Long said.  China’s December soybean imports may be 5.3 million tons,
Grain.gov.cn said in e-mailed report on Dec. 23. Shipments for
January and February are forecast at 5 million tons and 3.5
million tons, respectively, it said. Grain.gov.cn is a unit of
the China National Grain & Oils Information Center.  Farm-commodity prices including corn will extend rallies
next year, driven by increased demand from emerging markets
including China, the world’s most-populous nation, and higher
energy costs, Rabobank Groep NV said in a report on Dec. 22.  Soybean futures for March rose for a sixth day, reversing
an earlier loss, to advance as much as 0.8 percent to $13.72 a
bushel. March-delivery soybean oil in Chicago rose 0.5 percent
to 57.51 cents a pound, taking this year’s gain to 41 percent.  Palm oil for September on the Dalian Commodity Exchange
gained 0.8 percent to close at 9,734 yuan ($1,468) a ton. Dalian
soybean oil rose 0.7 percent to 10,488 yuan a ton. CME Group
Inc.’s March palm-oil contract gained 1.2 percent to $1,203 a
ton at 1:33 p.m. Singapore time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  