-- PetroChina Sells Gas Pipeline Stake to Kunlun for $2.9 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-28T07:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/petrochina-sells-stake-in-naturnal-gas-pipeline-to-kunlun-for-2-9-billion.html
PetroChina Co.  agreed to sell its
stake in a gas pipeline operator to subsidiary  Kunlun Energy Co. 
for 18.9 billion ($2.9 billion) to help make fuel distribution
the main business of the Hong Kong-listed oil producer.  Kunlun Energy will buy the 60 percent stake in PetroChina
Beijing Natural Gas Pipeline Co., according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Beijing Gas Group Co., a
unit of Beijing Enterprises Holdings Ltd., owns 40 percent.  Shares of Kunlun Energy rose as much as 3.2 percent today
on speculation the company will benefit from rising demand for
gas in Beijing, where the city government forecasts consumption
will increase 17 percent this year. The oil producer’s stock has
more than quadrupled since PetroChina agreed to buy a majority
stake in August 2008 and turn Kunlun into a gas distributor.  “The acquisition of the Beijing pipeline operator will
take Kunlun’s gas business to a new level and contribute to its
earnings growth,”  Grace Liu , an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co., said by telephone from Shenzhen. “The deal will
have very limited impact on PetroChina, affecting less than 1
percent of earnings.”  China, the world’s biggest polluter, wants to triple the
use of cleaner-burning gas to about 10 percent of energy
consumption by 2020. Kunlun Energy, which operates 11 oilfields
in China and overseas, expects the bulk of its sales to come
from gas by 2012, according to Chairman Li Hualin on June 10.  Kunlun Energy said on Oct. 11 that it won a bid to buy a 75
percent stake in Dalian LNG from PetroChina for 2 billion yuan.
In May, Kunlun said it will pay 500 million yuan for a share in
PetroChina LNG Jiangsu Co. Kunlun plans to acquire more assets
from PetroChina, China Daily said on Dec. 24, citing Chairman Li.  Chinese Gas Demand  “PetroChina wants to focus on upstream exploration and
production and Kunlun will do downstream natural-gas
distribution,” Yukkei Lee, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Core
Pacific Yamaichi, said by telephone. “We expect more of such
asset injections into Kunlun Energy next year.”  Shares of  Kunlun Energy  fell 2.7 percent to HK$12.08 at
3:44 p.m. local time, as the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped
1.1 percent after China raised interest rates to tame inflation.
PetroChina declined 2 percent to HK$9.73. Beijing Enterprises
retreated 1.4 percent to HK$47.20.  Kunlun Energy didn’t say in the statement how it would fund
the acquisition of the pipeline operator, formed in 1991 by
PetroChina’s parent China National Petroleum Corp. and the
Beijing municipal government to transport gas from the
northwestern province of Shaanxi to the capital.  Formerly known as CNPC Hong Kong Ltd., Kunlun Energy said
in January that it may spend as much as HK$10 billion ($1.3
billion) on gas projects this year. PetroChina owns 50.75
percent of the company.  First-half  net income  gained almost fourfold to HK$1.25
billion ($161 million) as crude oil prices rebounded and sales
of natural gas increased, Kunlun Energy said in August. Full-
year  profit  may more than double to HK$2.56 billion, the median
estimate of six analysts in a survey compiled by Bloomberg shows.  -- John Duce  in Hong Kong,  Ying Wang  in Beijing,  Winnie Zhu  in
Shanghai and  Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ryan Woo at 
 rwoo5@bloomberg.net . 