-- Pfizer's Quigley Unit Bankruptcy Should Be Dismissed, U.S. Trustee Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-27T22:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/pfizer-s-quigley-unit-bankruptcy-should-end-u-s-says-update1-.html
Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest
drug company, should have the bankruptcy of its Quigley unit
which has protected it from asbestos-related health problems
since 2004 dismissed, lawyers for the U.S. Trustee said.  While the bankruptcy has been pending, creditors with
alleged asbestos-related health problems have been unable to sue
New York-based Pfizer, and many have died, wrote lawyers for the
U.S. Trustee, an arm of the Justice Department that oversees
bankruptcy. A hearing to decide the U.S. Trustee’s request is
set for Jan. 13, according to court papers filed Dec. 23.  “The harm in delaying the inevitable dismissal of this
case is to the individuals who have filed asbestos claims
against the Debtor and Pfizer,” lawyers for acting U.S. Trustee
 Tracy Hope Davis  wrote in court papers. “For some of those
individuals, time may be of the essence.”  A judge in September denied Quigley Company Inc.
permission to exit bankruptcy under its fourth proposed Chapter
11 plan. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stuart M. Bernstein  found the
world’s largest drug company manipulated the bankruptcy process
to benefit itself. Bernstein said the plan was filed in “bad
faith” by Pfizer and cited testimony that asbestos claims
directed at Quigley could total $4.45 billion over the next 42
years.  Pfizer spokesman  Christopher Loder  said the company is
prepared to contribute additional funds to Quigley’s plan to
satisfy the court’s concerns, and will discuss fair compensation
of asbestos claims at the Jan. 13 hearing.  “It’s important to note that in 30 years of asbestos
litigation, Pfizer has never been found to be derivatively
liable for Quigley’s liabilities,” Loder said in an emailed
statement.  $701 Million Charge  Pfizer reported in its third-quarter report in November a
$701 million charge for asbestos litigation for Quigley. In a
report filed Nov. 12 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Pfizer said it was filing an appeal of the Quigley
ruling to “preserve its right to address certain legal issues
raised in the court’s opinion.”  An ad-hoc committee representing 43,100 individual asbestos
claimants in Quigley’s bankruptcy had also asked in October that
a judge end the case, and also end the injunction that has
shielded Pfizer from lawsuits since 2004.  “Quigley and Pfizer have enjoyed an exceedingly valuable
reprieve from defending asbestos claims in the tort system for
that entire time, and accordingly have, at numerous junctures
throughout this case, been content to let the bankruptcy
proceedings languish,” lawyers for the committee wrote.  Working With Quigley  Pfizer said in court papers requesting an appeal that it
was working with Quigley to come up with a plan that took into
account some of the points in Bernstein’s ruling. Pfizer
challenged Bernstein’s statement that Pfizer should put an
amount of money into a trust that is equal to the alleged value
of present and future claims against the drugmaker.  The bankruptcy court “erred by precluding Pfizer from
introducing evidence that Pfizer does not have any liability for
Quigley’s conduct in making or selling asbestos-containing
products,” lawyers for Pfizer wrote.  Under the proposed Chapter 11 plan, Pfizer would have paid
about $450 million into a trust to satisfy claims about products
for which it allegedly has derivative liability.  Future Claims  The bankruptcy code would direct all future claims to the
trust, covering death and personal injury claims over Insulag,
Panelag and Damit, Quigley products for the steel industry
containing asbestos that were made from the time of World War II
to the 1970s.  The plan barred claimants from taking future actions
against Pfizer. Pfizer was a defendant in 280,343 of the 411,100
claims served against Quigley, Bernstein noted in his ruling.  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products containing
asbestos from the 1940s to the 1970s. It was bought by Pfizer in
1968.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York Bankruptcy Court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 