-- Philadelphia Eagles-Minnesota Vikings Game Postponed to Tomorrow by Storm
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-12-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/philadelphia-eagles-minnesota-vikings-game-postponed-to-dec-28-by-storm.html
The Philadelphia Eagles got snowed
out and still clinched a spot in the National Football League
playoffs. The Minnesota Vikings had a game postponed or moved
for the third straight week.  The Eagles-Vikings game originally scheduled for last night
was delayed until tomorrow night because of the East Coast
blizzard. The storm had dumped more than a half-foot of snow by
last night in Philadelphia, according to the Weather Channel.  “I think the number one issue, absolutely, all along, was
public safety and the safety of fans, workers, vendors,
suppliers, really everybody,” Eagles Chief Operating Officer
Don Smolenski said. “Trying to have people come down in the
conditions that are out there now, white-out conditions, that
just wasn’t safe.”  Philadelphia Mayor  Michael Nutter  declared a state of
emergency in the city, where heavy snow and high wind is
expected through this morning. The game was rescheduled for 8
p.m. tomorrow.  “This will allow sufficient time to ensure that roads,
parking lots and the stadium are fully cleared,” NFL spokesman
 Greg Aiello  said in a league statement.  Two weeks ago, the Vikings’ home game against the New York
Giants was delayed one day and then moved to Detroit after snow
collapsed the inflatable roof of the Metrodome in Minneapolis.
Last week, the Vikings hosted the Chicago Bears at the
University of Minnesota’s stadium because Metrodome repairs
weren’t complete.  “There aren’t very many, if any, that have experienced
what we’ve experienced, or at the level that we’ve experienced
it,” Vikings interim head coach  Leslie Frazier  said in comments
e-mailed by the team.  Eagles Clinch Spot  The Eagles clinched a playoff spot when the New York Giants
lost at Green Bay. That handed the Eagles (10-4) the National
Football Conference East Division title.  Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said he supported the league’s
decision to postpone the game and dismissed concerns the delay
will leave Philadelphia with too little time to prepare for a
Jan. 2 home contest against Dallas.  “I don’t think it’s a problem,” Reid said. “I think
we’ll be alright. We’ve had Monday games, Sunday night games, we
had a Thursday game, so we’ve been through a lot of this
already, and that will help us. We’ll be fine.”  The two-day delay could give Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  a better chance of playing against the Eagles. Favre was
listed yesterday as doubtful for the game because of a
concussion he suffered against the Bears.  “Just add this to the list for the 2010 season,” Vikings
defensive end  Jared Allen  said. “It’s important to be a
professional and be ready to play on Tuesday night.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  