-- BGK's Euro Sales Said to Support Polish Zloty, Cutting Debt as Year Closes
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-27T17:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/poland-s-bgk-bank-said-to-sell-euros-in-support-of-zloty-as-year-nears-end.html
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego , the
Polish state-owned lender, is offering to sell euros to support
the country’s currency, the latest nation to step in to
influence its exchange rate, three traders said.  BGK may have sold about 150 million euros today, said two
of the traders, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The zloty, up 2.9 percent against the
euro this year, was little changed at 3.9705 as of 3:05 p.m. in
Warsaw. The bank offered to sell the euro at 3.9700 this
morning, one of the traders said.  Countries from Brazil to Thailand and Japan to Switzerland
have sought to affect the value of their currencies, through
taxes, dollar sales and other measures. Swiss central bank
President  Philipp Hildebrand , who ended 15 months of intervening
in foreign-exchange markets this year, may prove powerless to
stop the franc from extending a record rally with options
traders more bullish on the franc for the next three months than
any major currency except the yen, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analysts at banks including BNP Paribas SA and ING Bank
Slaski SA said this month that Poland may try to shore up the
zloty before the end of the year, to keep foreign borrowing from
pushing total debt in local currency terms toward levels that
would trigger austerity measures.  Poland’s public debt will reach 53.2 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of the 2010, with an average zloty
rate of 3.9 per euro in this period, according to the Finance
Ministry debt management strategy  published  in September. If
debt exceeds 55 percent of GDP it would prompt mandatory
spending cuts and tax increases under the public finance law.
Poland holds general elections next year.  BGK sold euros at about 4.04 per zloty on Dec. 10, two
traders said at the time, as the zloty ended the week down 1.3
percent. In the two weeks since then the currency has recouped
those losses, reaching a one-month high of 3.9615 on Dec. 23.  BGK doesn’t comment on market transactions, Piotr Stalega,
a spokesman, said by phone from Warsaw.  Magdalena Kobos , a
spokeswoman for the Finance Ministry, didn’t answer a call to
her mobile phone and nobody at the press office was authorized
to comment.  The ministry is continuing to “take advantage” of a
weaker zloty to exchange part of its 5.6 billion-euro ($7.4
billion) holdings,  Piotr Marczak , head of the ministry’s public
debt department, said on Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  