-- Regeneron Says FDA Halts Development of Pain Drug
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-12-27T21:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/regeneron-says-u-s-fda-halts-pain-drug-study-because-of-bone-death-issue.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.  said
U.S. regulators halted development of its experimental pain
killer after a similar treatment caused the death of bone tissue
in another drugmaker’s study.  The Food and Drug Administration last week confirmed a case
of avascular necrosis involving a drug similar to Regeneron’s
anti-nerve growth factor, REGN475/SAR164877, the Tarrytown, New
York-based company said in a  filing  today. Regeneron, which
didn’t name the other product, is developing its treatment with
Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA .  New York-based Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker,
halted studies of its nerve-growth inhibitor, tanezumab, at the
request of U.S. regulators in June and July after reports the
drug led to joint replacements for patients. Regeneron said in a
May 12  statement  that its painkiller had shown success in
patients with osteoarthritis in the knee.  “The FDA believes this additional case provides evidence
to suggest” bone problems with the entire class of anti-nerve
growth drugs, Regeneron said in today’s statement. There are
currently no ongoing trials with the company’s drug enrolling or
treating patients, it said.  MacKay Jimeson, a Pfizer spokesman, said in a telephone
interview that regulators were looking at all nerve-factor drugs
and that Pfizer’s development program remained on hold. Pfizer
is preparing a response and looking at data from 15 studies with
tanezumab, Jimeson said. He declined to comment on Regeneron’s
statement.  $11 Billion in Sales  Tanezumab and similar nerve-growth treatments may reach $11
billion in estimated sales,  Catherine Arnold , a Credit Suisse
analyst in New York, wrote in a May 3 note to investors before
work was halted on Pfizer’s drug.  Regeneron gained 19 cents to $33.69 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have gained
 39 percent  for the year. Pfizer fell 12 cents to $17.49 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, and has lost 3.9 percent
for the year.  Messages seeking comment weren’t immediately returned by
 Peter Dworkin , a Regeneron spokesman, and  Karen Riley , an FDA
spokeswoman.  Avascular necrosis occurs when bones don’t get enough
oxygen and nutrient-carrying blood, according to the  website  of
the Rochester, Minnesota-based Mayo Clinic.  Pfizer’s tanezumab may have increased joint problems in
some people because it worked too well, reducing the pain that
could have signaled to patients that they were overusing fragile
bones, researchers said in a Sept. 29 study in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . Sixteen of 6,800 patients taking the
medicine needed replacements in knee, hip or shoulder joints,
the study found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  