-- Reinhart Says Fed's Purchases of U.S. Treasuries May Exceed $600 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2010-12-27T21:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/reinhart-says-fed-s-purchases-of-u-s-treasuries-may-exceed-600-billion.html
The Federal Reserve may expand its
purchases of U.S. Treasuries, or quantitative easing, beyond its
$600 billion target, said  Vincent Reinhart , who was the Fed’s
chief monetary-policy strategist from 2001 until September 2007.  “They do all of QE2 because they don’t want to be seen as
succumbing to outside pressure,” Reinhart, now a scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar . “I think there is a chance there will be QE3 and it is
going to be because the unemployment rate is above 9 percent,”
he said, referring to a third round of purchases.  The Fed on Dec. 14 reaffirmed its plan to buy $600 billion
in  Treasuries  through June, expanding record stimulus to try to
reduce 9.8 percent unemployment and keep inflation from
dropping. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to boost growth
after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities
purchases helped pull the economy out of recession without
bringing down joblessness close to a 26-year high.  Columbia University Professor  Charles Calomiris , speaking
on the same broadcast, disagreed with Reinhart that more easing
might be added.  “I don’t think so,” he said. “My view is it is probably
not on the table.”  Calomiris said the Fed would be “very slow” to raise its
target federal funds rate from near zero.  “They keep the short rate where it is for the rest of”
2011, Reinhart said. “They are going to have to be forced to
tighten by events.”  Calomiris was among a group including former Republican
government officials and economists who sent Bernanke a letter
in November that urged an end to his expansion of monetary
stimulus, saying it risks an inflation surge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Massar  in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  