-- Rome Police Defuse Greek Embassy Bomb Days After Chilean, Swiss Explosions
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-27T14:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/rome-police-defuse-greek-embassy-bomb-days-after-chilean-swiss-explosions.html
Police defused a package bomb at the
Greek embassy in Rome, four days after two people were injured
when similar explosives blew up at two other diplomatic missions
in the Italian capital.  “The package was discovered this morning” and it’s been
“deactivated by the bomb squad,” Efi Theodoropoullou, a Greek
embassy spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “The contents
were similar to those at the Chilean and Swiss embassies.”  Grigoris Delavekouras, a Greece Foreign Ministry spokesman
in Athens, confirmed that the parcel contained explosives and
that Italian police authorities are investigating the incident.  A suspicious package reported earlier today at Venezuela’s
embassy in Rome turned out to be a false alarm, a spokeswoman
for the Rome police said by phone. A bomb alert at the Finnish
embassy to the Holy See in Rome today was also a false alarm, a
spokeswoman there said. Police were also probing an alert at
Albania’s embassy to Italy, a Carabinieri spokesman said.  Two package bombs exploded on Dec. 23 at the Swiss and
Chilean embassies in Rome, injuring one employee at each
mission, according to police and government officials. The
attacks probably were carried out by anarchists, Deputy Interior
Minister  Alfredo Mantovano  told Milan newspaper Il Giornale in
an interview published on Dec. 24, adding that there are several
hundred anarchists in Italy.  A spate of parcel bombs in November in Athens prompted a
48-hour suspension of international mail deliveries in Greece.
Devices exploded at the Swiss and Russian embassies in the Greek
capital.  Rome and other Italian cities have been the scene of
violent student protests against Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s legislation that will overhaul the country’s
university system. Italy’s parliament passed the bill Dec. 24.  Rome Mayor  Gianni Alemanno  said the embassy incidents
weren’t related to the recent violence in Rome and the police
are pursuing international leads, according to remarks broadcast
on SkyTG 24 on Dec. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  