-- Rubber Futures Advance to Record as China's Stocks Rally After Rate Rise
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-27T08:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/rubber-futures-advance-to-record-as-china-s-stocks-rally-after-rate-rise.html
Rubber climbed to a record for a
sixth day as higher oil prices boosted its appeal amid
expectations a supply shortage may worsen early next year as top
exporter Thailand enters a low-production period.  The June-delivery contract rallied as much as 0.7 percent
to 419.3 yen per kilogram ($5,069 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange before settling at 417.6 yen. The price has
gained 51 percent this year after more than doubling in 2009.  Latex production in Thailand is set to shrink as growers
will reduce tapping of rubber trees from February to April
during the so-called “wintering” period. The seasonal drop in
output may worsen a supply shortage as global demand will keep
rising, led by car sales in China and India, said Kazuhiko
Saito, an analyst at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co.  “A bullish fundamental outlook spurred investor
purchases,” Saito said by phone today. The market also advanced
as a rally in copper and oil raised speculation that the
economic recovery will boost demand for industrial commodities,
he said.  The cash rubber  price  in Thailand climbed 0.3 percent to a
record 149.55 baht per kilogram today, boosted by limited supply
from the country’s southern provinces amid strong demand for
tires, according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  Copper in New York advanced to a record after China raised
interest rates for the second time since mid-October. Crude oil
in New York gained to a two-month high on speculation China’s
monetary tightening will sustain economic growth.  Interest Rates  China’s central bank boosted its benchmark  one-year lending
rate  by 25 basis points to 5.81 percent, and the one-year
deposit rate by the same amount to 2.75 percent.  “Gradual policy normalization now should help keep Chinese
growth and commodity demand on a sustainable trajectory,” Brian
Jackson, Hong Kong-based senior strategist at RBC Capital
Markets, said in a note. “Across emerging Asian markets, growth
has been solid and exports have been holding up well, so the
policy focus needs to be on dealing with inflation.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government aims to limit asset bubbles
in the real-estate market and prevent rising prices from leading
to social unrest after flooding the economy with cash from late
2008 to drive an economic recovery.  China reported an  inflation  rate of 5.1 percent for
November, the highest in 28 months. Exports last month reached a
record $153.3 billion and the  trade surplus  exceeded $20 billion
for the fifth time in sixth months, indicating a recovery in
international trade from the global financial crisis.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai lost 0.5 percent to 37,110
yuan ($5,596) a ton after earlier gaining as much as 1.3 percent
to 37,800 yuan. It climbed to a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  