-- Russian Manufacturing Expansion Accelerates to Fastest Since March 2008
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-12-27T12:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/russian-manufacturing-expansion-accelerates-to-fastest-since-march-2008.html
Russia’s manufacturing growth jumped
in December, accelerating at the fastest pace since March 2008,
as companies benefited from demand for exports and employers
boosted hiring at the highest rate in more than four years.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.5 from 51.1 in
November for the biggest monthly gain since September 2009, HSBC
Holdings Plc said in a report today, citing data compiled by
Markit Economics. The survey-based index indicates a contraction
when it is below 50 and growth with a figure above 50.  The pickup in manufacturing is helping to lift the world’s
biggest energy supplier from its 7.9 percent contraction last
year. The economy grew 3.7 percent in the first 11 months and is
set to reach the government’s target of 3.8 percent for the
year, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said last week.  “Manufacturers positively surprised in December, reporting
improvements on all but one of the five key indicators,”
 Alexander Morozov , HSBC’s Moscow-based chief economist for
Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, said in a
statement. “Significant improvement in new orders, including
new export orders, is particularly encouraging.”  Russian  industrial production  gained more than analysts
estimated in November, rising an annual 6.7 percent, compared
with 6.6 percent in the previous month.  ‘Positive Dynamics’  “The pause in growth is over” and the economy will show
“positive dynamics” in the fourth quarter, Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on Dec. 15. Industrial output will
expand 8.3 percent this year, rather than the previously
forecast 7.6 percent, he said.  Employment in the manufacturing industry gained in December
at the fastest pace since July 2006, according to HSBC. Export
orders increased for the first time in six months, growing at
the highest rate since March 2008, the index showed.  “The manufacturing sector faced stronger external and
domestic demand and responded to it by increasing output and
quantity of input purchases and decreasing inventories and
backlogs of works,” Morozov said.  Still, input costs rose at the fastest clip since April
2008, prompting companies to raise wholesale prices and
highlighting the risks facing the central bank as it tries to
tame inflation without blunting the recovery.  Russia’s  central bank  raised the deposit rate by a quarter-
point to 2.75 percent on Dec. 24 even as it left its key
refinancing rate at 7.75 percent. Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said
last week that monetary policy makers will focus next year on
keeping inflation between 6 percent and 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 