-- SEC Muni Rule, Peru’s Market, DOJ Ethics: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-12-27T13:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/sec-muni-rule-peru-s-joint-market-doj-ethics-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission  approved a rule  barring financial advisers to state
and local governments from engaging in deceptive practices, one
of the first steps to regulate the business.  The decision applies the  Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board ’s so-called fair dealing rule to those advising officials
who oversee debt issuance and investments. It bars deceptive,
dishonest or unfair practices by bond dealers. The change takes
effect immediately, the board said Dec. 23 in a statement.  The rulemaking board gained power over the previously
unregulated consultants with the passage of the  Dodd-Frank  law.
Such advisers once recommended derivative trades known as swaps
that proved costly when the 2008 financial crisis struck, and
several face charges for conspiring with bankers to make local
governments pay above-market rates for investments purchased
with money raised with municipal bonds.  Rules made by the industry’s self-regulatory organization,
based in Alexandria, Virginia, are subject to SEC review and
approval.  Compliance Policy  Basel Holdings Rules May Kill Danish Bonds: Credit Markets  Denmark says the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s
rules will force the country’s lenders to dump top-rated
mortgage debt to meet new requirements on holdings and may
destroy the world’s third-biggest covered-bond market.  The Nordic country is planning to challenge the rules,
published on Dec. 16, and Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen has
already taken Denmark’s  grievances  to the  European Commission .
The government and the country’s lenders are now waiting to see
how much the European Union will change the rules as they’re put
into effect next year. The final deadline for enforcement is
2015.  Denmark’s lenders, which hold more than half the country’s
$490 billion of mortgage bonds, would be forced to sell off
holdings to comply with Basel’s 40 percent cap on using the
securities as liquid assets, Ane Arnth Jensen, director of the
Copenhagen-based  Association of Danish Mortgage Banks , said in a
Dec. 21 interview.  Basel, which says the rule will provide lenders with more
liquid assets to guard against times of financial stress,
doesn’t place any limit on sovereign-debt holdings.  Denmark’s mortgage bond market is about 1 1/2 times the
size of the country’s economy and more than seven times the size
of the government bond market, according to the central bank.
Denmark, which isn’t one of the Basel Committee’s 27 members, is
one of the most vocal critics of the liquidity rules.  For more, click here.  Peru’s Garcia Signs Stock Integration Bill Into Law  Peru’s President Alan Garcia signed a bill authorizing the
integration of the stock exchanges of Peru, Chile and Colombia.  Garcia also signed into law a measure creating a mortgage-
backed securities market. The bonds will help the construction
industry expand 20 percent next year, Garcia said at a ceremony
Dec. 23 in the presidential palace in Lima.  The three countries plan to establish a common exchange in
a bid to increase trading volume and lure more foreign
investors. The combined market value of the three bourses is
$642 billion compared with Mexico’s $475 billion and Brazil’s
$1.43 trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A congressional panel on Dec. 28 will debate a capital
gains tax that has halted the Andean integration project, House
Speaker Cesar Zumaeta said Dec. 23.  The  Lima Stock Exchange  suspended the arrangement with
Colombia and Chile after Congress failed to modify a tax law
that makes Peru less competitive, Lima Exchange President
Roberto Hoyle said Dec. 20.  Finance Firms Need Better Risk-Management Data, Regulators Say  Financial institutions need to improve their information-
technology systems to better manage risk, according to a group
of financial regulators.  “While most firms have made progress in developing risk
appetite frameworks and begun multiyear projects to improve IT
infrastructure, financial institutions have considerably more
work to do in order to strengthen these practices,” William
Rutledge, chairman of the Senior Supervisors Group, said in a
report dated Dec. 23. Rutledge is the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York’s top bank supervisor and plans to retire at year-end.  The group comprises senior regulators from 10 countries
including Japan, Switzerland, the U.S., the U.K. and Italy.  Japan to Ban Short-Sale, Buy Back of Shares in Public Offerings  Japan’s Financial Services Agency will ban short-selling of
stocks with the intention of buying back the shares in public
offerings to rein in price volatility.  The regulators will seek to revise existing rules in the
first half of fiscal 2011 starting April, the watchdog said in a
faxed statement Dec. 24.  The agency was considering whether to implement a U.S.-
style rule barring investors from short-selling shares of
companies issuing new equity during the final days before
pricing, the two people with knowledge of the matter said in
November.  Under the U.S.  Regulation M , investors who buy shares in a
company’s secondary offering are barred from shorting the stock
typically five days before the pricing.  Structured Products Scrutiny to Rise, New Jersey’s Minor Says  State regulators will increase scrutiny on sales of
structured products to individuals next year, as the investments
aren’t suitable for everyone, according to Marc Minor, chief of
the  New Jersey Bureau of Securities .  The  North American Securities Administrators Association 
has identified the investments, which are bonds bundled with
derivatives, as an “emerging risk,” said Minor, who is a
member of the Washington-based group of regulators. Brokers are
selling more structured products to individuals, even though
some may be too complicated for buyers to understand, he said.  Minor made the remarks during a telephone interview.  Banks and brokers market the products as an alternative way
to invest in stocks or commodities. Sales of structured notes
rose to a record $47.1 billion in the U.S. this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors bought $33.9 billion
last year, according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database
used by the industry.  Some of the securities combine the potential for gains when
stocks rise with limited protection against declines, while
others pay a high interest rate as long as certain market-
related conditions are met. The investments have characteristics
that make them unsuitable for certain classes of investors,
Minor said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  EPA, Texas Feud Escalates Over New Carbon Regulations  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said it will take
control of carbon-emission rules in Texas after Governor Rick
Perry rejected new federal regulations intended to combat
climate change.  The EPA will decide directly on greenhouse-gas permits for
companies seeking to build or upgrade power plants or oil
refineries in Texas, the agency said Dec. 23 in a statement. The
EPA’s nationwide carbon rules, imposed under the Clean Air Act,
will take effect Jan. 2.  The agency said the law gave states responsibility to carry
out the rules it imposed after President Barack Obama’s
administration failed to win legislation to cap carbon
emissions. Perry, a Republican, has said he won’t cooperate,
calling the regulations overreaching by the federal government
that will cripple his state’s economy.  Texas emits about 11 percent of U.S. greenhouse-gas
emissions, more than any other state, according to Texas EPA
spokesman David Gray. If Texas were a country, it would be the
world’s eighth-largest polluter, he said.  EPA Assistant Administrator Gina McCarthy said the agency
remains in talks with Texas and views federal control of
greenhouse-gas permits in the state as a temporary arrangement.  “We are more than willing and in fact anxious about how
quickly we can work with them to have them take over,” McCarthy
told reporters Dec. 23 on a conference call.  FDIC Sells Stake in $603 Million Mortgage Pool to RoundPoint  RoundPoint Financial Group  said it bought a stake in $603
million of residential mortgages from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.  The company, in conjunction with RBS Financial Products
Inc., acquired 40 percent of the equity of the loan pool, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based buyer and servicer of distressed
mortgages said Dec. 23 in an e-mailed statement. Andrew Gray, a
spokesman for the FDIC, didn’t immediately return a telephone
message.  RoundPoint, which in April took a stake in $491 million of
mortgages partly sold by the FDIC, is backed by investment firm
Tavistock Group, according to the latter’s  website . The latest
deal closed Nov. 30, according to the Dec. 23 statement.  RBS Financial Products is a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc. Michael Geller, a spokesman for the company’s Stamford,
Connecticut-based RBS Securities Inc. unit, declined to comment.  BaFin Tells German Life Insurers to Raise Provisions, FTD Says  German financial regulator BaFin has ordered life insurers
to raise provisions on some contracts as early as next year to
be able to meet interest-rate guarantees to customers, Financial
Times Deutschland reported, without saying where it got the
information.  The higher cost for life insurers, which may exceed 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) annually, would force them to set
aside more money from their earnings, the newspaper said, adding
that specific calculations aren’t available yet.  H&R Block Says ‘11th-Hour’ U.S. Bar Ends HSBC Refund-Loan Deal  H&R Block Inc.  said an “11th-hour” decision by U.S.
regulators prevents a lending partner from offering tax-refund
loans and that it’ll be hard to fully roll out alternative
products in time for the 2011 season.  The  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  told  HSBC
Holdings Plc  not to make refund-anticipation loans, called RALs,
prompting the bank to end an exclusive contract with H&R Block
three years early, the tax preparer said in a statement after
business hours on Dec. 24. The directive scuttled a deal the two
firms reached after H&R Block filed a lawsuit to force HSBC to
offer the loans, according to the statement.  The U.S. Internal Revenue Service said in August it will no
longer help banks, including HSBC, underwrite RALs, which
consumer groups say carry unfairly high interest rates. H&R
Block’s struggle to make loans available in 2011 has helped
drive down its shares 44 percent this year through last week,
making it the second-worst performer in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index .  The firm will still offer customers a way to speed checks
and is developing “other financial products we intend to put in
place by the early part of the tax season,” said Kate O’Neill
Rauber, a spokeswoman for the Kansas City, Missouri-based
company.  HSBC spokesman Rob Sherman said the bank is terminating its
relationship with H&R Block after the OCC’s decision. Spokesmen
for the agency didn’t respond to messages over the weekend.  For more, click here.  Courts  Daimler Case Over Schrempp Resignation Is Referred to EU Court  A German court asked European Union judges to review
several issues in a shareholder lawsuit over the timing of
 Daimler AG ’s disclosure of Chief Executive Officer Juergen
Schrempp’s 2005 resignation.  The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil
tribunal, said Dec. 23 it needed guidance on how EU laws on
market manipulation and inside information are to be
interpreted. The court suspended proceedings and “presented
questions to the European Union’s Court of Justice for an
advance decision,” the court said in an e-mailed statement.  Daimler shareholders claim the automaker didn’t disclose
Schrempp’s resignation as quickly as it should have. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer published the former CEO’s
departure on July 28, 2005. Following the release of second-
quarter earnings and the news that Schrempp was to leave,
Daimler rose 3.16 euros, or 8.7 percent, to 39.49 euros.  Daimler’s legal spokeswoman, Ute Vellberg, didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Wolfgang Eick, a spokesman at the
Karlsruhe-based court, also couldn’t be reached.  InterMune Investors Sued by SEC for Insider Trading  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued unknown
buyers of options on the stock of  InterMune Inc. , a
biopharmaceutical maker, claiming they had inside information
about regulatory approval of its drug Esbriet, a treatment for
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a fatal lung disease.  In a complaint filed Dec. 23 in federal court in Manhattan,
the SEC said the unknown parties bought 637 options contracts on
the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange between Dec. 7 and Dec. 13. The options to buy shares
were bets that their price would rise.  Using the inside information, the unknown options buyers
may have made profits of $912,000, the SEC said. The trades were
made using anonymous accounts held at UBS Securities Ltd. and
Barclays Capital Inc. in London, according to the complaint.  The SEC on Dec. 22 sued unknown buyers of  Martek
Biosciences Corp.  options, alleging insider trading violations.
The customer ID number on the UBS account that bought the Martek
options is the same as the UBS account used to buy the InterMune
options, according to the two complaints.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. One or
More Unknown Purchasers of Options of InterMune Inc., 10-
cv-09560, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Special Reports  Kerviel’s Trading Loss Examined in ‘The Rogue Trader’  Ryan Chilcote presents a Bloomberg Television special “The
Rogue Trader,” examining the background to Jerome Kerviel’s 4.9
billion-euro ($6.4 billion) trading loss at  Societe Generale SA ,
the biggest in history.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  FASB’s Seidman Named to Finish Herz’s Term as Panel’s Chairman  Leslie F. Seidman, who has been acting chairman of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board since Robert H. Herz
stepped down on Sept. 30, was appointed to serve the remaining 2
1/2 years of Herz’s term.  The selection of Seidman, 48, to lead the panel that sets
rules for evaluating the financial health of U.S. companies was
announced Dec. 23 in a statement by the Financial Accounting
Foundation, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based nonprofit that
oversees FASB.  As chairman, Seidman will lead FASB’s efforts to converge
U.S. reporting standards with those of the International
Accounting Standards Board, which sets rules for more than 110
countries, including Germany, France and the U.K.  Holder Names New Head of Justice Department’s Ethics Division  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder named a career prosecutor
to oversee the Justice Department’s ethics office after a U.S.
judge this year criticized the department’s handling of charges
against the late Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska.  Robin Ashton will serve as head of the Office of
Professional Responsibility, according to a department press
statement. Ashton most recently was an executive assistant in
the U.S. attorney’s office for the District of Columbia,
directing actions on civil and criminal cases, according to the
department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 