-- Serbian Austerity to Aid Bonds, Credit Rating, Minister Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-27T14:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/serbian-austerity-plan-to-aid-bonds-credit-rating-finance-minister-says.html
Serbia’s efforts to rein in public
spending may win the country its first-ever credit rating
upgrade and attract bond investors, the finance minister said.  A chance for lower borrowing costs that would follow from a
higher debt rating will require the state deficit to remain at
4.1 percent of gross domestic product next year,  Diana Dragutinovic  said in an interview. The government will also have
to borrow selectively as investors “increasingly focus on fiscal
policy.”  “If there are no developments that could lead to a
deteriorating fiscal position and if we quickly manage to bring
inflation back on track, that will be sufficient to have our
credit rating upgraded in 2011,” Dragutinovic said.  Serbia is rated ‘BB-’ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch with a
stable outlook and is not rated by Moody’s. Croatia and Hungary
had had their credit ratings downgraded last week to a step
above junk. S&P cited Croatia’s deteriorated fiscal position and
weak external financing for the downgrade, while Fitch
downgraded Hungary on fiscal policy concerns.  Serbia’s economy will grow between 1.5 percent and 2
percent this year after a contraction of 3 percent in 2009, the
52-year-old minister said. With national elections approaching
in 2012, her ministry will restructure the tax administration to
better control tax collection, especially from large public
companies, she said.  Economic growth is the most dynamic in the region, “fiscal
policy is in line with fiscal rules and counter-cyclical, and we
can finance the balance of payments and the budget deficit,”
she said.  Spending Eyed  Dragutinovic, the first woman ever to oversee the Balkan
nation’s finances, said her efforts to control spending are
matched by the central bank’s resolve to fight inflation with
five consecutive interest rate increases since August.  “The growth rate is picking up from quarter to quarter and
the third quarter growth, if annualized, exceeds 4 percent,”
she said. If growth remains equally strong in the last quarter
of the year “then growth in 2011 will exceed 3 percent.”  Stronger growth and demand for cash should translate into
an expansion of credit, with foreign-owned banks in Serbia
bringing in new capital in 2011, she said.  Telecom Sale  Serbia also expects to attract at least 1.4 billion euros
($1.97 billion) from the sale of a 51 percent stake in Telekom
Srbija, which will help stabilize the dinar along with the
lower budget deficit, boosting investor confidence in the dinar
debt market, she said.  A Dec. 29 auction of 6-month euro-indexed Treasury bills
shows investors are more comfortable if they can hedge
their investment against the dinar’s depreciation.  Dragutinovic said she still wants to test the market with
longer-dated maturities for additional borrowing and plans to
sell dinar-denominated bonds with maturities of between 370 days
and two years next year.  Serbia, which wants to become a candidate for membership in
the European Union, wants to lure investment in the domestic
debt market to cut the cost of debt servicing, thus keeping debt
levels below 45 percent of GDP, the cap set by fiscal rules,
Dragutinovic said. Finding cheaper funding is the key to keep
debt levels below 45 percent of GDP, the cap set by fiscal
rules, Dragutinovic said.  The government needs 220 million euros to 250 million euros
a year through 2016 to repay private foreign-exchange savings
frozen by banks when the former Yugoslav federation broke apart
in the early 1990s.  A bond issue, originally meant only for local insurers
through a private placement, will be made available to all
investors, with the government setting the price of the bond,
she said.  “The price would be probably between 5.5 percent and 5.8
percent,” to allow some risk premium, the minister said. “I
know what the long-term growth rate of this economy is, and that
is roughly the interest rate on our borrowing. Anything close to
those levels, of around 5 to 5.5 percent, is acceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  