-- Slim's Carso Acquires Hotel in Florida as Real-Estate Spinoff Is Prepared
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-27T22:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/slim-s-carso-acquires-hotel-in-florida-as-real-estate-spinoff-is-prepared.html
Grupo Carso SAB, the holding company
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , added a Kissimmee,
Florida, property to its Mexican hotel chain as it prepares for
a spinoff of its real estate unit.  Carso acquired the hotel, which operates under the Ramada
brand, in September, Mexico City-based Carso said today in a
 filing  to Mexico’s banking and securities commission. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed. The property is part of Carso’s Ostar
hotel group, which includes five Mexican hotels.  The Florida hotel is part of an expanding U.S. real estate
portfolio for Slim, who controls 79 percent of Carso shares. The
billionaire was part of a group of investors who paid $44
million for a townhouse on Manhattan’s Fifth Avenue in July, and
his investment firm Inmobiliaria Carso SA also bought an office
tower at 417 Fifth Ave. for $140 million in June.  Carso’s real estate and mining  units  are estimated to begin
trading as separate companies on Jan. 6, the company said in two
filings today. The company will retain its retail and industrial
equipment businesses after the spinoffs, which are intended to
allow investors to consider the value of the units separately,
Carso said.  Gerardo Kuri Kaufmann, 27, will be chief executive officer
of the real estate business, to be called Inmuebles Carso SAB,
the company said. Justo Wong Salinas, 68, will be the CEO of the
mining company, Minera Frisco SAB.  Carso  fell  1.01 pesos, or 1.2 percent, to 80.68 pesos today
in Mexico City trading. The shares have more than doubled this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  