-- Wind-Driven Snow Blankets East Coast, Snarls Air, Ground Travel
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-12-28T01:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/snowstorm-blankets-u-s-east-coast-disrupts-holiday-air-railroad-travel.html
New York City’s major airports
resumed operations after the heaviest December snowfall in six
decades left travelers in the Northeast struggling amid waist-
high drifts and blizzard winds.  The city’s Central Park had 20 inches (51 centimeters) of
snow by 8 a.m., the most for the month  since 1948 , the National
Weather Service said. Skies cleared over New York by daybreak as
the agency issued blizzard warnings for Boston and into Maine.  The storm forced airlines to cancel more than 6,000 flights
since yesterday, when airports began to close. The Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey said LaGuardia,  John F.
Kennedy International  and Newark Liberty airports opened tonight
for outgoing traffic.  “There may have been storms that equaled this, but it
doesn’t get much worse than this,”  Tom Kines , a meteorologist
at State College, Pennsylvania-based AccuWeather Inc., said by
telephone. “To get this much snow with the amount of wind that
is accompanying it, that is devastating.”  New York, which faces a $2.5 billion deficit in the $65
billion budget projected for next year, will be more affected by
lost economic activity than clean-up costs, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said at a City Hall news conference.  Getting Around  The New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market kept
normal hours today. The New York Mercantile Exchange delayed the
opening of floor trading until 11 a.m.  “They pay me good money to be here,” said  Vinny Stavola ,
an Oppenheimer & Co. convertible trader, who trekked from Staten
Island to get to work in midtown Manhattan by 6:30 a.m. “It
doesn’t take a heroic effort to get to work, just a little
dedication.”  The storm, with winds gusting to 30 miles per hour (48
kilometers per hour), reached New York at midday yesterday. The
day after Christmas is one of the five busiest shopping days of
the year, and it may take retailers two weeks to recover from
lost sales, said  Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD
Group Inc., a research firm based in Port Washington, New York.  Economic Impact  The snowfall was the fifth-largest on record for the city,
Sanitation Commissioner  John Doherty  said at the mayor’s news
conference.  “In the grand scheme of things, given the size of our
budget and the size of our deficit, this is very small,”
Bloomberg said. “It’s the lack of commerce that takes place.
Yesterday and today were big shopping days, and that didn’t
happen, so your sales tax revenues will be lower, and those are
the things that really hurt.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Amtrak resumed operations between New York and Boston today
after canceling services late yesterday. Metro-North commuter
trains resumed limited runs at midday after being halted by
wind-blown snow, while the Long Island Rail Road was closed,
according to the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  website.  Commuter Trains  NJ Transit, which carries about 170,000 commuters to and
from New York City daily, suspended bus service as of 8:30 p.m.
yesterday until tomorrow, according to a statement. Service
between Newark and New York was shut by signal problems and
other trains will run on modified schedules, the agency said.  Four hundred subway passengers were aboard an A train that
was stuck in Queens for more than six hours, until it could be
pushed to a station by another train. The Coney Island area was
without subway service.  As much as 29 inches of snow was reported in Bergen County,
New Jersey, while Union County had as much as 26, the Weather
Service said. Winds gusted to almost 70 mph in some areas.
Interstate 280 westbound, one of the main approaches to downtown
Newark, was almost deserted at 8 a.m. and acting Governor
 Stephen Sweeney  ordered state offices closed.  Home Depot Inc., the world’s largest home improvement
retailer, is shipping additional snow shovels, snow blowers and
ice melt to stores from North Carolina to Maine, said  Ron DeFeo ,
a company spokesman.  NYC Deploys  New York City will have 365 salt spreaders and 1,700
snowplows on the streets, and sanitation department employees
will work 12-hour shifts, Bloomberg said yesterday.  Boston and its suburbs may receive as much as 18 inches
from the storm, said Alan Dunham, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in Taunton, Massachusetts. Part of central
Massachusetts may receive as much as 22 inches.  U.S. carriers canceled at least 3,389 flights today, after
cutting more than 3,334 yesterday, as they waited for airports
to open in the Northeast, spokesmen said. Airlines in some cases
grounded flights ahead of the storm to keep planes from getting
stuck at closed facilities.  Delta Air Lines Inc. cut 1,000 flights systemwide, said
Trebor Banstetter, an airline spokesman.  “As the weather clears, we are aiming to resume normal
operations late Monday and into Tuesday across the East Coast,”
Banstetter said in an e-mail.  Continental Airlines and its regional partner carriers have
canceled 800 flights for today, while United grounded 175, said
 Mike Trevino , a spokesman for United Continental Holdings Inc.
The carrier expects to resume flights out of New York-area
airports and Boston in the afternoon, he said.  More Cancellations  Southwest Airlines Co. cut 188 flights today, primarily in
Norfolk and Boston, said  Brad Hawkins , a spokesman for the
Dallas-based carrier. It expects to resume flights in some
northeastern U.S. airports about mid-day, he said.  US Airways Group Inc. canceled 550 flights today, mostly
into and out of New York, Philadelphia and Boston, said  Jim Olson , a spokesman. Flights into Boston are set to resume after
11 a.m. today, he said.  American Airlines and its commuter carrier, American Eagle,
canceled 446 flights today, said Ed Martelle, a spokesman. The
two airlines cut 427 flights yesterday and American cut 40
scheduled for tomorrow.  JetBlue Airways Corp. scrubbed more than 300 flights today
after cutting 270 yesterday,  Mateo Lleras , a spokesman for the
New York-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  Unsafe for Crews  “Today we’re also dealing with closed runways, roads that
are barely passable and trains and buses that are not running,”
JetBlue told customers today in a company blog. “In many cases,
conditions are not safe for our crewmembers or our customers to
get to the airports, where it’s even possible.”  The storm also brought snow as far south as parts of
Jacksonville, Florida, AccuWeather said on its website.  The storm system began in the South over the Christmas
holiday. Four inches of snow fell in Chattanooga, Tennessee,
while 8 inches was reported in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.  Environment Canada  issued a blizzard warning yesterday for
northeastern New Brunswick and warned of heavy snow or rain in
the rest of the Maritime provinces today. Sixteen inches of snow
may fall in New Brunswick, and rain may accompany the snow in
Nova Scotia.  Winds may gust to 87 mph (140 kph) in eastern Nova Scotia
and 80 mph in western Newfoundland, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  