-- Soybeans, Corn Advance to 28-Month Highs on Argentina's Weather Concerns
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-27T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/soybeans-corn-advance-to-28-month-highs-on-argentina-s-weather-concerns.html
Soybeans and corn rose to 28-month
highs as adverse weather threatens crops in Argentina, the
world’s biggest shipper of animal feed and cooking oil made from
the oilseed.  Hot, dry weather in the next 10 days will increase stress
on developing soybean and corn crops in southern Argentina,
especially plants already reproducing,  World Weather Inc.  said
today in a report. A lack of rain in southern Brazil may
threaten some crops, while too much precipitation may increase
disease in northern fields, the private forecaster said.  “The threat of lower production in Argentina has increased
buying in soybeans and tempered selling in the corn market,”
said  Greg Grow , the director of agribusiness for Archer
Financial Services Inc. “The concern is that dryness may expand
into Brazil.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 24.5 cents, or 1.8
percent, to close at $13.845 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the sixth straight gain. Earlier, the
most-active contract reached $13.8975, the highest since Aug. 1,
2008. The oilseed has gained 53 percent since the end of June as
China’s demand surged and hot, dry weather reduced U.S. yields.  Corn futures for March delivery rose 1.25 cents, or 0.2
percent, to close at $6.1525 a bushel, the seventh straight
gain. Earlier, the price reached $6.19, the highest since Aug.
25, 2008. The commodity has climbed 48 percent this year as
rising demand for grain-based animal feed and fuel reduced U.S.
inventories.  Argentina Forecast  Soybean acreage in Argentina may fall to 18.5 million
hectares (45.7 million acres) in the current season from 19
million a year ago, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said last
week. Yields in Brazil’s southern Rio Grande do Sul state may be
cut by 20 percent as the La Nina weather pattern produces hot,
dry weather next year, Somar Meteorologia said Dec. 20.  The erosion of crop prospects in South America will spur
increasing Chinese demand for U.S. supplies, said  Jerry Gidel , a
market analyst at North American Risk Management Services Inc.
in Chicago.  China, the biggest consumer of soybeans, raised interest
rates for the second time since mid-October to counter
accelerating inflation.  “Soybeans are leading the rally on Chinese-demand
speculation,” Gidel said. “The best way for China to contain
inflation is to buy more soybeans and corn from the U.S.” to
increase inventories, he said.  The U.S. is the largest grower and exporter of both crops.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  