-- Spidey Flails in Taymor’s Tale of Spider Woman: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-12-27T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/spidey-green-goblin-flail-in-taymor-s-tale-of-spider-woman-jeremy-gerard.html
At 9:15 on Saturday night, Spider-
Man and Green Goblin finally got down, or rather up, to
business. They circled each other menacingly in wide, dizzying
swoops high above an audibly appreciative audience at Broadway’s
Foxwoods Theatre.  It wasn’t Gotterdammerung, but it was a thrill not unlike
riding the Cyclone roller coaster at Coney Island: An hour of
anticipation for about 90 seconds of exhilaration. At least we
didn’t have to stand in line. The many longueurs were
significantly offset by two key elements -- the visual design
that includes  George Tsypin’s  inventive, perspective-skewing
sets and  Donald Holder’s  fantastically variegated lighting, and
the ferociously athletic choreography of Daniel Ezralow.  I was attending “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,” the $65-
million show that has been previewing for a month and is
expecting critics to wait until Feb. 7 before weighing in. This,
while asking full price for tickets (my orchestra seat cost
$292.50 and it wasn’t from a scalper) and having begun
performances before a complete second act had even been written.  On the evidence of what I saw, the second act still has yet
to be completed. We might expect more of a show that has been in
the works for almost nine years.  The draw is that the score is by U2’s  Bono  and  The Edge  and
the staging is by  Julie Taymor , who turned a  Disney  cartoon,
“The Lion King,” into one of the most successful Broadway
musicals of all time. So think of this as an interim report from
the trenches of a show still struggling to find its way.  Hodge-Podge  What the team, which includes Glen Berger, co-author with
Taymor of the book, has put together so far is hardly the worst
show of all time. It is, however, an unfocused hodge-podge of
story-telling, myth-making and spectacle that comes up short in
every department. Can it be saved? Ask me on Feb. 8.  Perhaps the insurmountable issue is that Taymor seems less
interested in the  Marvel  comics hero than in some yarn-spinning
of her own invention. For the real subject of “Turn Off the
Dark” is a spider-woman. Arachne is the mortal of Greek
mythology who boasted of her weaving skills, only to earn the
wrath of the goddess Athena, who duly turned her into an
eternally web-spinning spider.  Marvel may have ignored Arachne, but Taymor brings her in
as a major character, weaving the costume that Peter Parker will
wear after being bitten by the mutant arachnid that transforms
him into a super-hero. (At the performance I saw, Arachne was
still being played by an understudy, T.V. Carpio, in the wake of
an injury to Natalie Mendoza. This was one of several serious
injuries suffered by cast members so far.)  ‘Geek’ Chorus  The feminist sensibility is further driven home by the
female member of the “Geek Chorus,” four dopey teens who are
creating the story we are watching (a scenario that is,
unfortunately, all too believable).  Inserting Arachne isn’t a bad idea, but it’s executed so
incoherently that we never develop much connection with Spidey
or his alter-ego, Parker, despite the friendly efforts of Reeve
Carney, who plays him. Carney has an appealing, rough-hewn voice
and a slouchy, tousled look. He’s well-matched by Jennifer
Damiano’s equally appealing Mary Jane Watson in an almost
completely thankless role (not so different from  Kirsten Dunst’s 
lot in the  Sony  film franchise).  Do we demand depth of character from cartoon roles? No, but
if mythmaking is Taymor’s goal (she has said frequently that she
sees the self-doubting but good-hearted Spider-Man as the
archetype of a uniquely American kind of super-hero), the show
needs to inspire more of an investment in its title character.
That will only come with some significant clarification of the
storyline.  Song Fragments  A few good songs would help, in which department the show
is sorely lacking. Like most rock stars,  Bono  and  The Edge 
haven’t a clue about writing for the theater. Many of the
numbers are fragments and none offers much psychological insight
into character. Tellingly, the ones that work best -- “Rise
Above” and “Deeply Furious” -- belong to Arachne, who also
gets the title song, a lame item indeed.  There’s not much humor in “Spider-Man,” and most of it is
visual. There are several platoons of outrageously costumed (by
the great Eiko Ishioka) super-villains, my favorite being
“Swiss Miss,” who, with her multiple whirling blades, looks
like the lovechild of Edward Scissorhands and  Grace Jones . I
also enjoyed Patrick Page’s bug-eyed performance as Spidey’s
nemesis, Green Goblin.  I asked the woman sitting next to me what had brought her
to “Spider-Man.” “I saw it on ‘60 Minutes,’” she said, “and
I thought, If it cost $65 million, I’d better see it. So I’ve
been watching to see where all the money went.  “Of course,” she added, “that’s not usually why I go to
the theater.”  At 213 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-800-982-2787;
 http://www.ticketmaster.com .  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Jeremy Gerard  in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 