-- State-Owned Companies Agree to $45 Billion of Projects in China's Guizhou
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T08:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/state-owned-companies-agree-to-45-billion-of-projects-in-china-s-guizhou.html
China’s southwestern province of
 Guizhou  signed almost 300 billion yuan ($45 billion) of
contracts with state-owned companies as part of government
efforts to spur economic growth in poorer inland regions.  China Petrochemical Corp.,  Aluminum Corporation of China
Ltd.  and China Railway Group Ltd. were among companies that
signed the 47 contracts, according to a statement published in
the People’s Daily newspaper today. All of the projects are
slated to begin before 2012, it said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to increase growth in the
nation’s central and western provinces as part of the
government’s bid to spur domestic consumption and to narrow the
income gap between inland regions and coastal cities such as
Shanghai and Guangzhou. Guizhou’s per capital gross domestic
product last year was one eighth that of  Shanghai’s .  “Guizhou is very rich in coal, bauxite resources,” said
Heng Kun, a Shanghai-based analyst at Essence Securities Co.
“Companies can enjoy much cheaper labor costs building plants
in the western provinces.”  Projects announced for Guizhou include a 52 billion yuan
petrochemical and coal chemical complex to be constructed by
China Petrochemical Corp., the parent of Hong Kong and Shanghai-
listed China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  Aluminum Base  Aluminum Corp of China Ltd.  also agreed to build a 17.5
billion yuan base that includes alumina and aluminum smelting
plants and a bauxite mine, according to the statement.  Bauxite is the ore refined to make alumina, a semi-finished
material to make aluminum, which is used in cars, aircrafts and
window frames.  The alumina plant is capable of producing 1 million tons a
year, the aluminum smelter has an output capacity of 400,000
tons a year, and the bauxite mine can produce 2 million tons,
according to the statement. The facilities will be located in
the city of Qingzhen, it said.  Chalco, as the company is also known, has another 1 million
ton alumina plant in production in the city of Zunyi, also in
Guizhou province.  Shen Hui, a spokesman from Beijing-based Chalco, couldn’t
confirm the project immediately when reached by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  