-- Sudan Referendum Commission Rejects Lawsuit Over Delays in Registration
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-27T14:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/sudan-referendum-commission-rejects-lawsuit-over-delays-in-registration.html
The commission organizing
Southern Sudan’s Jan. 9 independence referendum rejected a
lawsuit seeking to halt the vote on the grounds that the
committee violated the law, a spokesman said.  “The procedures were all correct, and all done within
the provisions of the law,” commission spokesman George
Maker said today in a telephone interview from Khartoum,
the capital. The commission issued its response to the
lawsuit yesterday, he said.  Sudan’s Constitutional Court has the power to issue a
final decision on the referendum process, he said. The vote
is the centerpiece of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended a
21-year civil war between the north and the oil-producing
south. About 2 million people died in the conflict and 4
million fled their homes.  President  Umar al-Bashir ’s government in Khartoum has
urged voters in the south to choose to remain part of
Sudan.  Any delay in the referendum risks “a return to
instability and violence,” Southern Sudan President Salva
Kiir said in September at the United Nations in New York.  The lawsuit was brought by “a group of Sudanese
citizens,” Maker said. “I believe it is politically
motivated.”  It said the commission violated the schedule provided
by the referendum law, passed by the national assembly in
December last year, and that two ethnic groups were not
allowed to register for the vote, he said.  Both tribes were allowed to register, Maker said.  Voters’ Role  It was “an impossibility” for the commission, which
was set up in June, to publish a final voters’ roll three
months ahead of the vote as required by the referendum law,
Maker said. The final list will be released Jan. 8, a day
before the vote.  The commission is aware of other constitutional
lawsuits against the process, “but we don’t know how many
there are,” Maker said.  Southern Sudanese overwhelmingly favor independence,
according to an Oct. 20 study by the Washington-based
National Democratic Institute, based on 63 focus groups
surveyed in 48 locations from Feb. 5 to March 16.  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is
sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to
the  BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  More than 3.5 million people registered in the
southern region to vote in the referendum, with final
figures yet to be released, Maker said. About 116,000
southerners in Sudan’s north and almost 60,000 living
abroad registered, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 