-- U.K. House Prices May Extend Drop in 2011 on `Weak' Demand, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/u-k-december-home-prices-fall-for-sixth-month-hometrack-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a sixth
month in December and will extend their decline in 2011 on
“weak” demand and tighter mortgage-lending conditions,
Hometrack Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home fell 0.4 percent from last
month, and prices will drop a further 2 percent in 2011, the
London-based property researcher said in an e-mailed report
today. A separate release showed the majority of U.K. retailers
predict a decline in  sales  next year.  The Hometrack report also showed sellers had to wait the
longest since April 2009 to shift their properties in December
and adds to forecasts for a weaker housing market in 2011. The
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said this month that
 prices  in the fourth quarter of 2011 may be 2 percent lower than
current levels, while  Rightmove Plc  sees sellers cutting  asking
prices  by as much as 5 percent.  “We expect house prices to remain under downward pressure
in the first half of 2011 on the back of weak demand,” Richard
Donnell, Hometrack’s director of research, said in the report.
However, “a tightening in supply together with continued low
levels of housing transactions will continue to act as something
of a support to pricing levels.”  Demand for homes, measured by the change in new buyers
registering with real-estate agents, fell 4.8 percent in
December from November, Hometrack said. That’s the biggest drop
since January 2009 and the sixth consecutive monthly decline.
The number of homes for sale fell 1.5 percent, the group said.  Demand Falls  Sellers achieved on average 92.1 percent of the asking
price during the month, the lowest proportion since August 2009,
while the time taken to sell increased to 10 weeks, Hometrack
said.  In 2010, average values fell 1.6 percent, Hometrack said.
The supply of homes for sale rose 24 percent, while demand fell
7 percent. The latter dropped 18 percent in the second half.  The housing market has weakened as banks tightened lending
criteria, causing the level of home loans to drop below half of
that seen at the peak of the property boom in 2007. U.K. banks
approved the fewest  mortgages  last month since March 2009 when
the economy was in the depths of the recession, the British
Bankers’ Association said on Dec. 23.  Adding to uncertainty among prospective homebuyers, the
government is implementing the biggest budget squeeze since
World War II, which will lead to public-job losses and may slow
the economic recovery.  “Lack of mortgage finance and falling consumer sentiment
are trends that will continue into 2011,” Hometrack said.  Weaker household confidence is also likely to affect retail
sales. The British Retail Consortium said today that almost two-
thirds of U.K.  retailers  expect business to worsen next year.
Eighteen percent predict an improvement, it said, citing a
survey of 17 companies accounting for 51 percent of the
country’s retailing by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  