-- U.S. Retailers’ Holiday Sales Jump 5.5% on Apparel
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-12-28T21:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/u-s-retailers-holiday-sales-jump-5-5-most-since-2005-researcher-says.html
U.S. retailers’ 2010 holiday sales
jumped 5.5 percent for the best performance in five years as
shoppers snapped up clothing and jewelry at  Macy’s Inc. ,  Tiffany
& Co.  and other stores.  Retail sales, excluding autos, rose to $584 billion from
Nov. 5 through Dec. 24, said MasterCard Advisors’  SpendingPulse ,
which measures retail sales by all payment forms. That compared
with a 4.1 percent gain a year earlier. The numbers include
sales made over the Web.  Consumers bought coats at chains such as Bloomingdale’s as
their confidence improved in recent months alongside the U.S.
job market. Their spending, which accounts for about 70 percent
of the American economy, is a positive sign heading into next
year,  Michael McNamara , a vice president at Purchase, New York-
based SpendingPulse, said yesterday.  “Increasing confidence has freed up more money from
savings,” McNamara said. “We pretty much put a bow on what has
been a positive season across a number of retail areas. We are
seeing this momentum building and being sustained.”  A Northeast storm that dumped more than a foot of snow in
areas from North Carolina to Massachusetts on Dec. 26 and Dec.
27 probably did little more than hamper store visits and won’t
dent the overall season’s sales, McNamara predicted.  Last-minute Christmas shoppers pushed sales at stores open
at least a year up 4.8 percent in the week ended Dec. 25, the
strongest year-over-year gain since April, the International
Council of Shopping Centers said today in a statement. The
numbers are based on the ICSC-Goldman Sachs Weekly Chain Store
Sales Index.  Retail Index  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index dropped 1.39
points to 509.09 at 4:02 p.m. New York time. The index has
gained 24 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent increase
for the S&P 500.  The ICSC, a New York-based trade group which tracks more
than 30 chains, said sales for the November-December period will
rise 4 percent or more. That compares with a previous forecast
of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  Apparel sales grew the fastest in the 50 days before
Christmas, with an 11 percent gain, more than 10 times the pace
of last year, SpendingPulse said.  Return of Men  Menswear sales figures from SpendingPulse underscored the
return of the male shopper this season. Menswear sales grew 11
percent, while women’s clothing gained 5.6 percent, it said. Men
planned to spend about 3 percent more on the holiday than they
did in 2009; women planned to spend about 1 percent less,
according to an October survey conducted by BIGresearch.  Sales of jewelry accelerated 8.4 percent, SpendingPulse
said, compared with 3.5 percent a year ago. Luxury sales rose
6.7 percent, compared with 0.9 percent a year ago. Consumer
electronics sales increased 1.2 percent after falling 4.6
percent a year earlier. Furniture climbed 3.8 percent after a
2.2 percent drop last year.  Tiffany,  the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry
retailer, forecast a 10 percent increase in sales in the
Americas this year after an 11 percent decline in the previous
12 months. Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department store
chain, on Dec. 2 boosted its fourth-quarter forecast for sales
at stores open at least a year to as much as 4.5 percent from a
previous maximum of 4 percent.  Americans thronged pop-up stores, which grew in number this
season. Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., for example, boosted the number of
holiday season temporary shops this year to 600, from 90 a year
ago, and hired 10,000 workers to operate them.  Less Discounting  U.S. consumers also shelled out more because many retailers
held the line on discounts after controlling inventories. This
helped boost profit margins during the biggest shopping period
of the year, according to Ken Perkins, president of Retail
Metrics Inc., and may mean better profits this quarter.  Buying increased after consumer confidence climbed in
December to the highest level in six months, as measured by the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment. Initial U.S. jobless claims fell in the week ended
Dec. 18 and the number of people on unemployment benefit rolls
dropped to a two-year low, adding to evidence the labor market
is improving.  Today, the Conference Board reported that confidence among
U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in December, raising questions
about whether spending could maintain its momentum into 2011.  Confidence “is certainly a long way from normal,” Brian
Bethune, chief U.S. financial economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts, said before that report. “I don’t
think we’re going to get back to normal for quite some time,
maybe 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 