-- Lula Says Rousseff Has His Support for Re-Election, Ruling Out 2014 Return
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-27T15:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/lula-says-rousseff-has-his-support-for-re-election-ruling-out-2014-return.html
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said he will support the re-election of President-elect
 Dilma Rousseff  when her first term ends, which would rule out
his own bid to return to the presidency in 2014.  “In 2014, I’m operating on the assumption she’ll be the
candidate,” Lula told journalists in Brasilia today. “It’s
just and right that if someone is doing a good job running the
government, that she should be the candidate. The only reason
she wouldn’t be a candidate is if she doesn’t want to run.”  Lula, who steps down this week with record 87 percent
approval rating, left the door open for a comeback in an
interview last week. Brazil’s constitution bars presidents from
serving three straight terms.  “I can’t say I won’t because I’m alive,” Lula said in a
Dec. 20 interview with RedeTV! Network, when asked if he would
consider running for president again. “We will work for Dilma
and for good government, and when the right time comes we will
see what will happen.”  Rousseff, Lula’s former cabinet chief, won 56 percent of
the votes in an Oct. 31 runoff against  Jose Serra , the former
governor of Sao Paulo state.  Support for Lula rose to a record 87 percent this month,
from 85 percent in September, according to an Ibope poll
published Dec. 16. The poll had a margin of error of two
percentage points.  Under Lula’s government, 21 million Brazilians were lifted
out of poverty, unemployment fell to a record low 5.7 percent in
November and the country’s  inflation  rate was reduced by more
than half.  Lula also told reporters today that  inflation  is not a
concern and expectations for price increases in 2011 are
“within target.”  Brazil’s annual inflation rate was 5.79 percent in the 12
months through mid-December, the fastest pace in 23 months.  “If the  target  is 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points, what’s the problem?” Lula said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  