-- China's Premier Says Measures to Curb Home Prices Weren't Well Implemented
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-27T03:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-27/wen-says-china-home-price-curbs-not-well-handled-more-land-to-be-released.html
China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
measures to curb the country’s property market weren’t well
implemented and reiterated his goal for  home prices  to return to
a “reasonable level” during his term that ends in 2012.  The government will also increase the supply of affordable
housing and introduce more measures to curb speculation, he said
on  National Radio  yesterday. China’s land sales are expected to
top 2 trillion yuan ($302 billion) this year from 1.5 trillion
yuan in 2009, the official People’s Daily reported today.  “We introduced about 15 measures this year but it appears
that they were not well-implemented,” Wen said. “I believe
that after some time, the home market will return to a
reasonable level with our efforts.”  China’s home prices rose for an 18th month in November
after measures including suspending mortgages for third-home
purchases and a pledge to speed up trials of property taxes to
restrain foreign capital and cool property prices. In October,
the People’s Bank of China increased interest rates for the
first time in three years and raised borrowing costs for a
second time on Dec. 25 to control  asset bubbles .  “The data itself clearly showed home price growth wasn’t
well controlled,” said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “But these were very
general promises. It’s hard to tell what the reasonable price
level is.”  More Effective  China may be more effective in controlling home prices in
2011 after as government shifts its monetary policy and with the
increase in affordable homes, Shen said.  China will start building 10 million units of government-
subsidized homes next year, almost doubled this year’s target of
5.8 million units, Wen said. The government completed 3.7
million of such homes this year, he said.  Wen also said some college graduates and workers should
solve their “housing problems” by renting instead of owning
properties.  The government also raised the  public housing fund  rate, or
the borrowing cost for housing loans from a state-run savings
fund, following the increase in the nation’s interest rates, the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said in a
statement on its site. Chinese residents and their employers
contribute to the fund for low-interest loans.  China’s property boom continues “unabated” and has even
picked up since the government enacted policies to cool
speculation,  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund manager who predicted
the market may crash as early as 2010, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview earlier this month. A lot of policies in
China are designed to be “skirted,” he said, reiterating his
view that China is on a “treadmill to hell.”  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Tomoko Yamazaki   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  