-- China to Let Banks Buy Stakes in Insurers to Cut Risk
-- Zhao Yidi
-- 2008-01-22T12:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-22/china-to-let-banks-buy-stakes-in-insurers-to-cut-risk-update2-.html

          
          
             China  will allow the nation's banks
to buy equity stakes in insurance companies to help expand their
sources of revenue and reduce risk, the banking and insurance
regulators said.  
 Cooperation between banks and insurers ``will improve and
strengthen financial supervision,'' help ``prevent and absorb
financial risk and increase the efficiency of cross-industry
supervision,'' the  China Banking Regulatory Commission  and  China
Insurance Regulatory Commission  said in a joint statement on
their Web sites today.  
 The regulators said investments would first be allowed
through a trial program, without giving further details. The
statements didn't give information on the size of the investment
banks will be allowed to make in insurance companies, or what
criteria lenders need to fulfill to take equity stakes.  
 China is letting state-owned banks expand into brokering,
fund management and insurance, winding back former premier Zhu Rongji's 1993 restrictions, to help them boost fee income and
compete against foreign rivals after the industry was fully
opened to global firms last year.  
 Share prices of Chinese financial institutions tumbled this
week, underscoring the need for firms to diversify their
businesses and spread risk.  
 Citic Securities Co. (600030) , Asia's largest brokerage by market
value, fell the most in more than seven months in today's
Shanghai trading as the stock market plunged.  China Life
Insurance Co. (2628) , the nation's largest, fell by a record 16 percent
to a five-month low on the Hong Kong bourse. Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co., China's second-biggest, lost 12 percent, its
biggest drop ever.  
 ``We are aggressively seeking'' approval to be among the
first Chinese banks to buy stakes in insurers,  Bank of
Communications ' Deputy General Manager of Investment Wu Jiajun
said on Jan. 16.  
 Yuan  Li, assistant to the chairman of the insurance
regulator, said in an interview on Jan. 12 that three to four
banks would be allowed to buy stakes in insurers under a pilot
program.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Lau in Beijing at 
 jlau22@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 papuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        