-- New York Regulator Drafting Rules for Bond Insurers
-- Erik Holm
-- 2008-01-22T17:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-22/new-york-regulator-drafting-rules-for-bond-insurers-update1-.html

          
          
             New York's insurance department is
drafting stronger regulations to stabilize the market for bond
insurers.  
 Insurance Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  said in a statement
today his office is drafting new regulations that would
``redefine'' the future activities of bond insurers. He said in
an interview last week he is examining whether to limit the
types of debt that can be guaranteed by bond insurers.  
 Bond insurers including the two largest,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and
 Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  are struggling to find fresh capital
and retain the AAA credit ratings that give them the financial
credibility to guarantee bonds issued by state and local
governments. Fitch Ratings last week cut Ambac's grade because
of plummeting values of credit-default swap contracts it sold
that guaranteed securities linked to subprime-mortgage bonds.  
 ``It is clearly time to develop new rules for the road,''
Dinallo said an e-mailed statement today. ``The Department is
engaged with insurers, banks, financial advisers, credit-rating
agencies, other regulators and government officials, and other
stakeholders in examining and developing measures to help
stabilize the market.''  
 Credit-default swaps are unregulated, privately negotiated
contracts traded between banks, securities firms, insurers,
hedge funds and other institutional investors to speculate on a
company's ability to repay debt. The market has grown to cover
$45.5 trillion in bonds and loans. They pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to honor debt agreements.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Holm in New York at 
 eholm2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        