-- Carbon backlash: coal divides corporations
-- By  Steve James
-- Sun Jul 1, 2007 2:28pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/01/businesspro-coal-backlash-dc-idUSN0143300420070701

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. coal mining companies, which for 
years have been branded the bad guys of global warming, are 
fighting back. 

  They are questioning not only the science but also the 
motives of some of the big-name corporations who have made 
well-publicized commitments to cleaning up their act.  At a recent industry conference in New York, Arch Coal 
( ACI.N ), one of America's "Big Four" producers, stressed the 
need for research and investment in "clean coal" technology 
that would allow the country to utilize its abundant reserves 
while weaning itself off foreign oil.  "If we want to address climate concerns, we need to invest 
more heavily in coal -- not less," Chief Executive Steven Leer 
told the McCloskey Coal USA conference.  "We cannot reduce foreign oil dependence without increased 
coal use," he said. "Debate can help advance clean-coal 
technology investment."  A more outspoken executive, Robert Murray, chairman and 
chief executive of Murray Energy Corp., warned the coal 
industry could collapse with the loss of 3 million to 4 million 
jobs if carbon dioxide emission controls are introduced.  He has even put his money where his mouth is by refusing to 
do business with Caterpillar Inc. ( CAT.N ) -- a manufacturer of 
the very mining equipment his company needs.  "There are a number of companies that are promoting 
constraints on coal use to achieve greater profits and/or 
competitive advantages," Murray said at the coal conference.  He branded more than 20 major corporations that make up the 
U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP) "un-American" for 
allying with environmental groups he calls "enemies of coal."  USCAP, which backs moves to cap carbon dioxide emissions, 
includes Caterpillar, General Electric Co. ( GE.N ), Dupont Co 
( DD.N ), AIG ( AIG.N ), General Motors ( GM.N ), Dow Chemical Co 
( DOW.N ), Johnson & Johnson ( JNJ.N ), Pepsico Inc. ( PEP.N ), Alcoa 
Inc. ( AA.N ) and ConocoPhillips ( COP.N ).  "I've been trying to get their attention," Murray said. 
"(CEO) Jeffrey Immelt of GE and I debated this for about 45 
minutes, but I didn't convince him of anything because he sells 
windmills ... he wants to see the global warming come along."  There was no immediate comment from GE. Caterpillar said 
that while it would not debate the science, it believes it is 
incumbent on industry to reduce emissions.  "Knowing this debate is going to get under way in earnest 
we're here to protect the interests of our customers, 
particularly coal," the truck and tractor maker said in a 
statement. "We can be more effective protecting those interests 
by supporting a single national mandate ..."  Congress is considering several bills that aim to fight 
global warming by putting tough limits on greenhouse gases. 
Supporters say the bills would provide incentives for companies 
to invest in technology to cut emissions.  Murray, whose private company produces about 30 million 
tons of coal per year, has formed the Coal-based Stakeholders 
Chief Executive Officers Group, comprising CEOs of railroads, 
some coal companies and utilities. It opposes so-called "cap 
and trade" regulations, arguing that caps on emissions will 
devastate the U.S. coal industry which fuels about 50 percent 
of the country's electricity generation.  Murray said he sent Caterpillar CEO Jim Owens a letter a 
few months ago telling him he would no longer do business with 
him - a decision he said will result in the loss of millions of 
dollars in business to Caterpillar.  He also pointed out power company Exelon Corp's ( EXC.N ) 
John Rowe, as "one of the biggest enemies of coal for decades 
because he's got nuclear."  Chicago-based Exelon, which is not a member of USCAP, said 
in a statement that Rowe is "a leading proponent of moderate 
and thoughtful climate change legislation that preserves all 
technological alternatives."  He co-chairs the National Commission on Energy Policy, 
which has advocated for a variety of technologies to address 
climate change, including clean coal and carbon sequestration. 
"And certainly John is an advocate for nuclear power."  USCAP includes six environmental groups, including the 
Natural Resources Defense Council, whose climate expert, David 
Hawkins said that getting big-name companies to join was 
crucial to achieving its aims.  "They put the issue on the radar screens of many more 
members of Congress who no longer see it as an issue that 
environmental groups are exaggerating.  "These companies validate the seriousness of the issue," he 
told Reuters. Hawkins said there was "a serious shot of 
legislation being enacted in this Congress and signed by this 
president."