-- ‘Best Job in the World’ Ads May Escalate French Strike
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-14T13:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-best-job-in-the-world-ads-campaign-may-escalate-french-ports-strike.html
Striking port workers in Marseille
don’t know how good they have it, a French business lobby says.  In full-page advertisements today in  Le Point  magazine and
in Les Echos newspaper earlier this week, the lobby lists why
operating a crane at the industrial port of Marseille is the
“Best Job in the World.” An 18-hour workweek, eight weeks of
vacation a year, a gross monthly salary of 4,000 euros ($5,581)
and guaranteed lifetime employment, it says.  The ad shows a white sandy beach with two cranes looming
behind lush vegetation, in a tongue-in-cheek play on a 2009
tourism campaign called the “Best Job In the World” by the
Australian state of Queensland seeking a caretaker for a
tropical island on the edge of the Great Barrier Reef.  “A great plan,” the ad says “Become a crane operator.”  Contesting the ads, the main port union yesterday plastered
the walls of the lobby’s office with 250 payslips showing
workers make less. The moves show a hardening of stances in the
18-day strike that has paralyzed oil terminals at Fos and
Lavera. The work stoppage has left more than 50 fuel tankers
unable to unload cargo, cutting crude supplies to refineries and
raising the specter of fuel shortages in  France .  The strike led by the CGT union may end up costing refiners
more than 30 million euros, and other industries and businesses
even more. It has cost the French chemicals industry 550 million
euros in lost revenue because bulk chemicals carriers aren’t
able to dock, according to the Union des Industries Chimiques.  ‘We’re Dying’  “Locally, people are scared of criticizing the CGT so we
decided that the only way to get our plight publicized is
through the national press,” said Nicolas Barthe, secretary
general of the lobby  Union pour les Entreprises des Bouches du
Rhone , which represents 10,000 mostly small businesses in the
area. “We are calling for government intervention to end this
strike because we are dying.”  The CGT union says the ads are false and misleading. Port
workers make up to 2,000 euros a month and work 35 hours a week,
it says. CGT representative Pascal Galeote, who is leading the
oil terminals strike, couldn’t be reached for comment. He has
said that talks with management at the port haven’t made
sufficient progress to end the strike.  The ads are “added provocation,” said Bernard Vivier,
director of Paris-based researcher Superior Institute of Labor.
“Local businesses are seeing clients fleeing and the port
sinking. The government may have to get involved.”  Wider Strike  The war of words is escalating an already tense situation.
Yesterday, the Socialist mayor of Marseille’s first district
called on the workers to end the strike.  “The strike by a few dozen port employees is causing a
serious problem for Marseille,” Patrick Mennucci said. Strikers
are “hurting the local economy already in difficulty.”  The strike to counter government efforts to make French
ports more efficient and a broader nationwide protest against
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s plan to increase the  retirement age 
to 62 years from 60 years have disrupted transport, schools,
power plants and businesses, and are threatening to cause lines
at gas stations.    Total SA ,  Europe ’s biggest refiner, is halting operations
at its French plants following the strike, increasing the
likelihood of fuel shortages.  With the ports strike, exports are being diverted through
Barcelona, Genoa and the  North Sea  at extra cost.  Letterhead  The strike by Fos and Lavera oil terminal workers as well
as cutbacks on shift work led by  the CGT  for all cargo is
related to a 2008 law that was aimed at making French harbors
more competitive. Under the plan, workers operating equipment
such as cranes were to be moved from state-owned ports to
privately run cargo handling companies in a bid to make shifts
more flexible and work more efficient.  The oil terminals at Marseille were effectively exempted
from the changes on the grounds that they are of “national
interest” and workers will remain employees of a planned unit
that will be 60 percent state-owned.  Under the plan, 220 oil terminal workers will be
transferred from the Marseille port authority to the unit, to be
called Fluxel. They will keep all of their benefits until
retirement and can come back to the port if the unit runs into
financial difficulty, according to an Oct. 1 port statement.  “All guarantees have been given” for an end to the
strike, Marseille port director Jean-Claude Terrier said Oct. 4
following talks with the union to end the conflict.  ‘Taken Hostage’  In its latest demands, the CGT wants payslips of workers at
to the new entity to be on the port authority’s letterhead,
while questioning the logic the change, the port authority said.    Claire Battedou , spokeswoman for the port, declined to
comment on the accuracy of the business lobby’s advertisement
about working conditions of crane operators at the port.  The French port of Marseille has a long history of labor
strife. The CGT shut down ports for 170 days to protest against
a 1992 law that moved dockworkers to non-state companies. More
recently, a strike at the oil terminals in March 2007 lasted 17
days and a 12-day strike in December 2008 cost refineries 26
million euros, according to  industry group UFIP .  “The port is being taken hostage,” French Junior
Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau said on LCI TV today.
“They are killing the port.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Tara Patel in Paris on
   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  