-- `Buy Orgy' for Funds Spurs Severstal, Alrosa Eurobond Sales: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-14T14:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-buy-orgy-for-funds-spurs-severstal-alrosa-eurobond-sales-russia-credit.html
Russian companies from OAO  Severstal 
to ZAO Alrosa are selling the most Eurobonds since before the
credit crisis as the economy’s rebound and  yields  that top
returns in the biggest emerging markets lure investors.  Severstal, the largest Russian steelmaker, diamond monopoly
Alrosa and shipper  OAO Sovcomflot  are meeting bondholders this
week and next amid plans to raise as much as $3 billion in the
best month for issuance by non-financial companies since July
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The borrowers are
stepping up sales after Russian banks sold more debt on overseas
markets this year than at any time since 1998, the data show.  Companies are lining up sales after investors poured a net
$39.5 billion into emerging-market bond funds, up from $1.6
billion in the first nine months of 2009, to bet on the fastest-
growing economies, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global. Russian corporate dollar debt yields an average 386
basis points over U.S. Treasuries versus 342 for Indian company
bonds and 314 for Brazilian, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  “It’s been a buy orgy for funds,” said  Sebastien de Prinsac , director of international fixed-income sales at Moscow-
based OAO Gazprombank, the financing arm of Russia’s largest
company. For companies, “it’s great time to print anything you
can,” he said.  Alrosa Sale  Companies are raising funds abroad after the average yield
on dollar-denominated Russian corporate bonds dropped to 5.26
percent from a high this year of 7.4 percent on May 25,
according to  JPMorgan indexes . Investors are becoming more
confident in the economic outlook for the world’s biggest energy
exporter after crude traded above $80 a barrel throughout
October, beating the $60 level Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin 
said the nation needs for a sustained recovery from last year’s
record 7.9 percent economic contraction.  Alrosa, based in Mirny, eastern Siberia, will begin
investor meetings on Oct. 19 to sell $1 billion of 10-year
dollar bonds, its first offering of foreign-currency debt since
2004, the company said this week. The yield on Alrosa’s $500
million of bonds due in November 2014 has dropped 270 basis
points, or 2.7 percentage points, to a record-low 5.7 percent
since May, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield was 115
basis points above OAO Sberbank’s 2015 dollar notes this week,
the narrowest spread since Russia’s largest lender sold its
securities in June.  Alrosa’s bonds are rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
three levels below investment grade and six short of Moscow-
based Sberbank’s A3.  Andrei Polyakov , a spokesman for Alrosa in
Moscow, declined to comment.  Severstal  Severstal, which met bondholders this week for its first
sale of dollar bonds since July 2008, plans to sell $1 billion
of seven-year bonds yielding about 6.75 percent, according to a
banker with knowledge of the transaction.  The Moscow-based company issued $1.25 billion of 9.75
percent notes due July 2013 in its most recent international
sale. The yield has tumbled to 17 basis points below the average
for Russian corporate dollar bonds, the biggest discount since
the bonds were sold in 2008, according to Bloomberg data. The
steelmaker’s notes were yielding 180 basis points more than the
average in May and 70 more in September, the data show.  Proceeds from the new Severstal bonds will be used to
repurchase some of its securities due in 2013 to lengthen the
average debt maturity,  Natalia Ivanova , a Moscow-based
spokeswoman for Severstal, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Severstal “is taking advantage of the favorable
Eurobond market conditions to proactively manage its debt
portfolio,” Ivanova said.  Debut Benchmark Offering  Sovcomflot, the state-owned shipping company based in
Moscow, is meeting investors in Europe and the U.S. this week
and next for its debut offering of benchmark dollar bonds,
according to a banker with knowledge of the transaction. Andrey
Kechashin, a spokesman in Moscow, declined to comment.  While Russian banks sold $4.4 billion of international
bonds in the third quarter, non-financial companies have been
absent from the market since June, when OAO Mobile TeleSystems,
Russia’s largest mobile-phone company, raised $750 million.
Gains in the company’s 8.625 percent five-year securities
reduced the yield to 6.110 percent yesterday, the lowest since
the sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It isn’t surprising that many companies are looking
toward western capital markets for capital raising,”  Joshua Tulgan , MTS’s director of investor relations in Moscow, said in
e-mailed comments. “Rates are low and the appetite is there for
good Russian issuers.”  Falling Yields  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 200 today,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. The difference compares
with 142 for debt of similarly rated  Mexico  and 178 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower than Russia’s Baa1 ranking by
Moody’s.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield
four basis points lower to 4.117 percent, the lowest since the
bonds were issued in April. The yield on the government’s ruble
notes due in August 2016 fell three basis points to 7.08
percent.  The  yield spread  on Russian bonds is 51 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps declined four basis points
to 128.5 today, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 0.5 basis point less
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps cost as much as 40 basis points less April 20.  Ruble Forwards  The ruble gained 0.1 percent to 30.0600 per dollar in
Moscow trading today. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, show the ruble at 30.2696 per dollar in
three months.  This month’s planned sales signal the biggest for Russian
corporate issuance since July 2008, when  OAO Transneft  and
Severstal led $4 billion of international bonds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowers have trimmed foreign-
currency debt sales since the global credit crisis, relying on
the domestic markets. Ruble bond sales have reached a record
595.6 billion rubles ($19.8 billion) this year, topping the
$16.5 billion of foreign-currency debt issuance, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “It is just the beginning,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-
market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “As the de-
leveraging takes place in the corporate sector, Russian blue
chips will get more comfortable coming back to the Eurobond
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  