-- `Currency Vigilantes' May Replace Bond Counterparts in QE Boom, M&G Says
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-14T16:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-currency-vigilantes-may-replace-bond-counterparts-in-qe-boom-m-g-says.html
Currency traders may supplant so-
called bond vigilantes credited with enforcing government fiscal
discipline in past decades as more nations ease their monetary
policies through asset purchases, M&G Investments said.  “If the authorities are actually or are merely threatening
to print money, then economic agents should act vigilantly and
avoid this new money by exchanging it for other currencies or
assets,” M&G money manager  Richard Woolnough  wrote in his  blog ,
which was posted on the company’s website today. “If the bond
vigilantes are dead, who will take their place? The sequel to
the bond vigilantes could well be the currency vigilantes.”  Bond investors are “overwhelmed” by government asset
purchases, or quantitative easing, leaving them unable to
perform their past vigilante role, wrote Woolnough, who is based
in London. Foreign-exchange vigilantes may sell the currencies
that are being printed, which could result in “explosive”
domestic inflation and no immediate benefit to a nation’s
economy from quantitative easing, Woolnough wrote.  The term bond vigilantes, which is also the title of
Woolnough’s blog, was coined in 1984 by economist  Edward Yardeni . He used it to refer to investors who pushed debt prices
down and yields higher when they thought governments’ budget
deficits were unsustainable.  The dollar fell below 81 yen for the first time since April
1995 today as a report showed initial jobless claims rose and
the trade deficit widened, adding to speculation the U.S. will
undertake more easing and eroding the value of the currency. The
dollar slipped 0.7 percent to $1.4061 against the euro as of
5:42 p.m. in London.  M&G, a unit of British insurer  Prudential Plc , managed more
than 178 billion pounds ($284.5 billion) through June, according
to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  