-- ‘How Dare You Take My Pension’ Heard as Cutbacks Loom (Correct)
-- B y   B e n   E l g i n   a n d   C h a d   T e r h u n e
-- 2010-10-20T20:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-how-dare-you-take-my-pension-becomes-refrain-as-voters-consider-cutbacks.html
If anyone fits the profile of a San
Francisco Democrat, it’s Jeff Adachi. In 2004, the elected
public defender volunteered to officiate at ceremonies for same-
sex couples during the city’s short-lived attempt to legalize
gay marriage.  This year, though Adachi is running unopposed, he is
drawing the scorn of fellow Democrats for embracing a new
controversy: He spearheaded a November ballot proposition that
would force city workers to pay more of their rising pension and
health-care costs.  “How dare you!” Leland Yee, a Democratic state senator
from San Francisco, thundered into the microphone as about 100
workers rallied Oct. 5 against the measure in California’s
fourth-largest city. “How dare you take it off the backs of
city workers!”  As public-pension costs soar -- U.S. taxpayers face as much
as $3 trillion in unfunded state retirement liabilities,
according to a study by the University of Rochester and
Northwestern University -- they’re igniting political fights
across the country. In California alone, voters in nine cities
and counties will decide next month whether to curb benefits for
current or retired police officers, firefighters, librarians and
janitors.  Beyond November, the question of government pensions
threatens to become a defining policy issue of the coming
decade, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 18 issue.  Social Contract  As politicians seek to reduce state and local budgets,
civil servants are trying to protect what they consider a social
contract with taxpayers whose retirement benefits are often far
less generous. State and local governments paid $3.04 per hour
toward each employee’s retirement as of 2007, according to U.S.
Labor Department data. Private employers paid 92 cents per hour.  More than 80 percent of the nation’s 27 million state and
local government workers and retirees are covered by public
pensions. The median state pension plan had enough money to pay
just 76 percent of its obligations as of Aug. 20, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pension plans covering some public workers in six cities --
Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, Jacksonville,
Florida, and St. Paul, Minnesota -- will run out of pension
money from existing assets by 2020, according to the Rochester
and Northwestern study published Oct. 12.  Four of the 77 funds in the study are sponsored by entities
separate from the city, Rauh said. These four are the Chicago
teachers and transit authority retirement plans, the Chicago
area water district’s plan, and the St. Paul school district’s
teachers retirement plan, according to Rauh.  “This is something that definitely wasn’t on voters’ minds
a decade ago,” said Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth
University Polling Institute in West Long Branch, New Jersey.
“But the bills that weren’t paid a decade ago are coming due.”  Unions Slam ‘Deadbeats’  Organized labor is battling back. The Service Employees
International Union is dispatching members to town hall meetings
and handing out campaign literature that says seven out of 10
retired public employees receive less than $30,000 a year in
pension benefits. The American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees is lashing out at politicians as
“deadbeats” for wanting to walk away from promised pensions.  “This is deferred compensation that is owed to workers,”
said Steven Kreisberg, director of collective bargaining for the
1.6 million-member AFSCME, based in Washington. “Some of the
politicians demagoguing on this issue are losing sight of their
moral and legal responsibility.”  The unions’ biggest ally could be the courts. Retirement
benefits in most states are protected by constitutional
provisions or state common law, so it’s difficult to reduce the
size of the payouts to current or retired workers.  Pensioner Lawsuits  Pensioners filed lawsuits this year against Colorado,
Minnesota and South Dakota when the three states passed
legislation to cut annual cost-of-living increases for retired
workers, some of whom aren’t covered by Social Security. If
unions win their argument that states must confine pension
rollbacks to future hires, it will severely limit any savings.  Unions expect more governments to pursue hybrid plans that
incorporate a 401(k)-style account alongside the traditional
pension, said AFSCME’s Kreisberg. Many public-sector employees
can’t strike and have their benefits set through legislation
rather than at the bargaining table, he said.  While unions once counted on Democrats for support, some
prominent party nominees such as gubernatorial candidates Jerry
Brown in California and Andrew Cuomo in New York are vowing to
get tough on pensions.  The fight has turned nasty in California, where Brown’s
opponent, Republican Meg Whitman, is proposing to exempt public-
safety workers from her proposal to convert state employees to
401(k)-style retirement plans. That prompted a Brown associate,
who suspected Whitman of cutting a backroom deal with a police
union for an endorsement, to call her a “whore” in a recording
posted online Oct. 7 by the Los Angeles Times.  Police Endorsement  Darrel Ng, a spokesman for Whitman, said her pension-
overhaul proposal had been announced five months before she won
the endorsement of the Los Angeles Police Protective League and
that her plan would do more than Brown’s to curb costs. Brown
apologized to Whitman in a televised debate Oct. 12.  Already this year, lawmakers in 16 states increased
individual contributions for government employees or cut
benefits for new hires. Nine states raised the number of years
that new hires must work to earn full retirement, including
Missouri and Illinois, which boosted to 67 the age at which they
can draw maximum benefits.  California’s new budget, signed by Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger on Oct. 8, requires current state workers to pay
more toward their retirement funds and rolls back pension
benefits for new hires to pre-1999 levels.  YouTube Sensation  In New Jersey, where first-term Republican Governor Chris
Christie has become a YouTube sensation with his campaign to
reduce benefits for teachers and other public employees, there
is no statewide race this fall. Instead, unions have thrown
their money behind the campaign of Democratic State
Assemblywoman Linda Greenstein. She is trying next month to
unseat Republican Senator Tom Goodwin, whom Christie is backing
in the district that includes suburbs of the state capital of
Trenton and thousands of state workers.  “I think it’s an indication of the importance of public
employee unions in this election,” said Brigid Harrison, a
political analyst from Montclair State University.  Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican who
will chair the House oversight committee if his party regains
control in November, is drafting a report about underfunded
state and local pension plans. Issa is concerned “that calls
for a federal bailout to avert a fiscal disaster for state and
local governments may be just over the horizon if the situation
is not addressed,” said Kurt Bardella, a spokesman.  Federal Target  Issa’s fellow congressional Republican, House Minority Whip
Eric Cantor, has proposed reducing federal pension payouts to
reflect private-sector practices and eliminating early
retirement benefits before age 62. Cantor touted the ideas in
July in an online contest dubbed YouCut, which House Republicans
created to let people vote on government spending they’d like to
see eliminated.  Fueled by reports of annual retirement payouts exceeding
$100,000, public sentiment is hostile to government workers’
benefits. Seventy-six percent of Californians polled in June
said public pension spending was a big problem or “somewhat of
a problem,” according to the Pew Center on the States and the
Public Policy Institute of California. In the same poll in
Illinois, 83 percent answered that way. In New York, it was 79
percent.  ‘Pension Envy’  “Pension envy” among private-sector workers is
justifiable in some cases, but it goes too far, said Alicia
Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at
Boston College. The average annual benefit for public retirees
was $22,780 in 2008, according to the center’s study of the 126
largest public retirement plans.  “It’s surprising our teachers, police officers and
firefighters are public enemy No. 1,” Munnell said.  San Francisco government employees such as Yuan Zhu, who
makes $38,000 a year as a food-service worker at Laguna Honda
hospital, say the city is trying to balance its books on their
families’ backs. Under Adachi’s ballot measure, called
Proposition B, Zhu’s out-of-pocket cost for his family’s medical
coverage would increase by $2,639 a year.  “We are not the ones making over $100,000 per year,” said
Zhu, 48. “That’s a lot of money for us to pay.”  The San Francisco Employees’ Retirement System’s assets
covered 93 percent of its promised obligations as of June 2010,
said Gary Amelio, its executive director. Economists Joshua Rauh
of the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern and Robert
Novy-Marx of the University of Rochester disagree.  Different Assumptions  Their study found that the system may have only enough
funds to cover 59 percent of the promises it has made to workers
and retirees. The study based its conclusions on more
conservative assumptions than the 7.75 percent rate of asset
returns the pension projects.  With taxpayers on the hook for unfunded costs -- projected
to double to $752 million by 2015, according to the city
controller -- Adachi is proposing to require that workers pay
more for benefits already promised.  Proposition B would require that existing public employees
pay 9 percent to 10 percent of their salaries toward their
retirement benefits; the city currently makes the entire
contribution for almost half its workers, according to a June
report from San Francisco’s civil grand jury, which investigates
government operations.  Progressive Dilemma  Adachi, 51, who is running unopposed in November, said his
budget as public defender has been cut for five consecutive
years. His office turned down more than 1,000 cases last year
because of insufficient funding, he said. He worries that
shuttered drug-treatment centers, canceled after-school programs
and other cuts to social services will feed crime in San
Francisco.  “This is a progressive issue,” said Adachi, whose ballot
measure has won the support of former San Francisco Mayor Willie
Brown, a Democrat. “All of the progressive programs that we
fought so hard for over the years are getting crowded out by
rising pension costs.”  Almost a quarter of San Francisco’s retired firefighters
receive $100,000 or more, according to the civil grand jury
report. Firefighters routinely receive pay raises of 10 percent
or more in their last year on the job, boosting their benefits
over the rest of their lives, said the report, titled “Pension
Tsunami.”  Thomas O’Connor, president of the San Francisco
firefighters union, said his members have given back $21 million
in pay raises to help the city balance its latest budget.  Ballot Reckoning  For voters -- and the officials they elect -- such issues
will come to a head in next month’s elections. In California,
Michael Moritz, a managing partner at venture firm Sequoia
Capital in Menlo Park, said he’s hoping that Proposition B will
show the country a solution. He and his wife, novelist Harriet
Heyman, contributed $245,000 to the proposition campaign.  “If we could get this done in a city as liberal and
progressive as San Francisco,” he said, “perhaps it would send
a message and set an example for other cities and states across
the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Elgin in San Francisco at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net 
Chad Terhune in Atlanta at 
 cterhune@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  