-- `Impossible' Paladino Cuts May Be Inevitable to Close New York's Deficit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-14T19:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-impossible-paladino-cuts-may-be-inevitable-to-close-new-york-s-deficit.html
One of  Carl Paladino’s  prescriptions
for  New York’s  chronic budget deficits, spending cuts of at
least $7 billion in his first year as governor, may be imposed
whether or not the underdog Republican candidate wins in
November.  The nation’s third most-populous state faces a projected
$8.2 billion  gap  next year, only three months after legislators
closed a $9.2 billion deficit for the current fiscal year.
Paladino’s Democratic opponent, Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo ,
also says reduced spending is needed.  Paladino, 64, a Buffalo property developer and Tea Party
supporter, says he’ll veto spending increases and force
lawmakers to choose between reduced outlays or New York’s first-
ever government shutdown. Cuomo, 52, who  opened  his campaign by
 calling  for a cap on expenditures and freezing taxes, says he’s
building a coalition to “get the state’s fiscal house in
order.” He hasn’t said how much he would lower spending.  “We’re going to cut taxes every year during my
administration,” Paladino said in an interview on CNBC today.
“We’re going to cut spending every year during my
administration.”  Whoever wins the contest “is going to have to make cuts of
the magnitude Paladino describes, or raise taxes,” said  E.J. McMahon , director of the Albany-based  Empire Center for New York
State Policy , which advocates less government spending.  Talking Tough  “We’re not just going to tweak government, we’re going to
change the culture,” Paladino told the  Business Council of New
York State  in a Sept. 29 speech in the Lake George resort town
of Bolton Landing. If he’s elected, non-unionized state workers
can expect an immediate 10 percent pay cut “to illustrate to
unions what we’re expecting” when their contracts expire in
April, he said. He has also targeted Medicaid and school
spending.  The other side of Paladino’s program -- 10 percent cuts in
personal-income and business taxes -- may enlarge future
deficits, and, under state law, can’t be forced on lawmakers the
same way as spending reductions.  “Everybody talks about what they’re going to do when they
get into the executive branch, then when they get there the
Legislature shuts them down,” said Governor  David Paterson , 56,
a Democrat and 20-year senator who isn’t on the Nov. 2 ballot.  Paterson forced $5.3 billion of spending cuts through a
reluctant Legislature earlier this year by threatening a
government shutdown and using a first-ever series of emergency
spending bills. Paterson also vetoed outlays that exceeded his
plan and withheld lawmakers’ paychecks. Even with those actions,
the budget wasn’t enacted until four months into the fiscal year
that began in April.  Shutdown Threat  Paladino, who trailed Cuomo 37 percent to 55 percent in an
Oct. 1-5 survey of likely voters by the  Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute , said in an Oct. 5 speech in New York that he
will threaten a shutdown March 31. To prevent the Legislature
from overriding his vetoes, he would count on Republicans in the
62-member state Senate. The minority party now holds 29 seats,
enough to deny Democrats the needed two-thirds majority.  Pushing through  tax cuts  is harder, because a governor
can’t reduce levies without lawmakers’ approval and can’t use a
veto to override a “no” vote on such reductions. Paladino has
promised to block any extension of higher personal income-tax
rates that are set to expire at the end of 2011.  Cuomo, the son of former Democratic Governor  Mario Cuomo ,
has proposed capping local property-tax increases, limiting
state spending growth to the rate of inflation and freezing
state taxes.  $7 Billion Cuts  Josh Vlasto , Cuomo’s spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mails
and a telephone call asking whether the attorney general plans
to extend expiring income-tax rates if he wins.  Paladino’s description of his spending plan has varied. In
early statements and on his  website , the Republican said 20
percent would be slashed in his first year. In the Sept. 29
speech, he called for two annual reductions of $7 billion in
spending from the state’s general fund, its main account.  The state’s general fund spending is estimated at $66
billion next year, and Paladino would lower it to $59 billion,
or $5.5 billion more than  projected  this year.  Michael Caputo, Paladino’s campaign manager and spokesman,
didn’t respond to telephoned and e-mailed requests for comment.  In the bond market, New York’s debt  ratings  were unscathed
by the four-month-late budget, with general-obligation bonds
graded third-highest at Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service. The
state sold appropriations-backed bonds due January 2015 last
month at 1.42 percent, down 71 hundredths of a percentage point
or 33 percent, from a sale in May.  ‘Too Early’  “It’s too early for the market to be making any judgments
about the candidates’ possible impact on state debt,” said
 Richard Larkin , a senior vice president in Iselin, New Jersey,
for Herbert J. Sims & Co., a securities firm.  The governor’s veto power won’t be enough to reach all the
reductions Paladino has proposed, Democrats say.  Paladino’s goal of saving $10 billion in state and local
Medicaid expenses “is almost certainly impossible to achieve”
while complying with health-care laws, according to Paterson.
Cutting $20 billion of combined federal, state and local
spending, as Paladino has  proposed , may result in the closing of
dozens of hospitals and nursing homes, Paterson  said.   Optional  Medicaid services  that Paladino would eliminate,
such as paying for eyeglasses, “can’t be zeroed out without
legislative approval,” said Melissa Mansfield, a spokeswoman
for Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Democrat from Manhattan.  On Oct. 5, the candidate called Silver “a criminal,”
saying he protected insurers to benefit his private law
practice. “I will not get into the gutter with Mr. Paladino,
nor dignify his comments with a response,” Silver said after
the remark.  $14.2 Billion  Reducing health-care payment rates has drawn fire from
service providers, whether proposed by Democrats or Republicans.
Payment rates aren’t the primary problem, said William Van
Slyke, a spokesman for the  Healthcare Association of New York ,
an Albany-based advocacy group for hospitals and nursing homes.
Medicaid enrollment surged 56 percent in New York from 2000 to
2008, while spending jumped 64 percent, he said.  The state’s Medicaid expenses are  projected  to reach $14.2
billion this year, along with $7.3 billion in spending by local
governments and $31.1 billion by the federal government.  State and local education spending, 67 percent above the
national average per pupil, is another Paladino target.  “My aim is to bring  school aid , school spending in line
with the national median,” he said in the Sept. 29 speech,
without saying how much he would cut in his first budget.  ‘Lack of Depth’  It would take a 40 percent cut in New York’s per-pupil
spending, which led the nation at $17,173 in the school year
ended 2008, to reduce it to the national average of $10,259 in
2008, according to U.S. Census  data .  “That’s impossible,” said Richard Iannuzzi, president of
 New York State United Teachers , a union representing 525,000
current or retired school workers. Even a 20 percent cut in
state aid would “significantly harm children” and “shows a
serious lack of depth on the candidate’s part,” he said.  Paladino’s agenda includes many items, in addition to tax
cuts, where his veto power won’t be enough.  Caps  on local and
state government spending have been proposed often and have
never passed the Legislature, where Paladino says “crooks”
practice “blatant corruption,” keeping state expenses high.  “Government is a lot more complicated than renovating a
building,” said  Jerry Kremer , a Democrat and former head of the
 Assembly’s  Ways and Means Committee. “There are things a
governor might want, like changes in programs or taxes, that
need legislative approval. If the relationship is poisoned, a
lot might not get done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  