-- `Willy the Wizard' Can Continue U.K. Court Duel Over `Harry Potter' Novels
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-14T11:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/-willy-the-wizard-can-continue-u-k-court-duel-over-harry-potter-novels.html
J.K. Rowling, the world’s richest
author, lost a bid to dismiss a U.K. lawsuit over claims that
parts of her “Harry Potter” wizard novels were copied from an
earlier book about “Willy the Wizard.”  While Justice  David Kitchin  at the High Court in London
declined to dismiss the case, he said that it was “improbable”
the lawsuit would ultimately succeed. He said he plans to issue
an order forcing the estate of “Willy the Wizard” author
Adrian Jacobs to meet certain conditions as part of the case if
it continues.  Jacobs’s estate claims in the suit that part of the 1987
book, “The Adventures of Willy the Wizard” was copied by
Rowling. A year of wizard contests in the book was similar to a
central theme of “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,” the
estate says.  Schillings, Rowling’s law firm, said she “welcomes” the
ruling in a statement distributed at the court. Rowling said
that the claims are “not only unfounded, but absurd,”
according to the statement.  Jacobs’s estate claims that Christopher Little, who manages
the Harry Potter brand worldwide, was given a copy of “Willy
the Wizard,” which he passed on to Rowling eight years later.  Kitchin said in his ruling that “it is inherently
improbable that Mr. Little would have thought it worth giving a
copy to Ms. Rowling some eight years later.”  Kitchin said he plans to make a so-called conditional order
-- a court order making the estate agree to take specified steps
such as paying a security if the case is continued. He said the
conditions will be worked out at another hearing.  A spokesman for the law firm DMH Stallard LLP, which is
representing the author’s estate in the suit, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment. A similar lawsuit was
filed in New York in July.  The U.K. case is GLC 72/10 Allen v Bloomsbury Publishing
Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 