-- Abu Dhabi Shares Rise to 5-Month High as Etisalat Gains on Zain, Outlook
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-14T12:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/abu-dhabi-shares-rise-to-5-month-high-as-etisalat-gains-on-zain-outlook.html
Abu Dhabi shares increased to the
highest level in almost five months after Etisalat is said to
have started talks with banks to finance its purchase of a stake
in Kuwait’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co.   Etisalat, or  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , climbed to
the highest since March. The company has the biggest weighting
on Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index , which rose 0.5 percent to
2,758.67 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate. The gauge increased
2.7 percent this week and closed at the highest since May 20.
 Dana Gas PJSC , the U.A.E. energy company, gained the most in
four weeks.  Etisalat buying a stake in Zain “will have a positive
impact on its financial statement” and third-quarter earnings
“are expected to be good,” said  Kifah Maharmeh , general manager
at Al Dar Shares & Bonds Brokerage in Abu Dhabi.  The company on Sept. 30 offered 1.7 Kuwaiti dinars ($6) a
share for a 46 percent stake in Mobile Telecommunications, the
mobile-phone company known as Zain. Etisalat plans to borrow
more than $9 billion to buy the shares, three bankers familiar
with the deal said yesterday.  The Abu Dhabi-based telecommunications company is expected
to report third-quarter profit of 2.02 billion dirhams ($550
million), according to mean estimate of two analysts in a
Bloomberg  survey.  The results may be reported next week. The
shares advanced for a fourth day, gaining 1.4 percent to 11.25
dirhams.  Dana Gas rose 2.4 percent to 85 fils.  Dubai’s  gauge  retreated 0.7 percent and the  Kuwait SE Price
Index  dropped 0.9 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  fell 1 percent and
Qatar’s  QE Index  slipped 0.1 percent. Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  was
little changed. Saudi Arabia’s market was closed for the
weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  