-- Maersk Oil Looks to Greenland, Brazil, Angola to Revive Output
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-14T07:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/maersk-oil-looking-to-angola-greenland-brazil-to-boost-production-growth.html
Maersk Oil, the Nordic region’s
second-largest producer, is examining opportunities in  Greenland , the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil and Angola to revive
production growth.  “We hope that we’ll have production in at least two or
three new countries,” Chief Executive Officer Jakob Thomasen
said in an interview in London. “It’s a very lively market” in
Brazil.  Maersk, a unit of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, Denmark’s
biggest company, is investing about $850 million to drill about
20 exploration wells a year and pumped about 700,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day in 2009, according to its  Web Site . That’s
down from a peak of just under 800,000 barrels a day in 2007.  The Danish company is working with  Exxon Mobil Corp .,  Chevron Corp . and  Hess Corp . to tap fields in the  Gulf of
Mexico .  “We are interested in Greenland,” Thomasen added. “We
are expanding into new areas, in selected countries, such as
Angola.” In Brazil, “we are looking for more options.”  The Copenhagen-based explorer has invested more than $3.3
billion in oil and gas fields and at least $6 billion on
developing a project in Qatar. Maersk has been in discussions
with Qatar Petroleum, a state-owned energy company, to expand
output at the  offshore Block 5  in the Persian Gulf, which is
currently pumping about 300,000 barrels a day.  ‘Maximizing Recovery’  “Our strategy is to work on maximizing recovery from our
existing assets, and then we have an exploration pipeline,”
Thomasen said. At the same time, “we are looking for
opportunities for possible acquisitions in a very selective
way,” the CEO said, without elaborating.  In March, Maersk agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in the
 BM-C-34 license off the coast of Brazil  from  Devon Energy Corp .,
which had also  agreed  to sell a stake in the permit to  BP Plc .
Both transactions still require the approval of the Brazilian
authorities, Thomasen said.  Maersk found the Chissonga field in Block 16 offshore
Angola last year, its first deepwater discovery as an operator.  “We like to work in challenging places,” Thomasen said.    Statoil ASA , based in Stavanger, Norway, is the Nordic
region’s biggest oil and gas explorer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net 
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  