-- African Barrick Suffers Record Fall as Criminal Gangs Hit Mine in Tanzania
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2010-10-14T16:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/african-barrick-uncovers-organized-fuel-theft-at-buzwagi-mine-in-tanzania.html
African Barrick Gold Plc , the
biggest producer of the metal listed in London, fell by a record
after criminal gangs “widely infiltrated” a mine in Tanzania,
forcing the company to suspend 60 workers and delay production.  African Barrick slumped 9.5 percent, the steepest drop
since the company listed on March 19. Full-year output at the
Buzwagi mine will be cut by 30,000 ounces as the company acts
against the criminals organizing to steal fuel, it said. Buzwagi
produced 48,000 ounces in the second quarter.  “We have recently uncovered an organized and systematic
onsite fuel theft, which has impacted production at Buzwagi,”
the company said in a statement today. “Investigations into
this matter indicate that criminal fuel theft syndicates have
widely infiltrated our mining department.”  The company  slid  59.5 pence to 564 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of trading in London.  African Barrick’s overall production this year is now
expected to be comparable to 2009’s level of 716,000 ounces,
compared with prior expectations for 750,000-800,000 ounces, as
the company acts to address the organized fuel theft. The
company said production in future years won’t be affected.  The cut follows an earlier downgrade in July when African
Barrick lowered its full-year target from a previous range of
800,000 to 850,000 ounces because of delays at Buzwagi.  Problematic Ramp Up  “The ramp up at Buzwagi has been problematic for African
Barrick and has represented the majority of the production
shortfall since listing,”  Tim Dudley , an analyst at Collins
Stewart Plc, wrote in a note to investors today. “With a lower
target to achieve, maybe the group has now set a base to move
forward and demonstrate an ability to deliver.”  While African Barrick, based in London, has seconded in
about 20 workers to Buzwagi and is training a new team to help
restore operations, the mining of higher-grade ore has been
delayed, with low-grade stockpiles being processed, according to
the statement. Delays in replacing staff prevented the company
from recovering lost output by the end of the year, it said.  The suspended employees represent about 40 percent of the
company’s mining department at Buzwagi, it added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Biesheuvel  in London 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 