-- Ahmadinejad Visit to South Lebanon Villages Woos Shiites, Alarms Israel
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-14T16:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ahmadinejad-visit-to-south-lebanon-villages-woos-shiites-alarms-israel.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  visited villages near the Israeli border on the
second day of his Lebanon trip, wooing the Arab country’s Shiite
Muslim community while alarming Israel.  Ahmadinejad visited Bint Jbeil in southern Lebanon, after
yesterday attending a Beirut rally organized by the Iranian-
backed Shiite Hezbollah movement, a member of Lebanon’s national
unity government. He also held talks with Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  and Parliament Speaker  Nabih Berri , a Hezbollah ally.  The trip to the south, which was occupied by the Israeli
military between 1982 and 2000, has been criticized by Israel
and the U.S. The region is a bedrock of support for Hezbollah,
which is mounting a growing challenge to the U.S.-backed Hariri
almost a year after joining his coalition.  Thousands of supporters, waving the yellow flag of
Hezbollah along with Iranian and Lebanese flags, welcomed
Ahmadinejad at a rally in Bint Jbeil, the site of intense
fighting between Hezbollah fighters and Israeli soldiers during
their monthlong war in 2006.  “All nations are thankful to your resistance, the symbol
of the victory of the Lebanese nation,” Ahmadinejad told the
crowd. “Occupied Palestine will be liberated because of the
strength and faith of the resistance.”  ‘Provocative Message’  As well as boosting Hezbollah, Ahmadinejad’s trip “is a
slap in the face to the U.S. and a provocative message to
Israel,” said  Amal Saad-Ghorayeb , author of a forthcoming book,
“The Iran Connection: The Alliance with Syria, Hezbollah and
Hamas.” “It’s provocative because Ahmadinejad is considered
synonymous with the call for the eradication of Israel.”  Ahmadinejad’s next stop was in Qana, where dozens of
civilians were killed by Israeli attacks in 1996 and 2006.
Israel expressed regret for the deaths there in both cases and
blamed Hezbollah for provoking the conflicts and using civilians
as a human shield.  Amos Gilad , an official at Israel’s Defense Ministry, told
Israel Radio today that “Iran wants to turn Lebanon into a
branch of Iran,” and said the visit “proves Lebanon’s
orientation toward Iran, especially southern Lebanon.”  ‘Illegitimate State’  Hezbollah leader  Hassan Nasrallah , speaking via video link
for security reasons at last night’s rally, said that “the West
can’t put up with the Iranian president because he speaks the
truth and declares that Israel is an illegitimate state and must
disappear.”  Hezbollah, backed by Syria as well as Shiite-ruled Iran, is
classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel.
The group has defied a United Nations Security Council
resolution calling for disarmament, saying it needs to defend
the country from Israel, which invaded in 1978, 1982 and 2006.
It won popularity in Lebanon by helping force Israel’s army to
withdraw from the country in 2000, ending an 18-year occupation.  The group has clashed with Hariri over a UN probe into the
2005 killing of the premier’s father,  Rafiq Hariri , amid
speculation members of Hezbollah may be among those indicted.
Hezbollah says the tribunal is biased, has been misled by
“false witnesses,” and should be abolished.  The dispute is undermining Lebanon’s efforts to pass budget
plans through parliament, as Hezbollah threatens to block funds
allocated for the UN probe. The International Monetary Fund in a
 report  last week urged the country to tighten fiscal policy and
avoid “overheating” an economy that has defied the global
crisis. Gross domestic product increased 9 percent in 2009 and
the IMF forecast growth of at least 8 percent this year.  Domestic Critics  Ahmadinejad’s visit to southern Lebanon comes as he faces
criticism from both conservatives and reformists in Iran, said
Robert Powell, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in
New York.  His administration has cracked down on opposition groups
who staged protests when the president was re-elected last year,
saying the vote was rigged. Ahmadinejad also faces economic
challenges, with growth slowing due to weak domestic demand
according to the IMF, and international sanctions in response to
Iran’s nuclear ambitions restricting imports.  “He has traveled to one of the very few places in the
region where he is always likely to get a warm welcome,” Powell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 