-- AIG $2 Billion Treasury Backstop Shows Rating Firms' Influence
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-15T13:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/aig-s-2-billion-treasury-backstop-shows-rating-firm-influence-on-bailout.html
American International Group Inc. ’s
plan to exit U.S. ownership includes a new $2 billion backstop
from the Treasury Department after credit raters said the
company may need  emergency capital  as it regains independence.  The funds will be available when the government converts
its  preferred stake  into common stock and can be drawn through
March 2012 or until AIG sells at least $2 billion in shares, the
New York-based insurer said in a Sept. 30 filing. AIG must
maintain investment-grade  ratings  to execute its plan, which
hinges on selling bonds and stock to private investors as the
government withdraws support.  The 2008 bailout of AIG has been revised four times,
swelling to $182.3 billion, in part to prevent rating downgrades
that would trigger payments from AIG on mortgage-linked
derivative contracts and hurt the firm’s ability to attract
insurance buyers. Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and
Standard & Poor’s have been criticized by lawmakers for giving
top grades to housing-linked bonds before that market collapsed.  “By doing things like demanding more capital, rating firms
have become the de facto regulator of AIG,” said  Jonathan Hatcher , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in New York and a former
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. bank examiner. “This is very
much a negotiation between AIG, the government and the rating
agencies, and no one in that room wants  egg  on their face.”  ‘Something Adverse’  The facility was created to address rating firms’ concerns
that AIG could be pressed for cash after the U.S. withdrawal
begins in the first quarter, said two people with knowledge of
the plan. AIG will owe a 5 percent dividend to Treasury on the
funds, which are carved out of an existing bailout line. AIG
paid 10 percent on Treasury’s initial preferred stake and was
then permitted to skip dividends as the bailout was revised.  “What do you do if  something adverse  were to happen in
between the time the government winds down its support and the
company fully completes its restructuring plan?” said  Julie Burke , managing director at Fitch. Treasury’s commitment “is a
step to provide liquidity coverage during this interim period.”  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, protects property
owners against natural disasters including hurricanes and
earthquakes.  Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman, and  Mark Paustenbach ,
a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment.  The four main insurance rating firms, which include A.M.
Best Co., affirmed their grades of AIG after the announcement
last month of the company’s restructuring plan. Standard &
Poor’s rates AIG’s debt at A-, which is five levels higher than
it would be without federal support.  ‘Such Deference’  Moody’s said that while the plan was a sign of progress, it
raised the risk that the U.S. exits before AIG is ready. The
firm “could become vulnerable if it does not fully revitalize
its core operations and substantially exit non-core businesses
before parting ways with the government,”  Bruce Ballentine  of
Moody’s said in an Oct. 4 note.  AIG has to “restore shareholder confidence, particularly
with institutional investors, and demonstrate its ability to
maintain sufficient liquidity,” according to a Sept. 30 note
from A.M. Best. The $2 billion Treasury line is a “bridge” to
an equity offering from the insurer, the ratings firm said.  “Concerns about rating downgrades drove government policy
in regard to AIG,”  Elizabeth Warren , then-chairman of the
Congressional Oversight Panel,  wrote  in June. “That this small
group of private firms was able to command such deference from
the federal government raises questions about their role within
the marketplace and how effectively and accountably they have
wielded their power.”  Fitch, Moody’s  Rating firms provide judgments on how a debt issuer’s
actions may impact their credit grades, said Burke of Fitch and
Ballentine of Moody’s. Fitch “gives our opinions and highlights
any positives or shortcomings but we don’t set terms, all we do
is provide our opinion,” Burke said.  Ballentine said that Moody’s analysts “are observers, and
we make credit judgments on steps the company has taken.”  The facility will be created when Treasury converts its
$49.1 billion investment in AIG into common stock for sale to
the public, the company said.  As part of the restructuring, AIG will retire its Federal
Reserve  credit line , using sale proceeds of two non-U.S.
divisions, AIA Group Ltd. and American Life Insurance Co. AIG
will use as much as $22 billion from an existing Treasury line
to help cover separate Fed obligations.  Life Insurers  To repay remaining commitments, AIG may use additional
funds from the sale of AIA, Alico, and a pair of Japan insurers.
MetLife Inc. has agreed to buy Alico for about $15.5 billion,
Prudential Financial Inc. struck a deal to acquire the Japan
units for $4.8 billion, and AIA is planning a public offering in
Hong Kong.  If necessary, AIG will also repay the U.S. with proceeds
from sales of its Taiwan unit,  plane-leasing business  and stakes
in mortgage-linked bonds contained in separate bailout funds.  The insurer was first rescued in September 2008 by the Fed
after rating downgrades triggered collateral payments to trading
partners. Its bailout included a $60 billion Fed credit line, a
Treasury investment of as much as $69.8 billion and up to $52.5
billion to buy mortgage-linked assets owned or backed by AIG.  Rating firms may have downgraded AIG if the government
hadn’t restructured its bailout in November 2008 and again in
March 2009 to improve AIG’s liquidity, Treasury Chief
Restructuring Officer  Jim Millstein   said  in May. Concern about
rating actions also constrained the government’s ability to
demand discounts from AIG’s trading partners as they wound down
derivatives, he said.  Downgrades below investment grade would have been a “death
knell” to AIG’s ability to sell policies, Millstein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  