-- Takefuji Bankruptcy Spurs Customer Claims for Overpaid Interest at Rivals
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   E i j i r o   U e n o
-- 2010-10-14T04:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/takefuji-bankruptcy-spurs-claims-for-repayments-of-overcharged-interest.html
Acom Co . and  Promise Co . said
they’ve seen an increase in customer inquiries about repayments
of overcharged interest since rival consumer lender Takefuji
Corp. sought bankruptcy protection two weeks ago.  Masahito Osawa , a spokesman for Acom, and Promise’s Risa
Matsumura said more clients are asking about refunds for
overcharged interest since Takefuji’s collapse, without
providing estimates for the potential cost.  Takefuji’s Sept. 28 bankruptcy made it the biggest casualty
of a four-year crackdown on coercive lending to consumers that
included capping rates at 20 percent and allowing borrowers to
seek refunds for overcharged interest. Takefuji’s collapse may
accelerate claims for refunds, analysts have said.  “We’re getting 30 percent more phone calls from borrowers,
most of who have multiple consumer loans from the lenders,”
said Kenshi Nishida, a partner at  Miraio Law Office  in Tokyo.
“Some of those debtors may be panicking and rushing for
repayment on concerns they may not get their money back.”  Miraio has about 10,000 repayment claims pending against
Takefuji with a combined value of more than 10 billion yen ($123
million), according to Nishida.  Kouhei Takekura, a spokesman for  Aiful Corp ., Japan’s
fourth-biggest consumer lender, said it will “carefully”
monitor the impact of Takefuji’s bankruptcy.  Repayment costs for each of the four largest consumer
lenders may total more than 1 trillion yen,  Toshihiro Uomoto , a
credit strategist at Nomura Securities Co., said in a note dated
Sept. 6.  Acom, the country’s largest consumer lender; Promise, the
second-biggest; Takefuji and Aiful have shouldered repayment
costs exceeding 2 trillion yen in the last five years, according
to data compiled by the Financial Services Agency. Takefuji may
have to repay more than 1 trillion of overcharged interest, the
lender said when it filed for bankruptcy protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .;
 Eijiro Ueno  in Tokyo at 
 e.ueno@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 