-- Malaysia Marine Is Said to Raise $649 Million in Initial Public Offering
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-10-14T14:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/malaysia-marine-is-said-to-raise-649-million-in-initial-public-offering.html
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd.  raised as much as 2.04 billion ringgit ($649
million) after pricing shares in the country’s biggest initial
public offering this year at the top of its projected range, two
people familiar with the matter said today.  The rigbuilder, a unit of MISC Bhd., sold 146 million
shares to institutions at 3.80 ringgit apiece, said the people
who declined to be identified as they weren’t authorized to
speak to the media. The offer received bids of more than 25
times the number of shares allocated for institutions, they said.  The demand reflects rising investor appetite for equities
in Malaysia amid an economic rebound from last year’s recession
as the benchmark stock  index  this week touched its highest level
since January 2008. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Maybank Investment
Bank Bhd. and Credit Suisse Group AG, arranged the sale.  The shares were priced at a discounted 3.61 ringgit each
for individual investors, the two people said. At 2.04 billion
ringgit, Malaysia Marine’s IPO would surpass  Sunway Real Estate
Investment Trust’s  share sale in July.  The final amount fetched will hinge on how big a stake
Technip SA will buy as a strategic investor. Europe’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider agreed to buy between 128
million and 158.4 million shares at a 2 percent premium over the
institutional price, according to the share-sale document.  Malaysia Marine’s spokesman, M. Adnan Harun, couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment by mobile phone. The shares will
be traded on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange starting Oct. 29.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company is one of two businesses
linked to state oil and gas company  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  that
will be listed in the Southeast Asian nation this year. A
proposed IPO by Petronas Chemicals Bhd., Petroliam Nasional’s
petrochemicals unit, may be even bigger, raising as much as $4
billion in November, two people said on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  