-- Malaysia's 2011 Budget May Fuel Building Stocks Rally, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-14T03:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/malaysia-s-2011-budget-may-fuel-building-stocks-rally-credit-suisse-says.html
Malaysian  builders  are poised to
gain as the government gives details on the largest construction
projects including a 45 billion ringgit ($15 billion) mass rail
network in the budget tomorrow, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “We are big believers” in the rail project, Stephen
Hagger, head of equities at Credit Suisse in Kuala Lumpur, said
in an interview yesterday. “The construction sector will be a
key beneficiary of the budget.”  The Southeast Asian nation’s government, seeking to reshape
the country into a high-income nation, said on Sept. 21 it has
identified private-led projects worth $444 billion that can spur
investments and accelerate economic growth. The plans include
developing a nuclear energy industry, rail projects and a
shopping district to rival Singapore’s Orchard Road.  Hagger, whose team was ranked second for Malaysian research
in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll, favors construction
companies such as Gamuda Bhd., IJM Corp. and MMC Corp. as the
budget may provide a “re-rating catalyst” for the industry.  The 156 kilometer mass rail network project in Kuala Lumpur
proposed by Gamuda and MMC will be able to serve 2 million
passengers a day, Credit Suisse analyst Danny Goh said in a
report on Oct. 7. It’s a “key cornerstone project” in the
government’s economic advancement plans, he said.  Builders Rally  Shares of Gamuda, Malaysia’s second-largest builder by
market value, have surged 50 percent this year, outpacing the
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI index ’s 18 percent gain, and making
Gamuda the best performer on the benchmark measure. IJM Corp.,
the third-largest builder, has risen 20 percent while MMC is up
30 percent.  The Kuala Lumpur  Construction Index  of 49 stocks has
rallied 21 percent this year, surpassing levels before the start
of the global financial crisis in 2008. The broader benchmark
index is near its record close of 1,516.22 on Jan. 11, 2008. It
rose 0.3 percent to 1,501.38 at 10:32 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur.  Malaysia’s  stock market  has “rediscovered its long-lost
mojo,” evidenced by rising trading volumes as a stronger
ringgit and economy lure investors, Hagger and his team wrote in
a report on Sep. 28.  ‘Implementation is Key’  Prime Minister Najib Razak aims to rejuvenate an economy
where growth fell to an average 4.7 percent a year in the past
decade from 7.2 percent in the 1990s, when then-Prime Minister
 Mahathir Mohamad  wooed overseas manufacturers, built highways
and the world’s tallest twin towers.  “Implementation is key” to ensure success in the
government’s bid to roll out the infrastructure projects,
Yeonzon Yeow, an analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. said in
a report today. “The focus would revolve on how the authorities
kick off the implementation” of the government’s plans, he said.  “It is imperative that the government continues its effort
to reduce the stress on its balance sheet,” he said.  The budget may also focus on garnering political support
ahead of general elections that must be held by 2013.  “What we believe will be an election budget will be
supportive of some of the measures” proposed by Pemandu, the
government’s Performance Management and Delivery Unit, and
outlined in a five-year development plan, Hagger said.  In 2008, the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition had its
slimmest election victory in more than 50 years as the
opposition criticized the government for ethnic bias and failing
to tame poverty and corruption. Najib faces his first election
as prime minister by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  