-- BMB Says It Bid $4 Billion for Atlantis Owner Kerzner
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2010-10-14T16:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/malaysia-s-bmb-group-offers-4-billion-for-atlantis-resort-owner-kerzner.html
BMB Group, a firm representing
Malaysian investors, offered to pay as much as $4 billion for
 Kerzner International Holdings Ltd. , the hotel and casino
company that built Atlantis in the Bahamas and Dubai, said BMB
founder Rayo Withanage.  The firm’s BMB Advisors Malaysia Ltd. unit sent a letter on
Oct. 11 to  Sol Kerzner , founder of Kerzner International,
offering to pay $3.4 billion to $4 billion for his Bahamas-based
company, according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News. Kerzner
International received the proposal and “the company is not for
sale,” said Jennifer Glaisek, a spokeswoman.  BMB clients in Malaysia are putting up cash for the bid,
Withanage said in a telephone interview from New York. They are
attracted by the Atlantis properties, he said.  “We see this as a very powerful brand,” Withanage, 32,
said. “If there’s going to be another Atlantis, it’s going to
be in Asia.”  Kerzner International also owns One&Only resorts in locales
from the Maldives to Mauritius. The company was taken private in
2006 for $3.2 billion, plus debt, by a group led by Kerzner
himself. He partnered with Dubai World’s Istithmar PJSC, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s Whitehall Street Global Real Estate Limited
Partnership 2005, Colony Capital LLC, Providence Equity Partners
Inc. and Related Cos.  BMB was founded by Withanage and Brunei’s Prince Abdul Ali
’Yil-Kabier, a nephew of the Sultan of Brunei, in 2004,
Withanage said. The pair play on a polo team together.  BMB is a “family office,” managing money for wealthy
families in Brunei, Malaysia and the Persian Gulf, Withanage
said. It is based in the Cayman Islands and has offices in New
York, London, Kuala Lumpur and Beijing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 