-- ANA to `Grab Back' Japan Travelers on Haneda Airport, Accord With United
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-10-14T15:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/all-nippon-airways-to-grab-back-japan-travelers-on-haneda-united-accord.html
All Nippon Airways Co.  plans to
“grab back” international travelers from Asian rivals by
adding overseas flights at its Tokyo Haneda Airport hub and
boosting cooperation with  United Continental Holdings Inc.   The opening of an international terminal at Haneda next
week will enable ANA to offer easier connections between
overseas and domestic flights, President  Shinichiro Ito  said.
Presently, the carrier’s and Japan Airlines Corp.’s domestic and
international hubs are in different Tokyo airports almost two
hours apart by train, which handicaps them when competing
against  Korean Air Lines Co.   “We aim to grab back passengers from Incheon,” South
Korea’s biggest airport and Korean Air’s base, Ito said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. The Haneda terminal is “something
we’ve been eagerly awaiting.”  ANA plans to boost overseas flights 15 percent in the year
ending March helped by the Haneda development and an agreement
to cooperate on transpacific routes with United, the world’s
largest carrier. The Tokyo-based airline, the maiden customer
for Boeing Co.’s 787, is pushing ahead with the expansion even
after the planemaker delayed delivery of the first Dreamliner
into 2011.  “Expanding international flights is a good chance for ANA
to keep growing,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., who has a “buy” rating on
the stock. “Domestic growth has reached its limit.”  Haneda Flights  Haneda airport will begin handling flights to Europe and
the mainland U.S. this month for the first time since 1978, when
overseas services were moved to Narita, an hour’s train ride
from Tokyo’s financial district.  Narita has missed out on surging travel growth in Asia,
with passenger numbers dropping 6.7 percent to 32.2 million over
the past five years. By contrast, the number of travelers using
Seoul’s Incheon airport has jumped 18 percent to  28.5 million .
The airport has helped link smaller cities in Japan with the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  “We are monitoring developments at Haneda and will take
necessary steps if and when the need arises,” said Kim Gi Min,
a spokesman for Incheon International Airport. Seoul-based
Korean Air is “monitoring the situation,” it said in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg News questions.  ANA , which expects to return to profit this fiscal year,
rose 2.1 percent to 297 yen yesterday in Tokyo trading. It has
gained 18 percent this year compared with a 9 percent slump for
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Korean Air  has jumped 33 percent
in Seoul.  United Accord  ANA won antitrust immunity to cooperate with  United  and
Continental, which merged this month, alongside a Japan-U.S.
agreement liberalizing travel between the two countries. The
‘open skies’ deal will come into effect on Oct. 25, Japan’s
Transport Minister  Sumio Mabuchi  said in parliament yesterday.  The cooperation will boost ANA’s network “significantly,”
Ito said. Japan Air has agreed a similar tie-up with AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines.  Ito declined to say how much financial benefit ANA may
derive from the United accord. AMR has guaranteed that Japan Air
will gain an additional $100 million annually for the first
three years by coordinating flights and prices with American.  ANA plans to raise international passenger sales to 357
billion yen next fiscal year, compared with 274 billion yen last
business year.  Haneda Codeshares  The carrier will also code-share on some Haneda flights
with  Malaysian Airline System Bhd.  and Taiwan’s  EVA Airways Corp. 
to help boost traffic, Ito said. The airline is adding flights
to Los Angeles,  Honolulu , Taipei, Bangkok and Singapore from the
downtown Tokyo airport.  Japan Air  will add services to six
overseas cities including Paris and San Francisco.  ANA may also add Haneda flights to London, Frankfurt and
Amsterdam once it begins receiving its 55 on-order 787s, which
are due to arrive from the middle of the first quarter of next
year. Boeing delayed the 787 for a sixth time in August after
Rolls-Royce Group Plc was unable to supply an engine to complete
flight testing. ANA had expected to receive the first Dreamliner
in November and to start overseas flights in March.  “We want the 787s to be our main plane for Europe,” Ito
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  