-- Tam Bonds Falter as Bet on Lan Support Becomes `Overplayed': Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-10-14T21:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/tam-bonds-falter-as-bet-on-lan-support-becomes-overplayed-brazil-credit.html
Bonds issued by Tam SA, Brazil’s
second-biggest airline by market value, are lagging behind a
debt rally as traders pare bets that Chile’s Lan Airlines SA
will guarantee the company’s liabilities.  Tam’s 9.5 percent dollar bonds due in 2020 have returned
1.5 percent in the past month, less than the 3 percent advance
in Brazilian  corporate notes , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Ten-year debt issued by Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, the country’s largest airline,
gained 3.1 percent over that time.  The underperformance by Tam marks a reversal of the month-
long rally sparked Aug. 13 after Santiago-based Lan unveiled
plans to buy the Brazilian airline for $3.8 billion in an all-
stock deal. Tam’s bonds due in 2020 posted an 8.3 percent
return, compared with a 0.4 percent gain on Brazilian corporate
debt in the month through Sept. 13, on speculation that higher-
rated Lan would back the Sao Paulo-based company’s  $4.1 billion 
of debt.  “The initial excitement that the debt was going to be
guaranteed has backed off on the Tam deal,” said  Eric Ollom ,
chief emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies & Co. in New
York.  Tam, Brazil’s largest airline by market share, is rated  B+ ,
or four levels below investment grade, by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings. Lan, Latin America’s biggest airline by market
value, is rated  BBB  by Fitch, or five levels higher than Tam.  ‘Overplayed’ Bet  While Tam Chief Financial Officer  Libano Barroso  said Aug.
17 that the combined company, which will be called Latam
Airlines Group, wouldn’t back Tam’s debt, bond traders were
counting on an implicit guarantee, said  Juan Cruz , a credit
analyst with Barclays Plc in New York.  “People are betting that if Tam needs financial backing,
Lan will put its hands in its pockets -- I’m skeptical,” Cruz
said in a telephone interview. “Tam’s debt levels are very
high. The implicit support is overplayed.”  Fernando de Andrade, the treasury manager for Tam, said
yesterday that there’s “no need” for Tam’s debt to be
guaranteed.  “We are in a deleveraging process and we believe this will
show in our third quarter numbers,” Andrade said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The company’s bonds have been rallying
since the end of June and outperformed most non-investment grade
Brazilian corporate securities in September, he said.  Tam-Gol Spread  Tam’s $300 million of 2020 notes yielded 7.84 percent, or
59 basis points below the yield on Gol’s bonds due that year. On
Aug. 12, the Tam securities yielded 26 basis points more than
Gol bonds, which are rated BB-, or one level above Tam, by
Fitch.  “Tam should trade, at most, at the same level as Gol,”
Cruz said.  Brazilian government dollar bond  yields  have declined 37
basis points, or 0.37 percentage points, over the past two
months to 4.63 percent, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. The
extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar bonds
instead of Treasuries was 171 basis points today at 5:30 p.m.
New York time, down from 195 on Aug. 12.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose two basis points to 92, according to CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Deteriorating’ Model  The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.6602 per dollar. The yield
on the overnight interest-rate futures contract due in January
2012 fell seven basis points to 11.26 percent.  Tam  shares  have surged 48 percent since Aug. 13, compared
with a 15 percent gain for Lan. Investors will get 0.9 Lan share
for each Tam share held under the terms of the agreement.  Tam reported its second consecutive quarterly  loss  in the
April-to-June period as its market share fell and costs
increased. The net loss was 154.1 million reais ($87 million),
the company said in an Aug. 13 regulatory filing.  “The operational model at Tam is deteriorating,” Cruz
said. “There’s no risk-reward in Tam’s debt.”  Andrade said Tam will likely post its “strongest”
operating margins in a year in the third quarter.  ‘Stellar Performance’  “The Brazilian market will continue its stellar
performance and Tam is the company most suited to profit from
this scenario,” he said.  Brazil’s antitrust regulator, known as Cade, could decide
whether to approve the proposed takeover by early next year,
according to an official who declined to be identified in
accordance with government policy.  Lan doesn’t have an estimate for when the transaction will
be completed, said an official who asked not to be identified in
accordance with company policy.  Tam’s bonds “rallied on an implicit guarantee by Lan,”
said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst with ING Groep
NV in New York. “But from these levels onward we’ll need more
news on the alliance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  