-- AMD Third-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates as Net Loss Narrows
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-14T21:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/amd-s-sales-beat-estimates-as-loss-narrows-on-demand-from-emerging-markets.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show AMD is the second-largest
maker of computer microprocessors, not semiconductors.)  Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the
second-largest maker of computer microprocessors, reported
third-quarter sales that topped analysts’ estimates.  Sales rose to $1.62 billion, Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD said in a statement. That compares with an  average  analyst
estimate of $1.61 billion in a Bloomberg survey. AMD’s net loss
narrowed to $118 million from $128 million a year earlier.  AMD, like larger rival Intel Corp., is benefiting from
rising demand in emerging economies. Both had cut third-quarter
forecasts, citing lackluster consumer buying in the U.S. and
Europe.  AMD  is trying to revive growth after spinning off
factories it couldn’t afford and amassing debt to buy a graphics
chipmaker.  “They are not profitable, but they are showing that if you
get a moderate amount of revenue growth, you’ll get to modest
profitability,” said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams
Financial Group in Dallas, who rates AMD’s stock “hold” and
said he doesn’t own the shares. He predicts that AMD will become
profitable in the second half of next year.  On Sept. 23 AMD said third-quarter sales would be less than
it had predicted, citing weaker demand for notebook computers in
Europe and North America. Sales would decline 1 percent to 4
percent from the $1.65 billion it recorded in the second
quarter, AMD said at the time.  For the fourth quarter, revenue will be unchanged from the
third quarter, AMD said. In the PC industry, sales typically
grow about 8 percent in the last three months of the year from
the third quarter.  Intel Prediction  AMD fell 8 cents to $7.14 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange. The  shares  have fallen 26 percent this year.  Intel predicted fourth-quarter sales that may beat analyst
predictions. Revenue will range from $11 billion to $11.8
billion, the Santa Clara, California-based company said this
week.  Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellin i said the PC
industry is still on course to grow 18 percent this year. He
doesn’t expect the economy to fall back into recession and said
2011 will be a “pretty good” year for computer sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 