-- Angelo Gordon Raises $625 Million for Asia Property Fund Focused on China
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2010-10-14T00:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/angelo-gordon-raises-625-million-for-asia-property-fund-focused-on-china.html
Angelo, Gordon & Co., manager of $23
billion in fixed income, real estate, buyout and hedge funds,
raised $625 million for its second Asia property fund, betting
economic growth in countries such as China will outpace the U.S.  The firm plans to invest the AG Asia Realty Fund II over
four years, said  Keith Barket , senior managing director.
Including co-investments from Angelo Gordon’s U.S. funds, the
New York-based firm expects to invest about $800 million of
equity with the new fund. That amount may be doubled with
borrowings, Barket said.  “Our fund is pretty heavily focused on China,” Barket
said in a telephone interview. About three-quarters of the
 Chinese investments  will be in development projects such as
housing, distribution centers and urban retail, he said. “Those
are all needs that China has over the next 10 years.”  Angelo Gordon, Fortress Investment Group Inc. and other
investors collectively raised $1.9 billion for real estate in
Asia and regions outside North America and Europe in the third
quarter, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm.
Angelo Gordon has about 15 investment professionals in Asia,
with nine based in Hong Kong who work on China.  “It was difficult to raise money because many investors
have been burned in real estate,” New York-based Barket said.
His firm is focusing on Asia because U.S. gross domestic product
growth probably will lag GDP expansion overseas, he said. “If
you want to earn attractive returns over the next 10 years, you
can’t be exclusively invested in the U.S.”  China’s Housing Market  China overtook Hong Kong as the world’s fastest growing
housing market in the first quarter, with prices rising at more
than double the rate anywhere else, according to broker  Knight
Frank LLP . The Chinese government on July 12 vowed to enforce
measures intended to dampen the market, including a ban on loans
for third-home purchases, higher mortgage rates and stricter
down-payment requirements for second homes.  China’s economic growth poses risks, Barket said.  “In a country that is growing at 10 percent a year -- and
China’s been growing 10 percent a year for 30 years -- there
will be pockets of oversupply and there will be some wasteful
spending,” he said. “It’s almost impossible to avoid, but I
think the bears are missing the longer-term trend.”  The Chinese government’s austerity measures have slowed
speculative pricing in the residential property market, Barket
said. Angelo Gordon has invested mostly in secondary cities such
as Dalian, Tianjin, Shenyang and Wuxi, he said.  Tokyo Office Building  The new Asia fund has made one investment so far: the Plaza
Mikado office building in  Tokyo . In June, Angelo Gordon bought
the property from an undisclosed foreign investor for $70
million. Barket said the purchase price resulted in a 6 percent
yield, about half what it would cost to build today.  “We’re definitely looking at assets that foreign banks and
opportunity funds are selling -- and there are a lot of them,”
he said.  Tokyo has some similarities to the U.S. in that many
investors who bought in 2006 and 2007 have lost money as prices
fell more than 30 percent, Barket said.  In Japan, Angelo Gordon tries to buy properties it can
upgrade over four to five years by making capital improvements
and boosting occupancies. The firm plans to eventually sell
those properties to long-term investors including Japanese real
estate investment trusts and pension funds.  Angelo Gordon’s previous Asia property fund was $525
million, for a total invested of about $1.3 billion including
debt and co-investment. The firm has sold about one-third of the
properties purchased by the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hui-yong Yu  in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  