-- Maounis Hires Former Amaranth Colleague for Two-Year-Old Fund in Canada
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-10-14T13:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/maounis-hires-former-amaranth-colleague-for-two-year-old-verition-fund.html
Nicholas Maounis , the hedge-fund
manager whose Amaranth Advisors LLC collapsed under a record
$6.6 billion loss in 2006, has hired his former partner,  Manos Vourkoutiotis , to run investments in Canada for his two-year-old
hedge fund, according to a letter sent to investors.  Vourkoutiotis  “will focus primarily on convertible
arbitrage, credit trading, long/short equity, and volatility
trading within the Canadian market,” Maounis said in the
letter.  Three of Amaranth’s four partners are now working at
Greenwich, Connecticut-based Verition Group LLC fund, which
manages $250 million. The Verition fund invests in credit
markets, convertible bonds and stocks, including those of
companies going through corporate events such as mergers
and bankruptcies. It also has a team that manages money using
computer models.  The fund’s onshore version has climbed 4.2 percent this
year and the offshore version is up 4.3 percent, according to
the letter. That followed gains of 18 percent and 17 percent,
respectively, in 2009.  “I have significant experience in managing each of these
strategies, and continue to refine my approach to them,” Maounis
wrote in the letter, adding that the fund’s size has been an
advantage in navigating the volatile markets of the last two
years.  Verition, derived from the Latin word for truth, has about
35 employees, up from 19 when he started the fund in October
2008.  Amaranth  Maounis, 47, a former convertible-bond trader, opened
Greenwich-based Amaranth in September 2000 with $600 million.
His goal was to build a firm like  Kenneth Griffin’s  Citadel
Investment Group LLC in Chicago, which uses multiple
strategies to trade securities including stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities. By August 2006, Amaranth’s assets had
climbed to about $9.5 billion.  In September of that year, bets on natural gas made by
trader Brian Hunter lost about $4.6 billion in one week. By
month’s end, the losses had risen to $6.6 billion, the most by a
hedge fund at that time, resulting in a 60 percent loss for
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  