-- Apollo, Education Shares Slide on Bleak Enrollment Outlook
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-14T21:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/apollo-group-s-forecast-withdrawal-drags-down-for-profit-education-shares.html
Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest U.S.
for-profit college by enrollment, led education shares to their
biggest plunge in more than 5 years today after executives
described a bleak future for signing up new students.  Apollo, owner of the University of Phoenix, fell 23 percent
to $38 in New York trading, helping send an index of 12
education companies down 18 percent, the most since at least
January 2005. Education Management Corp. dropped 23 percent to
$10.22, while Devry Inc. tumbled 17 percent to $42.06, as
education companies registered the six biggest declines in the
 Russell l000 Index . Washington Post Co., owner of Kaplan
University, fell nine percent to $390.25.  New student enrollment in the quarter ending in November
may drop more than 40 percent from a year earlier, Apollo said.
The company eliminated the setting of recruiter pay tied to
enrollment results as of Sept. 1, a move the company expects
will lead to more experienced students who are more likely to
graduate, Ryan Rauzon, an Apollo spokesman, said in an interview
today.  For-profit colleges are changing enrollment practices
because of proposed tougher regulations and Senate education
hearings that highlighted the industry’s high dropout and loan-
default rates, said  Ariel Sokol , an analyst with UBS Investment
Research in New York. The Obama administration is preparing new
rules to regulate recruiting and tie eligibility for federal
student aid to the success of graduates getting jobs.  Revenue Decline  “The industry is legitimately concerned about the
viability of their business models where most of their revenue
comes from the government,” said Sokol, who rates Apollo shares
“neutral” and doesn’t own them, in a telephone interview.
Companies’ efforts to respond to increased regulation will
“result in revenue decline and margin contraction in the near
term.”  Apollo, based in Phoenix, fell $11.50 to $38 at 4:00 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, its lowest level since
2006, for the biggest loss in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The shares have lost 50 percent in the past 12 months.  Apollo expects to exceed legal limits on the share of funds
received from government financial aid, jeopardizing its biggest
source of revenue,  Brian Swartz , the Phoenix-based company’s
chief financial officer, said yesterday in a call with analysts
and investors.  Federal Student Aid  The University of Phoenix’s dependence on federal student
aid is “likely to exceed” 90 percent of revenue in fiscal
2012, violating a federal law known as the “90-10” rule,
Swartz said in the analysts’ call. If a for-profit college
doesn’t comply with the rule for two consecutive fiscal years,
it loses eligibility to receive student-aid funds for at least
two years.  The University of Phoenix derived 88 percent of revenue
from federal student aid in fiscal 2010, an increase from 86
percent a year earlier, Swartz said.  “We continued to see upward pressure on our 90/10
calculation,” Swartz said.  Phoenix derived 48 percent of revenue from federal grants
and loans in 2001, when it primarily focused on bachelor’s
degree and graduate degree programs for managers whose employers
paid their tuition. It then shifted its business strategy,
opening a two-year online college called Axia that primarily
attracts lower-income students who depend on federal financial
aid. Phoenix now has more than 200,000 students seeking two-year
degrees.  New Enrollment  Other for-profit colleges, including Santa Ana, California-
based  Corinthian Colleges Inc . and San Diego-based  Bridgepoint
Education Inc ., risk running afoul of the 90-10 rule, said Trace
Urdan, an analyst with Signal Hill Capital Group in San
Francisco. Corinthian Colleges fell 20 percent to $4.79.
Bridgepoint fell 15 percent to $14.61.  Apollo’s enrollment of new students in degree programs fell
to 92,000 in the fourth quarter ended Aug. 31, from 102,000 a
year earlier, the company said in a statement yesterday.
Enrollment in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 may drop more
than 40 percent over the same period last year, Swartz said
yesterday.  Apollo faces increased competition enrolling students in
its four-year bachelor’s degree programs which generate more
revenue than two-year associate’s degree classes, Urdan said.  FBR Capital Markets cut its rating on Apollo to
“underperform” from “market perform” today, while Stifel
Nicolaus downgraded Apollo to “hold” from “buy.”  CNBC’s Jim Cramer said today for-profit education stocks
are “finished” and that companies in the sector need to find
new ways to create value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 