-- Apollo Group's Forecast Withdrawal Drags Down For-Profit Education Shares
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-10-14T13:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/apollo-withdraws-2011-forecast-citing-40-phoenix-student-enrollment-drop.html
Education stocks plunged after
 Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest education company by enrollment
and operator of the University of Phoenix, withdrew its forecast
for fiscal 2011 citing regulatory scrutiny and a possible 40
percent decline in new students.  An index of 12 education stocks fell 20 percent at 9:37
a.m. New York time. Apollo’s enrollment of new students in
degree programs fell to 92,000 in the fourth quarter ended Aug.
31, from 102,000 a year earlier, the company said in a statement
yesterday. The first quarter of fiscal 2011 may see an
enrollment drop higher than 40 percent year over year,  Brian Swartz , the Phoenix-based company’s chief financial officer,
said yesterday.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, faces increased competition
enrolling students in its four-year bachelor’s degree programs
which generate more revenue than two-year associate’s degree
classes, said  Trace Urdan , an analyst with Signal Hill Capital
Group in San Francisco. Apollo also cited increased regulatory
pressure as the Obama administration prepares new rules to
regulate for-profit college recruiting and tie eligibility for
federal student aid to the success of graduates in getting jobs.  The projected enrollment decline is “going to destroy the
stock and make it really difficult to tell what the right price
to pay for the stock is,” Urdan, who cut his rating on the
shares to “hold” from “buy” and doesn’t own them, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Apollo Tumbles  Apollo fell 25 percent, to $37.20 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading for the biggest loss in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
The shares had lost 34 percent in the past 12 months before
today.  Education companies were the six biggest decliners in the
Russell l000 Index. ITT Educational Services Inc. tumbled 19
percent to $53.25, while Education Management Corp. dropped 18
percent to $10.89.  FBR Capital Markets cut its rating on Apollo to
“underperform” from “market perform” today, while Stifel
Nicolaus downgraded Apollo to “hold” from “buy.”  The company  said  in May it expected “high single-digit
consolidated net revenue growth” in fiscal year 2011 and that
operating income would remain unchanged.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Apollo said yesterday that industry challenges including
“ongoing regulatory and other scrutiny which has led to
heightened media attention” is likely to “adversely impact its
operating metrics and financial results.”  Recruiters at for-profit colleges operated by Apollo,
Pittsburgh-based  Education Management Corp. , and the  Washington
Post Co. ’s Kaplan education unit pressured students to sign up
for courses because their pay was tied to enrollment, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of
Congress, said in a report released Aug. 4. Senator  Tom Harkin ,
an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the Senate’s education
committee, is investigating for-profit college recruitment
practices, program quality and use of government funds.  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  pledged to increase the
size of his department’s enforcement unit and conduct more
operations to detect fraud and abuse. The department plans to
publish rules on or about Nov. 1 that will restore a ban on
education companies’ paying recruiters based on the number of
students signed up.  Shifting Emphasis  Apollo has shifted its emphasis to four-year bachelor’s
degree students, who generate more revenue once they’re enrolled
and are less likely to drop out than those in two-year programs,
Urdan said. New bachelor’s degree enrollments rose to 36,200 in
the fourth quarter from 31,700 a year earlier, Apollo said. New
enrollment in two-year associate’s degree programs fell to
42,200 from 55,400 a year earlier.  The company’s anticipated 2011 enrollment decline will be
due in part to its University Orientation Program, a free,
three-week, noncredit course that enables students to sample the
demands of college, said  Greg Capelli , Apollo’s co-chief
executive officer, during the conference call. About 30,000
students have been through the program and about 20 percent
decide not to enroll in the University of Phoenix, he said.  The students leave without any debt burden and generally
keep a positive view of the university, he said.  “We believe that many of these students would have dropped
anyway,” Capelli said. As a result of the program, “we expect
to see improved student outcomes, including improved retention
rates.”  Apollo yesterday reported fourth-quarter  income  from
continuing operations fell to $47.5 million, or 32 cents a
share, from $97.2 million, or 62 cents a share. Revenue rose 17
percent to $1.26 billion. The company  acquired  BPP Holdings, the
London-based provider of education services and publications, in
July 2009.  Earnings excluding some items of $1.31 beat the $1.30
average estimate of 22 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 