-- Review: Apple, Google Can Rest Easy Over New Nokia N8
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-10-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/apple-google-can-rest-easy-over-new-nokia-n8-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Nokia Oyj  just released an awfully
sweet little camera. It fits into a shirt pocket and features a
12 megapixel sensor, xenon flash and Carl Zeiss lens. If only
the rest of the wireless phone wrapped around it, the new N8,
were as good.  The world’s largest smartphone maker has a lot riding on
the  N8 , which it’s rolling out worldwide this month. The Finnish
company has been hemorrhaging market share -- down to 37.4
percent in the second quarter, from 45 percent a year earlier --
recently replaced its chief executive and has announced the
departures of two key managers.  The N8 represents Nokia’s biggest effort thus far to right
the ship. And though it improves on previous offerings, it
doesn’t come close to matching the state of the art as defined
by  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone 4 and the best devices from  Motorola
Inc. ,  HTC Corp.  and Samsung that use  Google Inc. ’s Android
operating system.  Smartphones rise or fall on their hardware, software and
the apps and services available. The N8 does well on the first
and decently on the third; where it falls short is on No. 2.  The N8’s software, called Symbian^3, is an updated version
of the software that’s been powering Nokia phones for several
years. But “updated” isn’t the same as “up to date,” and
while it has some nice touches it’s still behind the times.  Down Memory Lane  For example, when you write an e-mail or send a text
message and hold the phone in portrait -- that is, upright --
position, the touch screen defaults to a telephone-style numeric
keypad. For some users, that will be a trip down Wireless-Phone
Memory Lane, back to those halcyon days when typing the letter
“s” meant hitting the “7” key four times. Most people, however,
will likely be annoyed at always having to flip the phone
sideways to get a QWERTY keyboard.  The N8 also sometimes requires you to go through a
multistep process to perform what ought to be a simple task.
Answering an e-mail, for instance, requires you to first hit an
“Options” button, then choose “Reply” from a menu. And the
software feels sluggish at times, such as when sliding between
the three available home screens.  Physically, the phone is mostly impressive. The scratch-
resistant, anodized-aluminum case makes it both look and feel
like a premium product. Not all of the five colors are to my
taste -- bright orange, anyone? -- but to each their own. The
phone feels solid and good in the hand and, at 4.8 ounces,
weighs just about the same as iPhone 4 even though it’s thicker.  Protruding Camera  The reason for that extra thickness is also the most
impressive thing about the N8: the camera, which protrudes
slightly from the back. It’s among the best I’ve seen in a
mobile phone, not only for its resolution but for its operation
in both idiot-proof mode (when I was using it) and under manual
control. There’s autofocus, built-in face-detection technology
and 2X digital zoom for still photos.  The N8 also shoots 720p video -- it includes an HDMI port
and adapter cable for viewing on a high-definition TV -- and has
a front-facing, lower-resolution camera as well for video calls.
I found the 3.5-inch screen acceptable but nowhere near as good
as the displays found on Apple and  Samsung  handsets.  The N8’s battery was able to get me through a full day of
moderate to heavy use. Good thing, because -- like the iPhone,
and unlike just about every other smartphone -- the battery
isn’t replaceable by the user.  Eccentric Design  In Apple’s case, the non-swappable battery is a reflection
of  Steve Jobs ’s desire to control the entire user experience.
Here, the decision just seems eccentric, like Saab putting the
ignition switch next to the shifter. I also found myself
concerned about the little trap doors covering the slots for
your carrier’s SIM card and an SD storage card. I was afraid
they would snap off, though I eventually concluded they were
sturdier than they seemed.  Nokia can’t compete with the iPhone and Android devices in
terms of the number of available applications. Still, I found
its Ovi services -- which include a very good mapping
application, calendar and mail, among others -- to be thorough
and well-integrated into the N8. Nokia is also building out Ovi
as a platform for third-party developers, although to access
their wares you first have to install the Ovi Store application
itself; it doesn’t come pre-loaded on the phone.  The N8 is in the process of being rolled out around the
globe. In the U.S., it’s available for $550 unlocked in a
version that will run on either  AT&T Inc. ’s or  T-Mobile ’s
network; there’s no word yet on whether a carrier-subsidized
version is on the way.  Nokia isn’t the only smartphone maker struggling to reverse
a slide; Microsoft Corp. this week unveiled its new  Windows
Phone 7  operating system as well. Given Nokia’s No. 1 ranking in
the global market,  Stephen Elop , the former Microsoft executive
who took over as its CEO last month, is starting from a stronger
position than is his old boss,  Steve Ballmer . Elop’s task will
be tough nonetheless: The N8, while an improvement on what’s
come before it, still isn’t good enough to stanch Nokia’s
bleeding.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 