-- Harvard Stem Cell Researchers Retract Paper in Nature, Citing Flawed Data
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-14T20:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/harvard-stem-cell-researchers-retract-paper-in-nature-citing-flawed-data.html
Scientists at the Harvard Stem Cell
Institute retracted a paper published Jan. 28 in the journal
Nature after the lead author,  Amy Wagers , became aware of
information she said “undermined” her confidence in the data.  The Nature  paper , examining the role of blood stem cells in
the aging process, was retracted by Wagers, a researcher at the
Harvard-affiliated Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston, and two of
her co-authors. The retraction  notice  posted by Nature yesterday
on its website wasn’t signed by another co-author, Shane Mayack,
a former post-doctoral fellow in Wagers’ lab. Mayack left the
Joslin center Oct. 1, according to the center’s website.  Another journal, Blood, today  posted  a “notice of
concern” on its website about a 2008 paper by Wagers and
Mayack. Wagers had notified the journal about “serious concerns
with some of the reported data,” said the statement in Blood.  “Information was brought to my attention that undermined my
confidence in the scientific conclusions, and I immediately
notified Nature, the Joslin Diabetes Center and Harvard Medical
School,” Wagers said in a statement e-mailed by the stem cell
institute.  The Nature paper listed Mayack as the first author and
Wagers as the last. According to scientific publishing
convention, the first-named author is typically the primary
researcher and the last is the supervising senior scientist.  The Nature study found that when old mice are exposed to
factors drawn from the blood of young mice, their blood stem
cells begin to take on the characteristics of those found in
younger mice.  The research appeared to uncover an “aging mechanism”
that “could be reversed” by rejuvenating the blood stem cell
population of old mice, according to a Joslin center press
release issued at the time of the paper’s publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 