-- Asian Stocks Advance as Economic, Earnings Reports Boost Recovery Optimism
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-14T10:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/asian-stocks-advance-as-china-currency-reserves-signal-recovery-in-demand.html
Asian  stocks  rose, sending the
regional equity benchmark index to its highest level since July
2008, as strengthening economic and corporate earnings data
boosted confidence in a global recovery.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s biggest oil producer, advanced 2.1 percent in Sydney
as oil and metal prices gained, while rival  Rio Tinto Group 
surged 4.4 percent. Toyota Motor Corp., a carmaker that gets
more than 70 percent of its sales overseas, increased 3 percent.
 Yahoo Japan Corp. , operator of Japan’s most-visited Internet
portal, jumped 6.4 percent amid speculation AOL Inc. is among
companies exploring a deal for part-owner Yahoo! Inc.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 1.9 percent, the most
since June 21, to 132.10 as of 7:31 p.m. in Tokyo, with all 10
industry groups rising, led by materials companies. More than
seven stocks climbed for every two that fell on the nearly
1,000-member gauge as investors viewed U.S. profit reports and a
record climb in China’s foreign-currency reserves as adding to
signs that global demand will pick up.  “The positive tone of recent economic and earnings
releases is generating a growing momentum of confidence,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Asian markets are attractive
because investors are increasingly looking to faster-growing
economies that are less reliant on policy stimulus to achieve
adequate rates of return.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has  climbed 4.6 percent  this
month on speculation central banks in developed countries will
increase efforts to boost economic growth after Japan last week
cut its benchmark interest rate and Australia unexpectedly kept
its key rate unchanged.  Riskier Assets  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  increased 1.7 percent, with
Australia’s currency nearing parity with the U.S. dollar as
investor appetite for riskier assets rose. Japan’s  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  advanced 1.9 percent today. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index climbed 1.7 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.5 point,
or less than 0.1 percent. The contract has risen for eight days
in a row, the longest winning streak since March.  The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent yesterday in New York to the
highest close since May 3.  CSX Corp. , the second-largest
publicly traded U.S. railroad, reported profit that exceeded
analysts’ estimates, and China said its foreign-exchange
reserves increased by a record to $2.65 trillion at the end of
September.  Profit Growth  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Intel Corp.  reported third-quarter
profit that topped the average analyst estimates. Eighteen
companies in the  S&P 500  are scheduled to release third-quarter
results this week. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict 23
percent profit growth from a year earlier for companies in the
index, the fourth straight quarterly increase after a record
nine-quarter slump.  “The strong momentum is mainly due to the earnings results
in the U.S.,” said  Castor Pang , Hong Kong-based research
director at Cinda International Holdings Ltd. “It helps the
overall stock market to have a high valuation.”  Crude oil for November delivery advanced 1.6 percent to
settle at $83.01 a barrel yesterday in New York, the highest
level since Oct. 6. The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six
metals including aluminum and copper climbed 0.3 percent
yesterday to the highest close since July 2008. The  Baltic Dry
Index  of shipping rates for commodities rose for a second
consecutive day.  ‘Sentiment Recovering’  BHP Billiton, also Australia’s largest oil producer,
advanced 2.1 percent to A$41.66 in Sydney. Rio Tinto surged 4.4
percent to A$82.08.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, climbed 1.3 percent to A$6.38 as first-
quarter shipments rose a better-than-expected 6 percent on
higher production.  Mitsubishi Corp., a commodities trading house, gained 3.1
percent to 2,111 yen in Tokyo, while  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest
explorer for offshore oil and gas, rose 4.4 percent to HK$16.72
in Hong Kong.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s No. 1 producer of the
metal, advanced 5.2 percent to 42.82 yuan in Shanghai.  “China, which is a major source of demand, is unexpectedly
good,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million
in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Global economic sentiment is moderately recovering and
excessive pessimism is receding.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.7 percent yesterday, the
biggest gain in a week, as reports from China and Japan also
indicated the economic recovery is strengthening.  Asian Markets  Japanese machinery orders rose 10.1 percent from July, the
Cabinet Office said yesterday in Tokyo, where the median
forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
decline. Exports in China, the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, rose 25.1 percent from a year earlier, the customs
bureau said yesterday on its website.  “Economic data in Asian markets seem to be still stronger
than the U.S. and European countries,” said Cinda’s Pang.
“Funds are flowing in from western countries to Asia.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge has advanced 9.7 percent in 2010,
compared with gains of 5.7 percent by the  S&P 500  and 4.9
percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at an average of 14.5 times estimated
 earnings , compared with 14 times for the S&P and 12.3 times for
the Stoxx.  Singapore signaled today, even as its economy shrank, that
it would allow faster appreciation in its currency, after India,
Malaysia and Thailand raised interest rates to curb inflation.  “The implication is that Singapore is less worried about
growth and more worried about upside risks to inflation,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of Southeast Asian economics at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore.  ‘China Boosts Demand’  Toyota gained 3 percent to 2,930 yen in Tokyo. Canon Inc.,
a Japanese camera maker that gets about 80 percent of its sales
abroad, gained 1.7 percent to 3,910 yen. In Seoul,  LG
Electronics Inc. , the world’s third-largest mobile-phone maker,
advanced for a third day, rising 1.7 percent to 98,600 won.  “China will boost demand globally,” said  Koichi Kurose ,
chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which manages
about $57 billion.  Yahoo Japan jumped 6.4 percent to 30,600 yen.  Yahoo! Inc.  is
working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to help defend against
possible takeover approaches, said three people familiar with
the matter. The company doesn’t have an offer in hand, they said.  The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that AOL and
several private-equity investors are exploring a deal for Yahoo!
Inc., which owns 35 percent of Yahoo Japan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 