-- Asia Currencies Rise After Singapore Opens Way for Regional Currency Gains
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-10-14T09:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/asia-currencies-rise-after-singapore-opens-way-for-regional-currency-gains.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
Singapore’s dollar, after the city state unexpectedly sought
faster currency appreciation to damp inflation, fueling
speculation other central banks will allow further gains.  The Singapore dollar climbed 0.8 percent to S$1.2940 as of
4:32 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It earlier rose as much as 1.1 percent to S$1.2893, the
strongest level since at least 1981, after the announcement that
was forecast by only one of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The Monetary Authority of Singapore said it will steepen and
widen the band in which its dollar trades against a weighted
basket of currencies, seeking a “modest and gradual” advance.  Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.4 percent to 3.0815 and touched
a 13-year high of 3.0800. South Korea’s won rose 0.9 percent to
1,111.10, earlier reaching the strongest level in five months,
after the central bank left borrowing costs unchanged today to
support economic growth.  “The MAS decision came as a surprise given recent moves by
authorities in the region to ease appreciation pressure,” said
 Akira Banno , a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “This makes the ringgit and other Asian
currencies more competitive in trade and creates some room for
strengthening.”  Emerging-market currencies are likely to advance against
the dollar as consumer demand in those nations is taking over
from U.S. household spending as a major driver of world growth,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co. Investors may
want to look at investing in local-currency government bonds,
 Curtis Mewbourne , a portfolio manager at Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco, said on the company’s website today.  Growing Reserves  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, gained for
a second day and touched its highest level since April 2008.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6. Global funds
have bought a net $38 billion of equities this year in India,
South Korea and Taiwan, according to exchange data.  Taiwan’s dollar rose the most since May on optimism China
will add to holdings of emerging-market assets after its
foreign-exchange reserves surged. The currency jumped 0.6
percent to NT$30.77 against its U.S. counterpart and touched a
two-year high of NT$30.54, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  China’s  reserves  rose $194 billion to a record $2.65
trillion in the third quarter, the central bank said yesterday,
two days after Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said the nation was
considering diversifying more heavily into emerging-market
assets. China’s customs bureau said yesterday imports increased
from a year earlier for an 11th month, boosting prospects for
Asian exporters.  “China buying more Asian assets will drive up
currencies,” said  Eric Hsing , a bond trader at First Securities
Inc. in Taipei.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso added 0.5 percent to 43.165
against the dollar and the Thai baht advanced 0.4 percent to
29.83, according to Bloomberg data. China’s yuan gained 0.1
percent to 6.6545.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 