-- AT&T, Verizon May Need to Warn Customers of Mobile-Phone `Bill Shocks'
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-14T19:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/at-t-verizon-may-need-to-warn-mobile-phone-users-to-avoid-bill-shocks-.html
Mobile-phone companies led by  AT&T
Inc.  and  Verizon Wireless  would need to alert subscribers who
are in danger of incurring extra fees under a rule proposed
today by U.S. regulators to combat “bill shocks.”  The Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0 to start
writing regulations aimed at giving subscribers notice when they
are close to the monthly limits on their service plan. Mobile-
phone companies said rules aren’t needed.  “People should be told that they’re risking extra fees
before they incur them,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.
“There are ways to prevent bill shocks easily and
inexpensively, using technology widely available today.”  The agency also voted today to make it easier for cable
television customers to use set-top boxes they buy from a
retailer.  On mobile-phone notices to customers, Genachowski said  AT&T
 and  Apple Inc. , maker of the iPod music player and iPhone
wireless device, provide usage alerts for iPad users, a feature
he called “the exception” among service providers.  The proposed FCC action would require text or voice alerts
as limits are neared for voice, data and text plans, and when
subscribers are about to incur international or other roaming
charges, according to an FCC news release.  Carriers such as Verizon Wireless, under FCC investigation
for overcharging 15 million customers for data, have said
mandatory messages aren’t necessary because companies give
customers ways to track use of data, voice and text features.  ‘Mystery Fees’  AT&T customers can monitor their data consumption, the
company said in an e-mailed statement.  Sprint Nextel Corp. 
offers “a number of tools” to help customers monitor accounts,
according to a company statement.  The FCC has reports of unauthorized “‘mystery fees’
popping up on bills,” Genachowski said yesterday in a speech in
Washington. “It’s hard to keep track of everything you’re being
charged and too easy to find yourself paying more than you had
planned on.”  The agency received 764 complaints about high bills in the
first half of this year, 20 percent for charges of $1,000 or
more, according to an analysis released yesterday. The largest
complaint was over a $68,505 charge, the agency said.  In a separate action, the agency unanimously adopted rules
to give consumers more information about the price of cards
needed for the boxes to access channels, and to make it easier
to install the items without a service call. Cable companies
often install the cards in set-top units they lease to
customers.  Set-Top Boxes  Since 2007, cable operators deployed 18.5 million boxes
with cable cards, compared with 489,000 installed in customer-
owned devices connected to their networks, according to the FCC.  “Consumers who want to take advantage of retail options
today still face obstacles,” said Commissioner  Robert McDowell ,
a Republican. “We are taking another stab at a remedy today.”  Consumers are “the biggest beneficiaries” because the FCC
rules ensure those using retail boxes get all cable programming,
 TiVo Inc. , the digital video-recording pioneer, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The FCC has finally remembered the set-top box -- and
America’s consumers will be the better for it,” said  Matthew Zinn , general counsel of the Alviso, California-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 