-- Australia's Dollar Poised for Ninth-Weekly Advance on Fed Policy Outlook
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-15T03:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/aussie-dollar-near-parity-on-speculation-federal-reserve-will-ease-further.html
Australia’s dollar was poised for a
nine-week advance against its U.S. counterpart amid speculation
the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further, boosting
the yield advantage of the South Pacific nation’s assets.  The so-called Aussie pared weekly gains today on
speculation its rally was too fast. The currency yesterday
approached parity with the greenback before a report next week
forecast to show U.S. housing starts fell. New Zealand’s dollar
touched its strongest since July 2008 yesterday as investors
sought currencies of nations with higher interest rates.  “Whatever the reason, investors want to sell the dollar,”
said  Kazumasa Yamaoka , a chief strategist at investment advisory
company GCI Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “Most recently,
strenuous expectations for additional easing are giving them an
impetus to sell the greenback, and they spend the proceeds on
higher-yielding currencies such as the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency was at 99.17 U.S. cents at 2:49 p.m.
in Sydney from 99.42 cents in New York yesterday, when it
touched 99.94 cents, the most since currency controls ended in
1983. It has gained 0.7 percent in the past five days, set for a
ninth weekly climb. The Aussie was at 80.73 yen from 81 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar was at 75.78 U.S. cents from 75.92
yesterday, when it reached 76.44, the highest level since July
2008. The so-called kiwi traded at 61.68 yen from 61.86 yen.  U.S. builders  broke  ground on 583,000 homes at an annual
rate in September, down 2.6 percent from the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
Oct. 19 data.  Fed Speculation  Futures on the CME Group exchange show a 32 percent chance
the Fed will cut its target rate for overnight bank lending to
zero by November, up from a 24 percent probability a month ago.
The rate is currently in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  Initial jobless claims  unexpectedly increased to 462,000 in
the week ended Oct. 9, from a revised 449,000, the Labor
Department reported yesterday, adding to bets the Fed will
increase purchases of government debt in a policy known as
quantitative easing.  The U.S. central bank said in a statement following the
Sept. 21 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee that it’s
prepared “to provide additional accommodation if needed” to
support the recovery. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak
today in Boston.  “The Fed may need to act aggressively if it seeks to guide
the dollar lower and stock prices higher, which are
indispensable for the U.S. economy to stay afloat,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist at Resona Bank Ltd., a unit of Japan’s
fourth-largest banking group in Tokyo. “The injection of extra
dollars will support investments in riskier assets and higher-
yielding currencies.”  Too Fast  Australia’s currency pared its weekly gains on speculation
the recent surge was overdone.  “Gains in the Aussie of late seem to be too fast, making
investors hesitant to test parity immediately,” said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-based president at Gaitame.com Research Institute
Ltd., a unit of Japan’s largest currency margin company. “While
underlying sentiment still favors the Aussie, investors may rush
to unwind long positions for now.”  The so-called Aussie’s 14-day relative strength index, or
RSI, stayed above 70 for a 16th-consecutive day, a sign the
currency may be poised to fall.  Bets on Aussie Gains  Futures traders decreased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed
last week. The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds
and other large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared
with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 69,036 on
Oct. 5, compared with 69,533 a week earlier.  The so-called Aussie also fell today after yields on
Treasuries rose yesterday as inflation expectations advanced to
five-month highs before a speech by  Bernanke .  The yield on Treasury’s  10-year note  reached 2.51 percent
yesterday and today, the highest since Oct. 4.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, an indication of inflation
expectations over the life of the securities, touched 2.18
percentage points yesterday, the widest since May 19.  Bernanke Speech  “Fed Chairman Bernanke’s speech needs to validate market
expectations for $0.5-$1 trillion in quantitative easing to be
announced as soon as the Nov. 3 FOMC meeting to keep the
greenback falling,” wrote  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency
strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney in a note to
clients.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in  Japan 
and the U.S., attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Australian bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note climbing to 5.07 percent from 5.03 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s two-year
swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, rose
one basis point to 3.74 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 