-- Australian Covered Bonds Would Cut Bank Funding Costs, ANZ Chairman Says
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-14T05:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/australian-covered-bonds-would-cut-bank-funding-costs-anz-chairman-says.html
Australian banks  would pay less
overseas to raise funds for lending if the government allowed
them to sell covered bonds at home, said  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd.  Chairman  John Morschel .  Australian regulators ban the sale of covered bonds because
they conflict with local banking laws. Mostly sold by European
banks, covered bonds attract higher ratings than regular notes
because they’re backed by assets such as mortgages that stay on
the lender’s balance sheet and can be sold in a default.  “Covered bonds would have the effect of lowering the
spread paid in relation to some of the overseas debt,” Morschel
said at a conference in Sydney today. “I would think it would
be something the government would be looking at.”  Selling covered bonds might slow the erosion of banks’
 profit margins , although the securities wouldn’t remove the need
to raise money abroad, Morschel said. Margins erode when funding
costs rise faster than the interest rates charged on loans.  Australia’s four biggest banks -- ANZ Bank,  Westpac Banking
Corp. ,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  National Australia
Bank Ltd.  -- have to sell as much as A$150 billion ($149 billion)
of long-term bonds annually to fund themselves, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. The rising cost of those funds in a
post-credit crisis era is eating into profits and pushing up the
price of loans and mortgages at home, the four banks have said.  ‘Key Risk’  Introducing covered bond legislation in Australia may be a
way for the government to help banks should global credit
markets freeze, as they did after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report in June. The
banks’ reliance on overseas debt markets would be a “key risk”
in an “extended period of financial risk aversion,” Nomura
said.  Commonwealth Bank Chief Executive Officer  Ralph Norris 
highlighted that risk today. Speaking at a lunch in Sydney,
Norris said funding costs have increased ”significantly.”
There’s a risk that demand for bank bonds will dry up, cutting
the supply of money for loans, he said.  “There’s always a danger that you end up potentially with
name fatigue, you end up with issues around the Australian
economy, that impact on the ability of us as financial
institutions to raise funds offshore,” he said. “It’s a case
of risk mitigation. You can’t have all your eggs in one
basket.”  Dependence on foreign markets for funds isn’t a problem
unless there’s a crisis, Westpac Chairman  Ted Evans  said at the
conference in Sydney with ANZ Bank’s Morschel. Still, Australia
has the potential to support a covered bonds market, he said.  “It’s an issue for policy and that’s an issue for
government,” Evans said. “I think that could happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  