-- Australia Must Balance Healthy Rivers With a Need for Growth, Crean Says
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-14T23:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/australia-must-balance-healthy-rivers-with-a-need-for-growth-crean-says.html
Australia must balance returning
water to the nation’s river system with the “human cost” to
farming communities, Regional Development Minister  Simon Crean 
said as the government faces a backlash to proposed water cuts.  “I can understand the anger,” Crean, who also serves as
local government minister, told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio today. “We do need to take the heat out of this.”  Water flows to farmers in the Murray-Darling Basin, home to
almost half the nation’s farms and producer of most of
Australia’s fresh food, should be cut by 27 percent to 37
percent to protect the drought-prone region, according to a
 report  issued by the Murray-Darling Basin Authority last week.  Parliament will start an inquiry into the water proposals,
chaired by rural independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor  whose support
the Labor minority government needs to stay in power, after
water officials held meetings with farmers who oppose the cuts
to irrigation. The inquiry will report to parliament in April,
Crean told reporters in Sydney yesterday.  “What we want to do is to take what the guide relating to
water flows suggests the science means and balance it with the
human cost,” Crean said today.  Some 5,000 farmers and locals confronted water officials in
the New South Wales town of Griffith yesterday where boxes of
the authority’s report were thrown on a bonfire, the ABC
reported. One resident threw a large toy horse’s head in a show
of contempt for the process, according to the ABC. A day earlier,
a copy of the report was burned in protest at a meeting in the
town of Deniliquin in the state, ABC reported.  An Open Mind  The science behind the proposals needs testing and the
authority has an “open mind” on water intervention, Mike
Taylor, chairman of the authority, told ABC radio earlier today.  Parliament’s inquiry will enable a “valley by valley”
approach, Crean said. “The people on the ground, the
stakeholders who know their communities, know the challenges,
know the opportunities, they’re the ones we want to engage.”  The government should buy 3,000 gigaliters to 4,000
gigaliters of water to be fed back into the river system, the
authority said in its report. The diversions would see the value
of irrigated cotton production fall by 25 percent in the basin.
Rice and cereals production would drop 30 percent, dairying 10
percent and horticulture would decline by less than 5 percent,
according to the report.  About 93 percent of the nation’s fresh food comes from the
region, which accounts for A$15 billion ($14.9 billion) worth of
crop and livestock exports, according to government figures.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  should consider water
efficiency, underground storage of water and the diversion of
water into the basin because the social and economic costs of
the current plans are high, Windsor said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  