-- Banks' Bonus Policies Are Failing to Rein In Risks, Basel Committee Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-14T18:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/banks-bonus-policies-are-failing-to-rein-in-risks-basel-committee-says.html
Banks are failing to implement bonus
practices that rein in risks blamed for contributing to the
financial crisis, a group of global banking regulators said.  The principle of matching pay to risk “has proven to be
challenging” the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said in
a statement on its website today. “As of October 2010,
effective implementation” of such bonus practices “has not
been achieved,” said the committee, which last month proposed
tougher capital rules for banks worldwide.  Lawmakers and regulators are reviewing bonuses to avoid a
repeat of the excessive risk-taking that led to the worst
financial crisis since World War II. The  Committee of European
Banking Supervisors  last week said that bankers should be able
to get a maximum of a quarter of their bonus in an immediate
cash payout.  Banks should defer share awards to employees for “a
sufficiently long” time “to ensure that appropriate incentives
are built” and to “truly differentiate” the shares from a
cash payment, the committee recommended.  Regulators are still grappling with “the best feasible
way” to control guaranteed bonuses for new employees, the
committee, based in Basel, Switzerland said. This “remains an
open question.”  Limits on cash bonuses and “timelines of payouts in
themselves do little to curb individual incentives for excessive
risk-taking though they are steps in the right direction,” Sony
Kapoor, managing director of policy think-tank Re-Define Europe,
said in an e-mail.  “Risk-Takers”  The Basel committee said that rules forcing bankers to pay
back their bonuses if the lender experiences a financial crisis
should apply to all “material risk-takers” in a bank, not just
“senior executives or traders.”  “These could be either individual employees or groups of
employees who may not pose a risk to the financial soundness of
an institution on an individual basis,” the report said.  The  Basel  Committee, which is made up of bank regulators
from around the world, reached an agreement Sept. 12 for rules
that more than double capital requirements for banks, while
giving them as long as eight years to comply. Germany had sought
to give firms a decade to make the transition, while the U.S.,
U.K. and Switzerland pushed for a maximum of five years.  “The industry has already implemented” proposals on pay
endorsed by leaders of the Group of 20 nations,  Rob McIvor ,
spokesman for the Association for Financial Markets in Europe,
said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 