-- Bank of America Downgraded By Bond Market on Foreclosures: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-15T17:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bank-of-america-downgraded-by-bond-market-on-foreclosures-credit-markets.html
Bondholders are penalizing Bank of
America Corp. the most of any of the largest U.S. financial
firms as the investigation into the foreclosure crisis expands.  Credit-default swaps on the country’s largest bank by
assets rose  above  those of its peers by a record margin,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts, which imply Bank
of America has lost its investment-grade rating, exceed
Citigroup Inc.’s by the most ever and surpassed Morgan Stanley’s
this week for the first time in a year.  Attorneys general from all 50 states joined to open an
investigation into whether lenders and  mortgage  companies
falsified documents as they sought to repossess homes.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America said Oct. 8 it
would curtail foreclosure sales nationwide, as speculation rose
the lender would have to buy back home mortgages with faulty
documentation.  “As we look at the financial landscape and try to put pen
to paper and figure out who might be most exposed to problems
associated with foreclosure moratoria, with robo-signers, with
mortgage put-backs, Bank of America’s at the top of the list,”
said  David Havens , a financial institution debt analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  Bank of America is being singled out for expanding its
real-estate operations and acquiring  Countrywide Financial
Corp. , then the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, in 2008 during the
worst housing slump since the Great Depression, Havens said. The
bank also increased its mortgage assets through the $29 billion
purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. in January 2009 under pressure
from the Federal Reserve, which was trying to prevent failure of
the U.S. banking system.  ‘Nothing Different’  “There’s nothing different about our company today than
yesterday,” Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said
after a speech in Boston yesterday. The bank’s review of
foreclosures will take “a few weeks to get through,” he said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment further.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 168 basis points, or 1.68
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The spread has narrowed 13
basis points since Aug. 31. Yields averaged 3.396 percent
yesterday, the index shows.  Structured Notes  Structured notes issuance in the U.S. reached a record,
with banks selling $38.4 billion of the securities this year as
investors turn away from stocks and toward fixed-income
products. Sales of the products, which are bonds bundled with
derivatives, compare with $33.9 billion last year and $37.6
billion in the previous record year of 2008, according to
database StructuredRetailProducts.com.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
were little changed, rising 0.08 basis point to a mid-price of
98.54 basis points as of 12:58 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings increased 1.93 to 102.5.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  ‘Political Implications’  The cost to protect Bank of America’s debt for five years
climbed for a fourth day, touching yesterday’s record of 205
basis points, according to Phoenix Partners Group. The
 difference  between the swap price and the average of the five
largest banks grew yesterday to 41.1 basis points, the most on
record.  Citigroup’s swaps rose 3.2 basis points to 177 today and
contracts on New York-based Morgan Stanley fell 2.2 basis points
to 173, Phoenix data show. In February, Citigroup’s contracts
were 94.4 basis points higher than those of Bank of America’s,
according to CMA.  “For all of these residential real estate issues that are
dominating the headlines today and have significant political
implications in the 19 days going into the election, Bank of
America sits there more exposed than Citigroup right now,”
Nomura’s Havens said.  Implied Ratings  Prices on Bank of America’s credit-default swaps imply the
debt is ranked Ba1 as of Oct. 13, five levels below its actual
A2 grade, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets research
group. That’s the first time the firm’s swaps have signaled a
junk ranking since May 6, the data show.  Bank of America’s  $2.5 billion of 4.5 percent notes due in
April 2015 fell 0.381 cent to 103.89 cents on the dollar as of
11:36 a.m. in New York, Trace data show. The bonds were issued
at 99.9 cents in March to yield 215 basis points more than
Treasuries. The bank has $360 billion of bonds outstanding,
Bloomberg data show.  The rising price of swaps reflects potential costs that
banks may face on so-called mortgage put-backs from investors.
Put-backs occur when a mortgage lender is forced to repurchase a
loan that’s been sold for securitization. Banks may also have to
pay for legal challenges.  Loan-Servicing Grade  The  Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers , a trade
group for bond insurers, said in a letter last month to Moynihan 
that his bank should repurchase as much as $20 billion in home
loans that were based on wrong or missing information.  Moody’s put Bank of America’s loan-servicing grade on
review for a possible downgrade on Oct. 4, citing irregularities
in the foreclosure process and deterioration of loss mitigation
and collections.  The bank’s swaps have doubled this year, adding 106.4 basis
points. That’s still down from 400.7 basis points in March 2009,
CMA data show.  “You’ve had balance sheet repair but the work isn’t
done,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York.
“People need to get their hard hats back on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  