-- U.S. Bank Stocks Slide on Concern Over Foreclosure Inquiry
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-10-14T16:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bank-of-america-financial-stocks-slide-on-concern-over-foreclosure-probe.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. lender, led financial stocks that slid in New York trading
on concerns that reviews of home-foreclosure practices may fuel
costs.  Bank of America fell 5.7 percent to $12.53 at 12:27 p.m.
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co.  dropped 4.7 percent to
$24.60.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  declined 3.3 percent to $38.51 and
 Citigroup Inc. , both based in New York, dropped 5.4 percent to
$4.02. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and
JPMorgan were the worst-performing members of the 30-member  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  today.  Attorneys general from all 50 states said yesterday they
have joined together to open an investigation into whether
lenders and mortgage companies falsified documents in
foreclosures proceedings. Lenders including  Ally Financial Inc. ,
Bank of America and JPMorgan have suspended some foreclosures or
evictions while they review their paperwork.  “You have a new cloud forming on the horizon which could
be anything from something minor to something that really slows
down the process” of foreclosures, said  Benjamin Wallace , an
analyst at Grimes & Co. in Westborough, Massachusetts, which
manages about $900 million and owns stock in JPMorgan and Wells
Fargo. “We’d rather be talking about normalized earnings and
dividends.”  FBR Capital Markets analyst  Paul Miller  estimated Oct. 12
that faulty foreclosures could cost U.S. lenders $2 billion for
every month home seizures are delayed, up to a total of
$6 billion.  ‘Twin Hit’  The crisis will get worse unless regulators move quickly to
find a national solution, said  Katherine Porter , a visiting
professor at Harvard Law School who has studied banks’
foreclosure practices.  “If the delays drag on and the lawsuits ramp up we’ll see
a twin hit to the economy, banks are very large players in the
overall stock market, for example, and if their stocks start
falling, that is not good,” Porter said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There could be, in the worst-case
scenario, a real downward hit to both the stock market and also
to the overall housing economy.”  JPMorgan, the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
third-quarter earnings, will probably have some “incremental”
expenses from the foreclosure scrutiny, Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  said yesterday.  “It will cost us some money to go back and make sure it’s
done right; it will delay some foreclosures,” Dimon told
reporters. The bank will also have “in-depth conversations”
with regulators about their concerns, he said.  -- With assistance from  Christine Harper  in New York. Editors:
 William Ahearn ,  David Scheer   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  