-- Bank of America Re-Remics Cut Mortgage Debt as Basel Rules Loom
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-14T15:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bank-of-america-re-remics-reduce-mortgage-debt-as-basel-capital-rules-loom.html
Bank of America Corp. , seeking to
reduce risk and meet new capital standards, upgraded billions of
dollars of distressed  mortgage  bonds by repackaging them into
new securities using a variation of a Wall Street technique that
failed during the credit crisis.  The transactions, known as re-remics, are designed to add a
layer of protection to residential mortgage-backed securities
that sustained losses, enabling them to regain investment-grade
ratings. The strategy helped the bank pare its RMBS holdings by
$5.2 billion in the second quarter, or about 15 percent,
according to a company filing.  With bank stocks mired near historic  lows  in relation to
book value, firms such as Bank of America and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  are searching for alternative ways to meet rules set by
global regulators since the 2008 financial crisis. By turning
junk-rated securities into investment-grade bonds, Bank of
America will need to hold less capital under rules agreed to by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  “The larger banks are going to do anything and everything
they can to create capital other than issuing stock,” said
 Matthew Pieniazek , president of Darling Consulting Group Inc., a
Newburyport, Massachusetts, firm that provides asset-liability
management advice to banks. “The most punitive way of raising
capital is by issuing highly dilutive common equity in the
current marketplace.”  ‘Scrubbing’ Balance Sheets  Re-remics, short for re-securitizations of real estate
mortgage-investment conduits, are one way for lenders to improve
capital ratios without issuing stock, according to Pieniazek,
who also runs educational programs for bank regulators. Firms
such as  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  have been doing re-remics
since the credit crunch began in 2007, primarily to restructure
private-label RMBS to make the bonds easier to divest.  Bank of America repackaged $13 billion of mortgage-linked
securities in the first half, according to  Jerry Dubrowski , a
spokesman for the company, and filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank is
the only one of the five biggest U.S. lenders to disclose that
it used re-remics this year for regulatory capital purposes.  More banks may turn to the technique as they come under
pressure to boost capital, said  Marty Mosby , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in Memphis, Tennessee. While the
transaction may trigger a writedown, improved profits this year
can cushion the blow.  “Re-remics are a way of doing some scrubbing of the
balance sheet at a time when banks have other gains that give
them a lot of flexibility,” said Mosby, who was chief financial
officer at First Horizon National Corp. in Memphis, Tennessee’s
largest bank, from 2003 to 2007.  Housing Boom  The housing boom of the past decade was fueled by the
securitization market, in which Wall Street firms bundled
mortgages into trusts that then issued different classes of
securities. A record $1.2 trillion of mortgage bonds lacking
government support were issued in both 2005 and 2006, according
to newsletter Inside MBS & ABS. Many of them were rated AAA
based in part on their priority in receiving payments made on
underlying mortgages.  Banks invested heavily in these bonds, also known as
private-label or non-agency RMBS because they didn’t have
guarantees from government-backed agencies such as Fannie Mae or
Freddie Mac, only to suffer big losses after borrowers began
defaulting on subprime mortgages in 2007. Lenders held about
$197.2 billion of private-label RMBS as of June 30, down from
$383.5 billion at the end of 2007, according to data compiled by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  ‘Toxic Waste’  “When you talk about toxic waste in the banking system,
privately issued mortgage-backed securities are at the top of
the list,” said  Richard Bove , a bank analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida. “The banks have written down
these portfolios very aggressively.”  As of July 31, Standard & Poor’s had downgraded $2.4
trillion of the $3.3 trillion in structured-finance securities
tied to the U.S. housing market that were issued from 2005
through 2007, according to an Aug. 30 report by the  credit-
rating  firm.  Most securitizations during the housing boom consisted of
senior securities that got investment-grade ratings and junior
securities that were first in line to absorb losses when
borrowers defaulted.  Financial Engineering  In a re-remic, the senior mortgage bonds that have lost
their investment-grade ratings are placed in a new trust, which
issues a new set of senior and junior securities, with the
higher-ranking bonds receiving first rights to cash flows from
the original home loans. The junior securities in the re-remics
provide an additional layer of protection to the cushion created
by subordinated bonds from the original securitization. They’re
second in line to bear any losses, which means more senior
investors wouldn’t suffer any damage unless the junior
securities were wiped out.  The financial engineering allows the senior re-remics
securities to regain AAA ratings, lowering the amount of capital
a bank needs to hold against them. The junior securities, which
retain non-investment-grade ratings, can be sold to investors
looking for higher yields.  “What broke the asset-finance market -- securitization --
is what’s fixing it,” said  Matthew Lambiase , managing director
at  Annaly Capital Management Inc. , a New York-based real estate
investment trust that owns mortgage-backed securities.  Re-Securitization Trust  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, had a net
$2.8 billion of unrealized losses on $37.9 billion of non-agency
RMBS listed in its financial statements as available for sale at
the end of last year, according to company filings. The bank
pooled $13 billion of these bonds in a re-securitization trust
that issued two new classes of debt during the first half of
2010, said Dubrowski, the company spokesman.  Sales of re-remics, in combination with mortgage
repayments, reduced the carrying value of the bank’s RMBS
holdings by $5.2 billion, according to a quarterly report the
company filed with the SEC on Aug. 6. Dubrowski declined to say
which firm rated the bank’s re-remics, what the ratings were or
who purchased the securities.  At issue is whether defects in the securitization market
that contributed to the financial crisis, including faulty
credit ratings and weak underwriting standards, have been
eliminated.  Janet Tavakoli , a structured-finance consultant who
has criticized the financial industry for lax underwriting and
excessive leverage, said senior bonds created through re-remics
remain vulnerable to losses on soured home loans.  ‘Going to Fail’  “The underlying problem is that securitization
professionals were securitizing loans they knew were going to
fail,” said Tavakoli, founder of Chicago-based Tavakoli
Structured Finance Inc. and author of books on securitization.
“None of those problems has gone away.”  In May, S&P cut to junk the ratings on re-remics granted
AAA grades when they were created in 2009 by companies such as
Credit Suisse Group AG, Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The downgrades to about $150 million of debt
“reflect our assessment of the significant deterioration in
performance of the loans backing the underlying certificates,”
 Cesar Romero  and  Terry G. Osterweil , analysts at the New York-
based ratings firm, said in a note at the time.  Tougher Standards  Credit-rating companies such as S&P are using tougher
standards before meting out top grades for mortgage bonds,
according to  Thomas Capasse , a founding member of Merrill Lynch
& Co.’s asset-backed securities group. The firms are demanding
lower loan-to-value ratios on mortgages that underlie the bonds
and higher credit scores for borrowers, as well as full
documentation of their income and financial condition, said
Capasse, now a principal at Waterfall Asset Management LLC, a
New York-based firm that invests in high-yield structured debt.  “The securitization that failed,” said Capasse, was
intended to get risk off of bank  balance sheets  and “create
access to higher-risk loans with more leverage.” In contrast,
re-remics are designed to restructure distressed mortgage bonds
so they qualify for investment-grade ratings under the tougher
criteria, Capasse said.  In addition to the $13 billion of its own securities, Bank
of America has been carrying out “customer-driven” re-
securitizations and re-remics of mortgage bonds backed by the
government, according to Dubrowski, the bank spokesman. The
company’s overall repackaging, reflecting all three categories,
increased to almost $69 billion during the first half of 2010
from $16 billion for the same period last year.  JPMorgan Re-Remics  JPMorgan transferred about $14.3 billion of government-
backed mortgage bonds, along with $1 billion of private-label
debt, to re-securitization trusts during the first half of this
year, according to its  quarterly report  for the three months
ended June 30. The New York-based bank said in the  filing  that
its re-securitizations involve both residential and commercial
mortgages and are often structured on behalf of clients.  Bank re-remics of agency mortgage bonds aren’t tied to
regulatory relief because the underlying debt carries AAA
ratings, thanks to their government backing, reducing the amount
of capital firms need to set aside for these assets. Rather,
these re-remics are designed to redistribute cash flows on the
agency debt to provide investors with securities that have
varying sensitivities to interest rate changes, said  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at New York-based Braver
Stern Securities LLC.  Beaten-Down Bonds  With the yield on 10-year Treasuries diving below 2.4
percent, and the  Federal Reserve  buying $1.25 trillion of agency
bonds to support housing and mortgage markets, the supply of
higher-yielding AAA securities began to shrink, said Lambiase at
Annaly Capital. That provided an opportunity for banks and
brokerages to repackage beaten-down private-label mortgage bonds
into AAA debt through re-remics.  “There are not a lot of high-yielding AAA assets in the
marketplace,” Lambiase said. “People are using re-remic
technology to create AAA bonds” that are relatively high
yielding, he added.  About $36.2 billion of re-remics for private-label RMBS was
issued in the U.S. during the first eight months of the year
compared with $45.5 billion for all of 2009, according to data
from Austin, Texas-based Amherst Securities Group LP, a dealer
in mortgage-backed securities.  Average Life  The re-remics had an average life of 3.2 years and yielded
about 4.5 percent, according to Amherst, compared with a 3.55
percent yield on corporate bonds rated BBB, the second-lowest
investment-grade rating from S&P, with a life of 5.7 years.  The assets of Bank of America’s re-securitization trusts
grew to $32.6 billion as of June 30 from $7.4 billion at the end
of last year, according to the Aug. 6  SEC report . Holdings in
the senior class of securities issued by these trusts rose to
about $17.9 billion from $543 million, the filing said. The bank
had about $1.7 billion of the subordinated securities as of June
30 compared with none at the start of the year.  By carving up cash flows from the mortgages that back the
bonds in the re-securitization trust, Bank of America was able
to cut its junk-rated holdings in the first half, according to
Dubrowski. The bank hasn’t disclosed the dollar value of RMBS
converted from junk to investment-grade levels.  The cut reflects the sale of newly created subordinated
securities as well as upgrades on senior bonds formed through
the re-securitizations.  $711 Million Loss  The re-remics resulted in a loss of $711 million in the
second quarter that was offset by other trading gains, according
to the Aug. 6 filing. Simply selling the junk-rated debt could
have triggered even larger losses that would have depleted the
bank’s capital, according to Allen Greer, a former Bank of
America commercial real estate analyst who now runs  Greer
Advisors LLC , a market-research company in Los Angeles.  “Bank of America is structuring this re-remic to take the
lowest upfront hit possible,” Greer said. “The $711 million
they reported is probably a fraction of what the loss should
have been, based on what distressed-debt websites are showing.”  Bank of America declined 4.9 percent to $12.64 at 11:32
a.m. today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have declined 16 percent this year.  Kevin Bailey, the deputy comptroller for capital and
regulatory policy in the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, declined to comment on bank use of re-remics.  Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the FDIC, and Barbara Hagenbaugh, a Fed
spokeswoman, also declined to comment.  ‘Streamlining’  Bank of America entered into the second-quarter re-remics
in late May “following a review of corporate risk objectives in
light of proposed Basel regulatory capital changes and liquidity
targets,” according to the August SEC filing.  “What we decided to do was reduce non-investment grade
RMBS,” Dubrowski said, adding that the bank inherited some
securities by its  acquisitions  of Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009
and  Countrywide Financial Corp.  in 2008. “It was part of an
overall strategy of streamlining the balance sheet ahead of the
Basel standards and meeting certain liquidity targets we had.”  The standards, approved by the Basel committee last month,
will more than double the ratio of capital banks must hold in
relation to the amount of risk on their balance sheets. In
separate reports last month, KBW Inc. and Morgan Stanley said
Bank of America was likely to have the weakest Tier 1 common
equity capital ratio among four major banks under the new rules.  While banks have as long as eight years to comply, they
must “maintain prudent earnings retention policies” until they
reach a 7 percent Tier 1 common equity ratio, according to
 Frederick Cannon , an equity strategist at New York-based KBW. In
practice, that means they can’t buy back stock or pay  dividends 
until they reach the threshold, he said.  Capital Ratios  “The banks are going to want to get to those levels as
soon as possible,” Cannon said. Lenders “will continue to be
active in trying to manage down their risk-weighted assets.”  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of JPMorgan, the
second-largest U.S. lender by assets, said in an investor
presentation last month that the Basel rules would reduce the
bank’s capital ratio by about three percentage points. The
company also said that the standards would require it to hold a
greater proportion of assets in financial instruments that could
be sold easily.  The committee, which includes central bank governors and
regulators from 27 nations, also adopted a market-risk
regulation in July 2009. That rule, scheduled to go into effect
by the end of next year, raises the capital requirement for
securitized and re-securitized debt.  Cut to Junk  Under the market-risk rule, banks would have to hold as
much as $100 of capital for a $100 junk-rated mortgage bond. By
re-securitizing those bonds, banks can turn a portion of them
into AAA rated securities that would lower the capital charge to
as little as $1.60 for those bonds.  In pursuing its re-remic strategy, the primary risk for
Bank of America is that mortgage delinquencies will increase,
causing losses to seep into the AAA re-remics that the company
continues to hold, said Pieniazek at Darling Consulting. That’s
what happened during the credit crisis, when defaults burned
through layer after layer of protection and made some AAA rated
securities almost worthless.  “We look at the re-remic trade as being more of a
restacking of the credit deck,” said  Donald Ramon , chief
financial officer of  Atlanta-based Invesco Mortgage Capital
Inc. , a real estate investment trust that trades mortgage-backed
securities. “You end up with a security at the bottom that has
all of the risk, and there’s not much liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  