-- Barbosa Said to Join Rousseff Brazil Presidential Campaign as Lead Narrows
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-14T14:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/barbosa-said-to-join-rousseff-brazil-presidential-campaign-as-lead-narrows.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s top economic adviser will join  Dilma Rousseff ’s
campaign for president as polls show her lead narrowing before
the Oct. 31 vote, people familiar with the decision said.  Nelson Barbosa , the Finance Ministry’s economic policy
secretary, will be on leave through Oct. 29 to help Rousseff’s
campaign, according to two people who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Barbosa will be
temporarily replaced at his post by his deputy, Dyogo de
Oliveira, the person said.  Barbosa is a contender to become finance minister should
Rousseff win the runoff election this month, said  Andre Cesar ,
founder of Brasilia-based political risk analysis firm CAC
Consultoria. He joins the campaign as Rousseff’s advantage over
former Sao Paulo Governor  Jose Serra  has narrowed since her
14.3-point lead in the first-round vote Oct. 3.  Barbosa’s “work at the Finance Ministry is well liked at
the presidential palace,” Cesar said in a phone interview.
“But Mantega is not out of the game and a decision will only be
made after the vote. All are now focusing on the need to win.”  Barbosa will join Rousseff’s team of economic advisers,
according to a person in the campaign, who asked not to be
identified.  The Finance Ministry’s press office declined to comment on
Barbosa’s plans while confirming he will be on leave.  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s hand-picked
candidate, won the first round of voting with 46.9 percent of
votes. Serra, of the Brazilian Social Democracy Party, had 32.6
percent. Green Party candidate  Marina Silva , who is out of the
race, had 19.3 percent. A candidate needed to win a majority of
votes to avoid the Oct. 31 runoff.  Rousseff’s Lead  Rousseff had a 4.6 percentage-point lead in over Serra in
an Oct. 11-13 poll commissioned by the National Transport
Confederation and published today, with 52.3 percent support
compared with 47.7 percent for Serra among valid votes. The
survey of 2,000 people had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage
points.  In a survey released yesterday by Brazilian polling company
Vox Populi, Rousseff had 48 percent support and Serra
40 percent. The poll surveyed 3,000 people on Oct. 10-11 and had
a margin of error of 1.8 percentage points.  “Serra became a competitive candidate when he managed to
go to the second round,” Cesar said. “That said, Dilma is the
favorite to win this election.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  