-- Barcelona Soccer Spending Probed as Management Teams Squabble Over Budget
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-14T22:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/barcelona-soccer-spending-probed-as-management-teams-squabble-over-budget.html
Barcelona soccer club is reviewing
whether former directors spent too lavishly after a record six-
trophy sweep last year -- and may ask them to foot the bill.  As many as 4,300 senior members will examine an audit of
ex-president Joan Laporta’s management tomorrow after a new
board said he oversaw a 77 million-euro ($108 million) loss for
the year to June 30. Laporta’s group had reported a 9 million-
euro profit in the period. Members attending the club’s annual
meeting will be asked to approve the accounts.  Spending by executives is a touchy subject as Spain emerges
from its worst recession in more than 60 years and amid
government cost cuts, according to Cristina Cubero, a Barcelona-
based soccer analyst for Intereconomia TV. The 170,000 members,
who own the club, pay annual dues of 157 euros each.  “It’s more sensitive because we are in an economic
crisis,” Cubero said. “The members want to know what happened
with their money.”  Barcelona won Europe’s Champions League in 2009, when the
team including current World Player of the Year Lionel Messi
took all six competitions it entered. Laporta’s seven-year
tenure ended June 30 after the club repeated as Spanish
champion.  His board said it paid out 40 million euros in performance
bonuses to players amid the winning streak. An audit of club
accounts commissioned by new president Sandro Rosell reviews
spending on everything from catering to travel expenses -- far
more detail than usual, according to Cubero.  “The question is whether they hired a private jet when
they could have taken the train,” Cubero said, referring to the
former directors.  Tough Times  Laporta didn’t respond to interview requests, and former
Vice President Joan Boix declined to comment when reached by
telephone yesterday.  Laporta told a news conference in Barcelona last night
that his management was “impecable” and the team made a 
profit in the year to June 30, Europa Press reported.  The bonuses contrast with tough times in the Spanish
economy. The unemployment rate is 20 percent and workers held
the first general strike in eight years on Sept. 29 to protest
government austerity measures such as the freezing of pensions
and scrapping of subsidies for new mothers.  Barcelona’s board, if members agree, could take the
unprecedented step of demanding the payment of a bank guarantee
Laporta and his directors lodged with the Spanish league when
they took office in 2003, former team executive  Esteve Calzada 
said. The guarantee, required by league rules, is typically 15
percent of the team’s budget, or about 20 million euros.  Barcelona is soccer’s second-biggest team by sales,
according to accountant Deloitte LLP. The debate over spending
at the club has blown up because of friction between Rosell, a
former  Nike Inc.  executive, and Laporta, an attorney, according
to  Antonio Martin , director of sports management courses at
Instituto de Empresa business school in Madrid.  Loan for Salaries  “It’s partly a media battle” between the two men, Martin
said. “But it’s important to know the real financial situation
of the club as well.”  A running-mate of Laporta in 2003, Rosell quit the
Barcelona board two years later, saying the management lacked
“transparency and democracy.”  Rosell’s board, which took office July 1, has taken out a
155 million-euro bank loan it said it needed to help pay
salaries at the three-time European champion. It also revised a
9 million-euro profit for the previous financial year to a 77.1
million-euro loss. Former treasurer Xavier Sala-i-Martin says
the new figure is “legally dubious.”  After Rosell quit, Laporta oversaw Barcelona’s 2006
Champions League win and several years of domestic league
dominance. Taking him to task about spending may result in a
legal tussle that takes years, Calzada said.  “It may just be the members say: ‘We’ve had a very
successful time’” under Laporta’s presidency, Calzada said.
“‘Thanks very much.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 