-- Basel Agreement May Stifle Global Trade, Wal-Mart Supplier Says
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2010-10-14T10:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/basel-agreement-may-stifle-global-trade-wal-mart-supplier-li-fung-says.html
Global bank regulators risk choking
commerce through new rules that treat trade finance as being as
risky as derivatives, said  Victor Fung , chairman of  Li & Fung
Ltd. , the Hong Kong-based supplier of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.   The Basel III accord reached last month doubles bank
capital requirements to protect against defaults. While the
overall accord is prudent, it threatens importers and exporters,
the supplier’s billionaire  chairman  said.  “The problem is they put trade finance into the same
basket as derivatives,” Fung said in an interview in Hong Kong.
“So the amount of capital you have to allocate to trade finance
is the same as high-risk financial products, which we think is
unfair.”  Fung  was chairman  of the  International Chamber of Commerce 
until July. The Paris-based lobbying group in April said that
access to trade finance remained constrained in the aftermath of
the global financial crisis, which caused the deepest
contraction in world trade in the postwar era.  “Trade finance is extremely important to  Li & Fung ,” said
 Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities
Co. “It is the grease that allows the wheels of Asian
manufacturing for export to turn. They are absolutely right to
object to any legislation that increases the costs of this
crucial component of world trade.”  ‘Extremely Dangerous’  The European Banking Federation, a lobbying group, last
month warned that tighter rules designed by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision may limit lending.  The new rules may be “extremely dangerous,”  Li & Fung ’s
chairman said at a briefing. “If a small- or medium-sized
enterprise sells to Marks & Spencer, or to Wal-Mart, with a 90-
day receivable, it’s a very safe receivable. It should not be
the same as some sort of derivative or option.”  “We’re concerned that trade finance will not get the
allocation and trade finance in the world could be squeezed,"
Fung said. "That actually could cause another major downturn in
trade."  Li & Fung , which also supplies  Kohl’s Corp. , Marks &
Spencer Plc and  Inditex SA ’s Zara, has  climbed  31 percent this
year on the Hong Kong stock exchange. That makes it this year’s
sixth-biggest  gainer  on the  45-member benchmark , which has
advanced 9 percent. Li & Fung fell 3.2 percent to HK$42.35 at
the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong.  Silk Trader  ‘‘It’s still very difficult for small- and medium-sized
enterprises to get trade finance,”  Gabriel Chan , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone
interview today. “Some of their clients may not be able to do
business because they can’t get finance."  Li & Fung  President Bruce Rockowitz on Oct. 7 said the
company expects a "very good" year in 2011 as purchases and
sourcing agreements boost revenue. The company has in the past
year announced  acquisitions  worth more than $2 billion,
according to statements and analyst estimates.  Fung and brother  William Fung  are the biggest shareholders
in  Li & Fung , which was founded as a porcelain and silk trader
in southern China in 1906 near the end of the Qing dynasty.  Victor Fung  is a member of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference, an advisory panel to the country’s
legislators. He was chairman of Hong Kong’s Airport Authority
from 1999 to 2008 and chaired the city’s Trade Development
Council from 1991 to 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  