-- Ben Walker’s ‘Bloody’ Jackson Falters on Broadway: John Simon
-- B y   J o h n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-14T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ben-walker-s-bloody-jackson-plays-like-kid-stuff-on-broadway-john-simon.html
“Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,” a
youthful romp of a rock musical taking a caricatural view of
 Jackson  and American history, has transferred to Broadway’s big
league in what may be an act of pride that goes before a fall.  A show that has already played in the more intimate
quarters of Los Angeles, Williamstown and New York’s  Public
Theater  now rattles around in a big Broadway house for which it
is not grown-up enough.  “Bloody Bloody” was written and directed by  Alex Timbers 
of the rather campy ensemble  Les Freres Corbusier , with music
and lyrics by Michael Friedman of the  Civilians , another cheeky
group with hypertrophic ambitions.  It’s a show that would have thrived at Harvard’s  Hasty
Pudding  or other Ivy clubs where rowdiness, impudence and
anything else happily goes. Indeed, when I reviewed “Bloody”
at the Public, I found it mildly amusing and worthy of a
friendly pat on the shoulder.  On Broadway, however, it proves more deserving of a slap in
the face. This despite a highly accomplished Andrew Jackson from
Benjamin Walker, a young actor of charm and versatility who
brings both qualities to his portrayal of the seventh U.S.
president.  Heap of Sound  The rest -- impersonating politicos Monroe, Calhoun, Clay,
Quincy Adams and Van Buren, along with a motley mob of Indian
chiefs, Spanish and English soldiery, Mrs. Jackson and sundry
womenfolk -- do well enough only by clever sophomoric standards.  The three-man onstage band produces a powerful heap of
sound; Danny Mefford’s choreography moves 19 bodies around with
restless polysexual brio and Emily Rebholz’s costumes retain
their downtown punk chic.  But Donyale Werle’s scenery, a kind of blood-red Wild West
bar/bordello with stuffed animals scattered through the
auditorium, gives the show away. Although it sometimes opens up
a bit, it mostly uses only the flat front of the stage,
suggesting a rock concert, which characterizes much of the
operation.  While history is followed in a rough-and-tumble, brutal
comic-strip way, the language is scatological, obscene,
deliberately anachronistic (references to Susan Sontag, Michel
Foucault and such) as well as manically repetitious and, above
all, proudly juvenile. So slapdash is Timbers’s book that it
repeatedly has Andrew’s parents die of both Indian arrows and
cholera.  Ear Bangers  Friedman’s music yields some attractive moments, but the
onstage musicians are all too happy to split our ears. The young
cast carries scruffy unsightliness to unmatchable heights. The
only name actor, Kristin Nielsen, spouting the voice of history
from a wheelchair, is charmless as usual. Other women in the
cast, notably the unwinning actress portraying Mrs. Jackson,
fare no better.  I must confess that the folks around me seemed to find most
of it hilarious. Much as I wished to, I couldn’t join them.  At the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 W. 45th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **  ( John Simon  is the New York drama critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Simon in New York at  jis1925@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 