-- FTSE 100 Index Falls as U.S. Consumer Confidence Unexpectedly Decreases
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-15T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bhp-rio-tinto-jd-wetherspoon-plc-stanchart-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined as a slump at
 Old Mutual Plc  and weaker-than-estimated consumer confidence
data in the U.S. overshadowed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments that he may provide more stimulus measures.  Old Mutual tumbled 4.8 percent after HSBC Holdings Plc
abandoned a bid to buy the insurer’s stake in Nedbank Group Ltd.
Xstrata Plc and Kazakhmys Plc led a retreat among mining shares.
BT Group Plc, Britain’s largest phone company, climbed the most
since July after reaching an agreement over contracts with the
U.K. government.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 23.84, or 0.4 percent, to
5,703.37 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, paring this week’s
gain to 0.8 percent. The gauge has rallied 19 percent since July
1 as investors speculated that the Federal Reserve will announce
plans to stimulate economic growth in November as the recovery
wanes. The  FTSE All-Share Index  dropped 0.4 percent today and
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  lost 0.5 percent.  “Investors are right to be concerned about the fragile
labor market in the U.S.,” said Camille Viros, an economist at
Barclays Wealth in London, which manages about $211 billion. “A
double-dip should be avoided. However, we expect growth to
remain sluggish.”  U.S. Economy  Confidence among U.S. consumers  unexpectedly declined in
October, with Americans more pessimistic about current economic
conditions. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 67.9, the
lowest since July, from 68.2 in September. Economists estimated
an October reading of 68.9, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Bernanke today said additional monetary stimulus may be
warranted as inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said in the text of remarks
given at a Boston Fed conference. He said the central bank could
expand asset purchases or change the language in its statement.  Old Mutual, Africa’s biggest insurer, sank 4.8 percent to
138.3 pence, the most in almost six months. HSBC, Europe’s
largest bank, abandoned a bid to buy a $7.3 billion controlling
stake in South Africa’s Nedbank after eight weeks of talks.  The London-based lender had been in negotiations to
purchase as much as 70 percent of Nedbank, including a 52
percent stake owned by Old Mutual.  HSBC , the biggest stock in
the FTSE 100 by weighting, fell 1.4 percent to 653.3 pence.  Xstrata, Kazakhmys  Xstrata lost 2.3 percent to 1,311.5 pence. Kazakhmys
declined 2.3 percent to 1,384 pence.  BT gained 2.9 percent to 147.4 pence after saying its
government contracts remain in place and there is no change to
the company’s overall outlook. The U.K. government accounts for
about 10 percent of BT’s business.  “This statement should serve to alleviate recent concerns
regarding government spending in the near term,” said  Mark James , a London-based analyst at Liberum Capital. “It’s a case
of: the government wins, BT doesn’t lose.”  Rolls-Royce Group Plc increased 1.1 percent to 635 pence,
for a six-day rally. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
recommendation to “buy” from “neutral” and added the world’s
second-biggest engine maker to its “conviction buy” list.  “We believe the A&D sector has again entered a phase where
the key to outperformance is to select stocks that can deliver
sustained, superior returns versus peers,” the broker wrote in
a note today.  Computacenter Plc  climbed 2.6 percent to 346.5 pence, the
highest price since 2006. The supplier of computer services said
trading in the third quarter strengthened after an “already
positive position” in the first half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 