-- Blackstone, Bain May Seek Pfizer Unit as Consistent Performer
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-15T20:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/blackstone-bain-capital-are-said-to-plan-bids-for-pfizer-s-capsugel-unit.html
Blackstone Group LP  and Bain Capital
LLC’s interest in  Pfizer Inc. ’s Capsugel business may be driven
by the chance to acquire a consistent performer with steady cash
flow, an analyst said.  Blackstone and Bain are among buyout firms planning to bid
for Capsugel, said three people with knowledge of the situation.
Capsugel, which makes gelatin capsules for drugs and dietary
supplements, is the smallest of  nine business units  for Pfizer,
the world’s largest drugmaker.  The sale process is in the early stages with private-equity
firms requesting information about Capsugel’s business, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Morgan Stanley is advising Pfizer on options for the
unit, the New York-based company said in an Oct. 6 statement.  “Private equity firms have a lot of cash they need to put
to work,”  Les Funtleyder , a health-care analyst with Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “While Capsugel isn’t exciting from a growth
perspective, it is a consistent performer in terms of revenue
and no doubt kicks off considerable cash flow.”  Capsugel had revenue of $740 million last year, Pfizer said
in the Oct. 6 statement. Blackstone may use the unit to bolster
Catalent Pharma Solutions Inc., the drug packaging company it
bought for $3.3 billion in 2007 from  Cardinal Health Inc. , said
one of the people. Catalent, which was formed by Cardinal
through a series of acquisitions, makes a vegetable-based soft
gel shell system called VegiCaps.  Joan Campion , a spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined to
comment.  Seeking Revenue  Pfizer is looking to offset some of the revenue it will
start losing next year, when the company faces competition from
cheaper generic copies of its cholesterol pill Lipitor, which
 generated  $11.4 billion last year.  “This kind of business would certainly attract a lot of
attention, not only from financial buyers but perhaps also from
strategic buyers,” Funtleyder said. “Seven-hundred million
dollar businesses don’t grow on trees.”  Pfizer said Oct. 12 it would buy King Pharmaceuticals Inc.
for $3.6 billion, or $14.25 a share, to gain abuse resistant
narcotics and expand its share of the $22 billion market for
painkillers.  The shares gained 9 cents to $17.75 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Pfizer’s  stock  declined 2.4
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 