-- BofA Will Hire 1,000 Small-Business Bankers Over Next Year, Moynihan Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-14T16:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bofa-will-hire-1-000-small-business-bankers-over-next-year-moynihan-says.html
Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. bank by assets, plans to hire 1,000 employees in the next
year to focus on companies with sales of $3 million or less.  Small-business bankers will be hired in Baltimore, Dallas,
Los Angeles and Washington later this year with other cities
added in 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan  said today
in a speech in Boston. The bankers will advise small-business
owners on deposits, credit and cash management, he said. The
bank, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, employs about 280,000.  During the first half of 2010, Bank of America charged off
as uncollectible 14 percent of its  loans  to companies with $50
million or less in annual sales. The bank has tightened credit
standards to stanch those losses, which Moynihan and other
company officials have attributed to the sluggish economic
recovery. The default rate for small businesses is more than 20
times that of larger commercial customers.  “This could be a wonderful thing because our country needs
to get the engines of employment, the small businesses, cooking
again,” said Paul Stock, general counsel for the North Carolina
Bankers Association in Raleigh. “It also shows Bank of America
sees opportunities beyond the big, rich, profitable entities.”  Bank of America’s expansion “will help create more
certainty, more confidence and more opportunity for small
businesses in all our markets,” Moynihan said in a prepared
statement.  Bank of America has about 57 million consumer and small-
business accounts and 5,900 retail offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  