-- Most Brazil Stocks Fall as Tax Increase Concern Overshadows Retail Sales
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-14T20:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-on-retail-sales-commodities-real-gains.html
Most Brazilian stocks fell as
speculation the government will expand a tax on foreign asset
purchases overshadowed a jump in retail sales.  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of the Sao Paulo exchange,
dropped  the most in three weeks after O Estado de S. Paulo
newspaper reported that the Finance Ministry is considering
raising the IOF tax further to stem currency gains.  Cia. de
Concessoes Rodoviarias , Brazil’s biggest toll-road operator,
plunged the most in two years amid speculation a shareholder
sold a 3 percent stake.  The  Bovespa  was little changed at 71,692.29 as of the 4
p.m. New York time close. Thirty-six stocks fell on the index
while 28 gained. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.6605 per
dollar.  Increasing the tax for equities would be “a mistake,” said
 Greg Lesko , who helps manage about $750 million at Deltec Asset
Management in New York, referring to potential tax increases to
contain the real. “It’s going to sour people’s long-term view
about investing in Brazil.”  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge climbed yesterday to the
highest level since April as homebuilders, banks and airlines
advanced and investors speculated economic growth is
accelerating in China.  The Finance Ministry is considering further measures to
curb the real’s appreciation, Estado reported, without saying
where it obtained the information. The measures may include a
further increase in the IOF tax on financial transactions by
foreign investors, the newspaper said. Brazil may also consider
raising margin requirements on futures contracts, or impose a
minimum period that foreign investors must hold purchases in
Brazil, Estado said.  Higher Tax  The government last week doubled the tax to 4 percent for
foreign investors who buy domestic fixed-income securities and
invest in funds, including equities funds. The tax was kept at 2
percent for investments in stocks and the futures market.
Finance Ministry officials didn’t return calls for comment.  BM&FBovespa fell 3.6 percent, the most since Sept. 24, to
15.06 reais.  Investors are speculating Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal
SA is selling shares of CCR after the Portuguese company said
last month it would sell its stake, said  Rosangela Ribeiro , an
analyst at SLW Corretora. CCR fell 8.3 percent to 45.50 reais,
the biggest decline since October 2008.  Retail Sales Gain  The  Bovespa  fluctuated earlier, rising as much as 0.4
percent after the national statistics agency said Brazil retail
sales rose a more-than-expected 2 percent in August from a month
earlier. Economists expected a 1.6 percent gain, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA , a Brazilian homebuilder,
advanced 1.1 percent to a record 18.30 reais.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, also rallied, gaining 2.8 percent to 26.44 reais as
polls showed presidential candidate Jose Serra closing a gap
with rival Dilma Rousseff ahead of an Oct. 31 runoff election.  Former Sao Paulo Governor Serra trailed Rousseff, who
served as Cabinet chief under President Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva, by 4.6 percentage points in a Sensus poll published
today. That’s down from a 14-point gap in the first round vote
on Oct. 3.  Investors, concerned Dilma will use  Petrobras  to advance
government goals at the expense of profitability, may be betting
on a Serra victory, according to Deltec Asset Management,
Teorica Investimentos and Spinelli Corretora.  Brazil Stocks Cut  Separate polls in the past week by Ibope, Datafolha and Vox
Populi also showed Serra has gained against Rousseff.  HSBC Holdings Plc cut Brazil’s stocks to “neutral” from
“overweight” because other emerging markets offer more
“compelling” valuations, according to a note to clients dated
yesterday.  The  Bovespa  index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 11 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 14.4 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.3 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  