-- BP Employee Savings Lawsuits Sent to Texas Court Handling Oil Spill Claims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-14T13:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/bp-employee-savings-lawsuits-sent-to-texas-court-handling-oil-spill-claims.html
Lawsuits by workers claiming  BP
Plc’s  North American unit mismanaged their retirement savings
plan will be sent to the Texas federal court already handling
investor claims prompted by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The employees asked that the suits be combined in Chicago,
where the retirement plan is administered. BP said the cases,
brought under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security
Act, or  ERISA , belong in Houston because the claims are similar
to those in other investor suits.  In the suits, filed as class actions on behalf of all U.S.
employees participating in the company’s retirement savings
plan, workers claim  losses  of more than $1 billion from the
stock plunge after the April 20 spill. BP’s pre-spill safety
record made the London-based company a risky investment, the
employees say.  “Certainly, there are differences between the securities
actions and the ERISA actions,” the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation said today. “Notwithstanding those
differences, there is significant overlap between the ERISA and
securities actions warranting their concentration in a single
docket.” U.S. District Judge  Keith P. Ellison  will oversee the
lawsuits.  BP’s shares initially lost more than half their value
before rebounding. BP’s American depositary receipts, each
representing six ordinary shares,  closed  at $60.48 on April 20,
the day the well blew out, and fell as low as $26.75 June 28.
The ADRs rose 15 cents to $41.41 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  ‘Key Legal Issue’  “The key legal issue in the ERISA actions is whether the
company stock was a prudent investment for the plan during the
class period,” the workers’ lawyers said in court papers filed
Aug. 27. “This is not an issue in the securities actions.”  BP is facing more than 400  lawsuits  over the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history, set off by the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico.  Claims by fishermen, restaurants, real-estate interests,
governments and others for economic loss have been combined with
personal injury and wrongful-death lawsuits for pretrial
treatment in federal court in New Orleans before U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier .  The multidistrict panel in August consolidated lawsuits
over claims that BP misled  investors  before and after the spill,
sending them to Ellison in Houston. The panel told the workers’
lawyers to show why their cases shouldn’t also go there.  The lawsuits are In Re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 10-md-
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston),
and In Re BP Securities, Derivative and Employment Retirement
Income Security (ERISA) Litigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 