-- Brazil's August Retail Sales Rise More Than Expected on Job, Credit Growth
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-10-14T13:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/brazil-s-retail-sales-rose-more-than-expected-on-employment-growth-credit.html
Brazil’s retail sales rose more than
expected in August from a month earlier, fueled by record low
unemployment and credit expansion.  Sales rose 2.0 percent in August from July, the national
statistic agency said today in a report distributed in Rio de
Janeiro. Economists expected a 1.6 percent gain, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 28 analysts. Sales
rose 10.4 percent from a year ago, the agency said.  Traders are wagering that domestic demand will reignite
inflation, forcing policy makers to resume interest rate
increases in the first quarter of next year, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.
The central bank kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at
10.75 percent on Sept. 1, saying the increases at the previous
three meetings were enough to ensure that inflation would slow
toward the 4.5 percent target.  Today’s sales report “shows economic growth is recovering
after slowing in the second quarter,”  Roberto Padovani , chief
economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil, said in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “Domestic consumption is being determined by
the labor market and the expansion of credit. ”  The yield on interest rate futures contracts maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point to 11.33 percent at 9:27 a.m.
New York time. The real declined 0.4 percent to 1.6592 per U.S.
dollar, reversing earlier gains.  Calculations  Padovani said the August figure isn’t enough to prompt the
central bank to change its view that interest rates can remain
unchanged.  “It is too risky to take a decision based on single a
figure,” he said. “The economy is strong, but it may
decelerate.”  The country’s  unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to a
record low of 6.7 percent in August, signaling Latin America’s
biggest economy continues to expand at a pace that may stoke
inflation. At the same time,  bank lending  expanded in August at
its fastest pace since July 2009, according to central bank
figures.  The economy will grow 7.55 percent this year, the fastest
pace in a quarter of the century, according to the median
estimate in an Oct. 8 central bank  survey  of about 100
economists. The same survey shows economists expect  inflation 
will quicken to 4.98 percent next year.  Monthly inflation accelerated 0.45 percent last month, the
national statistic agency said.  Policy makers forecast inflation will slow to 4.6 percent
next year should the overnight interest rate remain unchanged at
10.75 percent, according to a Sept. 30 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  