-- Britons Brave August Chill as Trips Abroad Fall to 10-Year Low on Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-14T14:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/britons-brave-august-chill-as-trips-abroad-fall-to-the-lowest-in-a-decade.html
The number of Britons who travelled
abroad in August fell to the lowest in a decade as the pound’s
weakness and  looming budget cuts  kept people at home to brave
the coldest weather in 17 years.  The non-seasonally adjusted number of trips by U.K.
residents during the peak travel month of the year dropped to
7.46 million, the least since August 2000, the Office for
National Statistics said today. Temperatures during August were
the coldest for the month since 1993, according to the Met
Office, the government’s weather agency.  Britons are bracing themselves for the deepest spending
cuts since World War II, which the government’s fiscal watchdog
estimates will lead to the loss of 500,000 jobs by April 2015.
The weakness of the pound has also made travel abroad more
expensive, with the U.K. currency losing about a fifth of its
value since the start 2007.  “The weakness of the pound has made it more expensive to
travel abroad, so it’s the ‘staycation’ effect,”  Alan Clarke ,
an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said in an interview.  Thomas Cook Group Plc, Europe’s second-biggest tour
operator, said on Sept. 28 that “trading in the U.K. business
over the summer was softer than expected” amid an “uncertain
economic backdrop.”  The total number of British residents who travelled abroad
in the year through August fell 9 percent to 55.8 million, the
statistics office said. Visits to Europe fell 10 percent, while
trips to the U.S. declined 9 percent. Vacation trips were down 8
percent while business journeys fell 15 percent.  Britain had “very few warm days” in August, according to
a statement on the Met Office’s website. The top temperature was
26.7 degrees Celsius (80 degrees Fahrenheit) in Suffolk, eastern
England, and the coldest was minus 1.3 degrees in the northern
Highlands of Scotland during the early hours of Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  