-- Broadcom Sued by U.K.’s CSR for Violating Chip Patents
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-10-14T17:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/broadcom-sued-by-u-k-s-csr-for-infringing-gps-telephone-headset-patents.html
Broadcom Corp. , a microchip maker,
was sued by the U.K.’s  CSR Plc  alleging infringement of four
U.S. patents protecting global positioning system and telephone
headset inventions.  CSR, with offices in Cambridge, England, asked for a jury
trial, unspecified damages and an order to stop Broadcom from
using the technology, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Broadcom has caused, and will continue to cause, CSR
irreparable injury and damages” including “lost profits and
diminution of the rights granted” by the patents, CSR said in
court papers.  The technology is used for mobile telephones, media players
and  Bluetooth  devices, CSR contends in the suit.  A U.S. appeals court in April upheld a finding that SiRF
violated Broadcom patents and an import ban on the chips and
devices containing them imposed by the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  SiRF altered its products to avoid using Broadcom
technology, and the alterations were approved by U.S. customs
officials, SiRF’s founder  Kanwar Chadha  said in an April phone
interview.  Broadcom filed a new complaint Oct. 8 against CSR and SiRF
at the ITC, claiming that SiRF’s new products also infringe the
patents and that SiRF ignored an order to stop selling products
that infringe the patents.  It is seeking an order blocking imports of the redesigned
chips as well as civil penalties.  Broadcom, based in Irvine, California, rose 11 cents to
$37.46 at 12:56 p.m. in Nasdaq stock market trading in New York.
CSR fell 0.7 pence to 340.2 pence in London.  The case is CSR Plc v. Broadcom Corp., 1:10-cv-00876, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington
at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 