-- Buenos Aires Fills Bond Void as Fernandez Stays on Hold: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-14T21:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/buenos-aires-fills-bond-void-as-fernandez-stays-on-hold-argentina-credit.html
Argentine municipal governments from
Buenos Aires to Cordoba are filling the void created by
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s decision to spurn
international bond markets.  Buenos Aires sold $250 million of five-year bonds to yield
11.5 percent yesterday, the province’s second overseas sale in
three weeks. The offering pushed issuance by local governments
this year to $1.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on federal bonds due in 2017 fell to 8 percent
yesterday, the lowest since the government issued the securities
as part of a $12.2 billion swap of defaulted debt in June.  Fernandez, 57, said Sept. 24 she isn’t interested in
selling bonds abroad at an 8 percent yield. The lack of sales
from the Argentine government, which has been absent from
overseas bond markets since it defaulted on a record $95 billion
in 2001, has paved the way for offerings by the provinces of
Cordoba and Chubut and the city of Buenos Aires.  “The relative shortage of supply of Argentine sovereign
paper has meant the provinces now have the opportunity to access
the market,” said  Jeremy Brewin , who manages $2.4 billion of
emerging-market assets, including Argentine debt, with Aviva
Investors in London. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see other
provinces come.”  The yield on the government’s 2017 bonds has tumbled 499
basis points, or 4.99 percentage points, from a high of 12.99
percent on June 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emerging market yields overall declined 144 basis points over
the same period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Foreign Reserves  Argentina’s ability to tap central bank reserves to repay
debt allows it to refrain from selling bonds in international
markets, according to ING Investment Management. The government
has used $5 billion of the country’s $51.5 billion reserves this
year to pay creditors and plans to use another $7.5 billion in
2011, Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  told lawmakers Sept. 16.  “They started talking about 10 percent as their target to
come to the market and now they’re talking about 8 percent, but
the fact is that they can remain absent from international
markets for a long time,” said  Gorky Urquieta , who oversees
about $14 billion of emerging-market assets at ING Investment in
Atlanta, including bonds from Buenos Aires province.  Buenos Aires province’s sale yesterday boosted the size of
its 11.75 percent bonds due in 2015 to $800 million. It sold
$550 million of the securities to yield 12 percent on Sept. 27.  Investor Meetings  Felisa Stangatti , the spokeswoman at the Buenos Aires
province Economy Ministry, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The city of Buenos Aires is also considering returning to
international bond markets after selling $475 million of five-
year bonds in March. Public Credit Director  Abel Fernandez  said
on Oct. 8 that he and city Finance Minister  Nestor Grindetti 
would meet in Washington this week with representatives of 10
investment banks to discuss a possible bond sale next year.  The capital city is looking to sell bonds that mature in
seven to 10 years to help pay $350 million in debt and cover
$150 million in infrastructure projects, including an extension
of the subway system, Fernandez said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentina dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 19 basis points to 554 at
5:19 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  The  cost  of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 21 basis points to
689, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  ‘Enough Money’  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy fell 0.13 cent to 12.70 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso was little changed at 3.9504 per U.S. dollar.  A debt sale by the Argentine government would fail to curb
issuance from local governments, said  Jim Harper , director of
corporate research at BCP Securities in Greenwich Connecticut.  “There’s enough money out there to absorb it,” he said.
“I don’t think if the sovereign came out with an issuance it
would absorb all the liquidity and that would close the door. A
lot of investors are giving Argentina a second look in this
environment and starting to invest back.”  Regional governments are benefiting from growing investor
confidence in the country, according to ING’s Urquieta. Standard
& Poor’s raised the South American nation’s rating one level on
Sept. 13 to B, matching a July increase by Fitch Ratings. The
central bank forecast Argentina’s economy will grow 9.5 percent
this year, the fastest expansion since 1992.  “As the perception that sovereign risk improved, the
conditions were improved by extension for the provincial
bonds,” Urquieta said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  