-- Build America Bond Record for Lowest Cost Set by AAA Virginia: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/build-america-bond-record-for-lowest-cost-set-by-aaa-virginia-muni-credit.html
Virginia , one of seven states with a
top ranking from all three major credit-rating companies, sold
$143 million of taxable Build America Bonds at the lowest cost
relative to U.S. Treasuries since the program began.  The state is using the federally subsidized bonds to
finance construction costs for projects at its colleges
including,  Virginia Tech ,  George Mason  and  James Madison ,
according to preliminary offering documents. The bonds, which
will be paid from university revenue, and will carry the full
faith and credit of the state.  Securities due in June 2040 were priced to yield 4.70
percent, according to Director of Debt Management  Evie Whitley. 
The extra yield investors demanded for the bonds over  30-year
Treasuries  was about 0.88 percentage point, the lowest so-called
spread for such a maturity in the program’s 19-month history,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Virginia received 10
bids for its offering, Whitley said.  “It’s certainly gratifying and reassuring to know that we
can find reception in the market,” Whitley said. “This way
we’re able to pass along great rates to our students.”  Virginia yesterday benefited from risk aversion among
municipal and taxable investors, said  Howard Cure , director of
municipal research at Evercore Wealth Management in New York.  ‘Stable’ Credit  “It’s a flight to safety,” said Cure, who oversees about
$2 billion. “In an era where folks are concerned about credit,
Virginia has been stable.”  The Texas Transportation Commission sold 30-year Build
Americas last month at yields of 4.68 percent, the lowest
absolute yield, though the spread was 95 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. The University of Virginia’s 4.9 percent yield in
July was the previous low yield, and the prior lowest spread at
94-1/2 basis points.  As Treasury yields have risen for the last five straight
days, the extra yield investors want for Build Americas has
receded. The spread reached a four-month low of  173 basis points 
Oct. 12, according to the Wells Fargo Build America average
yield index.  Build America Bonds, the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal debt market, were first sold in April
2009 as part of the economic stimulus package and include a 35
percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs. Legislation
introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would
extend the program, which expires Dec. 31, by one year with the
subsidy reduced to 32 percent. Previous extension attempts
stalled in Congress. About $144 billion have been issued.  Annual Quota  Yesterday’s sale was all the state’s general obligation
borrowing this year, and wasn’t timed to lock in the current 35
percent subsidy rate, Whitley said.  “It wasn’t an effort to get in under the wire or anything
like that,” she said. “Fall tends to be the time of year to
finance. We were beyond pleased with the outcome of the sale.”  Virginia accepted bids for $168 million in debt with the
option to sell as all Build Americas, all tax-exempts or a
combination of the two. The state offered about $25 million as
tax-exempts, Whitley said.  “Virginia has a triple-A credit rating, is a marquee name
in the marketplace, and Citi is pleased to have won this bid,”
 Alexander Samuelson , spokesman for winning-bidder Citigroup
Inc., said in an e-mail.  The other six states with top ratings from the three major
companies are: Delaware, Georgia, Maryland, Missouri, North
Carolina and Utah.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION , which oversees the third-
biggest U.S. city’s public-school system, will issue $257.1
million in taxable Qualified School Construction Bonds as soon
as today. The proceeds will pay for construction and renovation
to relieve overcrowding. Underwriters will be led by Loop
Capital Markets. The debt is rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, third-highest, AA- by Standard & Poor’s, fourth-
highest, one level above Fitch Ratings’ A+ rating. (Updated Oct.
14)  CITY OF CHICAGO, whose Midway Airport trails only San
Francisco and Miami in delayed  departures  among big-city
airfields, will issue $251 million in securities today backed by
the airport’s revenue. The debt will include $88 million in
taxable Build America Bonds earmarked for construction.
Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the
securities, which carry ratings of A3 from Moody’s and A- from
both S&P and Fitch, all fourth above non-investment grade.
(Updated Oct. 14)  NORTH CAROLINA TURNPIKE AUTHORITY, which provides financing
for selected toll roads, plans to sell $275 million in taxable
and tax-exempt bonds today, including $250 million in Build
America Bonds. The proceeds will finance land acquisition,
design and construction of the Monroe Connector System, a 19.7
mile (32 kilometer) tollroad in Mecklenburg and Union counties,
service existing debt and fund the authority’s reserve. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch will lead underwriters marketing the
securities, which are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P, both
third-highest. (Updated Oct. 14)  MONROE COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP., which provides
financial assistance to projects for its more than 1 million
Rochester-area residents, will borrow $210 million in tax-exempt
bonds today. The securities will be used to finance a renovation
of Park Ridge Hospital, in Rochester, New York. Underwriters led
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the issue, which is rated
Aa2, third-highest, by Moody’s. (Updated Oct. 14)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 