-- CA's Richards's Sentence Cut by Judge to Time Served for Securities Fraud
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-14T19:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ca-s-richards-s-sentence-cut-by-judge-to-time-served-for-securities-fraud.html
Stephen Richards , the former top
sales executive at  CA Inc.  who was given a seven-year prison
term after pleading guilty to securities fraud at the software
company, was resentenced to time served.  U.S. District Judge  I. Leo Glasser  in Brooklyn, New York,
resentenced Richards at a hearing today after an appeals panel
reversed his original punishment. Richards, 45, participated in
the hearing by phone from prison in Taft, California, which he
entered on Feb. 27, 2007.  “The time that he served is sufficient given all that has
transpired since sentence was imposed,” Glasser said.  The  U.S. appeals court  in Manhattan reversed Richards’s
seven-year sentence in an Aug. 12 ruling. He and former  CA Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Sanjay Kumar  pleaded guilty in 2006 to
inflating revenue by backdating sales contracts as part of a
$2.2 billion fraud. CA, based in Islandia, New York, was known
as  Computer Associates International Inc.  when Kumar ran the
company.  Richards told Glasser by phone how much his family means to
him. “I will never again place them in a situation where they
pay the price for my stupidity,” he said.  The appeals court affirmed Kumar’s and Richards’s
convictions. It upheld Kumar’s 12-year sentence and reversed
Richards’s sentence.  ‘Acutely Aware’  Richards “is acutely aware, Your Honor, that he is the one
who is responsible for the situation that he is in and that his
family is in,” Richards’s lawyer,  David M. Zornow , told Glasser
before the judge imposed the sentence. Zornow is a partner at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York.  The appeals court said Glasser failed to give Richards
credit for accepting responsibility for his crimes. It said
Kumar wasn’t entitled to a similar credit because his statement
during his guilty plea and his objections to the facts of the
case in the probation department’s sentencing report showed he
didn’t accept full responsibility.  Kumar, 48, is serving his sentence at a  federal prison  in
New Jersey.  Richards, a native of New Zealand, asked for two years to
be sliced from his seven-year term, in part because his family
is in Australia. He also said he has demonstrated his
rehabilitation by participating in a program that refurbishes
wheelchairs and by developing a 16-week course in
entrepreneurship for inmates.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Jason Jones  didn’t make a
recommendation to Glasser.  “The crime hasn’t changed,” he said. “The man has.”  Restitution  In addition to the prison sentence, Kumar was fined $8
million and ordered to pay $798.6 million in restitution. He
sold his 58-foot yacht, two Ferraris and investment accounts
under an agreement with prosecutors to pay the first $50
million.  Richards was ordered to pay $29 million in restitution.  Richards pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities
fraud, securities fraud, false filings with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, conspiracy to obstruct justice,
obstruction of justice and perjury.  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 04-CR-846, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 