-- Cameron Vow to Protect Health Spending Means Deeper Cuts for Welfare State
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cameron-vow-to-protect-health-spending-means-deeper-cuts-for-welfare-state.html
As Prime Minister  David Cameron 
prepares to unveil the details of the biggest peacetime budget
cut in U.K. history, his government has been debating whether to
save aircraft carriers or benefits for stay-at-home moms and
other privileges of the welfare state.  The task has been made especially hard because of a promise
Cameron made to voters four years ago. The Conservative leader,
seeking to broaden his party’s appeal after three successive
election defeats, pledged that he would increase funding to the
country’s National Health Service every year if elected.  At the time, the vow did not seem like a potential
political liability: The country was in its 15th straight year
of growth, and funding the NHS, which gives free medical care to
all U.K. residents, seemed an easy promise to keep, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 15 issue.  Now, with a government target of balancing the books by
2015 amid a fragile economic recovery, honoring the vow to
protect the government’s second-largest expenditure -- an
estimated 122 billion pounds ($192 billion) in the fiscal year
that began in April -- means other departments will face bigger
cuts when the spending review is unveiled on Oct. 20.  The spending plans set out in the emergency budget in June
imply a 14 percent cut in spending by central government by
2015, says  Carl Emmerson , acting director of the Institute for
Fiscal Studies, an independent research organization.  Once the coalition government’s commitments to increase
spending on overseas aid and the NHS are taken into account, the
average cut elsewhere rises to a much deeper 25 percent. (A
category that includes pensions and disability and  unemployment 
benefits is the biggest government expenditure.)  Cameron’s Strain  Talking to reporters on Oct. 11, Cameron acknowledged the
strain.  “The conversations we’re having within the spending review
process are difficult, and we’ve got very difficult decisions to
make,” he said. Conservative lawmakers, including former
Chancellor of the Exchequer  Nigel Lawson , have urged Cameron to
ditch the pledge to spare the NHS. Liberal Democrat  Vince Cable ,
now business secretary in the coalition government, argued
against the pledge before the election.  Still, according to  Philip Cowley , a political scientist at
the University of Nottingham and co-author of the book, “The
British General Election of 2010,” the NHS promise may have
been what got Cameron the top job.  ‘Totemic Issue’  “The NHS is a totemic issue for the British people,” he
says. “It wasn’t an accident that the Conservatives chose to
open their election campaign by reminding people of their
commitment, and it worked. Labour couldn’t throw anything at
them over health.” Ditching that promise and actually cutting
the NHS budget would alienate some who voted Conservative. It
could also increase dissension in the Liberal Democrat party,
the Tories’ partner in government, to dangerous levels.  According to the King’s Fund health research group, even
the planned freeze will feel like a cut, as baby boomers get
older and demand ever more expensive treatments. The danger for
Cameron then is that voters will think he has broken his
promise.  On Oct. 4, Cameron got his first taste of the pain to come,
when his government announced plans to save 1 billion pounds by
denying affluent parents a monthly payment they previously
qualified for. After a day of outrage, the premier hinted he
might look for a way to compensate some of the losers through
tax breaks. He has another 82 billion pounds of cuts to
announce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  