-- U.K. to Merge Competition Commission, OFT as 192 Agencies Axed
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-14T14:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cameron-to-abolish-192-government-agencies-as-u-k-seeks-to-cut-spending.html
The U.K.  Office of Fair Trading  and
the  Competition Commission  will merge in a restructuring of
government agencies in which 192 bodies will be abolished,
Cabinet Office Minister  Francis Maude  said.  Maude reviewed 901 bodies, known as quangos -- quasi-
autonomous nongovernmental organizations -- that take decisions
on everything from arts funding to setting the minimum wage, in
a bid to  save money  and tighten government control. He said in a
statement published in London today that 481 face “substantial
reforms” and 118 will be merged into 57 new agencies. At the
end of the process 648 will be left.  “The main purpose here is to increase accountability,”
Maude, a member of the main ruling  Conservative Party , told BBC
News television, adding there will be “significant” savings.  The government will hold consultations next year on the
merger of the OFT and the Competition Commission, with the OFT’s
consumer and enforcement functions transferred elsewhere. The
Department for Business said the new body will be responsible
for merger regulation, market investigations, cartel and
antitrust cases, and some aspects of the regulated utilities.  The  Confederation of British Industry , a lobby group
representing the country’s largest employers, welcomed the
merger, which it had called for.  ‘Benefit Businesses’  “The planned merger would improve the efficiency of the
competition regime by cutting duplication,”  Matthew Fell , the
CBI’s director for competitive markets, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It would also benefit businesses by speeding up
merger reviews and market investigations, reducing the time
firms are left in limbo.”  “A marriage between the OFT and CC to streamline the
organizations and hopefully make them more efficient would
appear to be sound,”  Lesley Ainsworth , competition partner at
law firm Hogan Lovells LLP in London, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Given that their combined budget is below 100
million pounds ($160 million), the scope for major cost savings
is unlikely to be great.”  Other changes include local governments taking over the
responsibilities of development corporations. The Child
Maintenance and Enforcement Commission, the Renewable Fuels
Agency and the Appointments Commission will be brought under
direct ministerial control. The National Endowment for Science,
Technology and the Arts and the  Design Council  will become
charities.  ‘Cost of Closing’  “Labour had a plan for steadily saving 500 million pounds
by carefully closing 25 percent of quangos over the next few
years,” the opposition Labour Party’s Cabinet Office spokesman,
 Liam Byrne , said in an e-mailed statement. “The Tories now need
to tell us whether their desperation for headlines and faster
cuts means the cost of closing quangos is actually bigger than
the savings.”  The general secretary of the Trades Union Congress,  Brendan Barber , also attacked the plan.  “Ministers seem very vague about the finances, despite the
job losses involved,” Barber said in an e-mailed statement.
“When independent bodies give public advice to ministers, they
have to explain why if they reject it. With no independence or
transparency, corporate lobbyists will be cracking open the
champagne today.”  “We have to get away from the slightly tragic view that
says that in order to show we care about something, we have to
have a quango,” Maude told Sky News television. “If something
is important then let’s have ministers to take responsibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 