-- Capmark Counsel Defends $1.5 Billion Loan Exchange in Bankruptcy Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-14T16:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/capmark-defends-1-5-billion-loan-against-creditors-in-bankruptcy-court.html
Capmark Financial Group Inc., the
bankrupt commercial lender, defended its decision to swap
$1.5 billion in unsecured debt for a guaranteed loan months
before filing for protection from creditors.  Capmark was trying to stay out of bankruptcy when it
converted the low-ranking debt into a loan backed by collateral,
 Thomas L. Fairfield , the company’s general counsel, testified
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “The company felt that filing for bankruptcy would destroy
the businesses,” Fairfield said. “We used a lot of our efforts
to avoid that.” The loan swap was carried out in May 2009;
Capmark filed for bankruptcy in October of that year.  Unsecured creditors claim the loan was a fraudulent
transfer that only benefited company insiders, including
affiliates of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  They are seeking
permission to file a lawsuit that would reduce the loan’s
repayment priority.  Capmark, based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, is partly owned by
New York-based Goldman Sachs and  KKR & Co. , the buyout firm run
by Henry Kravis and George Roberts.  Capmark has proposed ending its year-old bankruptcy in part
by using almost all of its cash to repay the disputed loan. U.S.
Bankruptcy Court Judge  Christopher Sontchi  is presiding over a
two-day hearing on whether to approve that repayment, which is
part of a settlement between the company and the lenders,
including the Goldman Sachs affiliates.  The settlement would prevent the creditors’ proposed suit
and protect the lenders from legal liability. Capmark said the
agreement also would reduce the loan by as much as $135 million
and avoid more than $50 million in potential legal fees.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 