-- Carrefour Sales Climb 6.7%, Beating Estimates, Led by Latin America, Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-14T16:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/carrefour-sales-climb-6-7-beating-estimates-led-by-latin-america-asia.html
Carrefour SA,  the world’s second-
largest retailer, said third-quarter sales advanced 6.7 percent,
narrowly beating analysts’ estimates, as growth in Latin America
and Asia made up for European declines.  Revenue climbed to 25.6 billion euros ($36 billion) from 24
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today
after markets closed. The average  estimate  of four analysts
compiled by Bloomberg News was 25.4 billion euros. Carrefour cut
its full-year profit forecast because of higher charges for
inventory write-offs and accounting adjustments in Brazil.  Same-store  sales  rose 8.4 percent in Latin America and 3.5
percent in Asia, excluding gasoline, offsetting declines in
Europe and France. French hypermarket sales fell 1.2 percent, a
sequential improvement upon the first and second quarters.
Carrefour plans to invest about 1.5 billion euros over the next
2 1/2 years to revive the hypermarket format in western Europe,
Chief Executive Officer  Lars Olofsson  said last month.  “Restructuring in French hypermarkets in particular have
the potential to deliver a good recovery and sector-leading
earnings growth,”  David McCarthy  and  Andrew Porteous , analysts
at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, wrote in an Oct. 11
note. “Carrefour is simply playing catch up with global best
practice.” They recommend buying the stock.  ‘Solid Performance’  The retailer lowered its forecast of so-called activity
contribution, a measure of operating profit, to about 3 billion
euros from 3.1 billion euros because of an additional 100
million euros of charges related to Brazil. The charges will now
total 180 million euros, Carrefour said.  Excluding the effects of acquisitions and gasoline, third-
quarter same-store sales increased 0.1 percent.  “Growth in Asia and Latin America made up for a
persistently tough competitive environment in Europe,” Chief
Financial Officer  Pierre  Bouchut said on a conference call.  Same-store sales fell 0.3 percent in Carrefour’s home
market of France, where the retailer  derives almost half  its
revenue. The company gained market share in the country since
the start of 2010, it said, citing data from Nielsen. There was
an “improving performance” in Belgium and Poland, with
“southern Europe still impacted by the economic situation.”  Bouchut said he’s “confident we can meet medium-term
growth targets.” Carrefour said in September it expected
refurbishments of its superstore format in western Europe to
help drive sales growth and operating performance.  Carrefour rose 32 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 40.13 euros in
Paris trading today. The  shares  have gained 20 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 28.3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 