-- Cerberus's Tower IPO Poised for Profit After Losing Chrysler
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-14T19:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cerberus-s-tower-ipo-poised-for-profit-after-losing-chrysler-in-bankruptcy.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP,
whose investment in Chrysler LLC’s car business evaporated in
bankruptcy, may post a profit on its $106 million initial public
offering of auto-parts maker  Tower International Inc.   Tower, which was bought by Cerberus in July 2007 and builds
hoods and doors for Volkswagen AG and Toyota Motor Corp., is
selling 6.25 million shares at $15 to $17 each today, according
to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The midpoint
price would value the private equity firm’s $181.6 million stake
at almost $200 million, the filing showed. The investment by New
York-based Cerberus was part of a $1 billion deal that brought
Tower out of bankruptcy just before the credit crisis began.  Any profit from Tower may provide consolation for Cerberus
after the firm gave up its equity investment in Chrysler’s auto
business and relinquished most of its stake in General Motors
Corp.’s  GMAC LLC  finance unit as part of government bailouts of
the auto industry.  Tower , once the world’s largest maker of car
and truck frames, is seeking to end at least five years of
losses as global auto sales climb toward a record in 2010.  “The last two major deals were spectacular disasters, GMAC
as well as Chrysler,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees
about $1 billion at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California.
With Tower, “the goals are much more reasonable. Maybe this one
will pay off,” he said.  Fund Returns  Cerberus’s flagship private-equity fund, which had the
largest investment in Chrysler and GMAC, gained 30 percent last
year and has climbed 18 percent so far in 2010, according to a
person familiar with the fund’s performance.  The buyout firm may recoup all its investment in Chrysler
through its finance unit, which Cerberus retained full ownership
of after giving up its stake in the automobile business, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the
information is private.  Cerberus, founded by former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
banker  Stephen Feinberg  in 1992, is taking Tower public three
years after leading separate groups that invested almost $15
billion combined for controlling stakes in Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler and GMAC.  The buyout firm’s 51 percent holding in GMAC was diluted
when the Detroit-based lender was bailed out by the U.S. and
converted into a bank holding company.  Relative Value  Cerberus, Tower’s only shareholder, spent $14.57 per share
for its 12.47 million-share holding, the filing showed. The
buyout firm plans to retain its stake and offer 6.25 million new
shares, which will give investors 33 percent of the maker of
 frames and chassis parts .  At that midpoint price of $16 each,  Tower  would have a
market capitalization of about $300 million, debt of about $548
million and $141 million in cash, its filing showed.  The company’s  enterprise value , or the sum of its stock and
debt minus cash, would then equal $707 million, or 4.5 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of $157 million in the 12 months ended June 30, according to
Tower’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  That compares with the median of 5.7 times Ebitda for the
278 makers of original parts and equipment for cars and trucks,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Hottest IPO Around’  “It’s not going to be the hottest IPO around, but I
believe the deal will get done,” said  Josef Schuster , the
Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management LLC, which
oversees $3 billion.  John Dillard, a New York-based spokesman for Cerberus,
declined to comment. Tower’s  Frank Buscemi  didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Tower’s initial sale is the second from the auto industry
this year, following electric sports-car maker  Tesla Motors Inc. 
in June. It also comes before a planned IPO from  General Motors
Co. , 61 percent owned by the U.S. government after its own
bankruptcy.  GM  will seek to raise $8 billion to $10 billion next
month, less than the Detroit-based automaker had targeted, two
people familiar with the matter said in September.  “These industries themselves have already been crushed,
decimated, renegotiated a lot of their debt,” said  Marc Pado ,
the San Francisco-based U.S. market strategist at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP. “They’ve gone through the storm.”  Tower’s Results  Tower, which hasn’t reported an annual profit since
Cerberus acquired the company, has lost a total of $108 million
over that period, according to its filing.  The auto-parts
supplier  still paid Cerberus $48.4 million in dividends.  Revenue at Tower may approach $2 billion in 2010, based on
the $981 million it generated in the first six months of the
year, a 41 percent increase from the first half of 2009, its
filing showed.  Full-year sales  may still be less than the $2.17 billion
that Tower had in 2008, and fall short of the annual revenue
that the company reported in each of the two years before it was
taken over by Cerberus, according to the filing.  Cerberus’s IPO of Tower may benefit from a rebound in auto
demand. Global sales may rise to an all-time high of 69.6
million this year, according to  Nigel Griffiths , an economist
for Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive.  Sales  in Europe accounted for 40 percent of Tower’s revenue
last year, while 31 percent came from emerging markets such as
China and South America, its filing showed. North American sales
made up 29 percent of the company’s revenue.  VW, Toyota  Volkswagen , Europe’s biggest carmaker, was Tower’s largest
customer, accounting for 17 percent of sales. Tower built the
exterior components for the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker’s
Touareg sport-utility vehicles. Tower also supplied the auto
bodies for Camry sedans that Toyota City, Japan-based  Toyota ,
the world’s largest automaker, built in North America.  “It’s a recovery story,” said  Matt Therian , a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based analyst at Renaissance Capital LLC, which has
studied IPOs since 1991. “Investors are looking at this because
it is a global player.”  Cerberus hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc.  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in New York to lead Tower’s sale. The
Livonia, Michigan-based company will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker TOWR.  Tower’s sale comes after U.S. initial offerings began to
rebound last month, with eight of 10 IPOs posting gains,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private Equity IPOs  While the IPO market has gained momentum, private equity-
backed offerings this year have fallen 1.2 percent in the first
month of trading in 2010 after averaging gains every year since
at least 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg and Renaissance show.  Companies taken private by Cerberus also had some of the
weakest finances, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  A total of 67 percent of companies acquired by Cerberus in
leveraged buyouts before the credit crisis started defaulted or
became distressed, a study last November by Moody’s showed.  That was the highest percentage among the biggest private
equity firms, the credit rating company said. Of Cerberus’s six
LBOs, Chrysler was one of two that defaulted. Two other
investments were in distress, Moody’s said.  “Cerberus is very interested in some return on their
investment,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive. For Tower, “being owned by Cerberus, that’s a
company that really has been put through the wringer, when it
comes to the automotive sector,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 