-- Chicago School Debt Cost City 82% More Than Los Angeles Paid on May Issue
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-14T22:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chicago-public-school-debt-costs-city-almost-doubt-what-los-angeles-paid.html
Chicago Public Schools , the nation’s
third-largest district, sold $257 million of taxable Qualified
School Construction Bonds through the city’s Board of Education
at a cost almost double what Los Angeles paid five months ago.  The district, which serves more than 400,000 students in
675 schools, trailing New York City and Los Angeles, offered
investors a 6.32 percent yield for the bonds maturing in
November 2029. That’s 250 basis points above benchmark 30-year
U.S. Treasury  yields . A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Los Angeles’s Unified School District sold $190 million in
such bonds, paying a so-called spread of about 137 basis points
in May for debt maturing in 17 years. That makes Chicago’s
relative cost 82 percent higher than Los Angeles paid. The debt
sold by both is eligible for a 100 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs. Both school districts carry ratings of Aa2 from
Moody’s Investors Service and AA- from Standard & Poor’s, third-
and fourth-highest grades, respectively.  “In this environment spreads get wider based on the
names,” said  Tom Boylen , managing director and municipal bond
trader at Chicago-based BMO Capital Markets, an underwriter on
the deal. “At pricing it was a market-clearing level.”  Sandra Deangelus, debt manager for Chicago’s schools,
didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Illinois  is the nation’s second-lowest rated state, with
general-obligation debt graded at A1 by Moody’s and A+ by S&P.
Chicago-based Loop Capital Markets led underwriters marketing
today’s sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 