-- Chile May Raise Rate to 2.75%, Slowing Pace as Peso Rally Damps Inflation
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-14T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-may-raise-rate-to-2-75-slowing-pace-as-peso-rally-damps-inflation.html
Chile’s central bank may slow the
pace of interest rate increases at its monthly meeting as the
peso’s region-beating gains against the dollar keep a lid on
consumer prices.  Policy makers led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio  will
raise their  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter-point today to
2.75 percent from 2.5 percent after four straight half-point
increases, according to 12 of 20 economists  surveyed by
Bloomberg . Eight analysts expect a half-point increase.  South America’s fifth-biggest economy may expand at the
fastest pace this year since 2005, according to Finance Ministry
projections, even as the annual inflation rate slows below the
bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent, giving policy makers
leeway to raise rates more slowly. Reducing the pace of
increases also would do more to control the peso’s gains than
buying dollars in the currency market, said  Matias Madrid , chief
economist at Banco Penta, said.  “Raising by a quarter point is a way to reduce pressure on
the exchange rate and reduce pressure on the bank to
intervene,” Madrid said in a telephone interview from Santiago.
“Intervening at this point would have little impact because of
high copper prices.”  In trading yesterday, the peso strengthened as much as 0.5
percent to 473.89 per dollar, its strongest level since May
2008. In the last 12 months, the peso has gained 15 percent, the
best performance against the dollar among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  Peso  Board members at their September meeting considered a
quarter-point increase before voting unanimously to raise to 2.5
percent from 2 percent.  According to the median of 40 forecasts in a monthly
central bank survey published yesterday, policy makers today
will vote for a quarter-point increase to 2.75 percent.  At that level, Chile still would have the lowest benchmark
rate of major Latin American economies. Peru’s central bank,
which is tied with Colombia for having the region’s second-
lowest rate, decided to pause at 3 percent on Oct. 7 in a bid to
stem the sol’s growth.  Policy makers have discussed intervening to help control
the peso, whose appreciation has been “fast” and
“significant,” De Gregorio said Oct. 6 in a special session of
Congress to discuss the exchange rate.  The bank last intervened in the currency market in 2008
when it bought dollars in $50 million daily tranches.  Gauging Equilibrium  Chile’s exchange rate has moved to the outer extremes of a
range considered to be “in equilibrium,” a policy maker said
at the bank’s September meeting, according to the meeting
minutes.  “We expect the Board to show more concern about the
Chilean peso, given its negative impact on import prices,”
 Cesar Perez , an economist at Celfin Capital SA, said in an Oct.
12 note to investors.  Consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent in September from a year
earlier, down from the 2.6 percent rise in August.  Annual inflation will reach 3.1 percent in December this
year, according to the central bank’s survey of economists, down
from 3.3 percent in last month’s survey.  Inflation, Growth,  The “relatively well-anchored” inflation rates give the
central bank space to reduce the speed of rate increases,
 Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in
a note to investors yesterday.  “The central bank does not need to front-load the rate
normalization cycle excessively in order to gain/protect
credibility and through it, prevent the unmooring of inflation
expectations,” he said.  To be sure, the acceleration of growth in the $164 billion
economy also argues for maintaining the pace of rate increases,
said  Aldo Lema  and  Cesar Guzman , economists at Inversiones
Security in Santiago, said in an Oct. 12 report.  “As the economic boom intensifies, it seems difficult to
justify not increasing the monetary policy rate quickly to
neutral levels of 5.5 percent to 6 percent,” the economists
wrote.  Chile’s economy expanded 6.5 percent in the second quarter
and probably exceeded 7 percent growth in the three months
through September, which would be the fastest pace of expansion
since 2004, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said in an Oct. 5
address before congress.  Finance Ministry estimates used to draw up the 2011 budget
proposal put growth for 2010 and 2011 at 5.1 percent and 6.1
percent respectively.  The bank may also weigh the effect of this week’s rescue of
33 miners trapped for more than two months half a mile
underground. The rescue could potentially impact consumer
confidence and consumption, Banco Penta’s Madrid said.  “If this impacts consumer confidence, there’s no doubt it
would impact the economy,” he said. “It’s difficult to say,
however, whether this will have an impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  