-- Chile Rescues Last of 33 Miners After Two Months Underground
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-14T01:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-caps-longest-mine-rescue-as-33rd-man-urzua-is-freed-after-two-months.html
Chile completed the rescue of 33
miners trapped half a mile below the Atacama Desert for more
than two months in an operation broadcast to more than a billion
people around the world.  The group’s foreman, Luis Urzua, emerged from the San Jose
copper mine at 8:55 p.m. New York time, hoisted to the surface
in a four-meter long capsule, television images showed.  “I congratulate you because you did your duty and came out
last like a good captain,” President  Sebastian Pinera  told
Urzua as rescuers sang Chile’s national anthem. Some of the
miners’ relatives sprayed champagne and confetti.  Urzua, the foreman who doled out rations of tuna and water
biscuits during the 17 days the miners spent trapped in the mine
before they were discovered on Aug. 22, thanked rescuers one by
one as firehouse sirens in capital Santiago screamed to
celebrate his freedom. In the nearby city of Copiapo, thousands
of people cheered, danced and wept in celebration, television
images showed.  Urzua’s retrieval capped the world’s longest mine rescue,
beating the previous mark set by a 25-day rescue of three coal
workers from a flooded mine in Guizhou, China, in 2009.  “You are not the same after this and neither are we,”
Pinera told Urzua. “We will never forget this.”  ‘Phoenix’  The “Phoenix” capsule painted in the red, white and blue
colors of the Chilean flag worked for more than 22 hours
hoisting the men to the surface through a 26-inch wide rescue
hole.  More than 1 billion people watched the culmination of the
two-month rescue live on television networks around the world,
state television channel TVN reported. Codelco, the state-owned
copper producer running the rescue, budgeted $15 million for the
operation, a company official briefed on the matter said by
telephone today. More than 100 Codelco staff were involved, the
official said, declining to be named citing company policy.  “It’s remarkable,” said J. Davitt McAteer, who was
appointed to investigate the causes of a blast at Massey Energy
Co.’s Performance Coal operation in Montcoal, West Virginia,
that killed 29 people in April. “They’ve done good and been
lucky too.”  BHP, NASA Assisted  The miners have been trapped since an access tunnel caved
in Aug. 5 at Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose
copper and gold mine.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and other mining
companies, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, assisted in the rescue.  The first miner, Florencio Avalos, emerged from the San
Jose mine at 11:12 p.m. New York time Oct. 12 after being
trapped for 69 days in a tunnel more than 600 meters (1,970
feet) underground.  “It’s like they were taken alive from a cemetery,” said
Bolivian President  Evo Morales  as he visited Bolivian national
Carlos Manami, the only foreigner among the 33 miners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  