-- Pinera Pledges to Improve Chile Mine Safety After Successful Rescue of 33
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-10-14T18:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-to-adopt-developed-world-labor-rules-after-lessons-of-mine-collapse.html
Chile’s President  Sebastian Pinera 
vowed to adopt developed-world health and safety standards to
ensure the dignity of workers after the “miraculous” rescue of
33 miners.  The government will propose changes to labor regulations
“in coming days,” Pinera told reporters today at Copiapo
Hospital, where the miners who were trapped underground for more
than two months in the San Jose mine are recovering.  Pinera’s plans to reform workers’ safety in Chile was
motivated by the “miraculous” rescue, he said in televised
comments. A call by shift supervisor  Luis Urzua , the last miner
rescued yesterday, to prevent such an accident from occurring
again “touched my soul,” Pinera said, adding those who breach
safety regulations will be held responsible.  “Never again in our country will we allow workers to toil
in conditions as unsafe and inhumane as those in the San Jose
mine,” he said. “We’ll never ever forget the lesson the San
Jose mine taught us.”  The owners of Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA, the
company that reopened the century-old San Jose mine last year in
response to higher copper and gold prices, had their assets
frozen and are facing legal proceedings.  The mine will never operate again and the owners will have
to “face up to their responsibilities,” Pinera told state
television channel TVN yesterday.  Company Compliance  Chile’s largest copper mines comply with the world’s most
stringent health and safety standards, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  said today. Companies such as state-owned Codelco,
Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd. and Phoenix-based Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. produce most of Chile’s copper.  Working standards must be improved at smaller-scale mines
to avoid accidents such as the cave-in at San Jose, he said.  “I would like to tell the country never again,” Golborne
told reporters today. “But these things like traffic accidents
can’t be avoided by creating more laws.”  A union representing supervisors at Codelco, which provides
a tenth of the world’s copper, called on the government to issue
“certificates of quality” before a mine can be restarted, in
an e-mailed statement today. They also asked Pinera to improve
standards at the state mining regulator, known as  Sernageomin .  The president wants Chile to achieve developed-nation
status by the end of the decade. His government would help lift
gross domestic product per capita to levels of European
countries such as Portugal by attaining average 6 percent
economic growth during its four-year term and creating 1 million
new jobs.  Creating Jobs  The 60-year-old billionaire has promised to increase
average income per capita to more than $22,000 by the end of the
decade from $14,000 by improving education and labor laws,
creating jobs and guaranteeing a minimum income for families.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development made
Chile its first South American member in December.  “If Chile wants to be a developed country, it’s not just a
matter of sitting at the same table with European countries,”
Pinera said today. “It means treating our men and women workers
like they would be treated in a developed country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ; 