-- Chile Central Bank Slows Pace of Rate Increases as Peso Rally Mutes Prices
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-14T21:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-central-bank-slows-pace-of-rate-increases-as-peso-rally-mutes-prices.html
Chile’s central bank slowed the pace
of  overnight interest rate  increases at its monthly meeting as
the peso’s rally against the U.S. dollar reduces pressure on
consumer prices.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President  Jose De Gregorio , raised the benchmark rate to 2.75 percent from 2.5
percent today, matching the forecast of 14 economists  surveyed
by Bloomberg . Seven other analysts had predicted a fifth
consecutive half-point increase.  Below-target inflation gives policy makers leeway to focus
on restraining the appreciation of the region-beating peso
through a slower increase to borrowing costs, said  Alejandro Puente , an economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. The
currency’s gains reduce the cost of  imports , he said.  “That implies less inflation and makes a rapid increase in
interest rates less indispensible,” Puente said in a telephone
interview from Santiago.  The peso has gained 15 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, the best performance among the 31 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. After reaching 473.89 per
dollar yesterday, its strongest level since May 2008, it closed
at 478.95 today.  “The peso has continued to appreciate against the
dollar,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
today’s decision. “Inflation has evolved somewhat below
expectations.”  Peso Appreciation  A stronger peso can mitigate the pace at which the central
bank increases interest rates, De Gregorio said in a Sept. 12
interview.  “If the appreciation proves more persistent, it would
reduce some pressures on interest rates,” he said. “There are
other developments -- the strength of the economy -- pushing us
in the other direction.”  Consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent in September from the
previous year, down from an annual rate of 2.6 percent in
August, the National Statistics Institute said Oct. 8. The
central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent.  Chile’s economy grew 6.5 percent in second quarter from a
year earlier and likely exceeded 7 percent growth in the third
quarter, which would be the fastest expansion since 2004,
Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said in an Oct. 5 speech to
Congress.  Policy makers estimate that the economy will grow 5 percent
to 5.5 percent this year and as much as 6.5 percent in 2011,
according to a quarterly monetary report published Sept. 8.  ‘Robust’ Growth  “Data on activity show robust economic growth,” policy
makers said in today’s statement.  Industrial production  rose 6.9 percent in August, the most
in more than four years as factories reopened after February’s
8.8-magnitude earthquake.  “Industries most affected by the earthquake are returning
to normal,” said  Matias Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta.  The closure of the gap between actual economic output and
potential will start to put pressure on inflation rates early
next year,  Florencia Vazquez , an economist at BNP Paribas, said
in an Oct. 8 report.  “Near term, the Chilean peso strength will likely keep
tradable price pressures contained, but the lift from the output
gap will ultimately prevail,” she said.  Chile’s policy makers also have to consider that other
central banks are holding interest rates or reducing the pace of
increases, Puente said.  Pace of Increases  “That gives the bank more space to hold back on its pace
of rate increases,” Puente said.  Among major Latin American economies, Chile has the lowest
overnight rate, followed by Colombia and Peru. Peru on Oct. 7
decided to pause in an effort to stem gains in its currency, the
sol.  Chile’s central bank will raise rates by a quarter-point at
each of its next two meetings, according to the median estimate
of 40 economists in a central bank survey published yesterday.  “The Board will continue to reduce the current monetary
stimulus at a rate that will depend on the evolution of internal
and external macroeconomic conditions,” policy makers said in
today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  