-- Chile Celebrates World's Longest Mine Rescue as Last Man Freed
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e ,   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-14T13:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-finishes-longest-mine-rescue-as-foreman-luis-urzua-lifted-to-freedom.html
Chile completed the rescue of 33
miners trapped half a mile below the Atacama Desert for more
than two months,  sparking celebrations  at the mine site and on
city streets throughout the South American country.  Foreman Luis Urzua emerged from the San Jose copper mine at
8:55 p.m. New York time yesterday, the last member of the group
hoisted to the surface in a four-meter long capsule. Rescuers
hugged each other and sang the national anthem as the miners’
relatives and friends sprayed champagne and confetti.  “You’re not the same after this and neither are we,”
President  Sebastian Pinera  told Urzua in televised remarks. “We
will never forget this.”  Urzua, 54, who doled out rations of tuna and water biscuits
during the 17 days the miners spent trapped before being
discovered alive on Aug. 22, thanked rescuers one by one.
“Thank you for everything you’ve done for us,” he told First
Lady  Cecilia Morel  after hugging her.  More than 1 billion people watched the culmination of the
two-month rescue live on television networks around the world,
state television channel TVN reported. The 70-day rescue beat a
previous record set during a 25-day rescue of three coal workers
from a flooded mine in Guizhou, China, in 2009.  Firehouse sirens throughout Chile screamed to celebrate the
rescue of the 33rd miner. In the city of Copiapo, where most of
the rescued miners live, thousands of people cheered, danced and
wept in celebration, television images showed. People screamed
from their Santiago apartments: “Long live Chile!”  ‘Like Man on Moon’  Pinera today will visit the 33 miners at a local hospital,
where they are supposed to remain for at least 48 hours to
undergo examinations and treatment, the presidential press
office said in a  statement on its website .  “It’s like when the first man stepped on the moon,” said
Darinka Arce, a family friend of 19-year-old rescued miner Jimmy
Sanchez. “Being part of this has been one of the greatest
experiences of my life.”  After Urzua’s release, rescue workers who were lowered into
the hole to help prepare miners for their ascent to the surface
held up a handwritten sign that read, “Mission Accomplished,
Chile.” Health minister  Jaime Manalich  told Pinera that all 33
miners are in good health.  The “Phoenix” capsule painted in the red, white and blue
colors of the Chilean flag worked for more than 22 hours
hoisting the men to the surface through a 26-inch wide rescue
hole.  ‘Remarkable’  The rescue cost Chile’s government and Codelco, the state-
owned copper producer running the rescue, as much as $20
million, Pinera said in an interview with TVN.  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
and other mining companies, as well as the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, assisted in the rescue.  “It’s remarkable,” said  J. Davitt McAteer , who was
appointed to investigate the causes of a blast at Massey Energy
Co.’s Performance Coal operation in Montcoal, West Virginia,
that killed 29 people in April. “They’ve done good and been
lucky too.”  The first miner, Florencio Avalos, emerged from the mine at
11:12 p.m. New York time Oct. 12 after being trapped for 69 days
in a tunnel more than 600 meters (1,970 feet) underground.  The San Jose copper and gold mine is owned by Cia. Minera
San Esteban Primera SA. Chile’s government will help San Esteban
employees find work elsewhere if they need it, Labor Minister
 Camila Merino  said in a  statement  on the government website.  “This won’t remain unpunished,” Pinera said in televised
remarks. “Those who are responsible must assume their
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  