-- Chilean Swaps Traders Project Quarter-Point Interest Rate Increase Today
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-10-14T14:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chilean-swaps-traders-project-quarter-point-interest-rate-increase-today.html
Chile’s central bank will slow its
monthly interest rate increases to 25 basis points today and
probably won’t announce the extra borrowing that could accompany
an intervention in the currency markets, according to traders in
the interest-rate swap and bond markets.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate in pesos has declined
39 basis points to 3.69 percent since the central bank’s last
meeting on Sept. 16. The Chilean peso was little changed at
478.23 per U.S. dollar as of 10:43 a.m. New York time today from
478.05 per dollar yesterday. The peso declined yesterday on
concern the central bank may announce intervention to weaken the
currency today.  The last time the bank intervened, from April 2008 through
September 2008,  it bought  $50 million a day and “sterilized”
the intervention by selling short-term debt to prevent an
oversupply of pesos. Traders aren’t pricing in a similar
“sterilized” intervention after today’s meeting.  “What the market is expecting is 25 basis points: that’s
what the swaps market is telling us,” said  Jorge Selaive , chief
economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago. “If
you’re going to sterilize an intervention you would see rises in
the real and nominal curves, instead the market is suggesting
that the bank will slow the speed of normalization.”  The two-year rate fell to 4.09 percent from 4.39 percent on
Sept. 16. Interest-rate swaps reflect traders’ expectations for
average interest rates over the life of the contract.  Swaps Bets  Swaps traders are betting the central bank will slow the
pace of rate rises from 50 basis points in the past four monthly
meetings. The appreciation of the peso, which has gained 14
percent in the second half, has helped lower the prices of
imports and contributed to reduced inflation expectations.  A quarter-point rate increase would mean the Chilean
central bank has raised rates 2.25 percent this year, more than
any other major rate-setter tracked by Bloomberg. In the last
three months, the Chilean central bank has raised the  benchmark
rate  by 1.5 percent, second only to Venezuela.  “Inflation expectations have corrected downwards, as have
expectations for interest rates,” said  Rodrigo Aravena , an
economist at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago. “The market is
recognizing that the central bank will raise rates more slowly
and also the appreciation of the peso is contributing to the
reduction of external inflation, so the inflation measures
implied in the curve tend to fall.”  Rate Increase  A quarter-percentage-point rate increase would match the
median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Of the
21 analysts, 14 expect a 25 basis point increase to 2.75 percent
while seven forecast a fifth straight half-point hike to 3
percent.  Yields on inflation linked bonds have risen steadily since
July. The yield on a basket of denominated in unidades de
fomento central bank bonds due in 10 years was 3.15 percent
today, matching the five-month high reached yesterday. The yield
has risen from 2.59 percent at the end of August.  Unidades de fomento are Chile’s inflation-linked accounting
unit. The value of the unit is reset daily to reflect consumer
price increases.  “What has happened since July is that real rates have been
rising because of lower expectations of inflation,” said  Aldo Lema , chief economist at Banco Security in Santiago. “There was
a decline in appetite for unidades de fomento and that has led
to an unwinding of positions and a move into nominal rates.”  Shorter-dated inflation-linked yields declined on
expectations for slower interest-rate rises. The yield on one-
year inflation-linked swaps dropped to 0.23 percent today,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg, from 0.89 percent on
Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  