-- Chile Celebrates World's Longest Mine Rescue as Last Man Freed
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-15T01:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chile-celebrates-world-s-longest-mine-rescue-as-33rd-worker-freed-from-pit.html
The first of 33 men rescued from an
underground mine in Chile’s Atacama Desert were released from
hospital after recovering from their two-month ordeal.  “We did it tough,” Edison Pena said as he pushed past
dozens of reporters to enter his family home in the city of
Copiapo, images transmitted by state television channel TVN
showed. “I hope this kind of thing doesn’t happen again.”  Most of the other men probably will be released from
Copiapo Hospital tomorrow, Jorge Montes, the hospital’s deputy
director, said in televised remarks. Some are recovering from
infections and minor surgery and one from pneumonia, he said.
President  Sebastian Pinera  visited them today.  Foreman Luis Urzua was pulled from the mine at 8:55 p.m.
New York time yesterday, the final member of the group hoisted
to the surface in a four-meter long capsule. His release capped
the world’s longest mine rescue and  sparked celebrations 
throughout the country. Rescuers sang the national anthem as the
miners’ relatives and friends sprayed champagne and confetti.  “You’re not the same after this and neither are we,”
Pinera told Urzua in televised remarks. “We will never forget
this.”  Urzua, 54, who doled out rations of tuna and water crackers
during the 17 days the miners spent trapped before being
discovered alive on Aug. 22, thanked rescuers one by one.
“Thank you for everything you’ve done for us,” he told First
Lady  Cecilia Morel  after hugging her.  Billion Viewers  More than 1 billion people watched the culmination of the
two-month rescue live on television networks around the world,
state television channel TVN reported. The 70-day rescue beat a
previous record set during a 25-day rescue of three coal workers
from a flooded mine in Guizhou, China, in 2009.  Firehouse sirens throughout Chile sounded to celebrate the
rescue of the 33rd miner. In the city of Copiapo, where most of
the rescued miners live, thousands of people cheered, danced and
wept in celebration, television images showed. People screamed
from their Santiago apartments: “Long live Chile!”  “It’s like when the first man stepped on the moon,” said
Darinka Arce, a family friend of 19-year-old rescued miner Jimmy
Sanchez. “Being part of this has been one of the greatest
experiences of my life.”  ‘Mission Accomplished’  After Urzua’s release, rescue workers who were lowered into
the hole to help prepare miners for their ascent to the surface
held up a handwritten sign that read, “Mission Accomplished,
Chile.”  The “Phoenix” capsule painted in the red, white and blue
colors of Chile’s flag worked for more than 22 hours hoisting
the men to the surface through a 26-inch wide rescue hole.  Brandon Fisher, chief executive officer of  Center Rock
Inc. , which supplied drill bits to make the rescue shaft, said
he felt relief and pride when the last person reached the
surface yesterday.  “It was by far, the single most important hole we have
ever drilled, not to mention the most technically challenging
shaft that we have ever been involved in,” Fisher said today in
an e-mail response to questions. “Through the 33 days of
drilling, through the challenges, stressful moments,
overwhelming emotions, it was all worth it!”  The rescue cost Chile’s government and Codelco, the state-
owned copper producer running the rescue, as much as $20
million, Pinera said in an interview with TVN.  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
and other mining companies, as well as the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, assisted in the rescue.  ‘Remarkable’  “It’s remarkable,” said  J. Davitt McAteer , who was
appointed to investigate the causes of a blast at Massey Energy
Co.’s Performance Coal operation in Montcoal, West Virginia,
that killed 29 people in April. “They’ve done good and been
lucky too.”  The first miner, Florencio Avalos, emerged from the mine at
11:12 p.m. New York time Oct. 12 after being trapped for 69 days
in a tunnel more than 600 meters (1,970 feet) underground.  Carlos Mamani, the one Bolivian in the group, is in good
health, his sister Nelia Mamani, 33, said today after visiting
him in the hospital.  “We don’t know yet if he will stay in Chile or go back to
Bolivia,” she said. “It’s not the right moment to talk about
what happened below yet. I think it was difficult.”  The San Jose copper and gold mine is owned by Cia. Minera
San Esteban Primera SA. Chile’s government will help San Esteban
employees find work elsewhere if they need it, Labor Minister
 Camila Merino  said in a  statement  on the government website.  “This won’t remain unpunished,” Pinera said in televised
remarks. “Those who are responsible must assume their
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
 Nathan Crooks  in Copiapo, Chile at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  