-- China's Government Bonds Gain as Lending Curbs May Spur Demand From Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-14T04:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/china-s-government-bonds-gain-as-lending-curbs-may-spur-demand-from-banks.html
China’s government bonds rose on
speculation the nation’s banks will pump more funds into the
securities as policy makers tighten lending curbs.  The finance ministry’s seven-year 28 billion-yuan ($4.2
billion) bond sale yesterday drew bids for 1.66 times the amount
on offer,  more than  sales of similar-maturity debt on Aug. 18
and July 21. Local lenders extended 595.5 billion yuan of new
loans in September, bringing the total in the first ninth months
to 6.3 trillion yuan, the central bank said yesterday. China
aims to limit this year’s total to 7.5 trillion yuan.  The central bank this week raised the cash-reserve ratio
for the nation’s six largest lenders by half a percentage point
for two months, three people with knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified told Bloomberg.  “The temporary reserve-ratio hike was mainly to limit
lending for the rest of the year to meet the annual loan
target,” said  Liu Junyu , a bond analyst at China Merchants Bank
Co. in Shenzhen. “The measure didn’t show noticeable impact on
the money market and there’s still ample cash, which drove up
demand for new debt.”  The yield on the 2.58 percent note due August 2015 dropped
three basis points to 2.76 percent as of 11:58 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data from the National Interbank Funding Center. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, was little changed at 1.95 percent, according to
a daily fixing published by the Interbank Funding Center. The
rate slid to 1.91 percent on Oct. 12, the lowest level in more
than a month.  Five-year swaps, the fixed rate needed to receive the
floating seven-day repo rate, were also little changed at 3.02
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  