-- Chinese Drywall Accord to Repair Damaged Homes Wins U.S. Judge's Approval
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-14T18:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chinese-drywall-accord-endorsed-by-judge-knauf-to-help-repair-300-houses.html
A federal judge endorsed a plan for
a Knauf Group unit to help repair 300 homes damaged by defective
drywall, the first step toward a potential settlement of legal
claims estimated by plaintiffs at as much as $500 million.  Repairs will begin as soon as next week on dozens of homes
in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi,  Russ Herman , an
attorney for homeowners suing the company, told the court. The
program may expand to 3,000 homes if it’s successful.  “We’ve got the first step in the global resolution
reporting today,” U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  said during
a hearing today in New Orleans.  The cases, part of  coordinated litigation  over allegedly
defective drywall, had been intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in cases against other
manufacturers and importers, including Chicago-based USG Corp.
More than 1.1 million sheets of harmful Chinese drywall were
used in Louisiana rebuilding projects after hurricanes Katrina
and Rita struck in 2005, state Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell 
said in January.  The agreement calls for the companies to oversee removal of
the drywall and replacement of electrical wiring and fixtures
damaged by toxins in the wall covering, such as excessive
formaldehyde. Homeowners will also be compensated for
alternative living arrangements during the repairs, attorneys
for the plaintiffs said.  Costs Per Foot  Herman estimated repairs to the average 2,500 square foot
home will cost $60 a foot. With $8.50 per square foot paid to
plaintiffs for temporary relocation, the cost for each home
might be $171,000. The total for the 300 homes may reach
$51 million. Renovations for all 3,000 homes involved in the
lawsuit would be 10 times that number, Herman said in an
interview.  Kerry J. Miller, an attorney for Knauf, called Herman’s
estimates high and said the company will work with contractors
to be efficient and keep the construction costs down.  Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co. will hire and supervise
contractors to do the work and the renovated homes will be
inspected by environmental engineers, the lawyers said outside
of court.  Affected homes in Texas and Virginia weren’t included in
the agreement, Miller said.  “There’s a lot of hope and expectation here,” Miller said.
“The hope is the program is going to be expanded.”  Among the builders, suppliers and insurers joining the
agreement are QBE Insurance Group Ltd. and State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co., the Louisiana Homebuilders Indemnity
Trust, and the Louisiana-based supplier Interior/Exterior
Building Supply.  The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson in federal court in New Orleans at
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 