-- China Pledges to Boost Southern Sudan Ties After January Vote on Secession
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l
-- 2010-10-14T11:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/china-pledges-to-boost-southern-sudan-ties-after-january-vote-on-secession.html
China will continue to improve ties
with  Southern Sudan  after a referendum in January in which the
oil-rich semi-autonomous East African region will vote on
secession.  A delegation of Communist Party of China officials met
Southern Sudanese leaders today in Juba, the capital. China is
the biggest importer of oil pumped in Sudan, where output of
490,000 barrels of oil per day ranks the country as sub-Saharan
Africa’s third-largest producer.  “China stands ready to provide help to the south within its
capacity, no matter what the changes will be in the situation
here,” Du Yanling, director-general in the international
department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee,
told reporters today in Juba.  Next year’s independence vote is a key component of a 2005
peace agreement that ended two decades of civil war between
Sudan’s Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in the
conflict, and more than 4 million were displaced.  Southern Sudan will continue to respect China’s interests
in the region, Anne Itto, the SPLM’s deputy secretary-general,
said at the briefing. The two sides are discussing Chinese
investment in energy, infrastructure, agriculture and services,
she said.  “This could be done through partnership, but also by
allowing Chinese companies to invest in those respective areas,”
said Itto, who led an SPLM delegation that visited China in
August.  China National Petroleum Corp. , the nation’s largest oil
company, operates several concessions along the border between
Sudan and Southern Sudan. The country signed oil contracts with
Sudan’s national government in Khartoum.  Southern Sudan’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement
and the Chinese Communist Party “have very good political mutual
trust, and we will continue to enhance this relationship in the
future, to the mutual benefit of both sides,” Du said.
The two parties established relations in 2007, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 