-- China's Trade Gap With U.S. Climbs to Record, Fueling Yuan Tension
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-15T03:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/china-s-trade-surplus-with-u-s-reaches-record-for-first-time-since-crisis.html
China ran up a record $28 billion
trade surplus with the U.S. in August, bolstering complaints
from American business groups and lawmakers that a weak Chinese
currency gives exports an unfair advantage.  “China’s decision to undervalue its currency has been a
persistent thorn in the side of our relationship,” Senate
Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat,  said
in a statement after meeting with Chinese officials in Beijing
yesterday.  China’s exports to the U.S. climbed to a record $35.3
billion, while U.S. exports dipped to $7.3 billion, according to
Commerce Department figures released yesterday. It’s the first
record-setting trade gap since the financial crisis hit in 2008.
A weak currency makes a country’s exports cheaper.  In previous years, China’s exports to the U.S. increased in
August and peaked in October as retailers stocked goods for the
holiday shopping season.  “A lot of what we are seeing is a resurgence in retail,”
 Art Wong , public information officer at the Port of Long Beach,
California, said in an interview. “In this period we get all
the Christmas stuff.”  U.S. lawmakers have been pressing China to raise the value
of its currency, the yuan. Last month the House of
Representatives passed a measure that would let American
companies seek import duties to counter the effect of a weak
yuan. The Senate may take up the measure after the Nov. 2
election.  ‘Persistent Thorn’  A twice-annual report by the U.S. Treasury Department about
whether China manipulates its currency is due later today. Under
Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, the department has
resisted calls from Congress to make such a determination. In
recent weeks, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has become
increasingly vocal in pressing for China to act on its currency.  Overall, international trade subtracted 3.5 percentage
points from U.S. growth in April through June, the most since
1947, as imports surged at the fastest pace since 1984.  The U.S. trade deficit grew 8.8 percent to $46.3 billion,
an increase that took place even as the dollar’s value dropped,
according to the Commerce Department.  The gap with China is the largest, and “goes a long way to
explaining why this economy remains dead in the water despite
the massive stimulus,”  Alan Tonelson , research fellow at the
 U.S. Business and Industry Council , a Washington trade group for
U.S.-based manufacturers, said in an interview.  Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke  said the increase in imports
is an encouraging sign for the economy.  ‘Work to Do’  “While it’s promising that American consumer spending
continues to rebound, today’s numbers are another reminder that
we still have work to do to help U.S. businesses sell more of
their goods and services overseas,” Locke said in a statement
yesterday.  Tonelson said the data showed the necessity of increasing
domestic production and reducing imports. Trade groups said it
should prod the Obama administration and lawmakers to approve
stalled free-trade agreements with Panama, South Korea and
Colombia.  “We would be better off” with those agreements,  Frank Vargo , vice president for international economic affairs at the
National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, said. “We
have more of an export  problem  than an import problem. We are
not the exporter we need to be.”  Vargo said the trade deficit with China won’t see a marked
change until China raises the value of the yuan. “Currency is a
very big part of it,” he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net 
Company news: 