-- China September Property Prices Rise, Defying Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T02:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/chinese-property-prices-rose-at-slower-pace-last-month-on-government-curbs.html
China’s  property prices  rose and
transactions jumped in September from the previous month,
underscoring the need for further government curbs to discourage
speculation and prevent asset bubbles in the fastest-growing
major economy.  Prices in 70 cities climbed 0.5 percent from August and the
value of property sales soared 56 percent, according to data
from the statistics bureau today. Prices rebounded for the first
time since May on a monthly basis after staying unchanged in the
previous two months and declining in June.  The data adds to challenges faced by Premier  Wen Jiabao  and
policymakers who this year tightened down-payment requirements,
suspended loans for third-home purchases, and pledged to speed
trials of a property tax that may be rolled out nationwide.
Nomura Holdings Inc. predicts average residential prices may
fall as much as 10 percent by the end of next year as cities
including Shanghai follow up with their own curbs.  “The government’s true intention is to keep housing
prices stable, rather than a substantial decline, which explains
why they only use ad hoc and piecemeal tightening measures,”
said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. “Given the absence of a property tax and
interest rates, the government still appears reluctant to use
really biting measures that will be the most effective in
cooling the property markets.”  A property  index , which tracks 34 Shanghai-listed property
companies, has tumbled 20 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent decline in the benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index .  Property Sales  Property sales volume rose 52 percent last month from
August, the data show. Property prices gained 9.1 percent from a
year earlier, slowing from 9.3 percent in August and beating the
median 8.8 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six
economists. The year-on-year price gain has slowed from April’s
12.8 percent, a record for the data series, which began in 2005.  “The authorities may not see the property curbs as
successful until prices fall by double-digits from a year
earlier, so the current restrictions may last into next year,”
said  Zhang Zhiwei , a Hong Kong-based economist at investment
bank China International Capital Corp., before today’s release.
“Cash-rich developers may be able to resist cutting prices for
a while.”  Beijing, Shenzhen  Property prices rose 0.2 percent in September in Beijing, 1
percent in Shenzhen and 1.9 percent in Lanzhou, in northwest
China, from August. Haikou, the capital city of the tropical
island province of Hainan, was the only city among the 70 major
cities monitored that had a drop in property prices.  “The government may not seek blanket cooling measures
against the real estate market again, though it is possible that
it will draft some selective policies if prices resume rising
rapidly in some places in the coming months,” said  Lian Ping ,
chief economist at Bank of Communications Co. Ltd.  Prices will stabilize in the coming months and may drop if
policies such as a property tax are introduced, Lian said. They
are unlikely to decline significantly due to robust demand and
the urbanization drive underway, he added in a telephone
interview.  Property sales by volume rose 8.2 percent in the first nine
months of the year to 632 million square meters (6.8 billion
square feet), today’s data showed. The value of sales jumped
15.9 percent to 3.19 trillion yuan ($480 billion). Property
sales by volume jumped 16.6 percent in September from a year
earlier while sales by value rose 35 percent in the month.  Sales Strength  Today’s numbers came in line with private data indicating
strength in sales in September. In Shanghai, home transactions
rose 82 percent by floor area from August, according to UWin
Real Estate Information Services Co.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. , a developer based in the
city, reported a 30 percent increase in sales value from the
previous month. Beijing-based developer  Soho China Ltd.  reported
last month that it had already met a full-year sales target.  “Transactions may cool as clearer expectations of a
property tax encourage home buyers to hold off on purchases,”
said CICC’s Zhang. “On the other hand, abundant cash flows may
enable developers to continue investment, especially in welfare
homes, so that the impact of the property curbs on the overall
economy remains limited.”  Investment in real-estate development rose 35 percent to
515.6 billion yuan in September from a year earlier. That
compares with a gain of 34.1 percent in August. For the first
nine months, investment jumped 36.4 percent from the same period
in 2009.  -- Li Yanping ,  Huang Zhe ,  Zheng Lifei . With assistance from
 Jay Wang  in Singapore. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  