-- China Day Ahead: U.S. Delays Yuan Report, Guangzhou Property Market Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-17T23:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/china-day-ahead-trade-deficit-with-u-s-widens-drywall-accord-approved.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
will delay a report on international currencies, including
China’s, citing progress in the acceleration of the yuan’s  rise .  The report will be delayed until after meetings of the
Group of 20 nations in the coming weeks, according to a
statement from the Treasury on Oct. 15.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “recognized China’s
actions since early September to accelerate the pace of currency
appreciation, while noting it is important to sustain this
course,” according to the statement.  Guangzhou Property Curbs  China’s southern city of Guangzhou limited new home
purchases to one unit for each household, joining eight cities
that have issued buying rules in an effort to curb property
speculation in the country.  The city also banned home purchases from non-Guangzhou
residents who haven’t lived in the city for a full year, the
Guangzhou Land Resources and House Management Bureau said in a
statement posted on its website.  “The government will firmly curb unreasonable home
purchases demand and strictly limit speculation in property
market,” the bureau said, adding that the new measures are aimed
at “restraining the over-rapid growth of property prices.”  Clean-Energy Subsidy Probe  The U.S. agreed to investigate China’s aid to its clean-
energy producers after the United Steelworkers union lodged a
complaint saying the assistance violates global trade rules.  Accepting the petition may lead the Obama administration to
file a protest at the World Trade Organization over subsidies
that the union says are contrary to trade rules.  Rare Earth Deposits  China’s medium and heavy rare earths reserves may last 15
years to 20 years at the current rate of production, possibly
requiring imports, the Ministry of Commerce said.  Domestic rare earths deposits dropped to 27 million metric
tons by the end of 2009, or just 30 percent of the world’s total
known reserves, from 43 million tons, or 43 percent of the world
total, in 1996,  Chao Ning , section chief of foreign trade at the
ministry said at a Beijing conference.  China, controller of more than 90 percent of production of
the materials used in cell phones and radar, cut its export
quotas by 72 percent for the second half and reduced output,
spurring a trade dispute with the U.S. The country may not be
able to meet growing global demand as the government continues
to curb output, Lynas Corp. said in March.  Fungs Buy Into Hello Kitty  Billionaire brothers  Victor Fung  and  William Fung , the
owners of Li & Fung Ltd., acquired 1.03 percent of Japan’s
 Sanrio Co. , owner of the Hello Kitty brand.  Li & Fung ’s parent and Sanrio are seeking to develop
products for the global market and cut logistics costs, Sanrio
said in a statement. Katherine Wang of GolinHarris, the public
relations agency hired by Li & Fung, said the brothers invested
through closely held Fung Investment Pte. Ltd.  Kazakhstan’s Satimola IPO  Satimola Ltd. , a closely held Kazakh potash exploration
company backed by Citadel LLC, is studying a $100 million
initial public offering in Hong Kong or London next year to take
advantage of rising demand and prices for the crop nutrient.  The company is talks with banks on the IPO and hopes to
appoint advisers within six weeks, before a possible listing in
the second quarter of 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Jaime Troncoso  said by telephone from Almaty, Kazakhstan.  IMF Shanghai Meeting  Central bankers and other officials will meet at a
previously scheduled conference in Shanghai on Oct. 18, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Oct. 15.  The IMF said in a statement in Washington that it will
sponsor the conference with representatives from Asia, Africa,
Europe, North America and South America.  Chip Plant  Texas Instruments Inc., the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
bought a plant in China and will begin making semiconductors in
the country for the first time as it adds overseas capacity to
increase market share.  The company bought a 200-millimeter wafer facility from
Cension Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp. in the southwestern
Chinese city of Chengdu and will use it to make analog chips,
Texas Instruments Senior Vice President Gregg Lowe said in a
telephone interview. Texas Instruments didn’t disclose how much
it paid for the factory, which was operated by Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp.  U.S. Steel Pipe Ruling  Makers of steel pipes used in oil refineries and chemical
plants are being harmed by imports from China, the U.S.
International Trade Commission ruled, a decision that will mean
duties on $182 million of products.  The decision is the last of four that producers such as  U.S.
Steel Corp . and the U.S. subsidiary of France’s  Vallourec SA, 
the world’s second-largest maker of steel tubes for oil and gas
production, needed to win in order to get dumping and
countervailing duties imposed on Chinese exporters.  THE FOLLOWING STOCKS MAY BE ACTIVE TODAY:  Changjiang Securities Co.  (000783 CH): The brokerage said
net income for the first three quarters rose 2.5 percent from a
year earlier. The stock jumped by the 10 percent daily limit to
13.52 yuan.  China Merchants Securities Co.  (600999 CH): The brokerage
said that nine-month profit was 1.88 billion yuan ($283 million),
including 174.4 million yuan for September. The figures were
unaudited and for the parent company only. The shares gained 5.1
percent to 24.31 yuan.  First China Financial Network Holdings Ltd . (8123 HK): The
brokerage will buy the 16th floor of an office building in Hong
Kong’s Central district for its own use for HK$38.5 million. The
stock fell 1.5 percent to 33.5 Hong Kong cents.  Fosun International Ltd . (656 HK): The investment company
terminated a planned joint venture for an investment in Tianjin
Iron & Steel Co. because circumstances have changed. The stock
gained 0.5 percent to HK$6.10.  Goldin Properties Holdings Ltd . (283 HK): The developer
said it will raise as much as HK$5.08 billion through a rights
offer of three-year, 8 percent convertible bonds to strengthen
its financial position. The stock fell 0.2 percent to HK$4.68.  Jizhong Energy Resources Co.  (000937 CH): The coal producer
said profit for the third quarter probably rose between 200
percent and 250 percent from a year ago. The stock added 1.9
percent to 35.64 yuan.  M Dream Inworld Ltd . (8100 HK): The e-commerce services
company said it plans to raise HK$104.9 million in a rights
offer of four new shares at 10 Hong Kong cents each for every
share held to finance the possible purchase of an information
technology company. The stock was unchanged at 12.3 Hong Kong
cents.  Mayer Holdings Ltd . (1116 HK): The steel sheet and pipe
maker said it signed a preliminary agreement to buy a stake in a
port-and-related-infrastructure project in Vietnam. The stock
gained 4.1 percent to 77 Hong Kong cents.  Richfield Group Holdings Ltd . (8136 HK): The bagmaker said
it applied to transfer the listing of its shares to the Hong
Kong stock exchange’s main board from the Growth Enterprise
Market. The stock was unchanged at 99 Hong Kong cents.  Tian An China Investments Co.  (28 HK): The developer said
it agreed to buy 11 as-yet uncompleted villas in Shanghai’s
Changning district for 458.3 million yuan. The stock fell 2.3
percent to HK$6.03.  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co.  (600005 CH): The steelmaker said it
would cut the size of a rights offer to a maximum of 10.7
billion yuan from 12 billion yuan after excluding one of three
planned projects to receive the funds. The stock rose 3.5
percent to 5.27 yuan.  Zhuguang Holdings Group Co.  (1176 HK): The real estate
investment company said it agreed to buy 11 floors of the Royal
Mediterranean Hotel in Guangzhou for HK$630 million in cash and
new shares. The stock will resume trading today.  Zijin Mining Group Co.  (601899 CH): The company said two
subsidiaries face legal claims for at least 19.5 million yuan in
connection with a fatal dam collapse at a mine. A Guangdong
court has notified the units that they’re being sued by the
Xinyi city government. The shares climbed 0.7 percent to 10.27
yuan.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at   bruceg@bloomberg.net . 