-- Cie. de Saint-Gobain May Raise $2.8 Billion Euros in Packaging Stake Sale
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-14T14:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cie-de-saint-gobain-may-raise-2-8-billion-euros-in-packaging-stake-sale.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, may raise more than
2 billion euros ($2.8 billion) from selling a stake in its
packaging unit, analysts said.  That may fund debt reduction, acquisitions, buybacks or
dividends, Credit Suisse analysts  Arnaud Lehmann  and  Harry Goad ,
who have an “outperform” rating on Saint-Gobain, said in a
research note today. The unit’s value may range from 3.2 billion
euros to 4.5 billion euros, according to Credit Suisse and
brokerages including Aurel BGC, CM-CIC Securities and Natixis.  “We’re not considering very large transformational
acquisitions,” Saint-Gobain spokeswoman  Sophie Chevallon  said
by telephone today. “We’ll continue our policy in terms of
external growth, with extra room for maneuver, with the aim to
grow further in emerging markets, and in the energy-efficiency
and solar markets.”  Saint-Gobain  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Andre de
Chalendar has sought to sell the company’s packaging business
since 2007 to focus the Paris-based company on housing and
construction products such as glass and pipes. He has pledged
medium-sized acquisitions in emerging markets, and the energy-
efficiency and solar-energy industries.  Saint-Gobain may sell a minority stake of its packaging
unit in an  initial public offering , no sooner than the second
quarter of 2011, Chevallon said yesterday. It may sell more of
the unit later, she said.  Private-Equity Scenario  “A disposal of the entire division to private equity funds
remains a possibility, as the business has a strong and stable
cash flow,” Lehmann and Goad of Credit Suisse, who have an
“outperform” rating on Saint-Gobain, said in a research note
today. “Launching the IPO process may be a way to increase
private interest.”  They  value  the unit at 4 billion euros. The sale of a
40 percent stake at that valuation would reduce Saint-Gobain’s
earnings per share by 2.5 percent, assuming that the proceeds
are used to pay down debt, the analysts said. Some of the funds
may be used for “accretive acquisitions,” share buybacks and
dividends, they said.  The packaging unit, the world’s second-largest producer of
glass bottles, behind  Owens-Illinois Inc. , makes bottles for
beverages and oil, as well as jars for food products. Its sales
rose 0.9 percent to 1.76 billion euros in the first half, and
its operating income fell 2.6 percent to 227 million euros.  Debt Reduction  “By enabling Saint-Gobain to reduce its debt, it will
probably regain a BBB+ rating and gain leeway for external
growth,” said  Jean-Christophe Lefevre-Moulenq , an analyst at
CM-CIC Securities in Paris, in a research note. He has a
“prudent valuation” of the unit at 3.2 billion euros.  Saint-Gobain, whose net debt was 9.1 billion euros on June
30, is  rated  BBB by Standard and Poor’s, and Baa2 at Moody’s
Investors Service, the second-lowest investment grade in each
case.  “The cash proceeds could be used to get into U.S.
distribution,” said  Sven Edelfelt , an analyst at Aurel BGC in
Paris, who values the unit in a range of 3.5 billion euros to
4.5 billion euros. “Profits of most of these companies have
been crushed by the unprecedented real estate crisis.”  Saint-Gobain “is becoming more cyclical,” said  Rafic El Hadda  and  Gregoire Thibault , analysts at Paris-based Natixis,
who value the packaging unit in a range of 3.5 billion euros to
4 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 