-- CME Group Said to Start Clearing Interest-Rate Swaps as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-14T15:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cme-group-said-to-start-clearing-interest-rate-swaps-as-soon-as-next-week.html
CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest
futures exchange, plans to begin clearing interest-rate swaps
next week in a race to dominate what a London competitor has
called a “battleground” U.S. market.  The exchange’s clearinghouse will guarantee U.S. dollar-
denominated rate swaps starting Oct. 18, according to people
familiar with the decision who asked not to be identified
because it hasn’t been made public. Chicago-based CME Group will
compete with a unit of  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  and  LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd.  of London for clearing trades in the $349 trillion
market. Rate swaps make up the biggest class of over-the-counter
derivatives.  “You’d expect it to be a highly competitive market because
this is the biggest over-the-counter clearing opportunity,”
said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP in New York. “CME has an advantage because of the capital
offsets they could offer” due to the interest-rate futures they
already provide, he said. Margin payments on cleared interest-
rate swaps and futures can cancel each other out if the
positions oppose each other, for example.  Repetto said CME Group showed its customers the rule book
for its interest-rate swap clearing a few weeks ago, before the
start.  LCH.Clearnet is the world’s largest interest-rate swap
clearinghouse. Its SwapClear service has been guaranteeing the
trades between banks since 1999 and began offering bank
customers, such as money managers, the clearing service in
December. Andrew McGuire, a vice president in the
clearinghouse’s U.S. office, said in July that LCH.Clearnet sees
the U.S. market “as the battleground for the next two years.”  Derivatives Exchanges  Beginning as soon as 2012, derivatives exchanges and
clearinghouses worldwide may earn $190 million a year from
clearing interest-rate products, according to Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Celeste Mellet Brown .  “We continue to work with buy- and sell-side participants
to bring an interest-rate swaps clearing solution to market,”
said  Allan Schoenberg , a CME Group spokesman. He declined to
comment on the start of clearing next week.  CME Group’s new plan would follow the failure of its
Swapstream system for interest-rate swaps that the exchange
halted in September 2008.  The  International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC , majority-
owned by  Nasdaq,  has been open to clear rate swaps since
December 2008 and has $393 million of open-interest, or active
trades, in it clearinghouse as of yesterday, said  Alan Sobba , an
IDCG spokesman.  Dodd-Frank Act  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, mandates that most interest-rate, credit-default
and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or similar systems, taking business from the Wall
Street banks that pioneered the transactions. All trades in the
 $615 trillion market  will be reported to regulators. Dealers and
their biggest clients will face higher capital requirements to
use the market.  The push to overhaul the banking industry follows the
collapse of the housing bubble that caused the financial crisis
after credit markets froze, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt, and more than 8 million U.S. jobs were lost. Private
swaps complicated efforts to solve the crisis when regulators
and market users couldn’t easily determine how interconnected
banks had become through trading the contracts.  Bank Partners  Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in over-the-counter derivatives markets
because they lessen the effect of a default by sharing the risk
among the membership and use daily margining procedures to keep
accounts current. They also allow regulators to see market
positions and prices.  CME Group is working with bank partners Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Morgan Stanley, Nomura Holdings Inc. and UBS AG on its rate
swap clearing plan, according to the company’s  website .  There are different levels of readiness among the bank
partners to start clearing rate swaps next week, according to
two of the people. CME Group has pushed for the start of the
clearing plan against resistance from some of the banks because
of the competitiveness of the market, they said.  LCH.Clearnet’s system for clearing trades for U.S.
customers should be ready by the end of the year, McGuire said
in July.  Default Fund  The U.S.  Federal Housing Financing Agency , which oversees
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, has expressed reservations about how
collateral for users of non-U.S. interest-rate swap
clearinghouses is treated under bankruptcy law, according to
McGuire.  Customers such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae represent an
opportunity to move more than $1 trillion of bi-lateral rate
swaps into clearinghouses. Freddie Mac has $646 billion in
outstanding rate swaps as of June 30, while Fannie Mae has $552
billion outstanding, according to their most recent quarterly
filings.  Another potential issue for CME Group’s plan is that the
exchange is considering creating a separate default fund for
rate swaps that would be separate from its futures default fund,
Repetto said. This could limit small participants who don’t have
enough cash to contribute to the new default fund, which is used
in case the clearinghouse has to pay to make whole on a
defaulted member’s positions.  There may not be as much margin offsets between the futures
and swaps with a separate default fund, Repetto said. Offsets
are also known as cross-margining.  “I was told by CME pretty vehemently they can still be
cross-margining, but that’s the debate,” Repetto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 