-- Coal of Africa Expects Vele Collier Approval From Government in Weeks
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-10-14T16:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/coal-of-africa-expecting-government-approval-of-its-vele-project-in-weeks.html
Coal of Africa Ltd. , the Australian
miner of the fuel, said it expects the South African government
in the next few weeks to approve the restart of operations at
its  Vele project  in the country’s Limpopo province.  “It could be as soon as a couple of weeks,” Director
 Peter Cordin  said in an interview at the company’s annual
general meeting in Perth today. “The minister and the director
general have both given us assurances that the result will be
positive.”  While South Africa’s Ministry of Mines has awarded Coal of
Africa a mining license for Vele, the company has yet to receive
a water-use permit. The Ministry of Environment and Water
Affairs said in February it opposed the project because it was
too close to a  United Nations World Heritage site  that was once
southern Africa’s biggest settlement.  In August, Coal of Africa ordered all workers to leave the
coking coal construction site after the government declined to
lift a suspension on development.  “We’ve resolved all the outstanding issues and we’re now
waiting for the minister of mines to issue a compliance notice
to allow construction to restart, commissioning to be
undertaken, and the mine to be re-established,” Cordin said.  ‘Obviously Expensive’  Production at Vele may resume during the fourth quarter,
the company said on Sept. 1, a day after it released 500
contractors at the site.  Coal of Africa  said in June it planned
to start production at Vele in August.  Shares in the company advanced 32 cents, or 3.3 percent, to
10 rand by the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, reducing the
decline since the government suspension order on Aug. 5 to  14
percent .  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, owns
about 14 percent of the company, according to Bloomberg  data .  Cordin declined to say how much the suspension has cost the
company. “To demobilize a workforce and then rehire them is
obviously expensive,” he said today. “There’s also loss of
opportunity in the fact we’ve lost the potential of producing
coal for a couple of months.”  Separately, Coal of Africa is also “moving towards
achieving a full listing” on the London Stock Exchange, Cordin
said. “The company hasn’t finalized a date for that and we’re
also looking at the possibility of maintaining a dual listing on
the Australia Stock Exchange.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  