-- Coal India's $3.4 Billion IPO Wins Investors on Energy Demand
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   H e m a l   S a v a i
-- 2010-10-15T11:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/coal-india-s-3-4-billion-initial-offering-wins-investors-on-energy-demand.html
Coal India Ltd.  may sell as much as
151.5 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) of stock in the nation’s
biggest initial share sale as investors bet surging energy
demand will override environmental delays for new mines.  Fifteen of 18 investors surveyed by Bloomberg News said
they plan to bid for shares in the world’s largest coal producer.
The stock of the state-owned  company  will be sold in a range of
225 rupees to 245 rupees each, starting Oct. 18, with the
proceeds helping the government narrow its budget deficit, Coal
Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said on Oct. 12.  “Apply to buy as much as you can,” said  Manish Sonthalia ,
who manages $230 million in equities at Motilal Oswal Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai, who’s advising investors to bid at the top end
of the range. The stock could gain 34 percent in the first year,
said Sonthalia.  India’s coal imports surged 16 percent in the year ended
March 31 as power plants burned more of the fuel to meet demand
in Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy. Coal India will
seek environmental clearances from the government to mine in
densely forested areas in states including Jharkhand and
Chhattisgarh estimated to hold half of its future output.  “The shares are available at a price cheaper than their
global peers,” said  Deven Choksey , chief executive officer at
K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., manager of the equivalent
of $124 million in assets. “They have large cash holdings on
their balance sheet and the world’s largest coal reserves. They
haven’t charged a premium for this.”  Raising Funds  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government plans to sell
shares in state-run companies to raise 400 billion rupees this
year to trim a budget deficit. The sale of a 10 percent stake in
Coal India could help the government meet about 38 percent of
the asset-sale target and may top the 116 billion rupees raised
by billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance Power Ltd.  in January 2008.  Indian companies have raised a record 806 billion rupees in
equity and rights sales this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The country’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  has gained 15
percent so far in 2010, making it the best performing gauge
among the world’s 10 largest stock markets. The index declined
1.8 percent in Mumbai today.  In the U.S., Gurgaon, India-based MakeMyTrip Ltd. has posted
the biggest rally for any IPO on New York exchanges in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares  of the online
travel-reservations provider have more than doubled since
MakeMyTrip in August became the first Indian company to complete
a U.S. initial offering since 2006.  Citigroup Inc. , Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of America Corp.,
Enam Securities Pvt., Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. and Morgan
Stanley will manage Coal India’s offering.  Rising Coal Demand  India’s coal demand may more than triple in the next two
decades to 2 billion metric tons, Coal Minister  Jaiswal  said on
Sept. 24. The country is building power plants and steel mills
to keep pace with an economy that expanded at the fastest pace
in 2 1/2 years in the three months ended June 30.  The nation produces 530 million tons of coal a year and
imports about 67 million tons annually. Coal India has proven
reserves of 52.55 billion tons, of which 21.75 billion is
extractable, the share-sale document shows.  Coal India may miss its production targets for 2011 and
2012 because of delays in environmental clearances, Chairman
 Partha Bhattacharyya  said on Oct. 13, without providing the new
estimates.  The company had aimed to produce 460 million tons in 2011
and 486 million tons the next year, Bhattacharya said on May 20.
Environmental approvals to prospect for more reserves take as
long as seven years in India, he said. Those delays are a
concern for some investors.  Dead Money?  “They have to improve production and get access to new
mines under forests,” said  Taina Erajuuri , who helps manage the
equivalent of $1.2 billion of emerging market stocks at
Helsinki-based Fim Asset Management, which has invested in four
Indian IPOs this year, all non-state companies. “Else it will
be dead money. You invest and the shares don’t increase later.”  Maoist insurgents are also a risk. Rebels are active in
seven eastern and central states with 40 billion tons of India’s
46 billion tons of proven coal reserves, according to CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets estimates.  The insurgents are based in the forests of the eastern
state of Chhattisgarh, which has accounted for almost half of
the 573 police and civilians killed in Maoist violence in the
first half of this year.  ‘No-Go’ Areas  The environment and coal ministries are jointly identifying
areas for coal mining designated as “go” and “no-go” areas
to find ways to boost output of the fuel to meet surging demand.  “No-go” areas are locations with medium or heavy density
forests while degraded forests are go-areas, Minister for
Environment and Forests  Jairam Ramesh  said in June last year.
Ramesh rejected last month  Vedanta Resources Plc ’s planned
bauxite mine and halted in August two hydropower projects.  “The no-go areas make up almost 50 percent of their future
projections,” said S.K. Chand, a New Delhi-based senior fellow
at  The Energy and Resources Institute . “Older blocks are
dwindling and they need new blocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Hemal Savai  in Mumbai at 
 hsavai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 