-- Colombia's Ecopetrol to Pay $1.4 Billion in Dividends Abroad to Ease Peso
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-14T18:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/colombia-s-ecopetrol-to-pay-1-4-billion-in-dividends-abroad-to-ease-peso.html
Colombia’s government will keep two
dividend payments from state oil company  Ecopetrol  SA abroad,
instead of converting the dollars into local currency, as
President  Juan Manuel Santos  seeks to rein in the peso’s 13
percent rally against the dollar this year.  Ecopetrol’s $1.4 billion in dividends, half of which were
paid in August with the rest due in December, will stay in
dollars outside Colombia, Santos’s office said in a  statement 
late yesterday. Santos met central bank and government officials
yesterday to discuss ways to slow the currency’s appreciation.  The move “will lift pressure from these payments on the
exchange market,” Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said.  Colombian officials are trying to halt gains in the peso,
the second-biggest gainer this year among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to help exporters stay
competitive. The central bank buys at least $20 million in the
foreign exchange market daily in an effort to ease the advance,
and policy makers have said they could buy more or extend
purchases beyond the currently scheduled four months.  “We could at any moment go out and buy much more,” bank
Chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said in an interview with W Radio.  The  bank  will use instruments it “considers appropriate,”
to help prevent the peso strengthening further, he said. “There
are other instruments we haven’t used because we consider the
benefits to be lower than the costs,” he added.  Peso Weakens  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 1801.80 per U.S. dollar at
1:59 p.m. New York time, its biggest decline in almost a month.
Only Japan’s yen and Iceland’s krona have appreciated more in
2010.  Private sector foreign capital is net negative this year,
Uribe said, explaining that payments made to overseas creditors
are exceeding funds entering the country.  “So that’s not what’s impacting the exchange rate,” he
said.  Yesterday’s statement also said the government will seek to
eliminate investment tax deductions beginning next year and send
a bill to congress that aims to root out evasion on a financial
tax known as “cuatro por mil.”  Santos invited Uribe as well as former Argentine Economy
Minister Domingo Cavallo and former Peruvian Prime Minister
 Pedro Pablo Kuczynski  to yesterday’s meeting to brainstorm on
ideas to address the peso’s appreciation.  Uribe also said he supports a congressional project that
would remove three zeros from the currency.  “If the country wants to do it, now is the time, when
inflation is low and stable,” he said.  Annual inflation was 2.28 percent in September, at the
lower end of the government’s target range for 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  