-- Confidence Among U.S. CEOs Fell in October
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-14T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/confidence-among-u-s-ceos-falls-to-lowest-level-since-may-2009-in-survey.html
Confidence among chief executive
officers in the U.S. sank in October to the lowest level since
May 2009, when the world’s largest economy was still in a
recession, according to a survey from the Business Council.  The Washington-based group’s sentiment gauge dropped to
51.2 this month from a two-year high of 66.6 in May, a report
showed today. As calculated by the Conference Board, readings
greater than 50 signal economic growth.  “The momentum in the U.S. and global economy evident in
recent surveys has subsided,”  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and vice chairman of
the Business Council, said in a statement. “Members sent a
strong message about increasing government regulation and
intervention,” and “the federal budget deficit remains a
critical concern,” he said.  The group’s gauge of expectations for the economy six
months from now fell to 51.7, the lowest since February 2009,
while the executives’ outlook for their own industry dropped to
54.6 from 66.4.  A little more than half of executives surveyed said growth
in the U.S. will be in the 2 percent to 3 percent range this
year, compared with 70 percent who expected that in February.
About 46 percent said the economy will expand less than 2
percent, an increase of almost 31 percentage points since the
last survey. The results do not indicate a renewed recession.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on Oct. 13 projected
growth will average 2.7 percent this year and 2.4 percent in
2011, according to the median forecast.  Consumer Confidence  Almost 90 percent of all executives surveyed cited  consumer
confidence  and spending as their “most important” or “very
important concern,” the report showed. Business confidence and
taxes were also major factors in their outlook, according to the
report.  The report said the council’s members “believe that
deficit reduction is the most important fiscal policy priority
and most disagree that a second economic stimulus is needed.”
Increased government regulation and intervention in the U.S,
presented a “high” or “very high” risk to the business
climate for nearly nine out of 10 surveyed.  Thirty-one percent of respondents said they are increasing
hiring, up from 17 percent in the last survey. A quarter said
they plan to fire workers, down from a half a year ago. By June
2011, unemployment will be 9.1 percent to 9.5 percent, according
to 63 percent of the executives surveyed.  The U.S.  jobless rate  was 9.6 percent for a second month in
September, according to an Oct. 8 report from the Labor
Department. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg project the rate
will fall to 9.3 percent in the second quarter of next year.  Fed Purchases  Even as the Fed considers another round of large-scale
asset purchases and keeps the federal funds rate an all-time
low, almost 70 percent of respondents projected the consumer
price index to rise less than 1 percent in 2011. The Fed’s long-
term goal is for inflation to rise in a range of 1.7 percent to
2 percent.  More than 50 percent of business leaders surveyed said they
disagreed with any Fed plan to purchase more assets, and 40
percent said they were neutral to the idea, the report said
without being more specific.  The Business Council is a private group of executives whose
members meet several times a year to discuss ideas among
themselves and with government representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  