-- Copper Concentrates Shortage Is Probably Smaller This Year, Freeport Says
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-14T06:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/copper-concentrates-shortage-is-probably-smaller-this-year-freeport-says.html
The copper concentrate market will
have a shortage of less than 100,000 metric tons this year, down
from a forecast of 500,000 tons to 1 million tons made in June,
because of cutbacks in demand from smelters, said  Javier Targhetta,   Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc .’s senior vice
president of marketing and sales.  Production disruptions resulted in less smelting capacity
available, Targhetta said in an interview in London yesterday.
Targhetta is also president of Freeport’s Atlantic Copper.
Concentrate is the raw material from mines that is used to
produce copper.  Southern Copper Corp. said Sept. 9 it declared force
majeure at its La Caridad plant after a group of former workers
blocked access to the property. Force majeure is a legal clause
allowing producers to miss contracted deliveries because of
circumstances beyond their control. In India, Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd., the nation’s largest producer, is being
allowed to operate its only smelter until Oct. 18 as the
country’s highest court seeks details on a lower court’s ruling
ordering the plant to close for breaching environment standards.  The concentrates shortage may worsen to about 800,000 tons
a year for the next two or three years as smelters expand,
Targhetta said. Global smelting capacity is expected to increase
10 percent, whereas mining capacity may expand 5 percent,
Targhetta said.  Atlantic Copper’s plant in Huelva, Spain, will produce
255,000 tons of copper cathodes next year, down from 260,000
tons this year because of maintenance work, he said.  The concentrates shortage will keep next year’s annual fees
that mining companies pay smelters to turn ore into metal at the
same or lower levels as this year, he said. The fees were about
$46 a ton for treatment and 4.6 cents a pound for refining this
year, he said.  “I don’t see any reason” for rates to go higher during
annual negotiations that started this week in London, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 