-- Copper Climbs to a 27-Month High in London as Dollar's Skid Boosts Demand
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-14T18:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/copper-rises-to-27-month-high-climbing-for-a-third-day-as-dollar-slumps.html
Copper rose to a 27-month high in
London as the dollar declined, boosting demand for metals as
alternative investments.  The greenback dropped to the lowest level in 10 months
against a basket of six major currencies on bets that the
Federal Reserve will increase debt purchases to sustain economic
recovery. Copper has gained 33 percent since July 1 as the
dollar slumped and  inventories  shrank.  “It’s all about the dollar,” said Lannie Cohen, the
president of  Capitol Commodity Services Inc.  in Indianapolis.
“As long as the dollar goes down, copper prices will go
higher.”  Copper for delivery in three months rose $38, or 0.5
percent, to $8,400 a metric ton ($3.81 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange. Earlier, the price reached $8,490, the highest
level for a most-active contract since July 8, 2008.  “As renewed quantitative easing by the Fed appears
increasingly likely, this is impacting directly upon currency
markets, and metals are reacting in line with this,” said  Nic Brown , an analyst at Natixis in London.  On Oct. 4, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that the
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases aided
the economy and that further buying is likely to help more. He
is scheduled to speak about monetary policy in Boston tomorrow.  Some traders buy commodities as the dollar weakens to hedge
against inflation. The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw
materials rose to the highest level in two years today.  In New York, copper futures for delivery in December
slipped 0.5 cent, or 0.1 percent, to settle at $3.8155 a pound
on the Comex. Earlier, the price reached $3.8675, the highest
level since July 7, 2008.  “We’re due for a correction, but as long as the dollar
goes down, the correction will be shallow,” Cohen of Capitol
Commodity Services said. Prices may reach $3.95 in a few weeks,
he said.  Also on the LME, tin and zinc gained, while lead, nickel
and aluminum prices dropped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 Ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 