-- Cotton Futures Advance to Record on Speculation China May Boost Imports
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-14T21:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cotton-futures-advance-to-record-on-speculation-china-may-boost-imports.html
Cotton soared to the highest price
since the commodity began trading in New York 140 years ago, as
demand for imported fiber increased from textile mills in China,
the world’s largest user.  The China Cotton Association said today that inventories
held by non-government entities fell 48 percent in September to
107,000 metric tons from August. More than half of U.S. exports
last week went to China to meet mill demand, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said. Cotton futures have jumped 52 percent this
year on signs that world use may outpace shrinking supply.  “It’s global demand, especially from China,” said  John Flanagan , the president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-
Varina, North Carolina. “Even at these prices, we’re not
rationing demand yet.”  Cotton for December delivery rose by the 4-cent limit
imposed by ICE Futures U.S., gaining 3.6 percent to settle at
$1.1487 a pound as of 2:30 p.m. in New York. Contracts for
delivery in March, May and July also rose by the daily maximum.
ICE said in a statement it will increase the trading limit to 5
cents starting tomorrow.  The December futures reached a record for a most-active
contract. The highest for any contract was in April 1995, when
the front-month May contract touched $1.172 a pound.  Trading in cotton options was halted by the exchange, which
determined that the synthetic price change for contracts was at
least two times the daily limit, ICE said today in a  statement .  Cotton first began trading in the city when the  New York
Cotton Exchange  was founded in 1870, according to “A History of
Futures Trading in the United States,” a Feb. 5  research paper 
by Joseph Santos, a professor of economics at South Dakota State
University. The bourse merged with the Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa
Exchange Inc. in 1998 to form the New York Board of Trade, later
acquired by ICE.  Chinese Demand  In China, cotton advanced 4 percent to 24,480 yuan a ton
today on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, the maximum allowed.  “Merchants tell us the panic buying out of China has gone
into the hysterical stage,” Varner Bros., a brokerage in
Cleveland, Mississippi, said yesterday in a note.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission said it
is taking measures to crack down on price manipulation in the
market, the China Cotton Association said on its website.  Price gains were “not supported” by fundamentals, the
association said, citing the commission, which met earlier
today.  Cotton  stockpiles  held at warehouses monitored by ICE are
up 25 percent since Oct. 8 at 11,182 bales as of yesterday,
exchange data show. Still, inventories are 99 percent lower than
they were on June 1.  The  Cotlook A Index , which reflects the average of the five
cheapest cotton prices offered at Far East ports, rose 0.6
percent to $1.246 today, shy of the record $1.252 on Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 