-- Crude Oil Trades Near Three-Day Low After Report Shows Lower U.S. Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-15T07:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/crude-oil-trades-below-83-after-falling-as-report-shows-lower-u-s-demand.html
Oil traded near its lowest level in
three days in New York after a U.S. government report showed
fuel demand dropped to the lowest level in more than 10 months
as refiners curtailed processing runs.  Crude declined 0.4 percent yesterday after the Energy
Department reported  fuel consumption  in the world’s largest oil
user fell 0.7 percent to 18.3 million barrels a day last week,
the lowest level since November. Refiners operated at 81.9
percent of capacity, the lowest rate since March, as units
closed for maintenance before demand for winter rises.  “Price weakness was a function of reduced crude oil demand
by refiners,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc., said in a report today. “With the switch over from summer
grade gasoline to winter grade, refiners shutter their crackers
for routine maintenance.”  Crude for November delivery was up 3 cents at $82.72 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 8:56 a.m. London time. The contract is little changed this
week, after three weeks of gains. Brent crude for December
settlement was at $84.12 a barrel, down 8 cents, on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London.  U.S. initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased to
462,000 in the week ended Oct. 9, a Labor Department report
yesterday showed.  “It’s clear the U.S. economy is still barely holding on,”
 Mike Sander  of Sander Capital Advisors in Seattle said today in
an e-mailed note. “Oil is still fighting resistance in the $83
price range. I see the price of oil staying between the range of
$85 and $75 for the near future.”  Refining Demand  U.S. refiners processed a total of 14.4 million barrels a
day in the week to Oct. 8, the least since the period ending
March 19, the Energy Department said.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 1.77 million barrels to 218.2
million last week as imports and output decreased, according to
the department. Supplies were  forecast to slip  1.5 million
barrels, according to the median estimate from 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the report.  Crude inventories dropped 416,000 barrels to 360.5 million,
the report showed. Stockpiles were  estimated to rise  1.45
million barrels, the survey showed.  Oil at $100 a barrel would compensate producers for a slide
in the dollar without derailing the global economic recovery,
officials from Venezuela and Libya said yesterday at a meeting
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna.  Won’t ‘Harm’ Growth  Crude at $90 to $100 a barrel won’t “harm” growth,
according to Venezuelan Energy Minister  Rafael Ramirez . The
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp.,  Shokri Ghanem , also
called for higher prices even as other nations said they were
content with prices at $70 to $85.  OPEC, which accounts for about 40 percent of global crude
supply, agreed to leave production quotas unchanged and called
on members to improve compliance with the group’s self-imposed
output limits.  Analysts polled by Bloomberg News were split over whether
oil in New York will rise or fall next week, amid speculation
the dollar will decline further and the Federal Reserve may act
to support the economy.  Fifteen of 35 analysts and traders, or 43 percent, forecast
crude will advance through Oct. 22. Fifteen respondents
predicted futures will decline and five said there will be
little change. Last week, 52 percent of survey participants
expected a price drop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 chrisitan.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 