-- Currency War Is Solved With One Trip to Bangkok: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-10-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/currency-war-is-solved-with-one-trip-to-bangkok-william-pesek.html
Those finance bigwigs blabbing away
in Washington last weekend should visit Bangkok instead.  That’s where the “currency war,” which they naively
believe they can avoid with their handiwork, is on display. Just
as Thailand was on the front lines of Asia’s 1997 crisis, it’s
being flooded by liquidity from Washington, Tokyo and Frankfurt.  On Oct. 12, Thailand removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining South Korea
and Brazil in curbing hot-money flows and currency gains. The
former risks overheating, the latter threatens exports.  An obvious truth that policy makers missed in  Washington  is
apparent in spades in Bangkok: the increase in currency activism
means things will get even uglier as markets go further awry.  Think of markets as a giant game of Whac-A-Mole. Officials
from  Beijing  to Brasilia stand at the ready, hammers in hand, to
whack down any spike in exchange rates. The trouble is, everyone
is whacking at once. When everyone tries to tame currencies
simultaneously, there will be few, if any, winners.  There’s much chatter about a new Plaza Accord to realign
markets. Only, we’re a long way from 1985, when the U.S. led the
then-Group of Five nations in browbeating Japan to boost the
yen. No currency deal matters unless China is the centerpiece,
and that’s not about to happen.  Pulling a Japan  For one thing, China has seen this movie before. The yen’s
mid-1980s surge didn’t magically revitalize the U.S. For
another, officials in Beijing reminded the world that they have
no interest in allowing today’s Group of Seven to pull a Japan
on China -- with statistics.  China’s reserves jumped a record $194 billion in the third
quarter to $2.65 trillion. If the even broader Group of 20 hopes
to coax China to change tactics when it meets in Seoul next
month, it should lower its aspirations.  This won’t sit well with U.S. lawmakers heading into
midterm elections next month. The congressional contests have
taken on a distinct blame-China quality. That alone is reason
for currency traders to worry about increased market volatility
as threats of trade sanctions intensify.  The currency obsession took on new life following Japan’s
intervention last month. Since then, developing nations from
Thailand to Brazil have redoubled their own efforts. It’s
telling, though, that exchange rates are a white-hot topic. They
are among the only levers many leaders feel they have left.  America’s Recession  U.S. rates, for example, are already near zero. And it’s
politically dicey for President  Barack Obama ’s team to engineer
more stimulus with lawmakers demanding less public spending.
Blaming China for lost U.S. jobs is easy for politicians. But
it’s hogwash to say a stronger yuan would end the recession.  China’s main advantage is cheap labor. If you boost the
yuan 20 percent, China will still undercut U.S. manufacturers.
Since consumers aren’t getting raises and worry about job
stability, they want to spend as little as possible for that new
refrigerator, sofa or doll house -- products made by China Inc.  Dent China’s export machine, and production will shift to
Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand and Bangladesh. Such nuances aren’t
just lost on the average worker in Iowa, but also congressional
candidates who seem determined to outdo their competitors with
China bashing. They should focus instead on retooling their
economy and education system to compete in a future that belongs
more to developing nations than to the traditional elites.  ‘Act Responsibly’  Japanese officials have been caught more flatfooted than
seemed possible by China’s advance. Their move to sell yen for
the first time in six years was more a message to Beijing than
Washington. This week, Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called
on China and Korea to “act responsibly” on currencies.  It was an unusually strong statement ahead of a G-20
gathering in November, and one made by an embattled government.
The dollar yesterday depreciated below 81 yen, a 15-year low.
Kan wants a history-making deal, a kind of Plaza Accord on
steroids. Only it’s not going to happen.  One reason is that the answer to the biggest challenges of
our day is structural reform. Currency deals won’t make
Americans save more, they won’t get Chinese to save less and
won’t make Europe’s economies immediately more dynamic.  Another: We’re past the time when a handful of rich,
largely Western economies could call the shots for the rest. We
no longer live in an era when there is firm agreement on how the
global economy operates and how it should be led. And to merely
blame China here is to oversimplify.  In a world on the brink, one that can’t even agree if
inflation or deflation is the bigger danger, cooperation is a
fragile thing. Now, there are only two true bull markets: gold,
which is approaching $1,400 per ounce, and doubt, which is
reaching a fever pitch.  Good luck heading off a currency war in such a tense
climate. Bangkok is as good a place as any to see that.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  