-- CVS to Pay $77.6 Million in Methamphetamine Accord Over Sales to Criminals
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-14T19:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/cvs-to-pay-77-6-million-in-methamphetamine-accord-over-sales-to-criminals.html
CVS Caremark Corp.  agreed to pay
$77.6 million to settle claims that some of its stores in
California and Nevada allowed criminals to buy cold medications
that were used to make methamphetamine.  The pharmacy chain will pay a $75 million fine, the largest
civil penalty ever paid under the Controlled Substances Act, and
forfeit $2.6 million in profits from the illegal sales, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Los Angeles said today in a statement.  Between September 2007 and November 2008, CVS failed to
ensure that stores in Southern California complied with laws
limiting sales of over-the-counter drugs made with
pseudoephedrine, which allowed methamphetamine traffickers to
buy large amounts of the drugs, according to the statement. CVS
changed its sales practices only after it became aware of the
investigation, prosecutors said.  “While this lapse occurred in 2007 and 2008 and has been
addressed, it was an unacceptable breach of the company’s
policies and was totally inconsistent with our values,” CVS
Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Ryan  said in a statement. “We
have strengthened our internal controls and compliance measures
and made substantial investments to improve our handling and
monitoring of PSE.”  The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company said the
 settlement  will be paid from money that had been reserved and
will have no effect on its financial results. CVS is the largest
U.S. provider of prescription drugs.  The Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005 limits the
amount of medication containing pseudoephedrine a customer can
buy on a day. After Mexico banned pseudoephedrine sales in 2007,
Los Angeles saw a surge in so-called smurfing, where individuals
make multiple pseudoephedrine purchases in small amounts to
produce methamphetamine, prosecutors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 