-- Default-Swap Dealers May Create Futures Contracts as U.S. Regulation Looms
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-10-14T18:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/default-swap-dealers-may-create-futures-contracts-as-u-s-regulation-looms.html
Deutsche Bank AG ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and Morgan Stanley are talking to exchanges including
 CME Group Inc.  about creating futures contracts on credit-
default swaps indexes, according to people familiar with the
matter.  The banking group, which also includes Barclays Plc, is
coordinating with index owner Markit Group Ltd. to potentially
offer exchange-traded futures linked to benchmarks that hedge
funds and money managers use to speculate on corporate
creditworthiness or to protect against losses, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Currently, credit index bets are made through privately
negotiated swaps that trade directly between dealers and their
customers and not on exchanges.  Futures would open the $25 trillion credit derivatives
market to small hedge funds, equity investors and other money
managers that, unlike bigger firms such as Pacific Investment
Management Co., don’t trade the contracts enough to justify the
cost of negotiating two-party agreements with banks, the people
said. Unlike the swaps market, regulated futures are open to any
investor who can maintain a brokerage account.  “More people will trade them that are not pure users of
the product, which will improve liquidity,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New
York.  Multiple Exchanges Possible  The index futures would be offered to multiple exchanges,
the people said.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment. Amanda Williams, a spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank; Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley;  Seth Martin , a
Barclays spokesman, all declined to comment.  Michael Gormley , a spokesman for Markit in New York, also
declined to comment.  Development credit-default futures may help to fulfill
wishes expressed by Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman  Gary Gensler , who said earlier this year that one goal
of financial reform was to move privately negotiated derivatives
onto regulated exchanges to improve transparency and lower
systemic risk.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act signed into law by President
Barack Obama in July, regulators will force dealers to move the
most actively traded swaps into clearinghouses run by CME and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and onto more transparent trading
systems.  Trading Volume  Traders have bought and sold a net $226.2 billion of credit
default protection on the past eight series of the Markit CDX
North America Investment-Grade Index, the most actively traded
derivative in credit markets, according to the Depository Trust
& Clearing Corp.  Credit index futures could generate an estimated $250
million in annual revenue for exchanges, UBS AG analyst  Alex Kramm  said in a note to clients in June.  With “regulators demanding more transparency in OTC
markets, we believe the backdrop could be right for credit
futures to finally find some support,” Kramm wrote. “The main
reason why credit futures have not found any support in the past
has been the significant resistance by the dealer community,
which has for a long time benefitted from favorable economics of
credit derivatives trading in its current OTC format.”  Overcoming Resistance  Three years ago, dealers who buy and sell credit-default
swaps resisted efforts by CME and Eurex, Europe’s largest
futures exchange, to offer credit swaps-like futures. That was
before the September 2008 failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., one of the biggest swaps dealers.  Lawmakers and regulators subsequently demanded banks move
swaps into central clearinghouses and onto trading venues that
offer greater price transparency for the contracts.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 