-- Deutsche Bahn Channel Tunnel Bid Entails Complex Evacuation Plan
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-15T11:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/deutsche-bahn-s-channel-tunnel-bid-entails-complicated-evacuation-trials.html
Deutsche Bahn AG ’s bid to run trains
to London in competition with Eurostar Group Ltd. hinges on the
approval of a “complicated” two-stage fire-evacuation plan for
the Channel Tunnel, a safety adviser who will vet the plan said.  The coupled pairs of trains proposed by the German operator
would require a staggered evacuation, synchronized with a
reversal of the tunnel’s air-flow system, said Richard Clifton,
Britain’s top official at the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority.  “You’d have to blow the smoke forwards while the people at
the back got off then turn the ventilation around and blow it
backwards to evacuate the people at the front,” Clifton said
yesterday in a phone interview. “It’s fairly complicated stuff.”  Deutsche Bahn, which begins test evacuations with  Siemens
AG  trains in the tunnel this weekend, and Eurostar both want
regulations revised to accommodate a new generation of expresses
linking London to Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Cologne. Eurostar
serves Paris and Brussels with an older  Alstom SA  model that
meets the current requirement for a full-length train that can
be evacuated from both ends of a single corridor.  Trials of the Deutsche Bahn plan begin tomorrow night with
300 staff and volunteers. If the company succeeds in winning
access it could pave the way for Eurostar, which is controlled
by France’s state-owned railway SNCF and irked  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government last week by ordering 10 trains from Siemens rather
than Paris-based Alstom without waiting for any rule change.  The evacuation tests will include the reversal of the
ventilation system, said a spokeswoman for  Groupe Eurotunnel SA 
who declined to be identified, citing company policy. Eurotunnel
runs the 30-mile (48 kilometer) under-sea link.  Length Matters  Emergency exits connecting the north- and south-bound
tunnels with a parallel safety passage are 375 meters apart,
allowing a single 400-meter train to stop with a doorway close
to each end.  Passengers can therefore distance themselves from an on-
board fire and move directly from the train into the safety
shaft. The power and direction of ventilation can be modified to
contain the smoke and improve access for firefighters.  In a blaze on one of the two 200-meter coupled trains that
 Deutsche Bahn  plans to use, tunnel ventilation would be used to
protect passengers caught between the fire and the coupling as
they left the unit and exited the tunnel while those on the
other side of the fire remained confined, Clifton said.  ‘Tendency to Panic’  “You’re standing in a train that’s enveloped by smoke,” he
said, adding that it would take “a few minutes” for the airflow
to be reversed before those passengers could leave. “The
theoretical model is there, but we’d have to look carefully at
whether in practice it involves unacceptable risks; one issue is
the tendency of people to panic in these situations.”  Approval of Deutsche Bahn’s shorter units is crucial to the
cross-Channel routes slated for 2013, spokesman Andreas Fuhrmann
said, adding that tunnel procedures already provide for the
evacuation of trains that have been de-coupled into two.  “Our service concept is dependent upon the authorization
of 200-meter trains and coupled pairs of trains,” he said
“We’re convinced that these will meet the Channel Tunnel’s high
safety standards. We are basically building on existing ideas.”  The proposals “will be further improved after our
evacuation exercise,” the spokesman said.  Clifton, a former chairman of the Channel Tunnel Safety
Authority, said it’s not clear if Deutsche Bahn’s proposals will
win approval. The CTSA will make a recommendation on the plan to
the  Franco-British Intergovernmental Commission .  “As the supplier, it’s not for us to comment on the
evacuation procedures or tests, which are being conducted by
Deutsche Bahn,” Siemens spokeswoman  Anja Uhlendorff  said.  Continuous Train  Eurostar says it aims to use the same  Siemens Velaro -based
series of trains as Deutsche Bahn, only formed into one 16-car
set with a single corridor spanning the length of the formation.  “It will absolutely be a continuous train with access
right through,” spokesman Leigh Calder said in an interview.
“In that respect it’s identical to the existing Eurostar fleet
and not the same situation at all as the DB proposal.”  The French government has also questioned the use of so-
called distributed traction in the Siemens trains, with motors
housed in the passenger cars, though the proposal from Alstom
involved the same kind of technology.  Eurostar’s existing units have a locomotive at either end,
a set-up that caused trains to break down in the Channel Tunnel
last Christmas after snow was sucked in through body-side grills
before melting and shorting out the electrics. Five trains
carrying 2,000 people were trapped for 18 hours and 90,000 more
were stranded in London, Paris and Brussels.  Last Resort  Evacuation remains a remote scenario and a last resort,
Eurotunnel Chief Executive Officer  Jacques Gounon  told reporters
at an Oct. 13 briefing in Paris. Railcars and drivers’ cabs are
certified to resist a blaze for 30 minutes, enough time for a
train to reach a firefighting station outside the tunnel exit.  No fires have occurred on passenger trains since the tunnel
opened in 1994. Blazes occurred on trucks aboard Eurotunnel’s
vehicle-carrying shuttle service in 1996 and 2008, resulting in
significant damage and the partial closure of the link.  Eurotunnel is counting on Eurostar and new competitors to
add routes as it targets 2 million new passengers by 2015,
Gounon said this week in an interview. The European Union opened
cross-border high-speed services to competition on Jan. 1.  “Eurotunnel is using only half its capacity, so there’s a
lot to gain if Deutsche Bahn brings flows to new destinations,”
said  Myriam Cohen , an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris. “A
competitive dynamic would be a definite positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  