-- Diageo Says First-Quarter Sales Rise Amid `Weaker' Europe
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-14T11:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/diageo-says-first-quarter-sales-rise-amid-weaker-europe.html
Diageo Plc , the world’s largest
spirits maker, said reduced liquor consumption in Spain and
Greece held back European sales in the first quarter.  Overall revenue rose 5 percent, excluding the impact of
acquisitions and currency swings, the distiller said, matching
the median estimate of 10 analysts. The consumer environment in
Europe, where London-based Diageo gets most of its  revenue , is
“slightly weaker than we experienced in the prior year,” it
said. Sales in Spain fell “markedly.”  “The market’s looking for big beats to drive stocks on
results, but you were never going to get that today,” said
 Simon Hales , a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities.
“The bears on this probably have more to chew on than the
bulls.” Hales has a “buy”  recommendation  on the stock.  The  shares  fell as much as 2.2 percent and traded 1.8
percent lower at 1,122 pence at 12:04 p.m. in London. They have
added 3.5 percent this year, giving the maker of Johnnie Walker
whiskey a market value of about 28 billion pounds ($45 billion).  “We believe that some analysts were looking for stronger
growth, prompting an unwarranted modest sell-off of the stock,”
 Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London,
said of today’s share price decline in a research report.  Emerging Markets  Diageo will continue to increase spending on marketing
globally and bolster its sales force in emerging markets, it
said today.  Revenue  at the company’s Asia Pacific and
International units, which includes sales at duty-free shops,
remained “the key drivers of organic net sales growth.” Sales
growth accelerated in North America.  “The year has started as we thought it would with a
fragile economic and consumer environment in the developed
markets and stronger consumer demand in the developing
markets,”  Paul Walsh , Diageo’s chief executive officer, said in
the statement. Performance in the quarter ended Sept. 30 was
“in line” with company forecasts, the distiller said.  “Europe’s weak, but everyone knows Europe’s going to be
tough this year,” Hales said. “To be fair, it hasn’t got any
worse than it was in the fourth quarter. With Diageo, at this
stage of the year, it’s never going to be really bullish.”  Net sales rose to 2.06 billion pounds from 1.95 billion
pounds in the same period a year earlier. Diageo’s revenue in
the same period a year earlier fell 6 percent as U.S.
wholesalers cut the amount of products stocked in the recession.  Diageo repeated that it expects operating profit this year,
excluding acquisitions, to grow more than the 2 percent reported
in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 