-- Drugmaker CEOs May Be Targets for U.S. FDA in Off-Label Cases, Lawyer Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2010-10-14T20:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/drugmaker-executives-may-become-targets-of-fda-for-off-label-promotions.html
Drugmaker executives whose companies
promote unauthorized uses of their medicines may be targeted by
U.S. regulators for misdemeanor prosecutions, Food and Drug
Administration Deputy Chief for Litigation  Eric Blumberg  said.  Blumberg didn’t offer a timetable for the agency to take
such actions during remarks yesterday at Washington conference.
He cited  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker, for
violations of a federal law that bars manufacturers from
promoting drugs for uses other than those approved by the
agency, a practice called off-label marketing.  Pfizer, based in New York, struck the largest off-label
promotion settlement to date in September 2009, agreeing to pay
$2.3 billion for unauthorized marketing of its recalled
painkiller Bextra and three other drugs. Pfizer acquired Bextra
when it purchased Pharmacia Corp. in 2003. The settlement only
involved sales practices and not the safety of the drug.  “It’s clear we’re not getting the job done with large,
monetary settlements,” Blumberg said. “Unless the government
shows more resolve to criminally charge individuals at all
levels in the company, we cannot expect to make progress in
deterring off-label promotion.”  Ray Kerins , a Pfizer spokesman, said that “over the past
several years, we have invested substantial resources in order
to create a compliance program that consists of mandatory
training for every one of our employees, proactive monitoring
and surveillance, and strict enforcement of all federal and
state health-care laws.” He didn’t directly address Blumberg’s
remarks.  Tread Lightly  Wes Metheny, senior vice president of the  Pharmaceutical
Research and Manufacturers of America , the drug industry’s
Washington trade group, said the FDA “should use its
enforcement powers proportionately, especially if it is
considering charging employees with an alleged crime for which
they had no knowledge.”  Pfizer fell 7 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $17.66 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The Standard
and Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index of 11 companies has risen
7.7 percent in the past year to 308.02.  Blumberg said he wasn’t speaking for the agency, and didn’t
mention any specific drugmaker other than Pfizer. He said
industry executives shouldn’t wait until the first charges are
brought to bring their marketing into compliance.  Time to Comply  “If you’re a corporate executive or are advising a
corporate executive, now is the time to comply,” he said.
“That conduct may already be under the criminal microscope.”  Prosecuting executives with misdemeanors for violations of
the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act falls under the Park
Doctrine, named after the 1975 U.S. Supreme Court case against a
retail food chain president. The strategy hasn’t been widely
used for drug industry cases in the past two decades.  Executives would face as much as $100,000 fines and one
year in jail. The FDA also can bar individuals from working in
the drug industry.  “This can be a career-ending move,” said  Douglas Farquhar , an attorney with Hyman, Phelps & McNamara in
Washington in an Oct. 8 teleconference.  Jim Prutow , a consultant who helps drugmakers and medical-
device companies comply with FDA rules, said he expects the Park
Doctrine to be used within the next six months.  Forgotten Action  “Until two or three months ago, most companies hadn’t heard
of the Park Doctrine,” said Prutow, a partner at the management
consulting firm  PRTM  in Newport Beach, California, in an Oct. 5
telephone interview. “It really was a forgotten action.”  FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  promised more misdemeanor
prosecutions in a March 4  letter  to Iowa Republican Senator
 Charles Grassley .  The Park Doctrine was not used after the early 1990s
because officials in the FDA’s office of criminal investigations
focused on felony cases,  John Fleder , also an attorney with
 Hyman, Phelps & McNamara , said in an Oct. 11 telephone
interview.  Off-label marketing was not a major concern, and federal
prosecutors tended to press cases that didn’t always result in
quick settlements, Fleder said.  “I think that a lot of prosecutors would find an off-label
use Park case as something that would be quite challenging,”
Fleder said.  Regulators weighing such action should think twice, said
 Scott Gottlieb , a former FDA deputy commissioner who is now a
partner at  Arcoda Capital  in New York.  “As a society, we need to be very careful when we start to
criminalize conduct by an individual that doesn’t involve them
actually committing a crime,” he said in an Oct. 6 e-mail.
“Ultimately one of these cases is going to get challenged
through the court system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Edney  in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 