-- Rents for Dubai Tower's Luxury Homes Are Cut on Lack of Tenants
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-14T07:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/dubai-s-burj-khalifa-tower-has-apartment-rents-slashed-to-attract-tenants.html
Rents for luxury apartments in
Dubai’s  Burj Khalifa , the world’s tallest tower, have been
slashed by as much as 40 percent after the owners failed to find
tenants, according to a broker that’s marketing the homes.  The cost of renting a studio with floor-to-ceiling windows,
marble and wooden floors has dropped to 6,666 dirhams ($1,815) a
month, while a one-bedroom apartment is available for 10,000
dirhams, Better Homes said. Two-bedroom homes are going for
15,833 dirhams.  Nine months after Burj Khalifa was inaugurated with a
water-and-firework display, about 825 of the tower’s 900
apartments remain unoccupied, said Laura Adams, a residential
sales and leasing adviser at Dubai-based  Better Homes . The
building is within walking distance of The Address, which offers
serviced apartments at similar rates.  “It was clear they wouldn’t move at market prices as they
were competing with the Address next door,” Adams said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The Address is operated by  Emaar
Properties PJSC , the company that built Burj Khalifa.  Owners of apartments at Burj Khalifa also pay an annual
service charge of 53 dirhams a square foot for the maintenance
of communal areas such as gyms and swimming pools, Adams said.
Her company is helping to find tenants for about 20 percent of
the apartments.  Emaar sold 90 percent of the homes in the tower before the
January opening. The building also has 144 Armani-branded
residences, 37 floors of office space and 160 hotel rooms. It
houses Armani’s first  hotel  and an observation deck on the 124th
floor.  Market’s Reversal  During the five years of construction, Dubai went from the
world’s best performing property market to the worst. The
collapse of global credit markets led to price declines of more
than 50 percent and the cancellation of nearly half of the real-
estate projects planned in the emirate.  Apartment prices in the tower have fallen to less than
half. They are now selling for no more than 3,300 dirhams a
square foot, 67 percent less than the 10,000 dirhams at the 2008
peak, according to  Landmark Advisory , a Dubai-based property
adviser.  “These rents make sense, especially since rents in Dubai
have been declining over the past two years,” said  Jesse Downs ,
director of research at Landmark.  “I don’t think we will see the premium for the world’s
tallest tower until occupancy levels increase,” Downs said.  Potential tenants may also be lured by the apartments’
smart home-entertainment technology, wine coolers with recessed
and dimmable lighting and the access to the tower’s “Sky
Lobbies,” which houses gyms, indoor and outdoor swimming pools,
Jacuzzis, a library, Cigar Club and convenience store.  “Rents are low at the outset in most buildings because it
isn’t attractive for a tenant to move into an empty tower,”
Downs said. “At the market peak, people were renting in
Jumeirah Lakes Towers for that much. It goes to show how much
the market has changed here, but that isn’t necessarily
permanent.”  E-mailed questions seeking comment from Emaar weren’t
answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 