-- Dubai Electricity & Water Raises $2 Billion in Utility's Largest Bond Sale
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-15T08:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/dubai-electricity-water-raises-2-billion-in-utility-s-largest-bond-sale.html
Dubai Electricity & Water Authority,
a government-run utility, sold $2 billion of senior unsecured
debt yesterday in its largest dollar-denominated bond sale.  The sale was split between $1.5 billion of 10-year, 7.375
percent bonds priced at par to yield 493.2 basis points more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, and $500 million of six-
year, 6.375 percent notes that pay 522.1 basis points more than 
benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Emerging-
market dollar bonds yield an average 245 basis points, or 2.45 
percentage points, over Treasuries, according to JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.  The utility raised dollars two weeks after the emirate sold
$1.25 billion of debt in its first issue since the Dubai World
credit crisis roiled global markets almost a year ago. Corporate
bond sales from the Persian Gulf region have grown following the
restructuring of Dubai World last month and surging demand for
higher-yielding emerging-market assets, according to  Alan Roch ,
the head of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s bond syndicate
desk in London for Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East
and Africa.  The resolution of Dubai World “has given confidence to the
markets in adding its exposure to Dubai,” Roch, who helped
underwrite the transaction, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve gone full circle.”  Dubai Government Issue  Dubai’s government sold $500 million of five-year bonds
priced to yield 6.7 percent and $750 million of 10-year debt
with a 7.75 percent yield on Sept. 29, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The 10-year bonds traded at 102.7 cents
on the dollar to yield 7.36 percent today in Dubai, a 37 basis-
point decline since they began trading on Sept. 30, the data
show.  The utility attracted $13 billion worth of orders for the
sale, with 38 percent of the offering going to European
investors and 30 percent to U.S. investors, the company said in
e-mailed statement.  The bond sale has “established longer-dated maturities for
the company which will support our capital expenditure and other
investments,” Chief Executive Officer Saeed Mohammad Al Tayer
said in the statement.  The electricity company obtained cheaper financing than the
sovereign because it sold bonds through a so-called 144a
transaction, allowing the utility to tap U.S. investors who
couldn’t participate in the Dubai offering, Roch said. The
company also is ranked by credit rating companies while the
sovereign isn’t, he said.  First Sale in April  The utility sold dollar-denominated debt for the first time
in April, paying an 8.5 percent coupon on $1 billion of five-
year notes.  “There was the same broad demand from the U.S., Europe,
Asia and the Middle East that you had in April,” Roch said.
“The difference is you have more of it now.”  Dubai Electricity is rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings Inc., the
lowest level of investment grade, and two steps lower at Ba2 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said Sept. 10 that creditors holding more
than 99 percent of the value of its loans approved a plan to
alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. The deepest financial
crisis since the 1930s sparked a deline of more than 50 percent
in Dubai property prices and froze credit markets, preventing
some of the emirate’s state-owned companies from raising new
financing.  Emerging-market issuers have sold $33 billion of bonds this
month, compared with $25 billion in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are taking a look at everything and trying to find
value,” said  Luz Padilla , portfolio manager of the DoubleLine
Emerging Markets Fixed Income Fund in Los Angeles.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Agricole SA, National Bank of Abu
Dhabi PJSC, Standard Chartered Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc arranged the sale for the utility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  