-- Poll: Tea Party Economic Gloom Fuels Republican Momentum
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/tea-party-s-economic-gloom-fuels-republican-election-momentum-poll-says.html
Tea Party activists, once on the
fringe of the Republican mainstream, are fueling the party’s
momentum in the midterm elections, a Bloomberg National poll
shows.  Four of five Tea Party supporters who say they plan to vote
in the November congressional elections will back Republicans,
even though one-third describe themselves as independents.
Eighty-five percent of these respondents say the economy will
improve with Republicans in control of Congress.  These Super Republicans are more energized than other likely
voters and more apt to view this election as exceptionally
important. Tea Party backers who plan to vote put a higher
priority than other voters on  cutting spending  and lowering
taxes. They also favor making people wait longer to receive full
Social Security benefits and slashing money for research of
Alzheimer’s and other diseases as a way to narrow the  deficit .  The members of this fiscally conservative movement take a
darker view of the economy than most voters in the poll. Half
say they have no confidence they will have sufficient funds to
live on in retirement and more than half worry their children’s
quality of life will be worse than their own.  “I am nervous for my grandson,” says poll respondent
Cindy Young, 55, a dairy farmer in Wisconsin who describes
herself as a Tea Party supporter. “He’s only two years old and
I feel he has no chance in this world if it keeps on this way.”  Overall, about one-third of all likely voters in the poll
conducted Oct. 7-10 by  Selzer & Co . say they support the Tea
Party.  Lower Taxes  Business leaders have struggled to understand what the Tea
Party movement means for proposals they support, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Oct. 15 issue. Respondents who
identify with the Tea Party are almost unanimous in saying it
stands for  lower taxes , smaller government and personal
responsibility. More than six in 10 say it advocates government
based on Christian principles. They are more intense than other
voters in seeking a rollback of the changes passed by the
Democratic-controlled Congress.  The movement’s rise coincides with increasing voter concern
over the economy. Growth slipped to a 1.7 percent annual pace in
the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5 percent
in the final three months of 2009.  Unemployment  stood at 9.6
percent in September, down from a 26-year high of 10.1 percent
in October 2009.  ‘Pledge to America’  Eight of 10 Tea Party voters back the  “Pledge to
America,”  the Republican Party’s road map for governing if it
gains control of Congress in the Nov. 2 elections. An
overwhelming majority say they want a repeal of the health-care
law championed by President  Barack Obama . That compares with
about half of all likely voters who say they support repeal and
the Republican agenda.  Tea Party supporters are more likely than other voters to
be white, married, 55 and older, and call themselves born-again
Christians.  “The Tea Party is positioning itself as unaligned,” says
 Ann Selzer , president of the Des Moines, Iowa-based company that
conducted the poll. “But in every way we’ve looked at it, they
look like Republicans.”  They also are more likely to be suspicious of  the Federal
Reserve , which sets monetary policy. Six out of 10 Tea Party
supporters who plan to vote say they want to overhaul or abolish
the Fed, compared with 45 percent of all likely voters. A
similar 63 percent of Tea Party supporters say they believe the
2008 rescue package for the financial sector -- known as the
 Troubled Asset Relief  Program -- has made the economy weaker.  Auto Bailout  Tea Party supporters also have more negative sentiments
about incumbents who voted for TARP or the government program to
rescue the automobile industry. Almost seven in 10 Tea Party
advocates say they would be less likely to support a candidate
who voted for the bank rescue or the auto bailout. Half of all
likely voters said the same about the financial rescue and a
plurality said so about the plan for automakers.  Half of the Tea Party voters consider the  federal debt  --
estimated at $1.3 trillion in fiscal 2010 by the  Congressional
Budget Office --  to be the most important issue facing the
country, compared with 27 percent of all likely voters. And they
are willing to make hard choices to cut the costs.  Fifty-three percent would consider raising the age for
Medicare benefits and 58 percent would consider raising the age
for Social Security benefits. That compares with 47 percent of
all likely voters who would consider  Medicare  changes and 49
percent who would change Social Security law.  Infrastructure Spending  Two-thirds of Tea Party supporters also would consider
cutting spending on roads and bridges; 63 percent say they would
be willing to reduce research funds for Alzheimer’s and other
diseases to narrow the deficit. One exception: Few want to
abandon the Bush-era tax cuts, due to expire in December, that
give breaks to high and middle-income Americans.  Mike Steinbrecher, 59, a teacher of American history in the
San Francisco Bay area, says the government spends too much.
“If I ran my house like that I would be in deep doo-doo,” he
says.  Still, there are inconsistencies in Tea Party responses.
Eight of 10 want the government to repeal the  health-care  bill,
though majorities still say they would keep elements of the
enhanced coverage it provides. Most want insurance companies to
be prohibited from denying coverage to people with pre-existing
conditions and they want more drug benefits for Medicare
patients. They also want states to provide special plans to
cover people with major health problems.  Exceptionally Important  Tea Party supporters also are the most enthusiastic
potential voters for the congressional elections. Fifty-six
percent of Tea Party supporters who are likely to vote say the
November elections are exceptionally important, compared with 43
percent of all likely voters.  “It’s just everything gradually building up got worse and
worse,” says Susan Norwood, 50, a Texas housewife, who has been
using Facebook to promote Tea Party-backed candidates. “We have
to get all the ones who are in there out and get new ones in.”  The electorate is almost evenly split when asked about the
influence of the movement. Twenty-eight percent of likely voters
say the election of Tea Party candidates would have no impact on
the country, 29 percent say the country would be in a worse
 position  and 33 percent say it would improve.  As Obama tries to drum up voter enthusiasm for Democratic
candidates, he is likely to have little appeal for Tea Party
supporters. In the poll, almost nine of 10 of the movement’s
backers disapprove of the job the president is doing. They are
particularly negative about his approach to the business
community:  Three-quarters of Tea Party supporters say Obama is
too anti-business compared with one third of all likely voters.  ‘Laughing at Us’  The political establishment is “laughing at us,” Young
says. “When you watch TV you see they are not listening to the
people.”  Those who identify with the Tea Party also take a harder
line on illegal immigration: 54 percent of Tea Party backers say
they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who supports a
proposal to change the 14th Amendment of the Constitution to
prevent the children of non-citizens born in the U.S. from
automatically becoming citizens, compared with 48 percent of all
likely voters.  A plurality of all likely voters say they would be less
likely to back a candidate whose campaign ads were financed by
anonymous business groups. For Tea Party backers, a plurality
said this wouldn’t matter to their vote.  The poll of 721 likely voters has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.7 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  