-- Obama Spending Rules for UnitedHealth, WellPoint Draw Exemption Requests
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-10-14T21:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/health-insurer-spending-rules-draw-waiver-requests-by-state-commissioners.html
Health insurers  may abandon some
markets unless the Obama administration waives a rule set to
take effect next year on how much companies must spend on
patient care, state insurance commissioners said.  The rule, part of the new health law, mandates that
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. ,  WellPoint Inc . and rivals spend at
least 80 percent of customer premiums on medical care, or return
the difference in rebates. Insurers that sell to the 14 million
people who buy their own coverage may be hurt because those
policies cost more to administer, the commissioners said in a
letter to U.S. health secretary  Kathleen Sebelius .  The correspondence urges delaying the rule in some markets
until as late as 2014, when provisions take effect that may cut
insurer costs. The waiver request is the latest adjustment
sought in the overhaul as President  Barack Obama ’s allies in
Congress face midterm elections next month. The administration
last month waived rules affecting 1 million part-time workers
who won’t be eligible for subsidized coverage for four years.  The premium rule “could threaten the solvency of insurers
or significantly reduce competition in some insurance markets,”
an effect that may “limit consumer choices,” according to the
 letter , from the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners .  The administration looks forward to reviewing the
commissioners’ recommendations, Jessica Santillo, a spokeswoman
for Sebelius, said in an e-mail. The department “remains
committed to implementing the law in a way that minimizes
disruption to coverage that is available today,” she said. The
letter to Sebelius, sent yesterday, was made public today.  Decision Coming  The health-insurance  committee  of the Kansas City,
Missouri-based association unanimously approved a draft of the
medical-spending rule on a conference call today, without making
a decision whether to recommend a nationwide phase-in. The
group’s full membership is expected to take a final vote next
week at a  meeting  in Orlando, said  Sandy Praeger , Kansas’
insurance commissioner, on the call.  The health-care legislation signed in March by Obama seeks
to tighten rules on insurers and expand coverage to as many as
32 million Americans. Many of its provisions don’t take effect
until 2014 and the administration has been making adjustments to
help companies and consumers get through until then.  “You want to be smart about transition,” said  Len Nichols , director of George Mason University’s Center for Health
Policy Research and Ethics in Fairfax, Virginia, in a telephone
interview. “The key is to signal very clearly, ‘We’re going to
move in this direction, and we’d just as soon get there with
fewer bumps than more.’”  Exemptions Granted  Last month, Obama’s Health and Human Services Department
exempted plans covering 1 million people from a rule that would
have required lower out-of-pocket costs for part-time workers.  Sebelius said yesterday that insurers have the right to
charge higher premiums for sick children, in a bid to lure
health plans back into the market for child-only policies.
Insurers, among them  UnitedHealth , based in Minnetonka,
Minnesota, and  WellPoint , of Indianapolis, said last month that
they’d stop selling those plans because health-law changes make
it harder to predict costs.  Sebelius’s announcement on children’s premiums, along with
the commissioners’ letter on spending rules, are “positive data
points” suggesting regulators will be flexible implementing the
law, said  Justin Lake , a UBS analyst in New York, in a note to
clients today.  Shares Rise  UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. health plan by sales, rose
46 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $35.78 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. WellPoint, the No. 2 plan, gained 26
cents, less than 1 percent, to $57.06.  WellPoint  has fallen 12 percent since March 30, when Obama
signed the overhaul into law. UnitedHealth has climbed 8 percent
in that time, after raising  profit estimates  for the year and
boosting its stock dividend.  The spending rules may cut industry profit by 3 percent to
5 percent next year from current projections, Lake said. The
impact could be less if Sebelius postpones the requirement in
“key undecided states,” he said. Iowa, Maine and South
Carolina have already requested waivers for their individual
markets, according to the association’s letter.  Stephanie Cutter , an assistant to the president for special
projects, wrote in an Oct. 7 post on the White House blog that
Obama realized, “part of getting it right is ensuring a smooth
transition in the marketplace between now and 2014, when the law
is fully implemented, so that consumers don’t become worse off
along the way,”  Standardized Plans  Starting in 2014, insurers can sell standardized plans on
state exchanges where consumers can shop, and companies will be
restricted in how much they can vary premiums from one consumer
to another. Those changes, among other in the law, will lower
administrative costs for health plans and make it easier to meet
the spending rules, the commissioners’ letter said.  In its letter, the insurance commissioners group also
recommended that international and expatriate insurance policies
be exempt from the 80 percent requirement. That may help  Cigna
Corp. , the Philadelphia-based insurer that collects about $500
million to $600 million in international premiums that would be
subject to the new rule, Lake said.  About 14 million people younger than age 65 buy individual
insurance coverage, according to the Menlo Park, California-
based  Kaiser Family Foundation .  Only Cigna among the six largest U.S. insurers met the 80
percent threshold for the individual market in 2009, according
to an April report from Sen.  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat who pushed the spending rule into the overhaul law.  Medical-Care Spending  Cigna spent 88.1 percent of premiums from individual
policies on medical care in 2009, according to the report, which
used state data. UnitedHealth spent 70.5 percent and WellPoint,
74.9 percent, it said.  Aetna Inc. , based in Hartford,
Connecticut, spent 75.7 percent; Coventry Health Care Inc. of
Bethesda, Maryland, was at 71.9 percent; and  Humana Inc.  of
Louisville, Kentucky, was at 68.1 percent, the report found.  The administration may give exemptions elsewhere in the law
using discretionary powers Congress wrote into the legislation.
“Methodologies shall be designed to take into account the
special circumstance of smaller plans, different types of plans,
and newer plans,” the law reads.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong   in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  