-- ECB Says `Leaning Against the Wind' With Interest Rates May Be Warranted
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-14T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ecb-says-increasing-interest-rates-to-deflate-asset-bubbles-may-have-merit.html
The European Central Bank said a
policy of raising interest rates to deflate asset-price bubbles
shouldn’t be dismissed on principle.  Recent empirical and theoretical research has shifted the
balance in favor of such an approach, known as leaning against
the wind, “even if the economic science is still divided on
these issues,” the ECB said in a book published in Frankfurt
today. In a footnote to the book, which is titled “Enhancing
Monetary Analysis,”  the bank  said several members of its
Executive Board have in the past shown “some sympathy for the
principle of leaning against the wind.”  Policy makers and economists are debating whether central
banks should use rates to prevent the formation of asset-price
bubbles after the collapse of the U.S. housing market triggered
the worst global recession since World War II. Arguments against
the policy include the difficulty of identifying a bubble before
it’s too late and in assessing whether it’s fueled by
fundamentals or speculation.  While there’s “broad consensus among economists that
monetary policy would hardly be the first best line of defense”
against asset-price cycles, “this does not diminish the
importance of the issue for monetary policy makers,” the ECB
said.  The financial crisis has also shown that the analysis of
monetary aggregates is a “crucial part of a robust framework”
for monetary policy deliberations, the ECB said.      “Many of the
big policy mistakes of the past were due to a disregard for, or
misinterpretation of, monetary developments,” it said.  “There can be little doubt that the changing structure of
the financial system has rendered the real-time analysis of
monetary developments more difficult,” the bank said. Still,
“the simple fact that analysis has become more complex does not
mean that it should be discontinued.”  Current monetary analysis confirms that “inflationary
pressures remain contained” in the euro region, the ECB said.
There are “neither inflationary nor deflationary risks” and
credit growth is behaving “in line with historical
relationships.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  