-- ECB Says Interest Rates Are `Appropriate,' Signaling No Need to Increase
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-14T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ecb-says-interest-rates-are-appropriate-signaling-no-need-to-increase.html
The European Central Bank said
interest rates in the 16-nation euro region are “appropriate,”
indicating it sees no immediate need to tighten policy.  The Governing Council  continues “to view the current key
ECB interest rates as appropriate” and the monetary policy
stance remains “accommodative,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said
in its monthly bulletin published today, echoing remarks by ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Oct. 7.  The ECB is trying to bolster a euro-area recovery and wean
commercial banks off the unlimited cash it provided throughout
the crisis. Policy makers are split over the timing of the exit
from some of the non-standard measures as governments and banks
in Ireland, Portugal and Greece struggle to convince investors
they can fix their budgets and balance sheets.  Germany’s  Axel Weber  said on Oct. 12 that the ECB should
stop its government bond-purchase program and floated the idea
of raising interest rates before all non-conventional measures
have been unwound. Yesterday, Austria’s  Ewald Nowotny  told
Reuters that he wouldn’t support halting the bond buys as it
“makes sense to use it as a safety belt.”  The central bank said today its emergency measures “will
be adjusted as appropriate” and are “temporary in nature.”  The ECB started buying bonds in May as part of a push by
European authorities to protect the euro area during the Greek
fiscal crisis.  “The positive underlying momentum of the recovery in the
euro area remains in place,” the ECB said today. At the same
time, the pace of growth may be “dampened by the process of
balance-sheet adjustment in various sectors,” it said, adding
that “uncertainty is still prevailing.”  The ECB, whose primary mandate is to keep a lid on prices,
also said that inflationary pressures “remain contained in the
medium term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  