-- Medtronic to Pay $268 Million, Settle Suits Over Defibrillator Wire Flaws
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-14T18:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/medtronic-to-pay-268-million-settle-suits-over-defibrillator-wire-flaws.html
Medtronic Inc.  the world’s biggest
maker of heart devices, agreed to pay $268 million to settle
lawsuits over claims that fractured wires in a line of its
cardiac defibrillators caused at least 13 deaths.  Medtronic, said it’s resolving claims that wires connecting
implantable Sprint Fidelis defibrillators to patients’ hearts
were defective. The Minneapolis-based company halted sales of
the so-called defibrillator leads in October 2007 after they
were linked to users’ deaths.  “Both the plaintiffs and Medtronic realized this was the
best resolution for people injured by these wires,”  Hunter Shkolnik , a New York-based lawyer for injured defibrillator
users, said today in a telephone interview.  Medtronic lowered its profit forecast in August, citing
slower defibrillator sales. It expects fiscal 2011 earnings of
$3.40 a share to $3.48 a share, down from an earlier forecast of
$3.45 to $3.55, company officials said in an Aug. 24 statement.  “Medtronic is pleased we were able to negotiate terms that
were mutually agreeable to the parties,” Christopher Garland, a
company spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The settlement
covers about 8,100 cases, or “virtually all” U.S. claims,
Garland said.  The settlement resolves cases in both federal and state
courts.  $33,000 Average Payout  It will provide an average payout of more than $33,000 to
patients who have defibrillators with wires that have broken or
are considered likely to break. The amount will depend on the
extent of the injuries and defects.  “The expectation was that they would settle this,”  Aaron Vaughn , an Edward Jones & Co. analyst in St. Louis, said in a
phone interview. “For a company their size with the balance
sheet they have, this is certainly something they can afford to
pay.”  Medtronic had more than 50 percent of the $5.8 billion
global market for defibrillators before sales of the leads were
halted.  The wires deliver electrical jolts from the stopwatch-size
defibrillators to regulate faltering heartbeats. About 268,000
patients had the targeted leads at one time, company officials
said. They were introduced in 2004, the officials said. The
company estimates that 170,000 people worldwide still have
defibrillators with the Sprint Fidelis leads inside them.  Patients’ Claims  Lawyers for users contend the fractures were caused by poor
welding and quality control at Medtronic’s manufacturing
facility in Puerto Rico, according to court filings. Patients
also alleged the wires were defectively designed, filings show.  Medtronic acknowledged in March 2009 that the flawed wires
“may have been a possible or likely contributing factor” in 13
deaths.  U.S. District Judge  Richard H. Kyle  in Minnesota, who is
overseeing all suits over the heart wires filed in federal
courts around the U.S., dismissed those cases in January 2009
after finding they were preempted by federal law.  Kyle cited a 2008 U.S. Supreme Court ruling barring suits
over medical devices that were reviewed under the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration’s most intensive analysis program. That
action by the federal agency superseded court review of defect
claims, the court ruled.  Kyle’s ruling was being studied by a federal appeals court
in St. Louis when the settlement was announced, said  Daniel E.
Gustafson , a Minneapolis lawyer who helped negotiate the accord.  ‘Significant Money’  “The settlement provides significant money for people
injured by this product,” Gustafson said.  The settlement over the Sprint Fidelis defibrillators is
the second such accord over a line of the Medtronic’s heart
devices. The company agreed in 2007 to pay more than
$114 million to settle lawsuits over its Marquis line of
defibrillators, which some users alleged suddenly quit working.  The consolidated case involving today’s heart-wire
settlement is In Re Medtronic Inc. Sprint Fidelis Leads Products
Liability Litigation, 08-1905, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco
at   dolmos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 