-- Grupo Televisa Backs Out of Plan to Buy NII Holdings Stake, Columnist Says
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-14T18:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/televisa-to-break-off-agreement-to-buy-stake-of-nii-unit-universal-says.html
Grupo Televisa SA , the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster, is backing out of an
agreement to buy a stake in a unit of NII Holdings Inc.,  Alberto Aguilar , an El Universal columnist,  said  without citing sources.  Televisa is choosing to focus on its television business
and will announce its decision soon, Aguilar said today in the
newspaper. A Televisa official who asked to not be named because
of company policy declined to comment to Bloomberg News.  Claudia Restrepo , a spokeswoman for NII, didn’t return phone and e-mail
messages left by Bloomberg News.  Televisa agreed in February to buy a 30 percent stake in
 NII ’s Mexican division for $1.44 billion.  Backing out from the deal would leave Televisa’s three
cable-TV companies without a mobile-phone partner as it seeks to
compete with billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s wireless and fixed-line
companies for Mexican phone and Internet users. NII, Mexico’s
smallest wireless carrier, would lose a source of funding for
expansion plans.  NII, based in Reston, Virginia, fell $5.19, or 12 percent,
to $37.85 at 2:37 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading  after dropping 17 percent, the biggest intraday decline
in five months. Televisa gained 35 centavos to 55.46 pesos in
Mexico City trading.  Slim’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB is Mexico’s largest landline
phone and Internet provider, and his  America Movil SAB  is the
nation’s biggest mobile-phone carrier. Televisa’s cable carriers
offer packages of TV, phone and Internet, and the company had
sought to add wireless plans to that mix.  Nextel Brand  Without Televisa, NII, which operates under the Nextel
brand in Latin America, still would retain the licenses to the
airwaves it won in an auction that ended in July. The company
aims to use so-called third-generation services to lure Mexican
users from larger rivals America Movil,  Telefonica SA  and Grupo
Iusacell SA, which already have such high-speed data networks.  “The immediate horizon that was mapped out for the
nation’s telephone industry will be changed, since Nextel’s
entry, without its ally, will become more complicated,” Aguilar
wrote. The columnist was the first to report in February that
Televisa was seeking to buy the NII unit stake.  NII still has $2.3 billion in cash and equivalents and
would have the borrowing capacity to fund the 3G network without
Televisa, said  Gray Powell , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in
New York. He advises buying the shares.  “The Mexican press has not been a reliable source of
information on this process throughout the last few months,”
Powell said today in a note to clients. “We do not see a firm
reason for the deal to not go through.”  Iusacell, based in Mexico City, has filed suits in about 70
Mexican courts challenging the auction results, claiming that
the government sold NII its airwaves at an unfair price. The
government’s Communications and Transportation Ministry said
this month that it set rules to encourage competition, resulting
in NII getting airwaves at a lower price than its larger rivals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  