-- Emerging Market Stocks Stage Advance on Economic Growth, Earnings Outlook
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-10-14T12:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/emerging-market-stocks-rise-on-improved-economic-growth-outlook-earnings.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to a 28-month high, and currencies gained on
increased speculation that central bank efforts to boost growth
will fuel inflows into the fastest-expanding economies.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.9 percent to
1,128.24 at 8:09 a.m. in New York, the highest level since June
2008.  The MSCI China Index  advanced 1.6 percent to lead gains
among benchmark indexes in major developing nations, while the
yuan touched 6.6503 per dollar, the strongest since 1993.  Chinese and Asian stocks were raised to “overweight” from
“underweight” at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which said
a global “liquidity wave” will spur gains. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched its highest level since April
2008 as Singapore unexpectedly sought faster currency gains to
slow inflation. Oil and metals prices rallied as the U.S. dollar
weakened, lifting shares of OAO Lukoil and Anglo Platinum Ltd.  Government efforts to bolster economic expansion are
“unleashing a second liquidity wave,”  Emil Wolter  and  Dylan Cheang , Singapore-based analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland,
wrote in a report. “The near-term consequence will likely be a
renewed surge in excess liquidity available for short-term
financial speculation.”  Emerging-market equity mutual funds have lured $53.8
billion of net inflows this year, while U.S. funds had outflows
of $65 billion, according to EPFR Global and Investment Company
Institute data.  Fed Easing  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak in
Boston tomorrow on monetary policy objectives and tools. The
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases aided
the economy and further quantitative easing, or QE, is likely to
help more, he said on Oct. 4. The Fed has reduced its benchmark
interest rate to a record low near zero percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index and Taiwan’s Taiex Index both
rose 1.3 percent today, while the  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index  gained 0.9 percent. Thailand’s SET Index increased 0.1
percent to the highest level since November 1996.  “There’s less fear of a so-called double-dip, everyone is
putting money into this region,” said  Ang Kok Heng , who
oversees $150 million as chief investment officer at Philip
Capital Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur.  The Singapore dollar touched 1.2893 per U.S. dollar, the
strongest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1981. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore said today it will steepen and
widen the currency’s trading band while continuing to seek a
“modest and gradual appreciation.”  Yuan Strength  Singapore’s move contrasts with other Asian nations, which
have taken steps in the past month to cool appreciation of their
currencies to keep exports competitive. Singapore’s inflation
accelerated to an 18-month high of 3.3 percent in August.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in
2010, compared with growth of 2.7 percent in global advanced
countries, the International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6.  China’s yuan rose 0.2 percent to 6.6508 per dollar as of
5:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It touched 6.6503, the strongest level since the
central bank unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993.  Russia’s  Micex Index  and South Africa’s FTSE/JSE Africa All
Shares Index both increased 0.1 percent. Futures on Brazil’s
Bovespa Index advanced 0.5 percent and the real strengthened 0.4
percent against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  