-- Enel Green Power Uses Dividend to Sell Largest Europe IPO in Three Years
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-10-14T12:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/enel-green-to-offer-above-average-dividend-to-woo-investors-in-europe-ipo.html
Enel Green Power SpA  will kick off
Europe’s biggest initial public offering since 2007 next week,
aiming to attract investors by offering dividends that are above
average for the renewable energy industry.  The company will set a price range for the IPO before
taking orders for the stock on Oct. 18, according to four people
with knowledge of the matter.  Enel SpA , Italy’s biggest utility,
plans to raise at least 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion) by
selling a 30 percent stake in its alternative energy unit, Chief
Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  has said.  Enel Green Power, operator of wind, solar, geothermal and
hydropower assets, will pay 30 percent of net income in
dividends, Conti said today. Investors are sceptical after
losing money on share sales by Spain’s  Iberdrola Renovables SA 
in 2007 and Portugal’s  EDP Renovaveis SA  the following year.  “The higher dividend compared to peers and the low debt-
to-equity ratio make it interesting,” said  Alessandro Frigerio ,
fund manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan, who said he may buy shares.
“That said, there just isn’t the enthusiasm of the past for
this sector and they’ll have to overcome that.”  Spain’s Iberdrola Renovables has dropped more than 50
percent since its December 2007 debut. The company has a
dividend payout ratio of 28 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. EDP Renovaveis has declined 49 percent since its first day
for trading in June 2008. The Lisbon-based company pays no
dividend.  Average Multiple  Iberdrola Renovables, France’s  EDF Energies Nouvelles SA 
and EDP Renovaveis trade at an average multiple of enterprise
value to Ebitda of 10.1 times, Bloomberg data show. Based on a
similar multiple Enel Green Power would be worth about 9.4
billion euros, Bloomberg calculations show. The company’s debt
will be about 3.5 billion euros, according to analysts at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, one of the banks managing the IPO.  “A higher dividend yield will make it more attractive than
peers,” said  Edward Guinness , who manages two alternative
energy funds for $50 million at Guinness Asset Management Ltd.
in London. “Investors are a bit worried about the fragile
Italian economy which may push returns lower. I would expect the
valuation to be in line with peers.”  Unlike Iberdrola Renovables and other competitors that rely
on wind power, Enel Green Power has 44 percent of its power
capacity at hydroelectric plants scattered from Bolzano in
Italy’s Alps to Potenza in the country’s south. About 41 percent
of its capacity comes from wind and 13 percent from geothermal.  Business Mix  The business mix makes the company less dependent on state
subsidies that have helped fund wind and solar panels, investors
said. Italy’s government reduced payments for solar power
projects this year. Spain may follow suit.  “Enel Green Power is unique because the company does not
depend on government subsidies,” Conti said in an interview
last month. “More than 70 percent of our revenues are not
subject to subsidies or tariffs or green certificates.”  A 3 billion euro share sale would make it Europe’s biggest
initial public offering since Iberdrola Renovables’s 4.5
billion-euro fundraising in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Analysts at Intesa Sanpaolo’s Banca IMI predict that Enel
Green Power will post earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, of 1.3 billion euros
this year, up about 8 percent from last year.  The company’s debt should rise to no more than 4.3 billion
euros in 2012 and installed capacity should rise by 9 percent
annually, Intesa said. They estimate installed capacity to rise
from 5,900 megawatts this year to 8,900 megawatts in 2014.  ‘Attractive Investment’  “EGP is an attractive investment, with an interesting
pipeline of business,” said Colm O’Connor, a Dublin-based fund
manager who helps run the $560 million KBI Institutional
Alternative Energy Fund and will consider buying stock. “Its
ability to finance expansion through cashflow is an argument for
it to trade at a similar price to others.”  Bank of America Corp., Intesa Sanpaolo’s Banca IMI SpA,
Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mediobanca SpA, Morgan Stanley, UniCredit
SpA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA are managing the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 