-- European Stocks Decline From One-Month High; Barclays Leads Bank Retreat
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-14T16:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-syngenta-lvmh-shares-may-gain.html
European stocks  declined from a one-
month high as an unexpected increase in U.S. jobless-benefit
claims and concern that banks may have to raise more capital
overshadowed better-than-estimated company earnings.  Barclays Plc led a measure of banks to the biggest drop in
two weeks. National Bank of Greece SA and Alpha Bank SA slid
more than 6 percent. Rio Tinto Group climbed to a two-year high
after reporting record iron ore production. Syngenta AG, the
world’s biggest maker of agricultural chemicals, rose 3.8
percent as sales beat analysts’ estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.2 percent to 265.68 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London as four stocks fell for every
three that advanced. The measure has climbed 2.3 percent this
month amid speculation that the Federal Reserve will announce
plans to stimulate economic growth at its November meeting. The
gauge is still 2.4 percent below its April high.  “We’re seeing earnings coming in a bit better than
expectations, which points to still-solid developments in the
underlying economy, but some investors are using today’s U.S.
jobless claims to take some of their money off the table after
decent returns during the past few weeks,” said  Espen Furnes , a
fund manager at Storebrand ASA in Oslo, which oversees about $54
billion. “It’s still too early to expect job creation to rise
significantly. The rebound will take time.”  U.S. Earnings  Of the 11  S&P 500  companies to have reported results since
Oct. 8, 9 have beaten estimates for net income, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predict profits will grow 23 percent from a year earlier for
companies in the index, the fourth straight quarterly increase.  European stocks erased their gains today as a Labor
Department report today showed the number of Americans filing
first-time applications for unemployment benefits increased by
13,000 to 462,000 last week, indicating the U.S. job market is
struggling to mend.  National benchmark indexes declined in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  decreased 0.4 percent and
France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.2 percent, while Germany’s DAX gained
0.3 percent.  Barclays, the U.K.’s third-biggest lender, slid 4.1 percent
to a three-month low of 279.95 pence, leading a gauge of bank
stocks to the biggest drop among 19  industry groups . Societe
Generale SA declined 3.1 percent to 41.70 euros and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc fell 4.7 percent to 45.3 pence.  Bank Capital  Standard Chartered Plc’s announcement yesterday said it
will seek to raise 3.3 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) in a rights
offer may encourage other banks to increase their capital to
than the minimum required by international regulators, according
to analyst  Andrew Lim  at Matrix Corporate Capital LLP.  Banks must have a Core Tier 1 ratio of at least 7 percent
under Basel III capital rules agreed by regulators last month.
U.K. lenders will have to constrain dividend payments to
shareholders for up to three years to meet the more stringent
capital requirements, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG
analyst  Jonathan Pierce .  National Bank of Greece and Alpha Bank sank 6.4 percent to
8.03 euros and 6.1 percent to 5.20 euros, respectively, leading
Greece’s ASE Index to a 2.5 percent decline.  African Barrick Gold Plc  sank 9.5 percent to 564 pence, the
biggest decline since its initial share sale in March, after
saying criminal gangs “widely infiltrated” a mine in Tanzania,
forcing the company to suspend 60 workers and delay production.  Maersk Downgrade  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S slid 3 percent to 46,230 kroner as
UBS AG downgraded the shipping company to “sell” from
“neutral.” Maersk will see net results plummet by 47 percent
in 2011 as the rebound in global trade slows and container rates
decline, according to UBS analyst  Dominic Edridge .  Suedzucker AG  lost 1.9 percent to 16.78 euros as the
world’s largest sugar refiner said second-quarter net income
declined to 50 million euros ($70 million) from 55 million euros
a year earlier.  Rio Tinto gained 2.4 percent to 4,134.5 pence in London,
the highest level in more than two years. The world’s third-
largest mining company said third-quarter iron ore output rose
to 47.6 million metric tons from 47 million tons a year earlier.  Commodities extended a rally to the highest in two years on
speculation the declining U.S. dollar will boost investments in
metals, energies and agriculture futures.  Syngenta  rallied 3.8 percent to 274 Swiss francs as the
maker of agricultural chemicals reported third-quarter sales
ahead of analysts’ estimates and said improved profitability in
seeds should help meet a goal of matching last year’s earnings.  UCB, Actelion  UCB SA, the Belgian maker of the Cimzia treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis, surged 6 percent to 27.82 euros on
speculation that it may be an acquisition target.  “It’s linked to M&A speculation following the move of
Pfizer earlier this week with its acquisition of King and the
intended bid of Sanofi for Genzyme,”  Jan Van Den Bossche , an
analyst for Petercam SA, said.  “This is speculation without any foundation,” said  Antje Witte , a company spokeswoman.  Actelion Ltd., the Swiss biotechnology company that’s
considering strategic alternatives, soared 6.6 percent to 53
francs.  Roland Haefeli , a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on the share-price move.  Preferred shares of  Hugo Boss AG  advanced 4.7 percent to
46.12 euros after Germany’s largest clothing maker raised its
sales and profit forecasts. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and one-time items will rise about 20
percent for the year, according to the Metzingen-based company,
which previously forecast growth of 10 percent to 12 percent.  Ashmore Group Plc, a U.K. fund manager that focuses on
emerging markets, rose 5 percent to 379.6 pence. Assets under
management grew to $41.6 billion in the third quarter from $35.3
billion at the end of the previous period, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 