-- Euro-Yuan, Rupee Trades Increasing on Demand for Yields, Commerzbank Says
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-14T02:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/euro-rupee-yuan-trades-increasing-on-demand-for-yields-commerzbank-says.html
Euro trades against China’s yuan,
India’s rupee and Taiwan’s dollar are increasing as
institutional investors seek higher returns in developing
markets, according to  Commerzbank AG .  “These are the currency pairs that are growing more in
relevance with the growth of global trade, and in particular,
with Asia becoming a bigger part of the world’s economy,” said
Gerald Dannhaeuser, the Frankfurt-based global head of foreign-
exchange sales of the Corporates & Markets division at Germany’s
second-biggest bank. “Asian currencies are appreciating.
China’s yuan is on everyone’s mind currently.”  Policy makers from India to Thailand are raising interest
rates ahead of their counterparts in developed nations to fight
inflation. Asia’s emerging economies will expand 9.4 percent in
2010, compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries,
the  International Monetary Fund  forecast on Oct. 6. Global funds
bought a net $38 billion of equities in India, South Korea and
Taiwan this year, exchange data show.  Commerzbank has been allowing customers to trade the euro
against Asian currencies in the non-deliverable forwards market,
Dannhaeuser said at the FX Week Asia 2010 conference on Oct. 12
in Singapore.  “You have quite a good fundamental story in Asia,” He
said. “For institutional accounts, it can be hedging if you
hedge a bond or equity portfolio. But it can be also searching
for currency ‘alpha’ just because there’s still demand for high
yield.”  Alpha is the premium an investment earns above a certain
benchmark.  Rate Increases  The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, has risen
4.5 percent in 2010, heading for its largest annual gain since
2007. The Thai baht has climbed 11.6 percent versus the dollar
this year, the best performance among its Asian counterparts.  India raised its benchmark interest rate a fifth time this
year in September, lifting it to 5 percent. Malaysia has
increased borrowing costs three times in 2010, bringing its key
rate to 2.75 percent. Thailand in August boosted its benchmark
to 1.75 percent and signaled further increases.  In contrast, Federal Reserve policy makers said in minutes
of the Sept. 21 meeting released on Oct. 12 that they were
prepared to ease monetary policy “before long.”  Regional Currencies  China, the world’s biggest exporter, posted a $16.9 billion
trade surplus for September, capping the largest quarterly
excess since the financial crisis in 2008, the customs bureau
said on its website on Oct. 13.  Yuan forwards traded near a two-year high this week in
anticipation Premier Wen Jiabao will allow greater gains and
amid signs the Fed may take more credit-easing measures, a move
that could spur more capital flows to Asia. The non-deliverable
forwards traded at 6.4383, suggesting appreciation of more than
three percent in the next year.  In addition to non-deliverable forwards, foreign-exchange
options are also being used by investors to hedge the risk of
fluctuations in Asian currencies, Dannhaeuser said.  “I would tend to say NDFs are the most prominent hedging
instrument,” he said. “In general, clients are worried about
volatility. Some of them do ‘disaster’ hedges, which is simply
buying out-of-the-money options to hedge against the worst
case.”  Implied volatility on one-month dollar options against
South Korea’s won rose to 14.67 percent today, the highest since
July 21, from 14.46 percent yesterday. Traders quote implied
volatility, a gauge of expected swings in exchange rates, as
part of pricing options.  Options give the right, but not the obligation, to buy or
sell a security at a pre-set time and price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 