-- Merkel Says Europe Must Boost Mineral Investment to Respond to China Push
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-14T12:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/europe-must-secure-resources-to-counter-chinese-competition-merkel-says.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
it’s “urgently necessary” to step up European investment in
eastern Europe and central Asia to push back against expanding
Chinese interest in raw materials and rare minerals.  Merkel spoke to leaders of Germany’s  Committee on Eastern
European Economic Relations , a lobby group that yesterday called
for coordinated European action to address China’s increased
control of access to commodities essential for economic growth.  “Considering the raw-materials policy of a country such as
China, it’s urgently necessary to make capital available among
European partners in order to secure long-term supplies,”
Merkel said today in Berlin. “That’s not only a reference to
natural gas and oil, but goes far beyond that,” to include
minerals.  China has exploited the economic crisis in eastern Europe
and central Asia to expand its access to markets by way of
state-linked companies backed by guaranteed capital, the
committee said in a position paper yesterday. Its actions
threaten to hamper European companies’ access to the region and
induce shortages and price increases for certain commodities.  Klaus Mangold , the lobby group’s chairman, said that while
European governments were focused on addressing the financial
crisis, China had begun to invest in countries such as Russia,
Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The state-linked companies
“proved” that they could “move in with full pockets,” he
told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  Merkel cited deposits of rare-earth minerals in central
Asia that are necessary to power electric cars. The Committee
said that as China increased its control over resources, its own
exports of rare minerals fell 40 percent this year.  Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle , on a trip this week to
China, called the country’s export restrictions on rare-earth
metals an “unfriendly act,” Financial Times Deutschland quoted
him as saying. A scarcity of metals such as tungsten and
germanium is causing difficulties for sectors including wind
turbine makers and car companies, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  