-- Lomax Wary on BOE Stimulus Expansion as Risk of Bubbles Makes Her `Queasy'
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ex-boe-official-lomax-says-prospect-of-more-bond-buying-makes-her-queasy-.html
Former Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Rachel Lomax  signaled she would be reluctant to expand
the central bank’s stimulus program and said such measures risk
fueling asset bubbles.  Further so-called quantitative easing “makes me fairly
queasy,” Lomax, the U.K. central bank’s chief of monetary
policy from 2003 to 2008, told a London conference organized by
HSBC Holdings Plc yesterday. “What exactly does it do? It
pushes up asset prices, but how effective is it in stimulating
domestic demand? We really don’t know.”  Bank of England officials have joined counterparts at the
Federal Reserve in mulling whether to pursue more unconventional
monetary policies to aid  economic growth . With details of budget
cuts due next week, the U.K. central bank this month kept its
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent and held its bond
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($317 billion).  Asked whether she would support more asset purchases if she
were still a policy maker, Lomax said she would want to see more
data on the economy and details of next week’s spending review
by the government. “If they go ahead with the worst case
scenario on risk retrenchment, I’d be voting for more QE, but
with a heavy heart,” she said.  The government may be betting that if it does cut the
deficit, the Bank of England will compensate by easing monetary
policy, she said. That comes at a time when policy maker  Andrew Sentance  keeps up the campaign he began in June to raise
interest rates and other members of the Monetary Policy
Committee haven’t yet endorsed colleague  Adam Posen ’s call for
more bond buying.  Stimulus Hope  The government’s plan seems to be “based on the hope that
the central bank will step in by switching on more QE if things
go wrong,” she said. “The bank may or may not oblige. There
are at least three opinions rattling around there.”  Lomax said easier monetary policies in the advanced nations
may spur emerging markets to revalue their exchange rates as
capital enters their economies seeking bigger returns. “It may
be the threat of a period of ultra-loose monetary policy will
succeed where lecturing has failed,” she said.  DeAnne Julius, another former Bank of England policy maker,
also sounded caution on the central bank’s stimulus plan.  “It is time to begin withdrawing the stimulus,” the
Yorkshire Post cited her as saying in an interview published
yesterday. “Interest rates are very low and the deficit is very
large so it is tricky to come out of a situation of extreme
policy stimulus like that. I know that people in those positions
at the Bank of England are debating very actively about what
needs to be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy in London at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  