-- Executives Eschew Forecasts as Economy Sputters: Chart of the Day
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-14T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/executives-eschew-financial-forecasts-as-economy-sputters-chart-of-day.html
The number of U.S. companies giving
financial forecasts plunged as the longest recession since the
Great Depression and an uneven recovery made it harder to
predict earnings.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the number of projections fell
to 5,788 last year and 3,994 this year through Sept. 30 from
10,530 in 2004, according to Bloomberg data. Companies became
more reluctant to give forecasts in the second half of 2008 as
the economy sank into a recession that lasted until June 2009.  “If you give a forecast, the market holds you to that,”
said  Mark Freeman , a money manager who helps oversee $10.5
billion at Dallas-based Westwood Management Corp. “Companies
that subsequently miss that forecast, the market tends to punish
rather severely.”  Management teams remained reluctant to give investors
estimates that may prove overly optimistic for the next quarter
or year as growth in U.S. gross domestic product slowed to 1.7
percent in the second quarter. Some may have been “low-balling”
their estimates, said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer
at Solaris Asset Management LLC.  “That’s one reason we’ve seen so many positive surprises
when earnings are reported,” said Bedford Hills, New York-based
Ghriskey, whose firm oversees $2 billion. “Certain companies
have been lowering guidance so that results are more likely to
beat that guidance and less likely to disappoint.”  More than 70 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies have topped the average analyst earnings estimate for
five straight quarters, the longest streak in Bloomberg data
going back to 1993.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 