-- Facebook, Abercrombie, Apple `Sexting', Honeywell: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-14T11:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/facebook-abercrombie-apple-sexting-honeywell-intellectual-property.html
The western New York man who claims
a 2003 contract with Facebook Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg
entitles him to 84 percent of the company asked a federal judge
to send the case back to state court.  A lawyer for Paul Ceglia argued yesterday that the suit
against Facebook and Zuckerberg, 26, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, should be returned to the court in
Belmont, New York, where Ceglia filed it in June.  The federal court lacks jurisdiction to hear the suit,
James Grable Jr. argued, because Zuckerberg’s legal domicile is
his parents’ home in Dobbs Ferry, New York, and not in Palo
Alto, California, as he claims. U.S. law permits federal courts
to hear cases between citizens of different states in which more
than $75,000 is at issue.  “He’s got one foot in New York and one foot in
California,” Grable told U.S. District Judge Richard Arcara in
a one-hour hearing in Buffalo, New York.  Ceglia’s lawsuit claims Zuckerberg signed a contract in
2003 that entitles Ceglia to control what has become the world’s
biggest social networking website. Zuckerberg maintains he
hadn’t conceived of Facebook when Ceglia says the contract was
signed in 2003. Zuckerberg started the site in 2004 as a Harvard
University sophomore, he says. He couldn’t have signed away
rights to a site he hadn’t yet thought of, the company has said.  Closely held Facebook, based in Palo Alto, may be worth as
much as $27.8 billion, according to Sharespost.com, an online
marketplace for companies not traded publicly.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Patents  Solvay Wins Honeywell Appeal Over Chemical Patents  Solvay SA  won an appeals court ruling in its patent-
infringement case against  Honeywell International Inc.  over a
way of making an insulation agent used in refrigeration and
heat-storage systems.  A judge erred in invalidating certain elements of a patent
owned by Solvay for pentafluoropropane, a substitute for ozone-
depleting chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit said in a  ruling  posted on its
website yesterday. The court upheld the judge’s finding that
Honeywell infringed those aspects of the patent and sent the
case back to the trial judge for further proceedings.  The appeal hinged on the question of whether Honeywell
could be considered another inventor of the technology because
of work it did in the 1990s. Morris Township, New Jersey-based
Honeywell can seek to invalidate the patent on other grounds
when the case returns to the trial court.  “We will continue our vigorous defense of this claim and
are confident that we will prevail,” said Peter Dalpe, a
spokesman for Honeywell.  Officials with Brussels-based Solvay didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  The case is Solvay SA v. Honeywell International Inc.,
2009-1161, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Solvay SA v. Honeywell
Specialty Materials LLC, 06CV557, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington.)  U.S. Patent Office Awards ‘Sexting’ Patent to Apple  Parents need no longer fret that their children are sending
racy text messages. Apple Inc., on Oct. 12, received patent
7,814,163 for a “text-based communication control for personal
communication device” that allows parental control over
texting.  According to the abstract, the method patented allows a
message to “be blocked (incoming or outgoing) if the message
includes forbidden content. In other embodiments, the
objectionable content is removed from the message prior to
transmission or as part of the receiving process. The content of
such a message is controlled by filtering the message based on
defined criteria. The criteria may be defined according to a
parental control application.”  The application, according to the filing would also address
academics and could encourage children to send texts in a
foreign language.  An Apple spokesperson didn’t return calls seeking comment.  To read the patent application,  click here.   For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks and Copyright  Abercrombie Suing Over Alleged Trademark, Copyright Infringement  Teen retailer  Abercrombie & Fitch  has filed suit against
manufacturer Seena International Inc. in federal court in
Columbus, Ohio, alleging copyright and trademark infringement.
Abercrombie is seeking both monetary and injunctive relief in
the suit filed Oct. 8.  On Oct. 7, the New Albany, Ohio-based company reported
year-to-date net sales of $2.1 billion, a 17 percent increase
from net sales of $1.8 billion last year. The complaint alleges
that it has “realized over $1.4 million from sales of T-shirts
bearing the designs that the defendants are using.”  Seena is a privately held company based in New York.
Seena’s senior vice president, Jay Schwartz, said that while the
company hadn’t been served with the suit it is “talking to”
in-house counsel at Abercrombie and hopes to have the case
resolved quickly. Joey Thomas, a spokesperson for  J.C. Penney
Co. , another defendant in the lawsuit, said the company doesn’t
comment on pending litigation. The third defendant, R.A.G. Inc.,
couldn’t be located.  David Bloomfield, a partner in the Columbus office of Porter
Wright Morris Arthur, whose name is on the complaint, didn’t
return a call seeking comment. Eric Cerny, director of investor
relations at Abercrombie, declined to comment.  The case is Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Seena International
Inc., 2:10-cv-910, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Ohio (Columbus).  For more trademark news, click here. For more copyright news,
click here.  Government Action  Italy Drops Charges Against Ex-Curator Marion True  Italy has dropped charges of conspiracy and handling looted
artifacts against Marion True, former antiquities curator at the
J.  Paul Getty  Museum in Los Angeles, according to a Getty
spokeswoman.  “It’s our understanding charges have been dropped,” the
Getty spokeswoman, who declined to be named, said. “We are
pleased that charges against Marion True have been dismissed,
and we wish her the very best as this long and difficult ordeal
is coming to a close.”  The news was greeted with enthusiasm in some quarters of
the collecting community.  “It was a politically motivated trial just to send the
message: Don’t deal with Italian cultural patrimony or we’ll
create a headache for you,” said Torkom Demirjian, president
and founder of Ariadne Galleries in New York, which specializes
in antiquities. “This whole thing is a bureaucratic and
ideological overreach. It’s a political decision to discourage
private collecting of antiquities.”  The Getty Museum in August 2007 agreed to return 40 objects
to the Italian government, leading Italy to drop civil suits
against True. True still faced criminal charges.  The statute of limitations ran out on those charges, and a
Rome judge agreed with True’s defense team that the trial should
no longer proceed, according to an earlier Associated Press
report.  True has denied the charges against her. She had been on
trial in Rome for the last five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 