-- Fed's Lacker Says Making Jobs an `Imperative' Risks Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/fed-s-lacker-says-making-jobs-a-policy-imperative-risks-inflation-bias.html
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said a Fed policy devoted primarily to
reducing unemployment risks damaging the central bank’s
credibility in containing inflation.  “With inflation reasonably close to any plausible
definition of price stability, and all expectations measures
pointing in the right direction, making unemployment a policy
imperative poses clear risks to the credibility of our long run
inflation goals,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in Chapel
Hill, North Carolina.  The Fed is considering the purchase of more Treasury
securities and efforts to boost inflation expectations to
stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment persisting near 10
percent, according to minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting of policy
makers released this week. The central bank was prepared to ease
monetary policy “before long,” the minutes said.  “Inflation is now on target, as far as I’m concerned,”
Lacker told business leaders in the region. “I do not see a
material risk of deflation -- that is, an outright decline in
the price level.”  Lacker’s view contrasts with the central bank’s statement
after its Sept. 21 meeting that inflation is “somewhat below”
levels consistent with its congressional mandate for stable
prices. The Fed said it was “prepared to provide additional
accommodation if needed to support the economic recovery and to
return inflation, over time, to levels consistent with its
mandate.”  Still Undecided  In response to audience questions, Lacker said he hadn’t
made up his mind on whether to support more asset purchases.  The Fed is in “unchartered waters” in gauging the
effectiveness of more easing, Lacker said. “While I’m very
confident quantitative easing can have a strong and powerful
effect on inflation and the price level, it’s less clear that
monetary policy can ameliorate the problems and impediments that
are leading to the sluggish growth rate we’re having now.”  Recent U.S. economic data hasn’t gotten worse, Lacker said
to reporters after his speech. He said he considers declining
economic conditions a prerequisite for more easing.  “I thought if the economic growth and inflation numbers
came in the way I was expecting them to I’d probably not support
more easing,” he said. “I think the numbers have come in about
as I’ve expected over the last couple of weeks.”  New York Fed President  William Dudley  and Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  have voiced support for renewing asset
purchases, while  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and  Richard Fisher  of Dallas have said such actions may not work.  Below Fed’s Goal  Inflation, measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has been below
the Fed’s goal for five consecutive months. The price measure
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending August. Prices
excluding food and energy have gained at a 1 percent annual pace
in the three months through August.  Lacker said over short periods, inflation can be volatile
and he prefers to look at annual rates. “I am not yet convinced
that inflation is likely to remain undesirably low,” he said.  “Personally I think inflation expectations are in a
reasonably good place,” Lacker told reporters. “They seem
consistent with the price stability we’ve had in recent years.”  The Richmond Fed chief said while the recovery has been
“disappointing,” he agrees with private forecasts calling for
an acceleration in growth next year.  Slowly Gain  “The consensus among professional forecasters is that
growth will be about 2 percent at an annual rate over the second
half of this year, and will slowly gain enough speed thereafter
that unemployment begins to decline next year,” Lacker said.
“If forced to choose right now, my forecast would lie quite
close to that path.”  Lacker cited various explanations for why economic growth
has been slow, including a mismatch of jobs with the skills of
out-of-work people, and an uncertainty about government policies
that prompts businesses to delay expansions.  “It could be the pace at which skills have become obsolete
has picked up,” Lacker said in response to an audience question.  The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said last
month.  Another Recession  Still, a slowdown raises the possibility of another
downturn. Economic growth decelerated to an annual 1.7 percent
rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first quarter
and 5 percent in the last three months of 2009, according to the
Commerce Department.  Payrolls fell by 95,000 workers last month after a revised
57,000 decrease in August, the Labor Department said Oct. 8 in
Washington. Companies added 64,000 jobs, less than forecast,
while the unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent.  The Fed’s policy-setting Open Market Committee meets on Nov.
2-3, giving members time to digest reports on September
employment, retail sales and inflation.  The Fed’s goal has been to keep inflation rising annually at
around 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Chapel Hill at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  