-- Fernandez Says New Pension Law Would Led to the `Bankruptcy' of Argentina
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-14T23:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/fernandez-says-new-pension-law-would-led-to-the-bankruptcy-of-argentina.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  vetoed a law approved by  Congress  last
night that raises pensions and links them to increases in the
minimum salary, saying the measure would bankrupt Argentina.  The law, which was approved by the Senate after Vice
President  Julio Cobos  broke a 35-to-35 tie vote, calls for
raising the basic monthly retirement payment to 82 percent of
the minimum wage. Fernandez said today in Buenos Aires that she
had vetoed the measure.  “This is a state bankruptcy law and a law to rip off
pensioners,” Fernandez said in an earlier speech. “Nobody can
reasonably explain, with the numbers available, how to finance
it.”  Under the measure, retirees would receive a minimum payment
of 1,427 pesos ($361) a month compared with 1,046 pesos at
present. Fernandez said the government doesn’t have the funds to
pay for the increase, which, according to the state social
security agency, would cost an extra 22.4 billion pesos.
Argentina has about 5.6 million pensioners.  Fernandez’s government in 2008 nationalized about $24
billion in private pension funds and transferred the assets to
the social security agency. Part of the funds were lent to
companies to boost investment and increase production during the
global financial crisis in 2009.  Cobos said in an interview with Radio Mitre today that the
law is sustainable if the agency’s “funds are used for this
benefit instead of other things.”  Vote for ‘Equality’  “This is a vote for social equality,” Cobos told the
Senate when he explained his vote.  Last night was the second time that Cobos has used his
deciding vote against the government. In July 2008, he broke a
tie in the Senate to defeat a government proposal to raise
agriculture exports. His decision ended a four-month farm
protest that had led to food shortages and higher consumer
prices, and led President Fernandez’s government to ostracize
him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  