-- Florida Health-Care Lawsuit Can Proceed, Judge Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-14T22:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/florida-challenge-to-obama-health-care-overhaul-can-proceed-judge-rules.html
A legal challenge to President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul can proceed, a federal judge
ruled, turning aside Justice Department arguments that the
lawsuit led by the state of Florida is at best premature.  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola today allowed
portions of the claims by 20 states to go forward, as he
forecast he would after a day of oral arguments last month. The
requirement to purchase health insurance is “simply without
prior precedent,” Vinson wrote.  “People have no choice and there is no way to avoid it,”
Vinson wrote in a 65-page decision. “Those who fall under the
individual mandate either comply with it, or they are
penalized.”  Vinson previously scheduled arguments for Dec. 16 on
whether the law signed by Obama in March is constitutional. He
also allowed the state to proceed on its claim that Medicaid
would be expanded drastically and the states cannot
realistically opt out.  “There is a line somewhere between mere pressure and
impermissible coercion” and the states claim could be
plausible,” he wrote.  State’s Sovereignty  The judge threw out Florida’s claims that the law
interferes with the state’s sovereignty as an employer and that
the mandate for individuals to get coverage violates the right
to due process of law. He also found the case was ripe for
review, as provisions would go into effect soon and nothing
would be gained by postponing a decision.  The focus of efforts to undo what the administration
considers a key legislative achievement now shifts to Richmond,
Virginia, where a similar lawsuit by the state survived a bid
for dismissal in April. A judge there scheduled an Oct. 18
hearing on the law’s constitutionality.  The states have contended that the requirement for all
Americans to buy health insurance exceeds the constitutional
power of Congress.  The government counters that the mandate is supported by
its authority to regulate interstate commerce as billions of
dollars a year in unpaid medical bills are absorbed by the
market.  More States  Joining Florida in the suit were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona,
Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington. The  National
Federation of Independent Business , a small-business lobbying
group, also joined.  The Florida and Virginia suits were filed within minutes of
Obama’s signing the legislation.  “Congress has no constitutional authority to force the
individual mandate and its penalty on Americans who cannot
afford or do not wish to have health insurance,”  Bill McCollum ,
Florida’s attorney general said in a statement today.
“Regardless of whether the Obama Administration argues it is a
tax or regulation, it is an unjust burden on the American
public.”  Besides its effect on individuals, the legislation puts an
unconstitutional burden on state budgets by expanding Medicaid,
the federal-state program that provides health care for the
poor, the states say.  Defining Activity  In a Sept. 14 hearing, Vinson questioned whether people who
don’t buy something -- health insurance -- can be considered
actively participating in commerce and taxed for it. The U.S.
previously claimed that the possibility of being injured and
unable to pay medical bills is enough to draw a link between
commerce and taxation.  “They are attempting to take inactivity and are making it
activity,” said  Randy Barnett , a constitutional-law professor
at the Georgetown University Law Center said in an interview
before the ruling. “The question of whether something is
activity, and you don’t make inactivity into activity by saying
is has an effect.”  Justice Department officials didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Ian Gershengorn, an attorney for the U.S., said in
arguments that choosing to not to buy health insurance is an
active decision.  ‘Economic Activity’  ‘This is economic activity,” he said. “It is the purchase
of health-care services without paying for them.”  Many of the changes enacted by the bill, including
requirements for most people to have health insurance and for
employers to provide coverage, won’t go into effect for at least
two years.  Part of the courtroom debates hinge on whether the health-
care law falls within the government’s power to tax. Opponents
of the law claim its purpose is to ensure people buy health
insurance and not to raise revenue, so the plan can’t be viewed
as a tax.  The health-care overhaul will extend Medicaid coverage to
16 million more Americans, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office. The legislation will cost the
states billions of dollars to administer, the attorneys general
claim.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 