-- Foreclosures, JPMorgan, Societe Generale, Facebook, Stanford in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-14T11:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/foreclosures-jpmorgan-societe-generale-facebook-stanford-in-court-news.html
Top legal officers of all 50 states
opened a joint investigation into home  foreclosures , saying they
will probe practices at banks and mortgage companies.  The states will conduct a coordinated inquiry into whether
banks and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures, Minnesota
Attorney General Lori Swanson said yesterday in a statement.  “Our multistate group has begun inquiring whether or not
individual mortgage servicers have improperly submitted
affidavits or other documents in support of foreclosures,” the
attorneys said in a statement. “The facts uncovered in our
review will dictate the scope of our inquiry.”  The  National Association of Attorneys General  announced
yesterday that 49 states would be participating with Alabama the
holdout. Alabama will now join the probe, even though “no
violations of Alabama law have been alleged at this time,”
Attorney General Troy King said in an e-mailed statement.  Officials in at least 10 states including Florida and Ohio
previously announced separate probes into questionable
foreclosure tactics.  “We look forward to cooperating with the attorneys
general,” Tom Kelly, a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase, said yesterday in a phone interview.  “We will meet with the attorneys general to discuss the
concerns they have expressed,” Rick Simon, a spokesman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, said. “On
Friday Bank of America announced we will stop foreclosure sales
across all 50 states while we complete our review. We believe
this demonstrates appropriate concern and a responsible
approach.”  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, said “GMAC Mortgage is
committed to restoring confidence in the foreclosure process and
has been working expeditiously on the review and remediation
activities for the affected cases.”  “Where we have received official inquiries from individual
states, we are responding accordingly,” Proia said in an e-
mailed statement.  For more, click here.  Dimon Calls Foreclosure Costs ‘Incremental,’ Mistakes Unlikely  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  probably will pay an “incremental”
sum to settle foreclosure investigations and there is almost
“no chance” the bank made mistakes in seizing homes, Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said.  “It will cost us some money to go back and make sure it’s
done right; it will delay some  foreclosures ,” Dimon told
reporters on a conference call yesterday after posting quarterly
results. “But the whole mortgage issue costs us so much money
now, to me it will be incremental.”  The lender is in  talks  with state attorneys general and
will correct any errors tied to foreclosures, Dimon said. About
115,000 files are under review, according to the bank’s website.
It’s unlikely the New York-based firm made mistakes as it seized
homes from borrowers who couldn’t pay, he said.  State law enforcement officials, consumer groups and
lawmakers have pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America
Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, which last week curtailed
foreclosures nationwide to check whether faulty documents were
used to confiscate homes.  Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit is also curbing
evictions in all 50 states so the lender can review procedures
and court affidavits. Litton Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-
servicing business owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , said Oct.
8 it’s halting some foreclosures to review how they’re handled.  “We’ve delayed the foreclosure process in almost all of
the states to make sure that we’ve got all of these affidavits
done right, and it’s going to take a lot of manpower and a
couple of weeks to do it,” said Dimon, 54. “At the end of the
day, the underlying substance was accurate. There’s almost no
chance that we’ve made a mistake.”  For more, click here.  New Suits  Citigroup Sued for Bias by Women Over Pay, Promotions  Citigroup Inc. , the fourth-biggest U.S. bank by deposits,
was sued for gender discrimination by current and former
employees who claim women are paid less than men and are more
likely to lose their jobs.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan,
was brought by five former directors and analysts of the New
York-based bank and by one current  employee . It seeks class-
action, or group, status on behalf of women at job levels from
analyst to managing director.  The plaintiffs accuse Citigroup of being an “outdated boys
club” and allege “systematic and pervasive discrimination and
retaliation” in decisions involving compensation, promotion and
termination. They seek unspecified damages.  The bank said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the
five former employees were among 70 men and women in the public
finance department who lost their jobs as part of a workforce
reduction in 2008.  “They were selected based on legitimate business reasons,
not based on their gender, and were selected in the very late
rounds of the reduction in force,” Citigroup said. “Many of
their allegations are either totally inaccurate or selectively
incomplete.”  The case is Bartoletti v. Citigroup, 10-cv-7720, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Societe Generale Sued in Singapore for Currency Loss  Two Societe Generale SA Singapore private bankers, making
wrong bets on currency values, almost wiped out a client’s $10
million account and for years attempted to hide the losses, the
investor claims in a lawsuit.  Chan Leong Cheng, a resident of Perth, Western Australia,
yesterday sued Societe Generale’s Singapore private bank and the
two executives in Singapore’s High Court in a bid to recover $8
million of the losses.  “The defendants’ management of the assets in the account
created massive losses,” Chan said in court papers. The bankers
“made fraudulent representations to the plaintiff for a long
period of time.”  Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank, suspended
Jenny Liew Marn Leng, an executive director, and her direct
supervisor Lilian Ang, after the losses were discovered, Chan
said in the court papers. Both bankers had assured Chan for
several years the balance in the account was about $8 million
and provided statements reflecting that, even though the account
had been almost depleted, Chan said.  Vanessa Lee, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Societe
Generale, couldn’t immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Ang intends to defend the claim “vigorously” and will
make a counterclaim against Chan, her lawyer Manjit Singh said
yesterday. Liew wasn’t immediately available to respond, Singh,
whose firm is also representing her, said.  The case is Chan Leong Cheng vs. Societe Generale Bank &
Trust Singapore Branch, Liew Marn Leng Jenny and Lilian Ang,
S780/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  SEC Tells U.S. Judge Tourre Lawsuit Should Proceed  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told a judge
that its lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s Fabrice
Tourre should proceed because the complaint claims that an
unlawful transaction took place in the U.S.  Tourre last month asked a federal judge in Manhattan to
dismiss the lawsuit over a Goldman Sachs deal involving
collateralized debt obligations because the transaction wasn’t
in the U.S. He said the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in June that
U.S. securities laws don’t apply to claims of foreign buyers of
non-U.S. securities on foreign exchanges.  The agency argues in a court filing yesterday that Tourre,
an executive director in the bank’s London office, worked in  New
York , did business on the deal from New York, and took other
steps that give the U.S. court jurisdiction.  While in New York, Goldman Sachs and Tourre “attempted to
dispose of, offered to dispose of, and solicited offers to buy
securities and enter securities-based swap agreements,” the
agency wrote in its 20-page legal brief.  Tourre, the only Goldman Sachs executive sued individually,
remains a defendant in the case after the firm agreed to a $550
million settlement in July. In its complaint, the SEC alleged
that Goldman Sachs and Tourre misled investors in CDOs linked to
subprime mortgages.  The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Facebook Claimant Asks Judge to Send Case Back to State Court  The western New York man who claims a 2003 contract with
Facebook Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg entitles him to 84 percent
of the company asked a federal judge to send the case back to
state court.  A lawyer for Paul Ceglia argued yesterday that the lawsuit
against Facebook and Zuckerberg, 26, the company’s chairman and
chief executive officer, should be returned to the court in
Belmont, New York, where Ceglia filed it in June.  The federal court lacks jurisdiction to hear the suit,
James Grable Jr. argued, because Zuckerberg’s legal domicile is
his parents’ Dobbs Ferry, New York, home, not in Palo Alto,
California, as he claims. U.S. law permits federal courts to
hear cases between citizens of different states in which more
than $75,000 is at issue.  “He’s got one foot in New York and one foot in
California,” Grable told U.S. District Judge Richard Arcara at
a hearing in Buffalo, New York.  Zuckerberg claims he started Facebook, the world’s biggest
social-networking site, in 2004 as a Harvard University
sophomore. He couldn’t have signed away rights to a site he
hadn’t yet conceived of, defense lawyers said. They said in
court papers that Ceglia’s claim is “preposterous on its
face.”  Zuckerberg and Facebook said Ceglia’s request for more
information about Zuckerberg’s domicile “is intended solely to
burden and harass” them.  Zuckerberg submitted documents to the court that he claims
prove he is now a permanent resident of California. These
include copies of his California driver’s license, car
registration, state tax returns, bills and voter registration.
He said his domicile is a rented home in Palo Alto, 10 minutes’
walk from Facebook’s headquarters.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Stanford Loses Bid for Lloyd’s Insurance Proceeds  Indicted financier R. Allen Stanford can’t use $100 million
in Lloyd’s of London directors and officers insurance coverage
to pay lawyers to defend him against criminal charges he ran a
$7 billion investment-fraud scheme.  U.S. District Judge Nancy Atlas in Houston ruled that
Lloyd’s lawyers, during a four-day August trial, proved it was
more likely than not that Stanford “knowingly committed acts of
money laundering,” involving the use of corporate funds that
should have been disclosed to investors and regulators.  “The court does not reach the issue of whether the
evidence supports a finding that Stanford personally engaged in
criminal conduct,” Atlas said yesterday in her 45-page ruling.  Stanford and three former top executives at Houston-based
Stanford Financial Group were indicted in June 2009 for
allegedly swindling investors who bought certificates of deposit
issued by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The executives, who deny any wrongdoing, have claimed that
without the Lloyd’s proceeds, they can’t afford to pay defense
attorneys because their assets were frozen earlier by court
order when the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued them
in February 2009.  Lloyd’s underwriters, after initially agreeing to honor the
policies, denied coverage after former Stanford Group Chief
Financial Officer James M. Davis pleaded guilty last year to
mail fraud, obstructing the SEC proceeding and conspiracy to
commit securities fraud.  Stanford’s criminal trial is scheduled to start on Jan. 24.  The insurance case is Laura Pendergest-Holt v. Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London, 4:09-cv-03712, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Washington Mutual Investors Win Class-Action Status  Investors suing  Washington Mutual Inc. , the former owner of
the biggest U.S. bank to fail, won certification as a class-
action, or group, case of their suit alleging shoddy lending
practices.  Shareholders who lost money on stock purchased from October
2005 to July 2008 can proceed with claims under a single
lawsuit, U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman in Seattle ruled
yesterday, according to court documents. The judge appointed the
New York-based law firm  Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann
LLP  to lead the  plaintiffs’ case .  The lawsuit consolidates more than 20 cases filed against
Washington Mutual that claim the bank secretly lowered lending
standards, artificially inflated home-price appraisals and
failed to disclose its deteriorating financial condition when
the loans began to fail.  John Wolfe, an attorney representing Washington Mutual
defendants, didn’t immediately return a voicemail message
seeking comment.  The named plaintiffs in the case include Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan Board, the largest single-profession pension plan
in Canada, and four other pension groups, according to court
documents. They seek to represent tens of thousands of
shareholders who lost money on three types of preferred stock
purchased between October 2005 and July 2008 and certain
securities offered by the bank in 2006 and 2007.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc. Securities,
Derivative & ERISA Litigation, 2:08-md-01919, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  U.S. Says Drill Ban Suit Irrelevant, Seeks Dismissal  U.S. Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar’s lawyers asked a
federal judge in New Orleans to throw out most of an oil
industry lawsuit challenging the legality of a deep-water
drilling moratorium that the government has lifted.  U.S. regulators imposed the moratorium on drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on July 12, to replace an earlier
ban struck down by U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New
Orleans. Feldman threw out the first ban, imposed after the  BP
Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, as too broad.  Offshore service companies challenged the second moratorium
as well, in a lawsuit pending before Feldman, claiming Salazar
had broken federal statutes in imposing a ban that was harming
the Gulf Coast’s economy. The U.S. earlier asked Feldman to
reject this lawsuit, calling the ban a matter of public policy.  Salazar terminated the deep-water moratorium Oct. 12, six
weeks before it was set to expire, saying the industry was
meeting milestones for improvements in drilling safety. He said
vital oil-spill response capabilities had also become available
since BP’s blown-out well was permanently sealed in September.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Bayer Contaminated U.S. Farmers’ Rice Crops, Jury Told  A  Bayer AG  unit carelessly contaminated U.S. long-grain
rice fields with its genetically engineered seed four years ago,
causing Texas growers to lose access to European markets, a
lawyer told a St. Louis jury.  “Bayer brought its experimental rice to this country from
Belgium, even though it was not approved for human consumption
here,” attorney  Don M. Downing  said in his opening statements
in the trial. “Bayer was not careful. It escaped. And the
farmers were hurt.”  Downing represents the owners of three Texas rice-growing
operations. The trial is the seventh against the German company
and its Bayer CropScience unit over crop contamination in the
southern U.S. Bayer lost the first six trials, for a total of
about $54 million in jury awards with one case accounting for 89
percent of the total. The company is challenging the verdicts in
appeals and post-trial motions.  Farmers in five states claim  Bayer  negligently contaminated
the U.S. long-grain rice crop with its genetically modified
LibertyLink seed, leading to export restrictions, bans on two
kinds of high-yield seeds and a plunge in prices.  The company faces claims in state and federal courts from
more than 6,000 farmers.  The Texas farmers are seeking damages of about $400,000,
plus unspecified punitive damages . A jury of six men and three
women was chosen yesterday to hear the case before U.S. District
Judge  Catherine Perry .  Bayer , based in Leverkusen, Germany, denies negligence and
disputes the damages claims, contending that rice sales
rebounded after an initial drop.  “There’s no question that it had some impact on the rice
market, prices did go down,” Mark Ferguson, the company’s trial
attorney, said in his opening statement. “But we will find that
the losses were minimal and short-lived.”  The case is In Re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation, 06-
md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  BAA Court Loss Will Force Sale of Stansted, One Other Airport  BAA Ltd., the owner of London’s Heathrow airport, was
ordered to sell two U.K. airports after an appeals court
rejected its claim of regulatory bias during a probe of the
industry.  The Court of Appeal reinstated the  Competition Commission ’s
March 2009 decision forcing BAA to sell  Stansted  near London and
either the Glasgow or Edinburgh airports. BAA, owned by Madrid-
based  Ferrovial SA , already sold London Gatwick under pressure
from the regulator.  “The ruling should put an end to the back-and-forth over
the ownership of the key U.K. airports, bring certainty to the
market and inject some much needed competition into the
sector,” said Frances Murphy, a lawyer who leads the antitrust
practice at Jones Day LLP in London and isn’t involved in the
case.  BAA, which was originally ordered to sell the airports by
spring 2011, had initial success in fighting the forced sales,
when an  appeals  tribunal in December 2009 accepted its argument
that an adviser for the regulator didn’t remove himself soon
enough in the investigation when a conflict of interest arose.
Yesterday’s judgment overturned that finding.  BAA argued that the adviser, Peter Moizer, had caused
“unconscious bias” at an early stage in the probe because he
was linked to a group that considered buying some of BAA’s
assets. The court yesterday held that the potential for bias
arose much later.  The lower court “was wrong to find apparent bias” before
a critical stage of the antitrust review in December 2008, about
three months before the regulator’s investigation ended, Judge
Maurice Kay of the London-based court said in the ruling.  BAA said in a statement it will seek permission to appeal
the case to the Supreme Court because yesterday’s ruling
confirmed there was possible bias during part of the
investigation.  Competition Commission spokesman Rory Taylor said the
regulator was “pleased” with the court ruling and that the
agency had already taken steps to avoid future potential
conflicts of interest.  For more, click here.  Two Norwegian Day Traders Are Convicted of Market Manipulation  Two Norwegian day traders were ordered to pay as much as
243,000 kroner ($41,700) after being convicted of market
manipulation by an Oslo court.  Peder Veiby must pay as much as 243,000 kroner ($41,700),
while Svend Egil Larsen must pay a penalty that can’t exceed
156,442 kroner, according to court documents. Veiby participated
in 42 instances of market abuse and Larsen 30 between November
2007 and April 2008, the court said.  “We are going to appeal this,” Veiby’s lawyer, Anders
Brosveet, said in a phone interview. “We will appeal within the
14-day time limit, and then there will be an appeal procedure.”  Larsen’s lawyer, Halldor Christen Tjoflaat, said his
client will also appeal. “It’s very hard for us to understand
the judgment,” he said.  Both men also received suspended jail sentences.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Four Charged With Murder of Malaysian Millionaire  Malaysian authorities charged a lawyer and three other
people with the murders of missing cosmetics millionaire
Sosilawati Lawiya and three associates, according to a lawyer
for one of the defendants.  Lawyer N. Pathmanabhan, 41, and three others were charged
yesterday in a magistrate’s court in Banting, Selangor, with the
murders of 47-year-old Sosilawati and three others, Ravi Nekoo,
Pathmanabhan’s lawyer, said by telephone. The defendants didn’t
enter a plea as this was a preliminary stage, he said.  “We have to wait for the prosecution to inform the
magistrate’s court whether all the documents are ready, and if
all the documents are ready the matter will then be transferred
to the High Court,” said Nekoo. The defendants would decide
their next course of action once the case is transferred to the
High Court, he said, adding a hearing is scheduled for Dec. 16.  Sosilawati, her attorney, her driver, and a bank officer
disappeared Aug. 30 after telling family and friends that they
were going to Banting to discuss a land deal, the New Straits
Times reported on Sept. 13. Their bodies were burnt and their
ashes thrown into a river near a poultry farm, the Times
reported without saying where it got the information.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 