-- Foreclosure Fiasco’s Trail Leads to Washington: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-10-14T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/foreclosure-fiasco-s-trail-leads-to-washington-jonathan-weil.html
What were banking regulators doing
while some of the biggest U.S. lenders routinely filed false
foreclosure documents in local courthouses around the country?
In the case of  IndyMac Federal Bank , it turns out the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. was running the joint.  This may help explain why the mortgage-servicing industry
got away with such misbehavior for so long. The government, in
one form or another, was doing it, too.  The facts are there for anyone to see in the records of a
 circuit-court  lawsuit against  Israel  and Neena Machado, a  West
Palm Beach ,  Florida , couple who last year beat back IndyMac’s
attempts to foreclose on their home mortgage. They even won a
judgment ordering IndyMac to pay $38,117 in legal fees.  IndyMac sued the Machados in November 2008, four months
after the government closed its predecessor,  Pasadena ,
California-based IndyMac Bank, which had $32 billion in assets
when it was seized. The FDIC formed IndyMac Federal in July 2008
as the successor to the failed bank, and continued operating it
in conservatorship before  selling  it in March 2009.  Among the sworn statements IndyMac filed with the court was
a December 2008 affidavit by an IndyMac vice president, Erica
Johnson-Seck, who said she had personal knowledge of the amount
of money the Machados owed on the mortgage. That wasn’t true,
she later testified in a  deposition . To be fair, there’s every
reason to believe the old IndyMac was engaged in this sort of
 conduct  already,  before  it was shut down.  ‘False Affidavit’  “There’s a lie in the affidavit,” the judge in the case,
 Meenu Sasser , said at a September 2009 court hearing, where she
dismissed IndyMac’s complaint. “It’s a false affidavit.”  An FDIC spokesman,  Andrew Gray , said the agency is looking
into the matter. “While this issue has only recently come to
our attention, it is something that the FDIC takes very
seriously,” he said. “The FDIC was unaware of any violation of
state laws applying to servicing practices while we were in
control of IndyMac Federal. FDIC staff is currently
investigating this further. We are committed to working with all
parties to correct any issues or violations that may be found.”  Another point in dispute was whether IndyMac held the
Machados’ mortgage note, as the bank claimed in its complaint.
The Machados said it didn’t. The court never resolved the
question. Whoever owns it, no one has since filed any new
foreclosure action against the Machados, who continue to live in
the same home, according to their attorney,  Thomas Ice .  Suspending Foreclosures  A similar pattern is playing out around the country. So-
called robo-signers penned their names to untold numbers of
affidavits and other foreclosure documents that proved to be
false, prompting judges in some states to throw out the banks’
claims.    Bank of America Corp . last week  said  it would stop
foreclosure sales nationwide while it reviewed its practices.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. says it is examining files in 41 states.
Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage last month halted evictions
tied to foreclosures in 23 states. Ally is majority-owned by the
Treasury Department. The  attorneys general  for all 50 states
have opened a joint investigation.  In her July 2009  deposition , Johnson-Seck said she and
seven other people in her department signed about 6,000
foreclosure documents a week, including affidavits. She said she
didn’t read all the documents before signing them and spent
“not more than 30 seconds” on each one.  The corporations for which she had signing authority
included the FDIC as conservator for IndyMac, she said. Johnson-
Seck declined to comment. She’s now a vice president in Austin,  Texas , for  OneWest Bank , which bought IndyMac from the FDIC.  Regulators’ Role  Now let’s look at the bigger picture. Where were the
banking regulators while all this mischief was going down? For
years the leaders of the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, among others, have been assuring
the public they have onsite examiners and supervisors at all of
the country’s largest banks. Before IndyMac was seized, its
primary regulator had been the Office of Thrift Supervision.  Yet there’s no sign these agencies did anything to stop any
of these institutions from treating the country’s courts so
contemptuously. Perhaps the regulators were clueless. Or maybe
they knew there was a problem and decided to let the banks run
wild in the interest of keeping their foreclosure mills humming.  Whatever the case, they let the banking industry deal
another huge, self-inflicted blow to its reputation. That’s the
sort of damage regulators are charged with preventing, as part
of their mission to preserve public confidence in the financial
system. And to think Congress just gave the banking regulators,
including the FDIC, even more authority under the Dodd-Frank
Act. The more they fail, the more power they get.  Shady Tactics  Meanwhile, it’s an open question why the mortgage servicers
and their lawyers resorted to tactics such as filing bogus court
affidavits. Was it just about cutting corners? Or was it because
they often don’t know who owns the mortgages on which they’re
foreclosing, and decided to cheat?  Americans expect banks to do shady things to promote their
own self-interest. It’s what banks do. That’s why we have
regulators -- to keep the banks from putting the country at risk
of, say, a nationwide foreclosure fiasco.  The regulators keep blowing it. At IndyMac, though, the
FDIC wasn’t just overseeing the bank. It was operating the bank.
The industry’s minders have hit a new low.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  