-- Fortescue Metals Reports Better-Than-Expected Quarterly Iron Ore Shipments
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-14T06:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/fortescue-metals-reports-first-quarter-iron-ore-shipments-increased-7-7-.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, said first-
quarter shipments rose a better-than-expected 6 percent as
production increased.  The company’s share of shipments was 10.1 million metric
tons in the three months ended June 30, from 9.5 million tons a
year ago, Perth-based Fortescue said today in a statement. It
had forecast 9.5 million tons.  Fortescue said this week it had agreed a $2.04 billion loan
to refinance debt in order to pursue expansions. Production will
continue to operate at an annual rate of 40 million tons until
February, when it will rise to 55 million tons, the company said.  The shipments beat company guidance “despite a number of
scheduled major maintenance” shutdowns at the company’s port
and the mine, Fortescue said in a statement. “Fortescue
continued to diversify its customer base with three shipments
made to new customers in Japan and Australia.”  Fortescue  closed up 1.3 percent to A$6.38 on the Australian
stock exchange. The stock has risen 44 percent so far this year.  The company has outlined plans to expand production to 155
million tons by fiscal 2014 through development of the Solomon
and Western Hub projects, as well as a longer-term expansion to
355 million tons.  Solomon’s initial production start is scheduled for June
2012. The company’s board will discuss a feasibility study for
Solomon, as well as the Chichester expansion and funding
proposals, around the time of its Nov. 19 annual general meeting.  “It’s in our interest to accelerate our expansion plans as
rapidly as we can” while iron ore prices are high, Executive
Director  Russell Scrimshaw  told reporters on a conference call,
adding that Solomon’s timing was “already quite aggressive.”  Total production costs increased to $34.83 a ton, from
$32.25 during the previous three months, partly because of the
stronger Australian dollar, the company said. It received an
average price of $125 a ton, including cost and freight, in the
quarter for its ore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  