-- France Has Enough Fuel to Last a Month If Strike Persists, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-14T08:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/france-has-enough-fuel-to-last-a-month-if-strike-persists-minister-says.html
France has enough fuel stocks for at
least a month should a strike at refineries and the Marseille
oil terminals continue, according to the government. Gasoline
prices rose amid tight supplies.  Fuel consumption increased 50 percent this week as
motorists rushed to fill up their cars, fearing the pumps would
run dry, Junior Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said on
LCI television. “We have what is needed for a month as long as
there isn’t this precautionary buying,” he said.  The strike continued today at some refineries, while it
isn’t clear how many plants voted to continue. “The situation
hasn’t changed,” CGT official  Charles Foulard  said by phone.  Workers at 10 of France’s 12 refineries were on strike
yesterday as part of a protest against President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s pension overhaul, according to the CGT union.  Total
SA , Europe’s biggest refiner, said yesterday it started to halt
operations at all its French plants. The country may face fuel
shortages as early as next week, according to the Union
Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, an industry group.  Gasoline prices in the benchmark Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp market rose. Barges for immediate loading traded
yesterday from $765 to $772 a metric ton, according to a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Argus
bulletin board. Prices have advanced about 13 percent since the
strikes began at the end of last month.  French fuel supply is coming from refineries and fuel
depots through “a system that I won’t detail,” Bussereau said
today, declining to say whether the country will make use of
strategic reserves.  A strike at the port of Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil
terminals, which has blocked crude oil imports, entered its 18th
day. “The port is being taken hostage,” Bussereau said. “They
are killing the port.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  