-- French Unions to Strike on Eve of Senate Vote on Sarkozy Pension Overhaul
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-14T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/french-unions-to-strike-on-eve-of-senate-vote-on-sarkozy-pension-overhaul.html
French labor unrest  will extend into
next week as unions voted to strike Oct. 19, the eve of a Senate
vote on President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill to raise the retirement
age.  Unions are extending the standoff as Sarkozy refuses to
back down from plans to increase the minimum retirement age to
62 from 60. Unions have walked out three times since mid-
September.  “The government and parliament can’t go on ignoring and
disdaining the demands made by workers and unions,” a statement
by seven of the country’s biggest unions said late yesterday.
“We ask senators not to adopt this unjust reform.”  A walkout by refinery workers has threatened fuel shortages
as transport disruptions eased.  Total SA , Europe’s biggest oil
refiner, started to halt operations at its French plants.
Workers at its Donges site near Nantes voted to remain on strike
until Oct. 18, according to the CGT union.  France’s refiners’ group, UFIP, yesterday confirmed the
government authorized the use of strategic fuel reserves to
counter any shortages caused by a strike. Eleven of the
country’s 12 refineries aren’t supplying service stations,
according to the CGT union.  Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau  said yesterday the
nation has enough fuel for at least a month, so long as
consumers stop “precautionary buying.”  Refinery workers are demanding that their positions be
classified as hardship jobs, allowing them to retire at 60.  Deficit Cuts  The government says it needs to balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018. The pension reform is part of the
government’s struggle to reduce the overall deficit. This year
the gap will stand at 7.7 percent of gross domestic product and
Sarkozy plans to cut it to 6 percent next year.  Since the unions’ first protest strike on Sept. 7, the  risk
premium  on French bonds has increased. Investors demand 40 basis
points more to buy 10-year French bonds than comparable German
securities, compared to 30 basis points on Sept. 6.  The reform bill has been approved by the lower house of
parliament, the  National Assembly , while the Senate has approved
key planks, such as raising the minimum age for a pension to 62
from 60 and the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. A final
vote on the bill is scheduled for Oct. 20.  “However difficult it may be to implement this reform, the
government and parliament will press ahead with it in the
general interest calmly and determinedly,” Sarkozy told
ministers at the weekly Cabinet meeting in Paris Oct. 13,
according to government spokesman  Luc Chatel .  Trains  The national railroad company SNCF expects two of three
high-speed intercity trains to operate today, up from four of 10
yesterday. Traffic on the Thalys trains to Brussels will run at
90 percent of normal service, the same as yesterday.  Eurostar service to London hasn’t been affected in the
three days of strikes. About half the suburban trains in the
Paris region will run.  Within Paris, the metro and bus system operated near normal
yesterday, and is expected to do the same today. Three unions,
the CGT, Force Ouvriere, and SUD, voted to continue striking
today.  Air traffic controllers and Air France SA workers held a
one-day strike on Oct. 12, and air travel returned to normal the
next day. Air France unions have called for another strike Oct.
16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Patel  in Paris on   tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  