-- FriendFinder Networks Plans to Join Senior Secured Surge: New Issue Alert
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-10-14T08:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/friendfinder-plans-to-join-senior-secured-surge-new-issue-alert.html
FriendFinder Networks Inc., the
publisher of Penthouse magazine, is marketing debt as sales of
senior secured notes rise toward a record.  The company may issue $296 million of senior secured bonds
due in 2013 to recapitalize, simplify its capital structure and
extend maturities, according to Standard & Poor’s.  Senior secured issuance this year has totaled $60.2 billion
through September, more than double any year prior to 2009,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti . Senior secured sales were $62.4 billion last year,
and averaged $11 billion annually from 2005 to 2008.  “Companies are being very proactive at this point to
refinance the mountain of bank loans that are coming to maturity
in 2013 and 2014, and that’s a positive,” said  Wesley Sparks ,
head of U.S. fixed income at Schroder Investment Management
North America Inc. in New York. “It justifies tighter spreads
in the high-yield bond universe as we now have a higher
percentage of notes that are senior secured bonds.”  Senior secured bonds have priority over other classes of
debt and equity on a corporation’s assets in the event of
liquidation.  Syndicated U.S. leveraged loans peaked at $878 billion in
2007, the year the financial crisis began, and fell to $169
billion last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
total this year is $261.4 billion, the data show.  Bond-Market Demand  “The leveraged loan market had really ballooned a few
years ago,” Sparks said. “But the space is shrinking, and
therefore companies are financing themselves in the market where
there is demand and that is in the bond market.”  The extra yield investors demand to own speculative-grade
debt instead of Treasuries fell 6 basis points to 602 basis
points yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Absolute yields fell 6 basis
points to 7.77 percent, the lowest since June 6, 2007.  “There’s still a fair amount of refinancing left to go,
but there’s also a fair bit of time to work on this,” Sparks
said. “At the same time, high-yield companies cannot wait until
2012 to refinance, because investors might not lend at that
point.”  Companies sold $10.1 billion of debt yesterday, Bloomberg
data show.  Raytheon Co., the world’s biggest missile maker, and ING
Bank NV, a unit of the largest Dutch financial-services firm ING
Groep NV, led investment-grade issuance of $7.84 billion, each
selling $2 billion of notes.  The average yield on investment-grade bonds fell 1 basis
point to 3.57 percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. Investment-grade spreads were
unchanged at 180 basis points, the index data show.  Junk-Bond Sales  XM Satellite led high-yield issuance of $2.28 billion,
selling $700 million of eight-year notes.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Standard & Poor’s assigned Boca Raton, Florida-based
FriendFinder’s notes a grade of B, the rating company said in a
statement.  The following is a description of at least $5.94 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  ROYAL BANK OF CANADA , the country’s biggest lender, plans
to sell debt due in December 2015 in a reopening of an earlier
offering, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
The notes may yield 68 basis points more than similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC plans to sell U.K. mortgage-backed
securities in dollars, pounds, yen and euros, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell sukuk in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. CIMB
Holdings Bhd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the issue, the people said.  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. , India’s biggest company by market
value, plans to sell 10- and 30-year bonds in dollars, according
to a person familiar with the plan, who asked not to be
identified before a public announcement. Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc are managing the sale, the person said. Reliance
intends to raise at least $1 billion from the issue, three
people familiar with the transaction said Oct. 1.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  KOREA GAS CORP., the world’s biggest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, plans to raise as much as $1 billion from dollar-
denominated bonds to fund overseas investments, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The Seongnam-based company
hired five banks to help it sell notes, the person said,
declining to name the banks and asking not to be identified
because the information is confidential. Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG arranged the meetings, the
person said.  Not Rated  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  OMNOVA SOLUTIONS INC., the maker of specialty chemicals
used in paper and carpets, plans to sell $250 million of senior
notes to help fund its purchase of Eliokem International SAS and
to repay or replace bank debt, the Fairlawn, Ohio-based company
said in a statement. A new $200 million term loan will also help
pay for the acquisition, the company said. Omnova has no
outstanding bonds, said company spokeswoman Sandi Noah.  SINO-FOREST CORP. plans to sell $500 million of seven-year
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter. Bank of
America Corp. and Credit Suisse Group AG will manage the sale of
 debt , said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. Sino-Forest has the right to buy the
bonds back after four years, the person said.  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from Standard & Poor’s. S&P rated
the debt from the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  ABENGOA SA, the Seville, Spain-based engineering and
biofuel production company, plans to sell $600 million of seven-
year senior bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG are managing the issue,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
terms weren’t set.  NOMOS BANK, a Russian lender, plans to sell between $300
million and $500 million of three-year bonds at a yield of about
6.5 percent, according to a banker with knowledge of the
transaction. The Moscow-based bank is meeting bond investors for
the offering in a roadshow organized by UBS AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, the banker said.  AVANGARDCO INVESTMENTS PUBLIC LTD., Ukraine’s biggest egg
producer, hired Troika Dialog and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
organize its debut sale of dollar bonds under Regulation S,
which bars sales in the United States, Troika said.  AIR MEDICAL GROUP HOLDINGS INC., the provider of emergency
transportation services in the Southern and Midwestern parts of
the U.S., plans to sell $545 million of eight-year notes to pay
for its acquisition by Bain Capital LLC, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. The notes may yield 9.25 percent to
9.5 percent, the person said.  TUTOR PERINI CORP. plans to sell as much as $300 million of
senior unsecured notes, the construction company said in an Oct.
6 statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used
for acquisitions and stock repurchases, according to the
statement.  OSO SEVERSTAL , Russia’s largest steelmaker, plans to meet
investors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to discuss a sale of
dollar bonds, according to a banker with knowledge of the
roadshow. The company offered to buy back $450 million of bonds
on Sept. 30, more than a third of its 9.75 percent notes due in
2013, aiming to refinance the amount with less expensive debt.  Offerings in Pipeline  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  CENTRAL CHINA REAL ESTATE LTD., part-owned by Singapore’s
CapitaLand Ltd., plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S. dollars
to fund property projects, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange. Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and
ING Groep NV will manage the sale and help arrange meetings with
investors, according to the statement.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at  