-- Clinton, Gates Question Britain's Defense Cuts, See Added Burden for U.S.
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-14T17:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/gates-questions-british-defense-cuts-sees-added-burden-for-u-s-military.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  voiced concern about planned
military spending cuts in Britain and other European countries,
saying the cash-strapped U.S. might have to pick up the slack.  Asked in a BBC Parliament television interview in Brussels
today whether the reduction in expenditure, and specifically
that in Britain, worries the U.S., Clinton replied, “It does.”  “The reason it does is because I think we do have to have
an alliance where there is a commitment to the common defense,”
Clinton said, according to a BBC transcript. “NATO has been the
most successful alliance for defensive purposes in the history
of the world I guess, but it has to be maintained. Now, each
country has to be able to make its appropriate contributions.”  Britain, which possesses Europe’s most potent military and
ranks as the staunchest U.S. ally, is set next week to announce
defense-spending cuts of at least 10 percent as part of a
government-wide austerity drive.  Cutbacks in Europe are “a concern,” Gates said en route
to a NATO meeting in Brussels today, according to a Pentagon
transcript. “My worry is that the more our allies cut their
capabilities, the more people will look to the United States to
cover whatever gaps are created. At a time when we are facing
stringencies of our own, that’s a concern for me.”  Under Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron , Britain is
enmeshed in a debate over how much defense it can afford, facing
an economic bind like the one that forced the U.K. to scale back
its global role after World War II.  ‘Very Serious’  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  brushed aside Gates’s
concerns, saying Britain will remain a dependable ally.  “We inherited a defense budget way overcommitted due to
the irresponsibility of the previous government, so we have to
get that under control,” Hague told reporters at North Atlantic
Treaty Organization headquarters. “We will remain a very
serious country in defense matters.”  A 10 percent to 15 percent cut in defense spending would
shrink Britain’s army by 20 percent and force it to get by with
fewer combat aircraft, Malcolm Chalmers, a fellow at the  Royal
United Services Institute , said in a June analysis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 