-- Gazprom Says European Union Gas Reforms May Cut Supply, Boost Asia Exports
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-10-14T13:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/gazprom-says-european-union-gas-reforms-may-cut-supply-boost-asia-exports.html
OAO Gazprom , Russia’s gas export
monopoly, warned the European Union that changes in pipeline
ownership and a move away from long-term contracts may lead to a
drop in supply and a shift in Russian gas exports to Asia.  The EU’s plan to create independent gas pipeline management
may discourage investments in networks and storage facilities,
while a move to short-term contracts and spot sales may reduce
flows if prices fall, Gazprom Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Medvedev said in an interview posted today on the
company’s website.  “The reliability of European gas supply will be determined
by competition with other global gas markets, primarily in
Asia,” Medvedev said. “The reform poses a real risk of
underinvestment in the European gas industry.”  Gazprom is looking to Asia for growth after relying on
Europe for export revenue for decades. The Gazprom-led venture
started shipping liquefied natural gas to Japan and South Korea
last year and aims to sign a contract next year to supply  China
National Petroleum Corp.  with 30 billion cubic meters of gas
annually for 30 years.  Europe will increase gas imports as the continent’s own
production declines, Medvedev says. Gazprom sees EU gas demand
outstripping its own production by 380 billion cubic meters in
2020 and 440 billion cubic meters in 2030, Medvedev said.
Gazprom, which has traditionally accounted for about a quarter
of Europe’s gas needs, supplied 140.6 billion meters of the fuel
last year.  Oversupply to Disappear  The current oversupply in Europe may disappear as early as
2012 as the economy and demand recovers, Medvedev said.  Gazprom adjusted its long-term contracts for the crisis
period earlier this year to make its supplies competitive and
increase sales volumes, Medvedev said. As demand picks up,
Gazprom has rejected calls for permanent changes, such as a
waiver of take-or-pay clauses that set a minimum amount
customers have to buy, a review of oil-linked prices as often as
every quarter or a full transition to spot prices, the executive
said.  European customers, which sign Gazprom’s supply contracts
for as long as 35 years, must take or pay for a minimum of 172
billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2015 under existing
contracts, CEO Alexei Miller said earlier this week. The gas
monopoly won’t negotiate with customers on terms for these
volumes, he said.  “Some customers ask for such modernization of contracts
that is equal to destruction,” Medvedev said. “Long-term
contracts with a link to petroleum products as their predominant
feature still guarantee a balance of interests between the
purchaser and the seller.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  