-- GB Auto of Egypt Considers Alternatives to Assembling Hyundais, CFO Says
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-10-14T16:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/gb-auto-of-egypt-considers-alternatives-to-assembling-hyundais-cfo-says.html
GB Auto , the Middle East’s biggest
independent carmaker, is considering partnering with Chinese or
Indian manufacturers should South Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co.  not
renew the contract to assemble cars in Egypt two years from now.  “The indication is they will stop supplying the current
model by the end of 2012,”  Colin Sykes , chief financial officer
of Cairo-based GB Auto, said in a telephone interview Oct. 11.
“We cannot just wait till 2013 to look at our options, so we’re
studying other options now especially as there is already excess
capacity.”  Cairo-based GB Auto has been assembling variations of the
Hyundai Accent, a four-cylinder sedan, in Egypt since 1995. The
company expects to complete the upgrade of its factory by the
first quarter of 2011, raising its capacity to 80,000 vehicles
per year from 30,000, Sykes said.  GB Auto  plans to produce at
full capacity by the end of next year, he said.  An official from South Korea’s largest automaker, who
declined to be identified as a matter of company policy, said
the contract with the assembly unit of GB Auto ends in 2011 and
negotiations regarding a possible extension may take place at
that time.  Makes Sense  “To support its overall sales, it makes sense for Hyundai
Motor Co. to focus on growing its exports rather than on
allowing overseas assembly through plants it doesn’t own,” said
 Nour Farrag , equity analyst at Cairo-based investment bank EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE. “For GB Auto, it’s a good opportunity for
them to explore opportunities with other manufacturers.”  Should Hyundai end the assembly contract, GB Auto would
continue to import the vehicles, Sykes said.  Verbal discussions on the management level secured the
supplies until the end of 2012, GB’s Sykes said. The progress of
Chinese and Indian  car manufacturers  “cannot be ignored,” and
may accelerate with more industry consolidation, he said.  GB Auto, which relies on passenger car sales for almost 70
percent of revenue, is diversifying its income by expanding
financing and after-sales services, Sykes said.  GB Auto gained 1.5 percent to 49.5 Egyptian pounds at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, valuing the company at 6.39 billion
pounds.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  