-- GE Investors Look for Profit Growth as Immelt Spends on `Industrial Roots'
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-14T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ge-investors-look-for-profit-growth-as-immelt-spends-on-industrial-roots-.html
General Electric Co.’s   Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  aims to deliver consistent
profit growth after the recession by concentrating $25 billion
of stockpiled cash on industrial businesses, some of which date
to the company’s founding by  Thomas Edison .  Investors will scrutinize tomorrow’s third-quarter earnings
report for indications of how well his strategy is working.
Analysts project a  second straight quarter  of higher profit
after eight periods in which it declined or was little changed.
Adjusted earnings may be 27 cents a share on sales of $37.4
billion, the average of estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Immelt, 54, is  shrinking  the finance unit to “come back to
the industrial and infrastructure roots that made the company
great,”  Steven Winoker , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said after GE’s agreement last week  to pay  $3 billion for
Dresser Inc., a maker of oil-field equipment.  GE, the world’s biggest producer of power-plant turbines,
jet engines and medical-imaging machines, expects to have as
much as $25 billion in discretionary funds at the parent-company
level by year-end after hoarding cash during the recession,
selling a majority stake in NBC Universal and  honing GE
Capital’s focus  on fields where it has a distinct advantage.  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company raised its
 dividend  20 percent in July and resumed share buybacks while
boosting research and industrial acquisition spending.  The  stock , which dropped more than seven times as much as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the five years through 2009,
responded. Before today, GE climbed 14 percent in 2010, while
the S&P 500 gained 5.7 percent. The shares today fell 12 cents
to $17.16 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading.  ‘Value Story’  “GE is still a value story, given that it is unlikely to
see meaningful earnings upside until 2012,”  Deane Dray , a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York, said in a research note. He
has a “buy” rating on the stock, while Winoker, also based in
New York, rates it “outperform.”  The company may benefit from lower credit-loss provisions
at GE Capital and at the corporate level as Immelt seeks to pare
net investment in the finance unit to  $440 billion  in 2012,
Deutsche Bank AG’s Nigel Coe and other analysts wrote in reports
to investors this month.  Immelt is starting to make acquisitions in areas where the
finance unit is dominant, including the purchase of $1.6 billion
in U.S. consumer loans last week from Citigroup Inc.  “It’s reassuring, the Dresser deal and the Citigroup deal,
because those weren’t bet-the-ranch deals to get growth,” said
 Peter Sorrentino , a senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors Inc. in Cincinnati. “It’s nice to see them do logical
bolt-ons.”  Three-Year Outlook  During the next three years, the parent company may have as
much as $30 billion to spend on acquisitions that would expand
existing businesses while continuing to grow via research and
development, said Vice Chairman  John Rice , who oversees the GE
Technology Infrastructure segment, including aviation,
transportation and health-care divisions.  “That doesn’t mean we’ll spend that money,” Rice said at
a September investor conference. “We’re not going to chase bad
deals just so we can say we spent x billion on M&A.”  During the three months through September, GE Energy sales
may have declined amid fewer wind-turbine shipments, while
orders probably rose as the unit expands through purchases and
adds products such as solar-energy equipment, Winoker and Coe
said.  ‘No Apologies’  Higher prices and new products may drive a third straight
profit increase at the health-care division, Sorrentino said in
an interview.  “With health care, I don’t think there’s going to be any
apologies,” he said.  Sorrentino, whose firm  owns  5.48 million GE shares,
estimated profit of 29 cents a share, compared with the 27-cent
average estimate of 13 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  Sales of $37.4 billion, the average of 10 estimates, would
be little changed from a year earlier.  Sorrentino has a 36-month price target of $24 for GE
shares, presuming the economic recovery continues.  “I’m a little more optimistic” than most Wall Street
analysts, Sorrentino said. “Barring any ‘What was that?’
announcements” on a conference call to discuss the earnings
report, results should reassure investors, Sorrentino said.  ‘Headed the Right Way’  Shareholders typically look at industrial equipment,
service and total backlogs to gauge how quickly orders may turn
into revenue and profit. Total equipment orders rose 17 percent
in the second quarter while the backlog held steady at $172
billion, GE said.  “This is not a quick turn, but it is one that is certainly
headed the right way,” said  Nick Heymann , a New York analyst
with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. who has a “neutral”  rating  on
the stock. “The big dividend increase was designed to return
effectively the growing cash pile the company has accumulated
and now we’re starting to see them put it back to work from an
acquisition standpoint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  