-- General Motors Cites Conflict of Interest With Citigroup in Stock Offering
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-14T18:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/general-motors-cites-conflict-of-interest-with-citigroup-in-stock-offering.html
General Motors Co. said a conflict
of interest exists because Citigroup Global Markets Inc., an
underwriter on its planned initial public offering, is an
affiliate of the U.S. Treasury.  GM had to make the matter known under Rule 2720 of the
Conduct Rules of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
Inc. because Citigroup is 12 percent owned by the U.S.
government. The U.S. Treasury also owns 61 percent of  GM . As a
result, Citigroup must get written consent before selling GM
shares to clients with discretionary accounts.  The disclosure underscores the conflicts that can arise
when the federal government owns stakes in companies seeking to
raise money on Wall Street while also owning part of investment
banks such as  Citigroup .  “The concern is that Citigroup will be acting to please
Treasury rather than in the best interest of its customers,”
 Robert Hillman , a securities law professor at the University of
California, Davis, said in a telephone interview. “By investing
any of its clients’ money over which it has control in GM stock
-- which is in the Treasury’s interest -- Treasury benefits from
any money that Citi invests in GM.”  Mark Paustenbach , a Treasury spokesman, and Noreen
Pratscher, a GM spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Offering Size  GM filed a registration statement for the IPO on Aug. 18
and amended it today. The company plans to sell $8 billion to
$10 billion in stock in November, two people familiar with the
matter said last month. The offering could be as low as
$6 billion if there isn’t enough demand for the shares, they
said.  In the amended filing, GM said the Treasury has set
guidelines to maximize taxpayer returns. The U.S. government
acquired its stake as part of GM receiving $50 billion from the
federal government in its 2009 bankruptcy.  GM said the Treasury’s guidelines balance price per share,
total proceeds to the taxpayer, a “stable” shareholder base,
and “broad interest in follow-on offerings to the extent
practicable,” the filing said.  Potential investors will be sought “across multiple
geographies,” according to the filing. The offering should give
so-called retail investors an opportunity to participate, the
filing said.  For the U.S. to recoup its $50 billion investment in GM, it
needs to sell at an average price, before splits, of $131 a
share, a person familiar with the matter said earlier this
month. The stock will likely be split to sell at an initial
price of around $20 a share in part to attract retail investors,
the person said.  Sovereign Wealth Funds  Investment bankers for GM have met with sovereign wealth
funds and private investors in the Middle East and Asia to gauge
interest in the offering, Bloomberg reported Oct. 5, citing two
people familiar with the meetings.  GM’s bankers planned to approach Riyadh, Saudi Arabia-based
 Kingdom Holding Co. , Abu Dhabi-based Mubadala Development Co.,
Qatar Holdings LLC and Singapore-based  Temasek Holdings Pte. 
about GM’s initial public offering, said one of the people.  SAIC Motor Corp. , which has partnered with GM to make cars
together in China for more than a decade, also has said it may
participate in the offering. SAIC will consider investing in GM
if “conditions are favorable,” Chairman  Hu Maoyuan  said last
month.  GM’s underwriters have reserved as much as 5 percent of the
shares of common stock being sold through a directed share
program to employees, retirees and dealers in the U.S. and
Canada, according to the filing.  Directed Share Program  GM and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney have set up a  website 
where workers, retirees, dealers and directors can buy shares.
The minimum investment for the program is expected to be $1,000,
according to the website.  The amended filing also adds new language stating that if
the Treasury elects to exert more control over the company, as a
government entity it “may have a greater interest in promoting
U.S. economic growth and jobs than other shareholders.”  A covenant to GM’s loan agreement with the Treasury as part
of its bankruptcy last year requires that the automaker use
“commercially reasonable best efforts” to be within 90 percent
of U.S. manufacturing targets that project 25 percent growth in
domestic production by 2014. Those targets were disclosed in a
previous GM filing last month.  Today’s filing says that GM’s  Chevrolet  Volt, scheduled to
start production next month, “always makes use of electric
power within the drive unit at all times and at all speeds.”  Volt Reviews  The language has been added after auto publications
including Edmunds.com, Motor Trend and Popular Mechanics
questioned in reviews this week whether the Volt was truly an
electric car because its four-cylinder gasoline engine
indirectly helps turn the car’s wheels.  GM said in an Oct. 11 statement that there is no direct
mechanical connection between the Volt’s gasoline engine and the
drive wheels.  Separately, GM said litigation related to GM Daewoo, GM’s
majority-owned affiliate in Korea, may result in a loss of as
much as 332 billion Korean won, or about $290 million, according
to the company’s preliminary estimate.  The three separate group actions filed by current and
former hourly employees of GM Daewoo allege that the company
excluded certain allowances in its wages that were due under the
Presidential Decree of the Korean Labor Standards Act, GM said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 