-- Genzyme's Campath Helps Multiple Sclerosis Patients at 5 Years
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-10-14T13:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/genzyme-s-campath-helps-multiple-sclerosis-patients-at-5-years.html
Genzyme Corp. ’s Campath cut the risk
of relapse in multiple sclerosis patients by 69 percent compared
with  Merck KGaA ’s Rebif after five years, according to a study.  Patients on Campath had an annualized relapse rate of 0.11,
while for those getting Rebif the rate was 0.35 at the end of
five years, according to data presented today at the  European
Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis 
meeting in Sweden. Campath is currently used to treat a type of
blood cancer.  The study, from the second of three phases of clinical
tests generally required for U.S. approval, is a five-year
follow-up to data published in 2008 in the New England Journal
of Medicine. Genzyme, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is now
in the final stage of testing Campath, also known as
alemtuzumab, for  multiple sclerosis  and expects data from those
trials in 2011.  “These long-term patient follow-up data suggest that
alemtuzumab may have a significant disease-modifying effect in
patients with early, active, relapsing-remitting multiple
sclerosis,” said Alasdair Coles, a senior lecturer in the
Department of Clinical Neurosciences at the University of
Cambridge and a lead investigator of the trial, in a statement.  Relapsing-remitting MS, the most common form of the chronic
nerve disorder, is characterized by flare-ups of symptoms with
some recovery in between relapses.  Genzyme rose 8 cents to $72.68 at 9:41 a.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. Before today, the
shares gained 48 percent this year, boosted by an unsolicited
takeover bid for the company by French drugmaker  Sanofi-Aventis
SA .  Once Yearly Dosing  In the study, patients on Campath received a course of the
medication once annually for two or three years. Campath is
given by infusion in a cycle of about five days. Patients on
Rebif were given the drug three times weekly for three years.  The research found that 13 percent of patients taking
Campath experienced an increase in disabilities compared with 38
percent of those taking Rebif, Genzyme said.  Genzyme’s drug was associated with a 30 percent risk of
developing an autoimmune thyroid problem, and six patients
taking the drug developed a bleeding disorder called  immune
thrombocytopenic purpura , or ITP. The first ITP patient’s
symptoms weren’t recognized and the disorder led to a fatal
cerebral hemorrhage, the company said. One patient in the Rebif
arm developed ITP.  Safety, Side Effects  “We’re not convinced that Campath is going to be a big
product in multiple sclerosis,” said  Phil Nadeau , an analyst
with Cowen & Co., in a Sept. 30 telephone interview. “Efficacy
looked great, but what will really determine how successful it
is will be safety and side effects. In Phase 2 it had some
issues.”  Nadeau estimates that Campath could bring in about $500
million in annual revenue with added approval for multiple
sclerosis. The drug had less than $150 million in 2009 revenue,
according to Genzyme.  Patients are monitored with blood and urine tests to detect
such disorders, and most are remedied with treatment, said
 Michael Panzara , head of Genzyme’s multiple sclerosis and immune
diseases unit.  “What we’ve learned, in general, of potent treatments for
MS is that you’re going to have a risk of various side
effects,” Panzara said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The good news about our profile is we can detect these
things.”  2.5 Million People  Multiple sclerosis, which affects about 2.5 million people
worldwide including 400,000 in the U.S., is a disease in which
the immune system attacks nerve coverings, damaging the brain’s
ability to communicate with the rest of the body. The disease
can cause blurred vision, loss of balance, slurred speech and
tremors among other symptoms, according to the  National Multiple
Sclerosis Society .  The first pill for the disease on the U.S. market, Gilenya
from  Novartis AG  in Basel, Switzerland, was approved by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in September. The medicine will
compete with drugs given by injection, including Rebif from
Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck KGaA, Avonex from  Biogen Idec
Inc.  in Weston, Massachusetts, and Copaxone from  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  in Petah Tikva, Israel.  Even compared with taking a pill every day, Genzyme’s
Campath could be appealing to some patients who prefer to have
treatment just once a year, said Nicholas LaRocca, vice
president of healthcare delivery and policy research at the
Multiple Sclerosis Society.  “Compared to having to do any kind of daily dosing,
whether it’s an injection or a capsule, the idea of only having
to have a treatment once a year could be very convenient,”
LaRocca said in an Oct. 1 telephone interview. “The more
options that we can have available for people, the more likely
it is that patients will find a therapy that works best for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 