-- Georgia Moves to Curb President's Powers Before 2013 Change of Leadership
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2010-10-14T10:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/georgia-moves-to-curb-president-s-powers-before-2013-change-of-leadership.html
Georgian lawmakers plan to vote
tomorrow on constitutional amendments that would scale back the
powers of the president and strengthen parliament as the former
Soviet republic prepares for a change of leadership in 2013.  The proposed changes, already passed in two preliminary
readings, would make the president more of an “arbiter,”  Davit
Bakradze , speaker of parliament, said in interview late
yesterday in the capital Tbilisi. “The constitution will be
closer to the European Union model, more balanced.”  Bakradze said the next president will retain the power to
order troops into combat as commander-in-chief, as  Mikheil Saakashvili  did in August 2008. Georgia’s army was routed by
Russia in a five-day war over the breakaway Georgian region of
South Ossetia that caused about $1 billion of damage to the
country’s economy.  Since sweeping to power in the Rose Revolution in 2003,
Saakashvili has faced bitter opposition from former allies, who
have blamed him for the war with Russia and called for his
resignation. Opposition leaders also accuse Saakashvili of
clamping down on democracy and freedom of speech.  “We’ve had three turbulent presidencies in our recent
history and the current system can’t prevent a political crisis
from occurring in the future,” Bakradze said. “Something had
to be done.”  Bakradze, a long-time ally of Saakashvili, said the
president supports the proposed amendments.  Violent Clashes  Georgia’s first post-Soviet president,  Zviad Gamsakhurdia ,
was overthrown after less than a year in office as the country
plunged into civil war. He died in 1993 in circumstances that
remain unclear.  Gamsakhurdia was succeeded by  Eduard Shevardnadze , who
served from 1995-2003, when he resigned under popular pressure.
Saakashvili was elected in January 2004 and resigned in 2007
after violent clashes between police and opposition protesters,
and called an early election, which he won. His current term
ends in 2013.  The focus of the changes is to require the president to
consult with parliament and the government on issues from
foreign policy to top military appointments. The president is
barred from holding a leadership position in a political party.  Levan Vepkhvadze , a deputy speaker of parliament from the
opposition Christian Democratic party, said Saakashvili may try
to become prime minister when his presidential term expires if
his United National Movement wins a majority at the polls.  “Georgia has no viable opposition at the moment,”
Alexander Rondeli, head of the Tbilisi-based Georgian Foundation
for Strategic and International Studies, said by telephone.
“The government is trying to hold on to power to keep the
country from straying from the path they’ve been on since the
Rose Revolution.”  “It would be deadly for Georgia if the next government
were to go back to appeasing Russia,” Rondeli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helena Bedwell  in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  