-- German Institutes Say Economy to Grow 3.5% in 2010
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-14T09:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/german-institutes-see-3-5-growth-in-2010-2-in-2011-on-domestic-demand.html
The German economy, Europe’s
largest, will expand more than twice the pace previously
projected this year as consumers step up spending, the country’s
leading institutes said in a twice-yearly  joint forecast .  Gross domestic product will rise 3.5 percent in 2010 and 2
percent in 2011, the institutes said in a statement today. In
April, they forecast the economy to expand 1.5 percent this year
and 1.4 percent next. That was before the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden said surging exports helped fuel the fastest
expansion in two decades in the second quarter.  German companies may become increasingly reliant on
consumer demand as a stronger euro threatens to hurt exports
just as the global recovery is losing momentum. While  investor
confidence  dropped to a 19-month low in September, Bundesbank
President Axel Weber said on Oct. 10 that the country’s recovery
remains “intact” even with growth weakening.  Germany’s economy “is well on track to recoup the slump in
production caused by the crisis,” the economic institutes said
in the e-mailed statement. “The domestic economy jump-started
this year. Consumer spending as well as corporate investments
accelerated noticeably.”  The European Commission on Sept. 13 also raised its German
growth forecast for this year, saying GDP will increase 3.4
percent instead of a previously projected 1.2 percent. The euro-
region economy may expand 1.7 percent, it said.  Faster Hiring  Consumers may step up spending as companies add workers.
The country’s  unemployment  rate will drop to 7 percent in 2011
from 7.7 percent this year with the number of job-seekers
declining to 2.9 million from 3.2 million, the institutes said.
The jobless rate is now 7.5 percent -- the lowest since April
1992, shortly after the country’s reunification.  While export growth and corporate investments have slowed
in the second half of 2010, consumer spending is set to show a
“noticeable increase for the first time in several years,” the
institutes said.  Spending cuts and the expiry of economic-growth programs
will shrink Germany’s budget deficit to 2.7 percent of GDP in
2011 from 3.8 percent this year even as the economy’s expansion
cools, the institutes said. The Brussels-based commission sees
the euro-area deficit at 6.6 percent of GDP this year and at 6.1
percent in 2011. That’s above the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of GDP.  ‘Good’ Shape  “Criticism that this may threaten the recovery is
unfounded,” the institutes said. “In fact, it has become clear
during the financial and economic crisis that large and
especially global shocks can only be mastered by countries that
are in good financial shape.”  The institutes also called for the introduction of
insolvency rules for states and banks. They rejected proposals
to extend the EU rescue fund for members of the euro area beyond
2013 or introduce pooled bond sales that would benefit
peripheral euro-region governments.  The government has selected four economic institute groups
to provide twice-yearly, joint assessments of the economic
outlook. The eight organizations, grouped into four cooperating
units, are Munich’s Ifo institute with the KOF institute in
Zurich; the IfW institute in Kiel with the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research; the IW Halle institute with Kiel
Economics and Research Forecasting; and the RWI Essen institute
with the Institute for Hoehere Studien in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  