-- Global `Liquidity Wave' to Boost China, Asian Stocks, RBS Strategists Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-14T07:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/global-liquidity-wave-to-boost-china-asian-stocks-rbs-strategists-say.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
turned bullish on stocks in China and the rest of Asia, saying
they will benefit from a global “liquidity wave” as central
banks around the world reverse their tightening policies.  China’s “relative valuations, liquidity conditions and
ownership levels are now more attractive after a long period of
substantial underperformance,”  Emil Wolter  and  Dylan Cheang ,
Singapore-based analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland, wrote in a
report sent yesterday. The analysts raised their view on China
and Asian stocks to “overweight” from “underweight.”  The  MSCI China Index  of mostly Hong Kong-traded Chinese
companies has gained 11 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with 15 percent for the Asia Pacific excluding Japan gauge. It
trades at 15.9 times reported earnings, compared with 16.6 times
for the rival gauge. The  Shanghai Composite Index , the measure
for mainland-traded stocks, rallied for a sixth day, gaining 0.6
percent to 2,879.64 at the 3 p.m. close. It has rebounded 22
percent from the 2010 low on July 5, entering a bull market this
week on signs the nation’s economic growth will remain resilient
and the government will loosen curbs on bank lending.  Chinese banks extended a more-than-estimated 595.5 billion
yuan ($89 billion) in new local-currency loans last month,
according to the People’s Bank of China. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists was 500 billion yuan.  M2, the broadest measure of money supply, rose 19 percent
in September from a year earlier, the central bank added. That
compared with economists’ 18.9 percent median estimate.  Stocks also gained as U.S. Federal Reserve minutes showed
policy makers last month were prepared to ease monetary policy
“before long” and focused on purchases of Treasury securities
and boosting inflation expectations as ways to add stimulus.  ‘Liquidity Wave’  “A reversal in global economic policies is unleashing a
second liquidity wave,” the RBS analysts wrote. “The near-term
consequence will likely be a renewed surge in excess liquidity
available for short-term financial speculation.”  Wolter joins other strategists in growing more positive on
the nation’s stocks. China may extend its rally since the end of
the nation’s weeklong National Day holiday as economic
fundamentals remain solid and valuations aren’t demanding, China
International Capital Corp.’s  Hao Hong  said Oct. 11.  China’s stocks are in a “solid bull market” and the
nation’s indexes may rise 20 percent in the next six months,
according to  Robert Lutts , president and chief investment
officer of Cabot Money Management.  “I like growth in the economy, I like valuations and I
think profitability will be very strong,” Lutts, based in Salem,
Massachusetts, wrote in e-mailed comments. “I now have a large
weighting in China.”  Mobius View  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $40 billion as chairman of
Templeton’s emerging markets group, said yesterday the rally in
Chinese stocks is “going to continue” and is “sustainable”
as investors increase purchases in a market that has lagged
behind gains in Asia.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index , where eight of the 10 biggest
stocks by weighting are Chinese companies, may rise to 26,500 by
the end of 2011, according to Citigroup Inc. The brokerage
raised its forecast from 23,050, citing improved earnings
expectations and a higher target multiple, according to a report
by analysts including  Anil Daswani .  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  