-- Gokarn Signals Currency Market Intervention as Inflows Fuel Rupee Rally
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-10-15T09:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/gokarn-signals-currency-market-intervention-as-inflows-fuel-rupee-rally.html
The Reserve Bank of India said it
may intervene in the currency markets to shield exporters as
capital inflows this year fueled a rally in the rupee, making it
the best performer in Asia in the past month.  The local currency gained 5.2 percent in the past 30 days
as global investors this year poured a record $23 billion into
local shares and $10 billion in rupee debt to profit from an
economy  growing  at an annual pace exceeding 8 percent. The
capital account showed a surplus of $17.5 billion in the quarter
to June 30, compared with a record  shortfall  of $13.7 billion in
its current account as  imports  grew faster than  exports .  “It comes down to a balancing act between making sure
there’s enough money to finance your current-account deficit,
but at the same time not do any serious damage to people whose
competitiveness is undermined for no fault of their own,”
central bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said yesterday at a
conference organized by Bloomberg UTV in the northern city of
Chandigarh.  India is among the latest to signal it will stem currency
gains after central banks from Brazil to Israel and Thailand
intervened in foreign-exchange markets. Japan sold yen last
month for the first time since 2004 and Brazil warned of a
global “currency war.” Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said today
that the Reserve Bank of India may intervene “if inflows are
lumpy and volatile” and disrupt the economy.  Rupee Intervention  “That remains our policy but I cannot comment when we will
intervene or when we will not,” Subbarao said after the central
bank’s board meeting in the northern Indian city of Chandigarh.  The rupee gained 0.3 percent to 44 against the dollar at
1:38 p.m. in Mumbai today.  Infosys Technologies Ltd., India’s second-largest software
maker, called on the central bank to intervene to reduce the
volatility of the currency.  “We’ve seen the rupee go from 52 to 39 and back and
forth,” Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan said today in
Bangalore, where Infosys is based. “It will kill the whole
export industry. The RBI has no choice but to intervene at some
point in time, like every other country. I’m not the RBI
governor, but if I was, I’d do it now.”  Trade Deficit  India’s merchandise sales overseas grew an average 30
percent a month this year compared with 43 percent for imports,
according to data provided by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. The monthly  trade deficit  in August reached $13
billion, approaching a record gap of $15.8 billion touched two
years earlier when the global financial crisis triggered a
global recession.  The Indian central bank has kept out of the currency market
even as its own  trade-weighted index  for the rupee against a
basket of 36 currencies has risen above 100 since April,
signaling overvaluation, according to data on its website. The
so-called real effective exchange rate index was 100.87 in July.  “Ultimately, it is self-interest and not necessarily what
the rest of the world is doing,” Gokarn said.  Exchange rates dominated the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington last week on concern
that officials are relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth,
risking retaliatory devaluations and trade barriers.  Central banks intervene by buying or selling their
currencies to influence exchange rates.  ‘Currency War’  Japan intervened for the first time in six years, selling
2.12 trillion yen ($26 billion) from Aug. 28 through Sept. 28,
the Ministry of Finance said in Tokyo on Sept. 30. Brazil’s
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  warned two days earlier of a
global “currency war.” The Chilean peso dropped from a 28-
month high on Oct. 13 on speculation the central bank will
announce its intervention policy, while  Moshe Nir , a currency
trader at Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd. in Tel Aviv said the
Bank of Israel bought $200 million to halt shekel gains the same
day.  India’s rupee has also gained this year as record share
sales by companies spur overseas funds to add to their
unprecedented purchases, and the central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  five times to curb an  inflation  rate
that touched a 20-month high in April.  Subbarao has increased the repurchase rate by 1.25
percentage points to 6 percent since mid-March, luring funds
from abroad, as the wholesale price index rose 11 percent in
April. The pace of gains in the index slowed to 8.5 percent in
August. The commerce ministry will report September data today
in New Delhi.  Monetary Tightening  “We continue to expect the Reserve Bank to hike interest
rates in the Nov. 2 policy meeting, to curb high and persistent
inflation, elevated inflationary expectations and rising asset
prices,” Goldman Sachs economist  Tushar Poddar  wrote in an Oct.
12 note to clients. Goldman Sachs expects the RBI to increase
policy rates by as much as another one percentage point by the
end of June.  The current level of inflation is “a little bit
disconcerting,” Gokarn said. Subbarao, who spoke at the same
conference said multiple indexes for consumer and wholesale
prices are a “constraint” in setting rate policy.  India’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in the three months
through June, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. Still, recent
economic data show consumer demand may be waning. Manufacturing
and services in September grew at the slowest pace in 10 months,
according to the purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  India’s  industrial production  expanded 5.6 percent in
August, the slowest pace in 15 months, a government report
showed Oct. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 