-- Gold May Advance on Demand for Currency Alternative, According to Survey
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/gold-may-advance-on-demand-for-currency-alternative-according-to-survey.html
Gold, which climbed to a record for
five consecutive weeks, may extend gains as investors seek an
alternative to currencies, a survey found.  Fifteen of 19 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 79 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Three forecast lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for
December delivery was up 2.4 percent for this week at $1,377.30
an ounce at 11:13 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York after
touching an all-time high of $1,388.10 earlier in the day.  The dollar yesterday slipped to the lowest level since
January against the euro and fell to a 15-year low versus the
yen as initial jobless claims unexpectedly rose in the U.S.,
encouraging speculation the Federal Reserve will ease policy
further. Bullion is heading for a 10th consecutive annual gain
as central banks and governments maintained low borrowing costs
and spent trillions of dollars to stimulate economies.  Low interest rates, speculation the Fed will step up debt
purchases and “competitive currency devaluations and debasement
are a heady cocktail likely to keep the gold market in good
spirits and gold prices buoyant for the foreseeable future,”
said  Mark O’Byrne , executive director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd.
in Dublin.  Fed policy makers next meet on Nov. 2-3. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak today on monetary policy objectives and
tools in Boston. He said on Oct. 4 that the central bank’s first
round of large-scale asset purchases aided the economy and that
further quantitative easing is likely to help more.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling that most respondents expect a
decline. The green line shows the gold price. The data shown are
as of Oct. 8.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 192 of 332 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 15  Bearish : 3  Neutral : 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 