-- Goldman No. 1 at Rating Financial Companies With 38% Right
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/goldman-gets-38-right-as-no-1-firm-rating-financial-companies-worldwide.html
It’s been a rough three years for
banks, securities firms and insurers -- even rougher for the
analysts whose job it is to predict how the stocks of these
firms will perform, Bloomberg Markets reports in its November
issue.  Starting in the second half of 2007, the financial system
unraveled. First, the market for securities backed by subprime
mortgages collapsed. By the second half of 2008, stock markets
around the world were in free fall. Then, starting in March
2009, stocks roared back in the most powerful rally since the
1930s.  “I don’t even remember when things were normal,” says
 Daniel Harris , a financial services analyst at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  “Every analyst that has been around in financial
services during this time has a newfound respect for the depth
that  stock prices  can go to.”  A semblance of normalcy returned to the markets in the
summer of 2010, says  Frederick Cannon , co-director of research
at investment bank  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  “We actually had
a stretch this August when most of Wall Street went off to the
Hamptons and you could finally take a little bit of a breather
for the first time in three years.”  Goldman Sachs and KBW did better than most at figuring out
where markets were headed. Goldman is No. 1 and KBW No. 2 in the
Bloomberg Markets ranking of the world’s best financial sector
research firms. Goldman’s Harris is one of the top three
analysts of financial service firms, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  2,500 Analysts  The ranking is based on stock recommendations made by more
than 2,500 analysts worldwide at 77 research firms and
investment banks from January 2008 to July 2010. It looks at the
analysts’ “buy,” “hold” and “sell” calls on shares of 90 of the
largest banks, diversified financial service companies and
insurers in the U.S., Europe and Asia with at least 20 analysts
covering them.  Even the best of the firms and individual stock pickers
failed to accurately predict the fall and rise of most big
financial stocks. Goldman Sachs’s analysts won their No. 1 rank
by making 30 accurate calls on the 79 financial stocks they
follow, or 38 percent, while KBW’s No. 2 post was based on 27
prescient calls on 78 stocks.  “It was a very difficult climate to make stock
recommendations in,” says S.P. Kothari, a professor of
management and deputy dean at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s  Sloan School of Management  in Cambridge. “First,
you had to predict the downfall of the financial sector in 2008,
which only very few people did. Then, you had to change your
outlook to catch the recovery -- all within a relatively short
period of time.”  Looking for Ideas  Jason Brady , a managing director at Santa Fe, New Mexico-
based Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $56
billion, says he doesn’t read analyst reports for picks on
individual stocks.  “It’s unusual to see original thinking in these reports,
even though that’s what’s most valuable to me,” he says. “The
ones who are different aren’t always right, but they’re
frequently the most interesting and thoughtful.”  Harris’s best call was the “buy” he put on retail broker  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp.  on Dec. 9, 2008, according to Bloomberg
data. The shares sold at $12.80 at the time and rose 46 percent
in the following 12 months. After the Goldman Sachs analyst put
a “hold” on the stock in December 2009, it declined 16 percent
through the end of July.  Schwab Sell Call  While he called the rise of TD Ameritrade, Harris advised
investors to sell  Charles Schwab Corp.  in September 2009 before
going to a “hold” recommendation earlier this year; its stock
has since fallen 16 percent.  “We liked Ameritrade better than Charles Schwab because we
thought their management was being more aggressive in what they
were trying to do to battle a very challenging environment,”
Harris says. “They were active managers of their capital. They
made the  acquisition  of Thinkorswim to boost their trading
activities.”  TD Ameritrade acquired  Thinkorswim Group Inc. , a New York
options brokerage, in January 2009 for $748.6 million to tap
into fast-growing investor interest in the options market.  Volatile markets have been the least of New York-based
KBW’s tribulations. In 2001, the investment bank lost 67
employees, including 22 from its research department, in the
Sept. 11 terrorist strike that brought down the World Trade
Center.  ‘A Wild Ride’  “It’s been a crazy time for us for the past nine years,”
says  John Howard , 56, co-director of research with Cannon. He
has been at KBW since 1982 and moved to research from sales in
2001 as part of the effort to rebuild that department. “Combine
9/11 with everything that has happened over the past couple of
years in the market, and it’s been a wild ride for the firm,” he
says.  Howard sits in KBW’s “living room” -- a lounge on the
fourth floor of the firm’s new midtown Manhattan offices -- next
to a memorial sculpture made from a steel girder salvaged from
the Trade Center. The sculpture complements a painting of an
American flag in the lobby with the names of the KBW dead
written on the stripes.  KBW is the seventh-largest U.S. investment bank, with a
market capitalization of $949.9 million and a total of 562
employees today. It provides advisory services mostly to other
financial firms.  Crash Economics  The market crash and subsequent rise made equity analysts’
jobs harder, because the events had little to do with individual
companies’ performance, says  Anton Schutz , who uses KBW’s
research and trading services in his management of $250 million
in financial shares at Mendon Capital Advisors Corp. in
Rochester, New York.  “Macro developments drove the stocks so that intelligent
stock picking was difficult,” Schutz says. “But you still had to
make sure you didn’t buy the losers such as Bear Stearns and
that you picked the survivors such as  JPMorgan . KBW helped solve
that puzzle for us.”  Cannon, 54, says his analysts do bottom-up research,
focusing on a financial company’s fundamentals more than on the
economic climate in which it’s operating.  “We were able to see macro trends during the financial
crisis because we were looking so hard at the micro level,” he
says. “When we looked across the about 600 banks we cover, it
was staring us in the face.”  A Hold on Discover  KBW analyst  Sanjay Sakhrani , who’s one of the top two U.S.
credit-card analysts, according to Bloomberg data, reacted early
to deteriorating economic conditions by putting a “hold” on the
stock of card issuer  Discover  Financial Services in December
2007, as delinquent payments began to rise.  The stock fell 39 percent in the next 18 months. In the 13
months after Sakhrani, 35, switched to a “buy” rating in June
2009, the stock rose 44 percent.  Sakhrani in mid-August 2009 added  American Express  to his
buy list. He thinks American Express will benefit from a rise in
consumer credit quality, growth in spending and an increase in
fees.  Goldman’s Harris says that, unlike KBW, his team uses the
expertise of the firm’s economists to help pick stocks.  Goldman 
was one of the first banks to predict, in 2007, that interest
rates would remain  low  for a long period of time. At the end of
2009, it forecast there would be no rate hike until at least
2012.  “I leveraged the knowledge and the forecasts that Goldman
had on interest rates and unemployment to help me determine what
the best stock selections were,” Harris, 36, says. “Our macro
research helped our micro research.”  Burnell Picks Goldman  A timely “buy” rating on  Goldman Sachs  itself helped earn
 Wells Fargo & Co.  analyst  Matt Burnell  a spot among the best
analysts of diversified banks. His call came in April 2009, a
month after the market turned positive. By July 30 of this year,
when he still had a “buy” on the stock, it was up 33 percent.  Burnell, 48, says he saw Goldman stock rising because of
its strong market position and modest exposure to mortgages and
other loans. At the same time he rated Goldman a “buy,” he put a
“hold” on investment bank  Morgan Stanley  because 62 percent of
the bank’s common equity consisted of shaky commercial mortgages
and other real-estate investments. The stock has been flat since
then.  Before moving to Wells Fargo, Burnell worked in fixed
income for 12 years at Merrill Lynch & Co., now owned by Bank of
America Corp.  ‘Balance Sheet Perspective’  “As a fixed-income analyst, you have more of a balance
sheet perspective as opposed to an earnings-per-share focus,” he
says. “Also, knowing how the debt market works can be very
helpful because bond price movements are often a leading
indicator of stock price movements.”  When financial stocks began their recovery in mid-2009,
many U.S. regional banks outperformed their Wall Street
counterparts.  Deutsche Bank AG ’s Matt O’Connor made a series of
calls on U.S. regional banks that places him among the best
three analysts in that category. He’s also one of the best three
analysts of commercial banks.  Deutsche Bank ranks No. 3 among firms with the largest
number of accurate calls.  The 35-year-old O’Connor’s best regional bank call was his
June 2009 “buy” recommendation on Minneapolis-based  US Bancorp .
By the time he put a “hold” on the stock in May, it had climbed
45 percent. After his “hold,” it  declined  7 percent through July
30.  Keeping Doors Open  “We had noticed that a lot of banks were pulling back in
key business areas, but because US Bancorp was stronger it had
the ability to keep the doors open for business,” he says. “The
downgrade came after the weaker banks had gotten stronger, and
we wanted to take profit.”  As the financial crisis rippled across the globe in late
2008, one hard-hit country was South Korea. The economy and
stock market fell so far so fast that President  Lee Myung Bak 
declared a national emergency. Gross domestic product contracted
5.1 percent in the last three months of 2008 alone.  Five months after the national alert, top Asian equity
analyst  Hunpio Hong  of  KTB Securities Co.  in Seoul went from a
“hold” to a “buy” rating on Korean banks, according to Bloomberg
data. His best call was his June 2009 “buy” recommendation on
Seoul-based  Shinhan  Financial Co. By the end of July this year,
the stock was up 54 percent.  Shinhan is South Korea’s largest financial company by
market value.  ‘A Difficult Decision’  “It was such a difficult decision at the time,” says Hong,
42, who has a Master of Business Administration from the
University of Washington. “The stock performance had partly been
beyond my analysis because of the crisis, but in mid-2009 I saw
that the downward trend of Korean banks’ net interest margin was
coming to an end.”  The net interest margin is the difference between what a
bank pays in interest to depositors and what it earns from
loans.  While most South Korean banks have come back from the
crisis, Europe’s have not. The region’s financial institutions
fell more than 50 percent from January 2008 through July,
according to the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index.   Chintan Joshi  of  Nomura Holdings Inc.  ranks as one of
Europe’s premier bank analysts for finding exceptions to the bad
news in the Scandinavian market, according to Bloomberg data.  “The world was in a very bearish place at the time,” says
Joshi, who came to Nomura when it acquired Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European operations. “But the Nordic
macroeconomic situation was better, and the banks didn’t have
much exposure to U.S. subprime mortgages.”  Nordic Lights  Joshi, 31, works from London for Tokyo-based Nomura, tied
at No. 14 in Bloomberg’s firm ranking. His best call was a March
6, 2009, “buy” recommendation on Oslo-based commercial and
investment bank  DnB Nor ASA . The bank’s stock had soared 272
percent as of July 30.  Earlier, in November 2008, Joshi had given a “buy”
recommendation to Oslo-based  Nordea  Bank AB. Nordea’s stock
gained 44 percent before Joshi put a “hold” rating on it in
September 2009. It’s been  flat since .  MIT’s Kothari says that what often distinguishes successful
analysts is their willingness to take a risk.  “It’s essential to have the courage to be a little bit
different from the herd mentality that most analysts may
exhibit,” he says. “That courage is what makes some of these
analysts stand out.”  The analysts themselves say picking stocks in some of the
most volatile markets in history has been an education.  “The past few years have probably been the biggest learning
experience I could have had as an analyst,” says Goldman Sachs’s
Harris. “The environment was so volatile and so uncertain. That
shapes you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 