-- Goldman Sachs Prop Traders Said to Hire Denby-Jones for Asian Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-14T03:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/goldman-sachs-prop-traders-said-to-hire-denby-jones-for-asian-hedge-fund.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  principal-
strategies traders in Asia, which make bets with the bank’s own
money, hired former prime broker  Roger Denby-Jones  as chief
operating officer of a hedge fund firm they’re leaving the bank
to start, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  Denby-Jones, 46, will become COO of the new Hong Kong-based
hedge-fund firm to be led by  Morgan Sze , global head of Goldman
Sachs’s principal strategies business, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. He will
help set up the company, though he won’t be a Goldman Sachs
employee, they said yesterday.  Banks including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
complying with the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul act in the U.S.
that prohibits them from risking capital by betting for their
own accounts. Goldman Sachs, which makes about 10 percent of its
 revenue  from proprietary trading, decided to disband the
principal-strategies group, two people with knowledge of the
decision said last month.  The recruitment of Denby-Jones is likely to help the new
firm raise capital by easing investor concerns that proprietary
traders are not experienced at managing risks, businesses or
even calculating fund performances like hedge funds do.  “Hedge-fund teams out of proprietary desks are used to
having all operational tasks and risk management taken care of
by the bank,” said Francois Hora, Hong Kong-based Asia head 
of fund of hedge funds firm  Signet Capital Management Ltd.  which
oversees $1.5 billion. “There is therefore a risk that they 
don’t give enough importance to the operational side of the 
business when setting up the hedge fund.”  Prop-Trading  The Goldman Sachs principal-strategies traders in Asia,
still employed by the bank at the moment, are expected to leave
after the end of this year, said the people. Their fund may
start after the first quarter, two of them added.  Edward Naylor ,
a Goldman Sachs spokesman in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Denby-Jones joined  Boyer Allan Investment Management LLP ,
an Asia-focused fund manager that oversees more than $775
million, in 2005 after 14 years at Goldman Sachs, where one of
his roles was head of prime brokerage sales for Europe. He left
as chief executive officer of Boyer Allan to “pursue a new
business opportunity,” the firm said in a Sept. 30 statement.  Goldman Sachs’s principal-strategies team members in New
York, led by  Bob Howard , are in talks to join another asset-
management firm, people familiar with the matter said last month.
Some other traders and support staff of the group are likely to
get roles within the New York-based firm, they said.  Sze is leading the Asia team to raise money for a new Asia-
focused hedge fund, the people said last month. The group has
more than 10 people in Asia, two of the people said yesterday.  Goldman to Hedge Funds  “From Eric Mindich and Dinakar Singh to Hyder Ahmad and
Shafiq Karmali, there is a good track record of Goldman Sachs
principal strategies alumni building successful hedge funds,”
said  Dan McNicholas , head of Asia financing sales at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit. He declined to comment
on Denby-Jones’s appointment.  Mindich started New York-based Eton Park Capital Management
LP with $3 billion in 2004 with former principal-strategies
department co-head Erland Karlsson. Singh, a former head of the
principal strategies group, co-founded TPG-Axon the same year.  Ahmad raised about $1 billion for his Singapore-based hedge
fund Broad Peak in 2007, Wall Street Journal reported then.
Karmali last year founded Hong Kong-based hedge fund Cypress
Lane Capital LLC.  Turiya Advisors  Davide Erro , who led the Asia arm of a Goldman Sachs desk
that later folded into principal strategies, managed as much as
$3.8 billion as chief investment officer of Gandhara Capital.
Turiya Advisors Asia, the Hong Kong-based hedge fund firm he set
up after Gandhara’s closure, raised $320 million for its fund
by last month.  Pierre-Henri Flamand, Sze’s predecessor as global head of
the group, left earlier this year to set up London-based hedge
fund called Edoma Capital Partners LLP, two people with direct
knowledge told Bloomberg this week. He is expected to raise half
a billion dollars in the coming months, they said.  “The key question for a proprietary desk spinoff to answer
is not one about their talent, but one about their business-
management ability as their careers have been cocooned with an
investment bank,” said  Paul Smith , a Hong Kong-based managing
director of asset manager and hedge-fund distributor Triple A
Partners Ltd.  A strong COO who is also a partner and gets the necessary
resources would help free up the fund manager’s time to focus on
investments, Hora said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  