-- Google Profit Rises as Companies Spend to Target Consumers
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-14T23:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/google-profit-rises-as-companies-spend-more-to-lure-consumers-shares-gain.html
Google Inc.,  owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, said third-quarter profit increased
as businesses spent more on advertising to attract online
consumers. The shares jumped in after-hours trading.  Net income rose 32 percent to $2.17 billion, or $6.72 a
share, from $1.64 billion, or $5.13, a year earlier, Google said
on its  website . Profit excluding some items was $7.64 a share,
exceeding the $6.68 average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Google is benefitting from increased spending on search-
based ads as it pursues opportunities in mobile communications
and display advertising. Online spending is expected to account
for 15 percent of total U.S. advertising this year, up from 12
percent in 2008, according to EMarketer Inc. in New York.  “The underlying strength in the core search business
basically means advertisers are spending healthily on search,”
said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in Boca Raton,
Florida, who recommends  buying  the shares. “They beat on the top
line and also on the bottom line.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, climbed as
much as 9.6 percent in  late trading  to $592.82. It closed at
$540.93 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
dropped 13 percent this year.  Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites,  sales  were
$5.48 billion, topping analysts’ average estimate of $5.26
billion.  ‘Full Throttle’  “We’re on this growth agenda at full throttle,” Chief
Financial Officer  Patrick Pichette  said on a conference call
with analysts. Google’s tax rates dropped in the period to 20
percent from 24 percent in the second quarter, he said.  Profit increased even as operating expenses climbed 22
percent last quarter, led by a 37 percent rise in general and
administrative costs including stock-based compensation.  The results show “this continues to be a growth story when
people didn’t think it was going to be,” said  Gene Munster , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis, who has an
“overweight” rating on Google stock. “Despite the fact that they
haven’t been successful in emerging markets like China and
Russia, Google is finding a way to grow its business.”  Paid clicks -- which relate to the number of times users
click on an ad -- rose about 16 percent from a year earlier and
about 4 percent from the second quarter. The cost per click
increased about 3 percent from a year earlier and about 2
percent from the second quarter, Google said.  Cash and short-term investments  totaled $33.4 billion at
the end of the third quarter, Google said. It had $30.1 billion
as of June 30, up from $26.5 billion at the end of March.  Display, Mobile  Google is seeking new revenue streams, including searches
on mobile phones. Its Android software has surged in popularity
among consumers, overtaking  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
to become the top smartphone operating system in the U.S. in the
second quarter, according to research firm  Gartner Inc .  Display revenue is on pace to top $2.5 billion annually, and
mobile-ad sales should exceed $1 billion,  Jonathan Rosenberg ,
senior vice president for product management, said on the
conference call. CFO Pichette said there is some overlap in
mobile and display advertising, though he called it “small.”  On Google’s YouTube video site, the number of videos being
watched that can be monetized -- or targeted with ads -- exceed
2 billion on a weekly basis, up more than 50 percent from a year
earlier, he said.  Google doesn’t typically reveal revenue rates for display
and mobile.  “You guys often ask me, ‘Jonathan, where’s the next
multibillion dollar business after search?’ There’s your
answer,” he said on the call. “It’s display, and it’s already
here clocking in at over $2.5 billion run rate. So clearly we’re
firing on all cylinders in display.”  Market-Share Gains  After three months of market-share losses, Google boosted
its U.S. search share in September to 66.1 percent from 65.4
percent a month earlier, according to researcher  ComScore Inc. 
in Reston, Virginia. The gains came after Google unveiled its
Instant service that gives users search results as they type in
their queries.  Yahoo! Inc. fell to 16.7 percent from 17.4 percent, and
third-place  Microsoft Corp.  edged up to 11.2 percent from 11.1
percent. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is merging its
search operations with Yahoo this year to challenge Google’s
dominance. Under the deal, Microsoft is providing its Bing
search technology for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo’s sites.  Search-based advertising is the biggest piece of the U.S.
Internet market, making up almost 49 percent of total online ad
spending in 2010, according to  EMarketer . Advertisers are
expected to spend $12.4 billion on search advertisements, up
from $10.7 billion in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  