-- Google, Publishers Discuss How to Profit From Selling Content on Internet
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-10-14T11:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/google-holds-talks-with-publishers-to-discuss-advertising-subscriptions.html
Google Inc.  is talking to publishers
about how to make money from content, said Philipp Schindler,
managing director for Northern and Central Europe.  “We see ourselves as a technology partner and we are
working with many publishers to determine if it’s possible to
develop a payment platform,” Schindler said during a panel
discussion at the Media Days event in Munich today. “We are
convinced that first, copyright must be protected; second,
quality content is valuable; and third, we hope publishers
manage to adjust their business models to the digital world.”  Schindler declined to say who Mountain View, California-
based  Google  is talking to or when it might reach its first
agreement. He said it’s discussing subscription models; micro-
payment models where users may, for instance, pay per article;
or models where a newspaper or magazine is accessed through an
application bought for use on a smartphone or tablet computer.  “The solutions may be very publisher-specific, because in
the end it’s up to the publisher to decide how they want to
monetize their content,” Schindler said. “We try to follow the
approach that we always do: open, control to the publisher,
rather than a very strict, vertically integrated model that
other players in the market pursue.”  Apple Inc.  is developing a digital newsstand for publishers
that would let them sell magazines and newspapers to consumers
for use on Apple devices, two people familiar with the matter
said in September.  Apple’s effort is aimed at luring more consumers to the
iPad and helping publishers sell subscriptions rather than
single issues. The main hang-ups between Apple and publishers
including  Time Warner Inc.,  Conde Nast, Hearst Corp. and News
Corp. are who controls data about users and how to split
subscription revenue, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  