-- Google Options Attractive Before Earnings Later Today, Susquehanna Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-14T15:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/google-options-attractive-before-earnings-later-today-susquehanna-says.html
Google Inc.  options are
“attractive” before the owner of the world’s most popular
search engine reports results today because the contracts are
pricing in a smaller-than-average gain or loss, Susquehanna
International Group LLP said.  Buying Google’s October $540 call options makes sense for
investors who want to make a bullish bet without owning the
shares, while October $540 puts are attractive for shareholders
who are “cautious of a post-earnings pullback,” Susquehanna
strategists said in a report. Calls give the right to buy a
security for a certain amount, the strike price, by a set date.
Puts convey the right to sell.  Google options are pricing in a one-day gain or loss of
about 4 percent before the company’s third-quarter earnings
report is released after U.S. exchanges close today, less than
the 6 percent average move after its past four  earnings reports ,
the Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania-based strategists said. The
implied move is based on the cost of using a “straddle”
strategy, or buying both a call and a put at the same strike
price, using the options closest to the current stock level.  “While we remain bullish on the long-term opportunities,
in the near term investors will obviously be focused on this
afternoon’s earnings release,” the strategists said.  Google shares fell 0.4 percent to $541.20 as of 11:20 a.m.
in New York.  Susquehanna stock analyst  Marianne Wolk  has a “positive”
rating on the stock and a $650 share-price forecast. The search
engine operator may report profit of $6.67 per share, according
to the average of 31 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 