-- U.K. Government Is Said to Continue General Dynamics Army Vehicle Program
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/government-said-to-press-ahead-with-general-dynamics-army-vehicle-program.html
The U.K. will press ahead with plans
to build new vehicles for the army, for which  General Dynamics 
Corp. has already signed a 500 million-pound ($800 million)
contract, a person involved in talks on defense spending said.  The vehicle program, known as the Future Rapid Effects
System, will continue in some form after Prime Minister  David Cameron  announces the results of a defense review next week, the
person, who declined to be named as discussions are continuing,
said late yesterday. The Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported
Oct. 9 that the program would be axed in its entirety as the
government seeks to cut its  record budget deficit .  Falls Church, Virginia-based General Dynamics was awarded a
contract July 1 by the U.K. for seven prototype Scout armored
vehicles and training equipment. The company should not be
unduly concerned about the future of the program, though there
are likely to be alterations to the contract, the person said.  Ministers are close to final agreement on the cuts before
the announcement on Oct. 19, Cameron’s spokesman,  Steve Field ,
said yesterday. The U.K. defense ministry may accept budget cuts
of about 10 percent, two people familiar with the talks said
Oct. 12. That’s less than the 25 percent expenditure reductions
faced by most other ministries.  Cameron met with defense chiefs yesterday, and final
agreement on the military spending cuts is due to be reached
today, the person said. No definitive decision has yet been
taken on whether to continue building two aircraft carriers,
being constructed by a group including  BAE Systems Plc  and
Babcock International Plc, or whether to scrap either the
Tornado or Harrier jet programs, the person said.  General Dynamics, the maker of the U.S. military’s Abrams
battle tanks, fell 89 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $63.17 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 