-- Greek, Irish, Portugal Bonds Still Unattractive, Spain Better, HSBC Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-14T11:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/greek-irish-portugal-bonds-still-unattractive-spain-better-hsbc-says.html
Greek , Irish and  Portuguese  bond
yields will remain at “wide” premiums to German debt because
the nations’ fiscal problems will persist, HSBC Holdings Inc.
said.  Spain  and Italy, also seen as high-deficit countries, are
“relatively well-placed” by comparison,  Steve Major , global
head of fixed-income research at HSBC in London, said in an e-
mailed note. He cited the bank’s so-called sovereign scorecard,
which uses data such as ratios of interest payments to revenue
and deficit to gross domestic product.  The scorecard put Greece, Ireland and Portugal in HSBC’s
so-called third tier, the lowest group of countries, with Spain
and Italy in the second tier. Greece applied for an
International Monetary Fund and European Union rescue this year,
while Ireland has canceled its planned debt issuance for the
remainder of the year.  “Greece, Ireland and Portugal remain unattractive
according to this analysis,” wrote Major. “This tier-3 group
currently has limited or no access to public markets.”  Other measures used in HSBC’s scorecard include nations’
contingent liabilities and the amount of debt due in 12 months
as a proportion of outstanding debt.  The yield difference between 10-year Greek notes and German
bunds has narrowed to 651.5 basis points from a euro-era record
of 973 basis points on May 7. That spread remains the widest in
the euro region. Investors demand a yield premium of 411 basis
points to lend to Ireland for 10 years rather than Germany.  The Spanish 10-year yield spread was little changed at 174
basis points. Ten-year Italian bonds yielded 147 basis points
more than the benchmark German debt of the same maturity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  