-- Group of 20 Must Take Lead in Addressing Currency Challenge, Gordhan Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-14T11:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/group-of-20-must-take-lead-in-addressing-currency-challenge-gordhan-says.html
The Group of 20 nations must take
the lead to prevent a global “currency war” in which each
country tries to weaken its currency at the expense of others,
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “Everybody would want to depreciate their currency,
everybody wants to export their way out of trouble,” Gordhan
told lawmakers in Cape Town today. Unless the G-20 gets “the
major players to sit around the table and find a spirit of
cooperation and generosity and give and take,” we are heading
for a “currency war,” he said.  Gordhan was referring to comments by Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , who said on Sept. 27 that a worldwide
currency war was already under way.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the
European Union have fueled demand for high-yielding assets in
South Africa, which has a 6 percent benchmark interest rate, and
other emerging markets. That has contributed to the rand’s 39
percent gain against the dollar since the beginning of last year
and undermined the competitiveness of the country’s exports.  “South Africa is not uniquely facing the problem of an
appreciating currency,” Gordhan said. “Whilst there are some
country-specific trends that give rise to the capital flows that
we have seen, there is a wider set of structural problems in the
world. Those structural problems won’t be solved by unilateral
action by a few countries.”  Rand Gains  The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent to 6.7651 per
dollar today, its strongest level since January 2008. It traded
0.5 percent stronger at 6.7735 by 12:16 p.m. in Johannesburg,
from a previous close of 6.8100.  “Very legitimately, the mining sector, the agricultural
sector and the manufacturing sector are all finding themselves
in serious trouble,” Gordhan told reporters. “We are rendering
that part of our economy uncompetitive. You have got to find a
balance.”  In a written presentation to lawmakers, Gordhan said South
Africa’s current account deficit was expected to widen
“gradually” over the next three fiscal years, as domestic
demand and exports increase.  The deficit, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, reached 2.5 percent of gross domestic product in the
second quarter.  “Weaker economic data since July points to slower growth
in the second half of 2010,” Gordhan said in the presentation.
“Export volumes are sill subdued, even after a strong bounce in
the second quarter.”  Africa’s largest  economy  grew an annualized 3.2 percent in
the second quarter, down from 4.6 percent in the previous three
months, the statistics office said on Aug. 24.  IMF Quota  Gordhan expressed dissatisfaction with efforts to reform the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and ensure
increased voting rights for emerging nations.  “A formula began to emerge last week which showed that
countries like South Africa and Nigeria on the African continent
must lose bits of their quota, almost 20 percent, in order that
smaller developing countries can have some quota,” Gordhan told
lawmakers. “You are taking from the have-nots to give to other
have-nots. We hope there will be a more just outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 