-- Groupon Said to Talk to PayPal About Increasing Payment Options
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/groupon-said-talking-with-paypal-on-adding-payment-options-curbing-fraud.html
Groupon.com Inc., the daily deal
website with 20 million subscribers, is talking to EBay Inc.’s
PayPal unit to expand the ways users can make purchases and
combat fraud, said two people familiar with the matter.  Working with  PayPal , which offers secure ways to buy and
sell over computers and mobile devices, would help Groupon and
merchants better track how consumers use their coupons, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Groupon, started in 2008, has expanded to more than 230
cities in 29 countries. The Chicago-based company is trying to
help merchants manage the flood of customers it sends their way
and deter bogus redemptions by people who print out multiple
coupons. Groupon leads a pack of companies offering daily deals
from local businesses. It was valued at $1.3 billion in April
after a $135 million investment from Digital Sky Technologies.  “We’re keenly interested in ways to make redemptions
easier for both customers and merchants,” Groupon Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said in an interview. “What
we’re trying to do is give them something that’s super-fast and
easy to use.”  Groupon is also releasing a mobile-phone application in the
coming weeks to help retailers track the thousands of customers
that purchase deals, known as groupons, Vice President Mihir
Shah said in an interview.  Most merchants print out lists of people who buy the daily
deals and cross off serial numbers as consumers redeem their
groupons, according to Groupon. That’s time-consuming for
businesses and opens them up to misuse.  Time-Consuming Process  “It’s fairly cumbersome on the store’s part to keep track
of the serial numbers,” said Rick Karp, president of  Cole
Hardware . The San Francisco-based retailer sold more than 3,800
groupons in July offering a 50 percent discount on products.  Groupon  sends out a daily e-mail to subscribers about a
nearby merchant. When enough people sign up for an offer, the
deal activates, thereby encouraging consumers to tell others to
sign up for it.  While Groupon sends the stores a list of serial numbers for
every deal sold, many mom-and-pop shops don’t have a centralized
system and bar-code scanning technology to track the customers,
who can often number in the thousands. The company keeps half of
the revenue generated by the deals.  The mobile app, which runs on Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
handsets that use  Google Inc. ’s Android software, lets merchants
scan serial numbers on Groupon customer receipts, Shah said.
Groupon began testing the app in some stores last week, he said.  ‘Left in the Cold’  The company’s rapid growth has spurred others to start
rival coupon sites, including LivingSocial and Groop Swoop.
Groupon has raised a total of $170 million from investors.  Merchants are trying to figure out how best to use Groupon,
with some getting overwhelmed with the flood of new business. To
help, Groupon introduced consulting programs and online seminars
for the retailers this year.  “When you as a merchant try to grow your revenue by
opening yourself up to new methods of electronic commerce --
Groupon or whatever -- you expose yourself to greater fraud
risk,” said  James Van Dyke , president of Javelin Strategy &
Research in Pleasanton, California. “Is it dangerous? Yes. It’s
also dangerous not to be involved. The merchants who don’t get
involved in this don’t grow and get left in the cold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 