-- ICICI Bank Is Said to Consider Six-Month Leave for Managers Joining Rivals
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-14T18:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/icici-bank-said-to-consider-six-month-block-on-defections-by-executives.html
Competition for managers is forcing
 ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-largest lender, to consider
preventing defecting executives from joining rivals within six
months of leaving, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The requirement for so-called gardening leave would apply
to about 120  employees  at the level of joint general manager or
above, the person said, declining to be identified because the
deliberations are private. ICICI has about 53,000 workers.  ICICI, led by Chief Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar , is
bracing for more competition for talent as India’s central bank
prepares to issue new bank licenses for the first time in more
than seven years.  Religare Enterprises Ltd. , controlled by
billionaire brothers Malvinder and Shivinder  Mohan Singh , said
in August it may apply for a permit.  Mumbai-based  ICICI  currently has a provision that bars
employees from decamping for competing financial institutions
within six months without the bank’s permission, though that
rule has never been implemented, the person said. The provision
was introduced for employees who joined the firm after 2000.  Senior bankers who leave ICICI are barred from luring other
workers for the first year, the person said. ICICI spokesman
Charudatta Deshpande declined to comment.  ICICI will give senior executives who depart the option of
paying the bank an unspecified amount of money to avoid having
to serve the gardening leave, the person said.  ICICI’s  shares , which have risen 30 percent this year, fell
1.6 percent to 1,139.70 rupees yesterday in Mumbai.  Employee Turnover  The rate of employee turnover among junior staff has almost
doubled this year to about 15 percent as an expanding economy
bolsters job prospects, the person said. ICICI’s board will
review the plan to introduce gardening leave at a meeting later
this month, according to the person.  Gardening leave, a period between jobs when an employee
can’t work for a rival, isn’t as common among local private
sector banks as overseas banks in India, said R. Suresh,
managing director of the Indian unit of Stanton Chase
International, an executive search firm.  “If ICICI Bank has come out with it, then everyone else
will follow,” he said. “Employees may resent as the next
employer won’t wait for six months.” Mutual funds, microfinance
and other financial firms offer new opportunities as well,
according to him.  V. Vaidyanathan, who was CEO of ICICI Prudential Life
Insurance, quit in July to join Future Capital Holdings Ltd.
Sonjoy Chatterjee, an executive director at ICICI Bank, departed
in April to join Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as a managing director
and co-CEO for India.  Billionaire  Uday Kotak ’s  Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.  became
India’s first new commercial bank in more than seven years in
2003, and was the first Indian company to turn into a commercial
lender. Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. was allowed to begin
operations the following year.  The Reserve Bank of India is now mulling additional banking
licenses to spur competition in a market where state-owned
lenders account for 70 percent of total assets.  State Bank of
India  is the country’s largest lender with $323 billion of
assets as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  