-- India's Mid-Cap Stocks to Surge After Trailing Rally, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-14T02:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/mid-cap-stocks-in-india-to-surge-after-trailing-rally-deutsche-bank-says.html
India’s mid-cap stocks are likely to
rally in the near term after lagging behind a surge in the
nation’s biggest  shares , Deutsche Bank AG said.  Since August, the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index 
has climbed 15 percent, compared with an 11 percent increase in
the BSE Mid-Cap Index. Previously, during “similar global-
liquidity driven rallies,” smaller companies in India
outperformed their larger peers, strategists led by  Abhay Laijawala  wrote in a report yesterday.  The 30-member Sensex, as the gauge is known, is less than 1
percent short of its record of 20,873.33 set on Jan. 8, 2008.
The  Mid-Cap Index , which tracks companies making up the smallest
15 percent of the exchange’s market value, needs to advance
another 20 percent to beat its 2008 high.  “While we are enthused by the recent trend of long-term
value investors investing in large-cap stocks, we also believe
that the underperformance of mid caps cannot continue for long
and the anomaly should correct,” the strategists said.  Indian  equities  have taken in about $2.6 billion this month,
following net inflows of about $6.4 billion in September,
according to data tracked by Bloomberg. The nation may allow
overseas individuals to buy stocks for the first time, easing a
rule that restricts investment to mutual funds, a finance
ministry official with knowledge of the matter said last week.  The Mid-Cap Index outperformed the Sensex by 1,200 basis
points between September and October 2007, when the market
attracted a record $9.5 billion of foreign funds, according to
Deutsche Bank.  Previous Outperformance  Shares of medium-sized companies also beat larger peers by
2,000 basis points during April and May of 2009, when foreign
investors funneled about $5.7 billion into Indian equities, the
brokerage said. A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01
percentage point.  The brokerage said last month the Sensex should extend its
rally to 22,000 by the end of the year as the gauge benefits
from global deflation and the economy is in a “sweet spot.”
Gross domestic product, estimated at $1.3 trillion, is likely to
expand 9.7 percent this year, the International Monetary Fund
said last week.  The benchmark  Sensex  is valued at 19.6 times estimated
earnings, the highest among markets in the Asia-Pacific region,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Mid-Cap Index trades at a
multiple of 15.4.  Indiabulls Real Estate Ltd. , a property developer with a
market capitalization of $1.8 billion, and  Aban Offshore Ltd. ,
an oil-field equipment provider valued at $852 million, are
among companies recommended by the strategists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  