-- Tin Jumps to Record as Stockpiles Drop in London, Indonesian Exports Fall
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-14T08:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/tin-jumps-to-record-as-stockpiles-drop-in-london-indonesian-exports-fall.html
Tin, the best performer this year on
the London Metal Exchange, advanced to a record on shrinking
global inventories and dwindling supplies from Indonesia, the
world’s largest exporter.  The metal for three-month delivery on the LME rose as much
as 1.8 percent to $27,250 a metric ton, and traded at that price
at 4:01 p.m. in Singapore. Tin, used as a solder and in
packaging, has advanced 61 percent this year.  Stockpiles  tracked by the exchange have dropped 54 percent
in 2010, falling to an 18-month low on Oct. 12. Exports from
Indonesia declined in the first nine months of this year to
about 67,011 tons from 75,553 tons a year earlier, the Ministry
of Trade said yesterday.  “Indonesian exports are likely to struggle over the
balance of the year,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard
Bank Plc, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Tin output by PT Timah, Indonesia’s largest producer, may
miss a target this year and the company is trying to renegotiate
supplies with customers, according to Oct. 12 comments from an
executive. Timah may produce 40,000 tons this year compared with
the 45,000-ton target, Corporate Secretary Abrun Abubakar said.  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia this year, including
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy. The rains have hurt
tin production and also been blamed by industry groups in the
country for lower output or missed forecasts for cocoa and coal.  Output in China, the world’s largest producer, may be
curbed until the yearend because of limitations on power use,
tin industry group ITRI Ltd. said on Sept. 29. A general ban on
mining was also imposed last month in three eastern provinces in
the Democratic Republic of Congo, Africa’s largest tin producer.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Glenys Sim at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  