-- India's `Olympic Dream' Distant as Commonwealth Games Near Finishing Line
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-10-14T15:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/india-s-olympic-dream-distant-as-commonwealth-games-near-finishing-line.html
New Delhi’s  Commonwealth Games  ended
with martial art battles and a laser show after a record haul of
gold medals for India and last-minute fixes to venues rescued an
event that had threatened a national embarrassment.  During a two-hour closing ceremony that also featured army
marching bands wearing tartan capes and leopard skins, and a
dance tribute involving 2,010 children, the games flag was
handed to officials from Glasgow, host to the 2014 event.  Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the local games organizing committee,
thanked officials for overcoming “serious roadblocks. We have
learned a lot.”  Empty stadiums early in the event and repairs to the
athletics track after the opening ceremony gave way to ticket
sales of about 50,000 a day as India won  101 medals , 38 of them
gold, to lie second in the overall standings behind Australia.
India reached the final of men’s hockey, a national favorite,
before being thrashed 8-0 in today’s final.  Commonwealth Games Federation  President Michael Fennell
today praised the “very high standard of venues.” While
transport and ticketing problems had to be fixed during
competition, there “is no doubt that the overall image of the
games has been good,” he said. “Delhi has performed.”  Photographs on the British Broadcasting Corp.’s  website 
showing unclean bathrooms at the athletes’ village, missed
construction deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge,
the resignation of officials for “financial irregularities”
and warnings of terrorist threats forced Scotland, Canada and
New Zealand to delay their departure for Delhi.  ‘Miles to Go’  Those failings exposed the progress needed before India can
fulfill its ambition to host the  Olympic Games , said Boria
Majumdar, a sports historian and the author of “Sellotape
Legacy: Delhi and the Commonwealth Games.”  “The way the whole thing unfolded -- the lead up, the
infrastructure delays -- shows we have miles to go before we can
mount a serious Olympic bid,” Majumdar said in an interview.  The  Indian Olympic Association  had said a successful event
this year might spur a bid for the 2020 Olympics. “I have a
dream of bringing the Olympics” to India, Kalmadi said at a Oct.
12 press conference in the capital. “When, I don’t know.”  Last-minute work on the track and infield at the 60,000-
seat athletics venue will “have certainly brought up an amber
or a red light” with the International Olympic Committee, said
Ian Henry, director of the  Centre for Olympic Studies and
Research  at the U.K.’s Loughborough University, on Oct. 13.
“The report card at the end of the day is a very positive one
for the manner in which the games were conducted.”  Singh’s Inheritance  The Oct. 3-14 event, held every four years and featuring 71
countries and territories, most of them former British colonies,
is dwarfed by the 204 nations who took part in Beijing’s
successful  $70-billion  Olympics in 2008.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who inherited the
Commonwealth Games from his predecessor and had to rally senior
ministers last month to ensure they went ahead, spent $4.6
billion on arenas, roads and power to highlight a “confident”
new India.  Instead, 97 percent of respondents to a Sept. 23 online
 newspaper  poll believed the games, and the role of Singh’s
government, had damaged the country’s image. Moody’s Analytics
Inc. said that investors may reassess the attractiveness of
India’s $1.3 trillion economy after preparations foundered.  Fennell on Sept. 25 expressed his disappointment with
Delhi’s organizing committee, saying at a press conference that
the lack of preparedness had hurt the country’s reputation. “I
would hope at the end of all this, India would have learnt a
great lesson,” he said then.  Sick Swimmers  After a spectacular opening ceremony that won global
acclaim, early events were poorly attended, forcing Kalmadi to
open more ticket booths and consider allowing school children in
for free. When a dozen members of Australia’s swimming team fell
ill, competition and practice pools were probed. Tests showed
nothing unpleasant lurking in the water.  “Patently problems were magnified in the Western media,”
Loughborough University’s Henry said. Organizers need to tell
the world they understand the need for a more “rigorous
approach to staging major events,” he said.  A bigger competition in India is unlikely to be “on the
anvil,”  Mahesh Rangarajan , a New Delhi-based political analyst,
said in a phone interview. Singh’s “Congress party’s priorities
are elsewhere: socio-economic reconstruction, creating jobs,
improving education,” he said.  The cost of the games is almost half what the government
will spend this year on a rural jobs program that has benefited
more than 41 million village households. India has 828 million
people living on less than $2 a day, the World Bank estimates.  Record Inflows  India’s economy, which has grown at an average 8.5 percent
in the past five years and that the International Monetary Fund
expects to expand 9.7 percent this year, may prove more
resilient than Moody’s forecast.  Foreign funds have purchased Indian stocks valued at a
record $21.83 billion this year, lured by the potential of
Asia’s third-largest economy.  “People in the international investing community already
know the difficulties of putting their money in India,” said
 Laveesh Bhandari , director at New Delhi-based Indicus Analytics
Pvt., a research group. Despite its handicaps, “India is still
lucrative,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 