-- Kravis Fetes Tata as Monuments Fund Raises $500,000
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-10-14T19:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/india-s-tata-feted-by-kravis-as-world-monuments-fund-gala-raises-500-000.html
Women in saris or gowns and moguls
in tuxedos convened in New York last night to raise money for
the  World Monuments Fund  and honor  Ratan N. Tata , whom one
attendee called the  Andrew Carnegie  of India.  “We owe it to future generations to preserve the history
and heritage that came before,” Tata, 72, said at the Plaza
upon receiving the fund’s Hadrian Award, named after the art-
loving Roman emperor. “If we do not, it will die.”  Tata is chairman of Tata Sons Ltd., which controls 100 or
so companies including steelmaker  Corus Group Plc  and  Jaguar
Land Rover . It also operates the nearby  Pierre Hotel , where
Tata, who lives in Mumbai, was staying.  An aide declined to say whether he occupied the Tata Suite,
advertised at $20,000 a night and adorned with photos and books
of his family’s history. Tata, who trained as an architect at
Cornell University and is described by friends as private,
declined to comment.  The priciest ticket for the gala was $5,000, which could
buy two of  Tata Motors Ltd. ’s Nanos, the world’s least-expensive
car at $2,500. Attendees enjoyed spiced rack of lamb, vegetable
timbale and passion fruit brulee tart. Among the guests were KKR
& Co.’s  Henry Kravis , theater producer  Roger Berlind  (whose
wife, Brook, is a trustee), actor  Jim Dale  and writer Gita
Mehta.  “Tata is a byword for honor,” said Mehta, who is married
to  Sonny Mehta , head of Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group.  Taj Mahal  Tata was lauded for working with the WMF and Indian
government to restore the Taj Mahal, as well as renovating and
operating historic hotels in India and a variety of philanthropy
and arts patronage. Today, the Harvard Business School said it
received $50 million from Tata Group to fund a new academic and
residential building in Boston.  Actress Sharmila Tagore, who flew from New Delhi, appealed
for help for Indian cinema when she was done toasting.  “We so badly need an archive and museum,” she said. “I
hope this will find favor, sir.”  Tata responded with a smile when he spoke: “Little did I
know she could be so persuasive. I guess it proves there is no
such thing as a free lunch.”  The evening grossed about $500,000 for the Monuments Fund,
founded in 1965 to protect and preserve endangered architecture
and heritage sites worldwide. The Hadrian Award dates back to
1988 and previous recipients have included  David Rockefeller Jr .
and the Prince of Wales.  “People all over the world realize they lose a part of 
themselves when we allow an old, unique building to disappear,”
said Marilyn Perry, WMF’s chairman from 1990 to 2007.  Jean-Marie Eveillard , a senior adviser with First Eagle
Investment Management, said when he and his wife vacationed in
Peru last year they visited two remote churches the WMF was
restoring. They went at the suggestion of their daughter
Pauline, an art historian who works as a WMF field program
administrator.  “The façade was austere and the inside was flamboyant,”
he said. “I love old churches.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 