-- Industries Qatar Third-Quarter Profit Jumps 23%, Beats Analysts Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-14T08:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/industries-qatar-reports-nine-month-profit-increased-8-to-1-13-billion.html
Industries Qatar, the Gulf emirate’s
state-controlled petrochemical and steel maker, posted a
greater-than-expected 23 percent gain in third-quarter profit
amid rising fertilizer prices.  Net income rose to 1.47 billion riyals  ($400 million) from
1.2 billion riyals a year earlier, the biggest quarterly income
gain this year, according to Bloomberg calculations. The mean
estimate of four analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a profit
of 1.21 billion riyals. Earnings per share rose to 7.37 riyals
from 6.96 riyals.  “The good thing about Industries Qatar is they have a good
backlog of projects that are coming online,” Lovetesh Singh, an
analyst at HC Securities, said by telephone before the earnings
were released. “Forty-four percent of its earnings come from
urea and ammonia, the fertilizer side of the business, which is
doing well.”  Singh said he forecast a third-quarter net income of 1.47
billion riyals and had a “buy” rating on the stock.  The Persian Gulf price of urea has gained 30 percent in the
past year and that of ammonia for sale in India has risen 44
percent, according to ICIS Pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industries Qatar’s fertilizer, petrochemical and steel
units make use of the country’s natural gas reserves, the third-
largest in the world, to expand production. Qatar aims to raise
its annual petrochemical production to 28 million tons by 2014,
Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah said in May.  The company’s fertilizer unit plans to open its QAFCO 5
plant in the first half of next year and QAFCO 6 plant in the
third quarter of 2012, Khalifa Al Sowaidi, managing director of
Qatar Fertiliser Co, said last month.  Qatofin  Industries Qatar’s petrochemical unit owns shares in
Qatofin Co., operator of a so-called linear low-density
polyethylene plant. Qatofin owns a stake in a new 1.3 million-
ton-a-year ethane cracker. Both the Qatofin plant and the
cracker are scheduled to reach full output by middle of 2011,
the company said in August.  Nine-month net income rose to 4.1 billion riyals compared
with 3.8 billion riyals a year earlier, the company said in a
 statement on the Qatar Exchange website . Third-quarter earnings
were calculated by subtracting first-half profit from the nine-
month figure.  Industries Qatar , down 5.3 percent this year, rose 0.4
percent to 108.5 riyals on the Qatar Exchange at 11:03 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  