-- U.S. Trade Gap Grows, Jobless Claims Unexpectedly Rise
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-14T15:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-rose-13-000-last-week-to-462-000.html
Companies in the U.S. are buying
more foreign-made semiconductors and cars as they invest in
equipment and build stockpiles, while also keeping a tight rein
on payrolls, reports today showed.  The trade  deficit  widened 8.8 percent to $46.3 billion in
August from $42.6 billion the prior month as a rise in imports
swamped gains in exports, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington. The number of Americans filing  claims  for
jobless benefits unexpectedly climbed by 13,000 to 462,000 last
week, according to the Labor Department.  Economists at Morgan Stanley cut their forecast for third-
quarter growth based on the increase in  imports  from countries
like China, while at the same time boosting estimates for
business investment. The prospect that  unemployment  holds above
9 percent through next year and a lack of inflation are among
reasons Federal Reserve policy makers may ease monetary policy.  “Companies are importing goods to increase their
efficiency, and ultimately that means there is not going to be
as much need for labor,” said Edward Kashmarek, an economist at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Minneapolis. The rise is claims
“is indicative of continued weakness in the labor market.”  Another Labor Department report today showed  wholesale
prices  for goods other than food and energy rose 0.1 percent in
September for a second month, a pace that signals inflation is
restrained. Overall, producer costs climbed 0.4 percent,
propelled by a 1.2 percent advance in the cost of food.  Dollar Weakens  Stocks fluctuated between gains and losses as a rally in
technology shares helped the market overcome concern over the
increase in jobless claims. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell
0.3 percent to 1,174.16 at 11:40 a.m. in New York. The dollar
dropped to a 15-year low against the yen on speculation efforts
to ease monetary policy will erode the value of the currency.  The median  forecast  of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the trade gap would increase to $44 billion.
Estimates ranged from $40 billion to $47.5 billion. The
government revised the July gap to $42.6 from a previously
reported $42.8 billion.  Imports from China climbed to a record $35.3 billion in
August, pushing the  trade shortfall  with the Asian nation to $28
billion, the highest since comparable data began in 1992.
Growing friction over exchange-rate and trade policy dominated
discussions at the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting
in Washington this month.  Influence on GDP  The total deficit  adjusted  for inflation, which is the
figure used to calculate gross domestic product, increased to
$51.2 billion from $47.3 billion. The gap compares with the
average $47.9 billion a month in the second quarter, indicating
trade may have slowed growth last quarter.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual
pace from July through September, down from a previously
projected 2.1 percent, as the trade gap subtracted almost a
percentage point from growth, according to a forecast by  David Greenlaw  and  Ted Wieseman  of Morgan Stanley in New York. They
increased their estimate for business investment last quarter to
a 14 percent gain from 9 percent.  Foreign purchases detract from growth because demand is
being filled by producers overseas instead of American firms.
U.S. imports increased 2.1 percent in August to $200.2 billion.
 Exports  rose 0.2 percent to $153.9 billion, the most in two
years.  The gain in exports reflected increasing foreign demand for
food and industrial supplies. Sales of American-made
semiconductors rose by $165 million for the month.  Growing Exports  Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker, is among U.S.
exporters profiting from growth overseas. The Santa Clara,
California-based company this week predicted fourth-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates as demand in emerging
economies helped weather slowing purchases among consumers in
the U.S. and Europe, Intel Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith 
said in an interview.  The outlook for exports is holding up as emerging economies
from China to India and Brazil modernize their infrastructure
and more affluent households can afford to buy goods and
services from abroad. Sales to Brazilian companies climbed to a
record $3.4 billion in August, giving the U.S. a $1.3 billion
surplus with Latin America’s biggest economy, the highest ever.  A drop in the value of the dollar, by making U.S. goods
cheaper to foreign buyers, may keep boosting exports. From a
one-year high reached June 7 through Oct. 12, the U.S. dollar
weakened 7.2 percent against a trade-weighted  basket  of
currencies.  China’s Currency  By comparison, the dollar has lost 2.7 percent against
China’s currency, the yuan, over the past four months.  At the IMF meetings in Washington, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  were among those to signal irritation that China
is restraining its currency to aid exports even as its economy
outpaces that of other members of the Group of 20. Leaders of
emerging economies blamed a flood of capital that is pushing up
their currencies on too-low U.S. interest rates.  The Treasury Department’s next foreign exchange report to
Congress is due tomorrow, although the department has not said
whether it will be released on time. In its previous report,
released in July after a three-month delay, the Treasury did not
brand China a currency manipulator, saying instead that the yuan
was undervalued and would be monitored closely.  U.S. impatience with China boiled over on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let
American companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese
manufacturers from using an artificially weak yuan as a
competitive tool. The measure won’t go to the Senate until after
U.S. congressional elections in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  