-- InterContinental Greater China Sales to Grow Strongly, Region Chief Says
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-14T11:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/intercontinental-hotels-says-greater-china-revenue-to-grow-significantly-.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc ,
owner of the Holiday Inn brand, said revenue in the greater
China region will grow “significantly” in the next five years
as the company doubles its number of rooms.  InterContinental, the world’s largest hotelier by rooms,
plans to add about 50,000 rooms in China, Hong Kong, Macau and
Taiwan in the next three to five years,  Keith Barr , managing
director for the region, said in a phone interview from Hong
Kong today. The Denham, England-based company gets about $1
billion in annual revenue from the region, he said. He didn’t
specify how much sales will increase.  Asia-Pacific will probably surpass North America in hotel
sales by 2014 with China expected to grow the most, according to
London-based market research firm  Euromonitor . InterContinental,
greater China’s largest hotel operator, has 15 percent of the
region’s branded room market and 28 percent of its “pipeline,”
Barr said. Greater China was InterContinental’s strongest
performing region in the first half, with revenue per available
room, or revpar, growing 29 percent, the company said Aug. 10.  Expansion gained momentum in 2005 and has been helped by
government urbanization plans and rising prosperity, Barr said.  Availability of capital to fund new hotel openings is less
of a problem in the region than in western markets, Barr said.
InterContinental, which franchises, leases and manages hotels,
owns fewer than 20 sites throughout the world.  InterContinental, which owns the Hotel Indigo and Crown
Plaza brands, has 132 hotels in greater China with 148 in
development, Barr said. The company is evaluating whether to add
a new brand in the region.  The company signed contracts yesterday to open four hotels,
or 700 rooms, in Xiamen, China, Taipei and Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  