-- Intel CEO Tells Employees That Mobile Effort Will Be `Marathon'
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-14T13:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/intel-s-otellini-tells-employees-that-smartphone-effort-will-be-marathon-.html
Intel Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
 Paul Otellini , working to get his company’s chips into tablets
and mobile phones, told  employees  that the effort will be a
“marathon, not a sprint.”  “The big question on many people’s minds is how will we
respond to new computing categories where we currently have
little presence, specifically tablets and smartphones,” he said
yesterday in an e-mail to Intel workers obtained by Bloomberg
News. “Winning an architectural contest can take time.”  The company has struggled for more than 10 years to parlay
its dominance of the personal-computer market into a stake in
mobile phones and other devices. Its chips aren’t used in any
current smartphones, and new tablets from  Apple Inc.  and rivals
don’t rely on Intel processors. Otellini said in the e-mail that
the company is “on track to showcase our first production
smartphones in 2011.”  Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, renewed its push into
mobile technology four years ago, when it introduced a scaled-
down version of its processor called Atom. That effort should
have started two years earlier, Otellini said at a conference
this month. Still,  Intel  has come from behind before and
thrived, he wrote in the e-mail.  When the company offered its first chip for the server-
computer market in the 1990s “some in the industry laughed at
us,” Otellini said. The company now ships more than 90 percent
of the chips used in that market, he said.  ‘Very Optimistic’  “I am also very optimistic about our opportunity in
tablets and smartphones, even though we are not first to market
with a solution,” Otellini said. “Ultimately, we can and will
lead.”  Tom Beermann , a spokesman for the Santa Clara, California-
based company, declined to comment on the memo.  Intel rose 11 cents to $19.35 at 9:44 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares had declined 5.7 percent
this year before today.  Even as Intel searches for new sources of growth, a
recovery in PC sales has helped boost revenue and profit this
year. Otellini said this week that the PC market is on course to
grow 18 percent in 2010 and will likely achieve double-digit
growth again next year. More than 80 percent of the world’s PCs
run the company’s processors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 