-- Mexico's Hipotecaria Su Casita Misses Debt Payments Totaling $58.8 Million
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-10-14T20:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/hipotecaria-su-casita-misses-debt-payment-bank-of-new-york-mellon-says.html
Hipotecaria Su Casita SA, the
mortgage company that was unable to sell itself to BBVA Bancomer
SA, defaulted on 730 million pesos ($58.8 million) of bonds
after missing payments on its debt.  The company missed making a payment of about 306 million
pesos on long-term debt, and about 424 million pesos on two
short-term bonds, Su Casita said in an e-mailed statement.  “The problem is bad portfolio management,” said Ernesto
Arnoux, a debt analyst with Grupo Bursatil Mexicano SA in Mexico
City. “It’s a general problem that we’re seeing in other
businesses of this type.”  Su Casita bondholders were unable to fulfill a quorum this
week at a meeting to discuss restructuring options for the
company’s short- and long-term debt. The company had offered
bondholders equity, new debt and some cash. Su Casita said Sept.
10 that it was evaluating “other alternatives” after a deal to
sell part of its assets to the Mexican unit of Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA fell through.  Cut Four Times  Standard & Poor’s cut Su Casita’s rating four times this
year as the mortgage-loan provider’s delinquency rate rose.
About 16 percent of the company’s customers had loan payments
that were more than 90 days overdue as of July 1, according to
Fitch Ratings. Su Casita has about $1.1 billion of outstanding
debt.  There are 120 billion pesos of outstanding mortgage-backed
debt in Mexico as of Oct. 1, Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit said
in a report.  Former Mexican Deputy Finance Minister  Alejandro Werner 
said in May that the government didn’t plan to rescue
specialized lenders known as sofoles, which have seen their
delinquency rates rise. He urged lawmakers to pass legislation
that would increase regulation.  The delinquency rate for sofoles that report data to
regulators rose to 10.3 percent in June, from 6.2 percent in the
same month last year, according to the National Banking
Commission’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  