-- It Isn’t Insider Trading When Your Senator Does It: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/it-isn-t-insider-trading-when-congressmen-do-it-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Your senator learns that a much-
maligned weapons system now has enough votes for funding. Before
the news gets to a reporter, he buys shares in the arms
manufacturer for a quick, handsome profit.  What’s wrong with this picture? Nothing, according to the
law. Nor would it be illegal for him to tip someone else, say,
his largest campaign contributor.  Laws that criminalize insider trading cover corporate
insiders and those they tip, but not specifically Congress. And
while  scholars  differ on whether existing law could be applied
on Capitol Hill, it hasn’t been.  It’s a gap in the law that two members of Congress have
been trying for years to plug, to no avail. Congress is famous
for telling others what they can and can’t do. When it comes to
proscribing its own conduct, it’s a different story.  This week the Wall Street Journal reported that during the
past two calendar years, 72 congressional aides from both
parties made trades in companies that their bosses’ help
oversee. Among them are top advisers to Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  and House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi . Their timely
investments proved profitable, but the staffers deny the trades
sprung from inside knowledge, the Journal reported.  Either way, suspiciously timed trading on Capitol Hill
isn’t new.  Companies stuck in asbestos litigation suddenly saw
inexplicably heavy trading and a rise in share price on Nov. 15,
2005. The next day, then-Senate Majority Leader  Bill Frist 
announced a breakthrough on a bill to create a government-backed
fund to settle asbestos cases. It turned out that political
intelligence firms benefitted from a leak in Frist’s office,
Business Week  reported  the following month.  Capitol Day Trader  Then there was a staffer who day traded from his desk on
Capitol Hill. As a top aide to then-House Republican Leader  Tom DeLay ,  Tony Rudy  made some 500 trades on his House computer in
1999 and 2000, and profitably so, the Wall Street Journal and
Washington Post  reported .  He got into trouble with the law but not for that. Rudy
pleaded guilty in 2006 to a corruption conspiracy, not insider
trading.  U.S. senators, representatives and congressional staffers
routinely attend high level, closed briefings or engage in
conversations where secrets are disclosed that might send  shares 
climbing or slumping if widely known.  That access lets them buy low and sell high based on
material, non-public information, and they can do it without
concern that their remarkable prescience will alert federal
investigators of possible wrong doing.  ‘Justifiably Suspicious’  “This is an area in which the public is quite justifiably
suspicious about dual standards,” says Representative  Brian Baird , a Democrat from Washington state.  Along with New York Democrat  Louise Slaughter , Baird has
been trying to apply insider trading law to Congress through the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge bill.  Until 1995, Congress exempted itself from labor, civil
rights and safety laws. But with the Congressional
Accountability Act that year, members finally applied to
themselves many of the same statutes they enacted for other
employers. The hypocrisy of punishing others for doing that
which they could do with impunity finally caught up with them.  More or less. They still cut themselves more breaks in the
law than private employers have. But at least congressional
employees have some protection against job bias, sexual
harassment, unfair labor practices and hazardous work space,
whereas  they used  to have none.  Ethics Rules  But when it comes to forbidding members of Congress from
using access to secrets for financial enrichment, Slaughter and
Baird have gotten nowhere on their bill. Now Baird’s retiring.  He says Congress could solve the problem without a new law
or a repeal of an old one.  “It’s not that we have laws protecting us,” Baird says.
“We don’t have laws applying it to us.”  All it would take is a change in ethics rules, which now
generally forbid conflicts of interest and using official
influence for personal gain.  When Congress opens its next session in January, the
majority party in each chamber could amend the  rules  to make it
explicitly clear that members and their staff can’t trade on
secrets that their jobs make available to them or give others
that information.  What Companies Do  Baird says members and their aides should be made to do
what employees at every major corporation in America must do
when they take the job. They read the employer’s rules that
specifically forbid trading on non-public information or tipping
others. They are warned against conflicts of interest. They get
training on it, and they must confirm in writing that they have
read the rules and agree to be bound by them.  “Absent that, and given that members of Congress are not
corporate insiders,” Baird says, “there is not a clear cut
basis for prosecuting insider trading” on Capitol Hill.  With that, and by requiring ongoing instead of annual
 disclosure  of trades, investigators and prosecutors would have
the tools they need, Baird says.  Congress should be ashamed of itself for not passing a law
forbidding conduct that is criminal if anyone else does it. Why
not assure voters that the people they put in Congress aren’t
putting their portfolios ahead of solid public policy?  The idea of using an ethics rule to get around
congressional hypocrisy should embarrass each senator and
representative unwilling to do the job with a straight-up
statute.  But if that’s what it takes to get it done, so be it.  Just get it done.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  