-- Liverpool Soccer Sale Injunction to Be Reconsidered by Judge in Texas
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2010-10-14T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/liverpool-soccer-team-sale-injunction-will-be-reconsidered-by-texas-judge.html
A Texas judge said he will
reconsider his Oct. 13 order blocking the sale of the Liverpool
soccer club to owners of Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox.  Dallas state court Judge Jim Jordan today told lawyers for
both sides that he’s willing to hear their arguments tomorrow at
7 a.m.  Thomas Hicks  and  George Gillett , owners of the English
Premier League team, are fighting with New England Sports
Ventures for control over the club in U.S. and U.K. courtrooms.  Hicks and Gillett obtained the injunction yesterday in an
effort to block a forced sale that would retire more than
237 million pounds ($379 million) owed to the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc .  “This smacks of forum-shopping,” Jordan said during
today’s hearing.  The soccer club, a five-time European champion, is off to
its worst start in more than 50 years. The team is in 18th place
and would be relegated to the second division if the season were
to end today.  Hicks and Gillett claim that the 300 million-pound sale
price is too low. The sale to New England Sports Ventures was
approved by the independent members of the club’s board.  Hicks and Gillett have until tomorrow to repay the RBS
loan. The New England group bid would pay off 200 million pounds
upon completion.  U.K. Ruling  U.K. Justice  Christopher Floyd  in London today granted an
RBS request for an order blocking Hicks and Gillett from
pursuing their case and gave them until 4 p.m. London time
tomorrow to end it.  “We think the Texas court does not have jurisdiction,”
 George W. Bramblett , an attorney for New England Sports
Ventures, told Jordan today. “It took us by surprise there’d be
a Texas action.”  Stephen Fox, an attorney representing Hicks and Gillett,
told Jordan that their side was negotiating with RBS about
repaying the debt and that they wanted to settle the matter
separately from the sale of the team.  The U.K. case is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Hicks,
HC10C03206, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division. The Texas
case is KOP Investment LLC v. Broughton, DC-1013606, 160th Civil
District Court (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ; and
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 