-- Japanese Hedge-Fund Startups Set to Reach Highest Since 2006
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-15T05:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japan-hedge-fund-startups-set-for-highest-since-06-as-prop-traders-emerge.html
The number of new hedge funds
investing in Japan is set to reach the highest since 2006 as
global banks consider closing their proprietary trading units.  As many as 27 Japan-focused hedge funds may begin trading
this year, with 15 already open, said  Rory Kennedy , chief
operating officer at Rogers Investment Advisors K.K., which
tracks about 170 funds investing in the nation. They include R-
SQUARED Master Fund, managed by a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
proprietary trader, and Orix Commodities Fund, which uses
computer programs to invest in commodities futures.  Assets managed by Japan-focused hedge funds, the world’s
worst performers, have dropped 65 percent to $13.6 billion from
their peak in 2006, according to Eurekahedge Pte, as more than
half employed equity-related strategies hit by the nation’s
declining stocks. Former proprietary-desk traders are setting up
many of the new funds as the U.S. implements the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul act that prohibits banks from risking capital
by betting for their own accounts.  “The trend of more proprietary traders leaving their firms
to set up their own funds is likely to quicken in the years to
come,” said  Hideki Hashiguchi , a managing director for Japan at
ABN Amro Fund Services (Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo. “Experiences and
track records that ex-prop traders have will be especially
significant in a market like Japan.”  Worst Performer  In 2009, there were 25 hedge-fund startups in Japan,
according to research by Tokyo-based Rogers Investment. There
were 20 each in 2008 and 2007, and at least 35 in 2006, when the
firm was founded, Kennedy said.  The  Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index  returned 1.1 percent
through September, the worst performer among six regional hedge-
fund indexes. That compares with a 5.1 percent gain by
Eurekahedge’s global hedge-fund  index  and a 7.8 percent decline
by the  Topix index , one of Japan’s equity benchmarks.  Assets managed by Japanese funds peaked at $39 billion in
April 2006, according to Eurekahedge.  Some funds are managing to raise more than $100 million
from investors, signaling demand for managers who are able to
provide returns that beat the overall market. The average raised
by Asian hedge-fund startups this year is about $12.2 million,
according to Eurekahedge.  ‘Number One Challenge’  “Although there is an increase in the number of new hedge
funds, availability of capital continues to be the number one
challenge facing startups,” said  Skip Hashimoto , the Japan
representative at Ogier Fiduciary Services in Tokyo, which
provides administrative services to hedge funds.  Proprietary traders opening hedge funds should provide a
greater variety of strategies for investors and may help
increase the overall availability of startup capital, Hashimoto
said.  Einoshin Arima and  Giselle Leung , former proprietary
traders at Mizuho Securities Co., raised about $120 million with
money from institutional investors in Asia for a new hedge fund
that started on Sept. 1. The Hareion Fund returned about 5
percent since inception through Oct. 8, beating the 3.5 percent
gain by the Topix in the same period.  The so-called Volcker rule added to the U.S. financial-
overhaul package is an attempt to limit risky trading and
investing by depositary institutions after the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression culminated in an unprecedented
level of government support for the banking system.  Volcker Rule  Goldman Sachs  is disbanding its principal-strategies
business, one of the groups that make bets with the firm’s own
money, to comply with the new U.S. rules, two people with
knowledge of the decision said last month.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
plans to close its prop-trading units in response to the law,
signed by President  Barack Obama  in July.  “U.S. securities firms will have to comply with the
Volcker rule even in their Japanese activities,” said Tomoaki
Ikenaga, a partner at law firm Anderson Mori & Tomotsune in
Tokyo, who specializes in the financial industry. “With the
limitation on prop-trading in the U.S., liquidity will likely
decline in the market, and investors will seek other markets,
leading to possible moves by hedge funds to Japan and Asia.”  Kenji Miyamoto , a former proprietary trader at Goldman
Sachs in Hong Kong, said he is planning a new Japan-focused
equity hedge fund in the next year, declining to elaborate as it
is still under development.  More Strategies  Japanese startups are offering funds with a wider range of
strategies, such as event driven and multistrategy with a focus
on trading, Rogers Investment’s Kennedy said. That is a
departure from funds set up in 2006 and 2005, which mainly
favored equity long-short strategies, betting on rising and
falling stock prices.  Long-short funds have dominated in Japan because many were
started by managers who used to work for major institutions
investing in long-only funds, said Kennedy.  They founded their own firms seeking to profit from short
selling as the other of Japan’s benchmarks, the  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average , declined to a quarter of its 1989 peak, he said.
Shorting involves selling borrowed shares in anticipation of
buying them back at lower prices.  “Many of 2010’s crop of Japan-focused managers generally
do not believe that they know better than the markets; they seek
to ride the tiger instead of trying to tame it to make money in
the world’s most difficult market,” said Kennedy, whose Rogers
Investment advises a fund-of-hedge fund that allocates money to
managers investing in Japan. “We see this as a positive trend
for Japanese hedge funds.”  R-SQUARED  R-SQUARED Master, a multistrategy fund that invests in
securities ranging from equities to convertible bonds, returned
6.3 percent since inception in April through September. The
assets of the fund, started by  Tan Maruyama , a former
proprietary trader at Goldman Sachs, have grown to 1.9 billion
yen ($23 million) from 1.36 billion yen.  “There aren’t that many Japanese hedge funds with credit
strategies, so that is an advantage for us,” Maruyama said.  The Orix Commodities Fund returned 4 percent since starting
in June through September, said  Atsuhito Mori , chief trader of
the fund run by  GCI Asset Management Inc. , a Japanese hedge fund,
and Orix Investment Corp., the alternative-investment arm of
Tokyo-based  Orix Corp.   The commodity trading adviser, or CTA, uses computer
programs to search for price signals in futures markets ranging
from equities and bonds to oil and gold. It aims to increase its
assets to 10 billion yen by the end of March 2011 from 4 billion
yen at inception, Mori said.  ‘Positive Sign’  “We’re talking to several domestic institutional investors
and overseas funds-of-funds as potential investors now,” Mori
said. “We’re getting some reactions from investors that never
knew there were Japanese CTAs, so that’s a positive sign.”  Alithion Japan Fund, run by  Akira Yaku  and  Kentaro Ishizaki ,
former proprietary traders at  Mizuho Securities , returned 1.2
percent through September since inception in July, taking short-
term bets on single securities.  It started with 2 billion yen from Tokyo-based trading
company  Marubeni Corp.  and aims to boost assets to 3 billion yen
to 4 billion yen by the yearend through money from domestic
pension funds and funds-of-funds abroad, Yaku said.  T&D Asset Management Co. , which started a long-short hedge
fund in June, is expecting to double the fund’s assets to about
2 billion yen next month through new allocations from pension
funds, said Tatsuhiko Takeda, a manager for institutional
business department at the asset management arm of Japanese
insurer  T&D Holdings Inc.   “There are some indications that more long-term investors
are willing to commit to new hedge funds that have shown a
respectable track record and can meet a number of parameters
such as risk capability and experience,” said Ogier’s Hashimoto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 