-- Asian Stocks Retreat on Recovery Concern as U.S. Jobless Claims Increase
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-10-15T08:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-fall-on-u-s-jobs-report-crude.html
Asian  stocks  fell and the regional
benchmark index retreated from a two-year high after U.S.
initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased, sparking concern
about the strength of the world’s biggest economy.  Canon Inc., a Japanese camera maker that gets about 30
percent of its sales from the U.S., decreased 1.3 percent in
Tokyo after the yen reached a 15-year high against the dollar
yesterday.  Belle International Holdings Ltd.  led declines in
Hong Kong as investors sold after seven straight weeks of gain
by the benchmark index. Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s No.
3 bank by market value, tumbled 4.9 percent after Nikkei English
News said the nation’s biggest banks may sell 2 trillion yen
($24.6 billion) in shareholdings to meet capital requirements.  “Investor sentiment is a bit twitchy,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $85 billion. “The U.S. data was a
bit poor. This week we’ve had a couple of good days and
investors may be looking to take profits.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 0.5 percent to 131.34
as of 5:48 p.m. in Tokyo today after reaching its highest level
since July 2008 yesterday. All 10 industry groups fell, with
about two stocks dropping for each that rose on the nearly
1,000-member gauge.  The Asia Pacific measure is set for its  seventh week  of
gains and has jumped 21 percent from this year’s low on May 25.  Hang Seng Strength  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  slipped 0.2 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei
225 Stock Average  dropped 0.9 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index
climbed 0.1 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.4 percent. The index’s
14-day  relative strength index  of price momentum is at 81 today,
above the 70 level considered by some traders as a sell signal.
It was at 85 yesterday, the highest level since August 2005.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed today. The index fell 0.4 percent yesterday in New York
as financial companies slumped amid concern over growing legal
scrutiny of home-foreclosure practices as home seizures reached
a record in September.  Also in the U.S., the number of Americans filing claims for
jobless benefits unexpectedly climbed last week, according to
the Labor Department. A separate report showed wholesale costs
for goods other than food and energy rose in September for a
second month at a pace that suggests limited demand is
restraining inflation.  The yen appreciated to as much as 80.89 against the dollar
yesterday evening in Tokyo, a level last seen in April 1995. A
stronger yen cuts the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  U.S. Jobless Claims  Canon, the world’s biggest camera maker, retreated 1.3
percent to 3,860 yen. Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s No. 1
carmaker, lost 1.2 percent to 2,894 yen. Honda Motor Co., which
receives 84 percent of its sales outside of Japan, fell 1.4
percent to 2,964 yen.  A report from the U.S. Labor Department showed the number
of Americans filing first-time applications for unemployment
benefits unexpectedly increased last week to 462,000.  Belle International, the best performer on the Hang Seng
Index this year, slumped 5.6 percent to HK$14.28.  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. , the second-best performer this year, fell 2.7
percent to HK$21.90.  Cnooc Ltd. , which has jumped 37 percent
this year through yesterday, slid 1.9 percent to HK$16.40.  ‘Technically Overbought’  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  has climbed 8.6 percent this
year and reached its highest level since June 2008 yesterday.  Stocks are “technically overbought,” said  Danny Yan , Hong
Kong-based portfolio manager at Taifook Asset Management, which
oversees about $400 million. “The market will have a reasonable
correction.”  Mizuho and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. led declines
in Japanese banks today on concern supply for their shares will
outstrip demand after the Nikkei newspaper said they were
looking to unwind their cross-shareholdings.  Mizuho tumbled 4.9 percent to 116 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ lost
2.8 percent to 385 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.
slipped 2.5 percent to 2,388.  Japan’s three largest banks may sell a total of 2 trillion
yen in shareholdings over the next three years as they prepare
for the introduction of stricter capital requirements in 2013,
Nikkei English News said, without citing anyone.  Japan Banks Fall  “The news is causing a selling in financial shares,” said
 Shoichi Arisawa , an Osaka-based manager at Iwai Securities Co.
“Dissolving each others’ holdings means more supply in the
market. Banks are beginning to reduce risk assets, and we may
start to see more moves like these in the future.”  Banks in Asia  also declined after U.S. home seizures
reached a record in September and scrutiny of home foreclosure
practices grew.  HSBC Holdings Plc, which receives 20 percent of its revenue
from North America, slid 1.3 percent to HK$82.90 in Hong Kong.
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and Westpac Banking
Corp. both fell 0.8 percent in Sydney.  “There’s a bit of a cloud hanging over banks in the U.S.
on the foreclosure pressure,” said AMP’s Oliver. “This may
have a flow-on effect on Asian banks, even if it’s not
rational.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 