-- Japan’s Producer Prices Decline 0.1% as Yen Climbs
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-10-14T00:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japan-producer-prices-slide-0-1-as-yen-s-appreciation-lowers-import-costs.html
Japan’s producer prices fell for the
first time since July as the yen’s gain makes imports cheaper,
adding to deflationary pressure on the economy.  The amount companies pay for energy and unfinished goods
fell 0.1 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with
the median forecast of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
to be flat.  BOJ policy makers last week pointed to the yen’s strength
as a reason to forecast weakening producer prices, when it
downgraded its economic assessment in its monthly report. It
also cut the target for the benchmark interest rate for the
first time since 2008 and created a 5 trillion-yen ($61 billion)
fund to buy assets and expand its balance sheet.  “It’s too early to assume the BOJ’s measures can work
effectively to beat deflation and stop the yen’s appreciation,”  Eiji Dohke , chief Japanese government bond strategist at Citi
Group Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo, said before the report.
“The BOJ will probably implement additional action as early as
November.”  From a month earlier, prices were unchanged, today’s report
showed.  The central bank’s overseas commodity index, a gauge of
costs of materials including oil, steel, copper and wheat, rose
23.6 percent in September from a year earlier, compared with an
8.7 percent increase in August. The index had been rising more
than 50 percent in the first four months of 2010.  Cut Prices  A stronger yen is prompting Japanese retailers to cut
prices of food, clothing and furniture to spur consumption as
households keep their purse strings tight. The confidence index
of Japanese household slid for a third month in September, a
government report showed this week, adding to signs of a
slowdown in domestic demand.  Retailers including supermarket operator Daiei Inc. and
Ryohin Keikaku Co., which operates Mujirushi Ryohin stores, are
lowering prices.  BOJ policy makers predicted in July producer prices will
probably rise 1.2 percent in the year ending March 31 and
increase 0.8 percent in the following year. They will update
forecasts when they will release a semi-annual economic on Oct.
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  