-- Japan Bond Futures Fall as Benchmark Yields Near Seven-Year Low Sap Demand
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-15T06:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japan-s-10-year-bonds-may-fall-set-for-weekly-drop-after-treasury-slump.html
Japanese  bond  futures declined,
completing a weekly drop, after benchmark yields near a seven-
year low deterred investors and Treasuries slid yesterday.  The yield  advantage  of 10-year U.S. government debt over
benchmark Japanese bonds was near the highest in a month before
data forecast to show improving U.S. consumer sentiment. Japan’s
30-year  yields  have gained 13 basis points since Oct. 5, when
the Bank of Japan cut its key interest rate and announced the
creation of a fund to buy government debt and other assets.  “Investors can’t keep buying JGBs at current yield levels
to secure profits, and negative external factors don’t help
either,” said  Shinji Hiramatsu , senior investment manager in
Tokyo at Sompo Japan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about
1.4 trillion yen ($17 billion). “Expectations for monetary
easing would typically boost inflation prospects and push up
long-term yields.”  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery declined 0.08
to 143.84 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They
lost 0.11 since Oct. 8, the first weekly slump in five.  The 0.8 percent security due September 2020 was unchanged
at 99.315 yen to  yield  at 0.875 percent as of 3:22 p.m. in Tokyo
at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The yield has risen two basis points this week after
declining to 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, the lowest since July 2003.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment rose to 68.9 in October from 68.2
the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists compiled by Bloomberg. The report is due today.  ‘Downside Risks’  Ten-year  U.S. yields  jumped 7.5 basis points to 2.5 percent
yesterday. A 30-year debt auction drew a yield of 3.852 percent,
higher than the average forecast of 3.831 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of six of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to speak today on
monetary policy objectives and tools at a conference in Boston.
The Fed will hold a policy meeting next month.  Losses in Japan’s bonds were limited after the yen
yesterday strengthened beyond 81 per dollar for the first time
since April 1995 and the Bank of Japan today cut its economic
assessment in three of the country’s nine regions, its first
downgrade since April 2009. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa today said it’s still
necessary to “pay attention to the economy’s downside risks.”
The central bank “stands ready to take appropriate policy
action, while carefully examining the outlook for the economy
and prices,” he said.  “There are few of those who think the central bank will
avoid expanding easing measures,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief
debt strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “We
can’t say 10-year yields have already bottomed out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  