-- Japan Prime Minister Kan Says Country Will Take Action on Yen if Necessary
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-14T11:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japan-prime-minister-kan-says-country-will-take-action-on-yen-if-necessary.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said excessive currency movements are undesirable and the
government is ready to take action on the yen if needed after it
reached a 15-year high against the dollar.  “We will take bold measures if they are absolutely
necessary,” Kan said in Tokyo today in comments televised by
national broadcaster NHK.  Japan sold more than 2 trillion yen ($24 billion) in its
first foreign-exchange market intervention in six years on Sept.
15. The action failed to arrest gains in the yen, which has
appreciated more than 10 percent against the dollar this year.  Japan’s currency policy is “the responsibility of the
finance minister” Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  said at
a press conference earlier today when asked about the yen’s
climb to its highest level since April 1995.  The yen traded at 81.22 against the dollar as of 8:00 p.m.
in Tokyo, after earlier touching 80.89.  Kan’s comments on the yen come after he suggested China and
South Korea should stop preventing their currencies from
appreciating.  “Guiding one’s currency lower is against the overall
coordination process,” among countries in the Group of 20, Kan
said yesterday in parliament. “We’d like South Korea and China
to take responsible actions according to the common rules.”  South Korea’s Kim Ik Joo, director-general of international
finance at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, said he called
Japan’s Ministry of Finance to protest. He declined to say who
he talked with. A Japanese official declined to comment, saying
on condition of anonymity that the government was in close
contact with South Korea.  Japan’s own intervention in currency markets sparked
criticism from European policymakers and U.S. politicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  