-- Japan Government, Companies Plan to Export Geothermal Power Technologies
-- B y   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 2010-10-14T04:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/japan-government-companies-plan-to-export-geothermal-power-technologies.html
Sumitomo Corp.,  JGC Corp.  and
 Electric Power Development Co.  and other Japanese companies are
cooperating with the government to sell geothermal power
technology overseas, an official said.  Twenty companies including Itochu Corp., Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. have set up a
working group to promote Japanese technology, said Hiroyuki
Kudo, general manager of the international cooperation division
at the  Energy Conservation Center , which serves as the group’s
secretariat.  The group plans to first target opportunities in Indonesia
where demand for geothermal power is forecast to increase,
Satoshi Nakamura, assistant director at the Japanese trade
ministry’s  Agency for Natural Resources and Energy , said.  Japan and Indonesia have agreed to cooperate on building
infrastructure for geothermal power, Nakamura said. Officials
are discussing geothermal power and other projects at an
economic forum today in Tokyo. Indonesia’s government aims to
boost its geothermal power capacity to 9,500 megawatts by 2025
from 1,200 now.  The Japanese group first met on Oct. 8, with the Trade
Ministry and the  Japan Bank for International Cooperation 
attending as an observer.  Developing power from sources underground such as hot
springs is estimated to cost between $3,000 and $4,000 per
kilowatt, according to Tadashi Kaneda, head of the overseas
division at  Fuji Electric Systems Co. , a unit of Fuji Electric
Holdings Co.  A 100 megawatt geothermal plant would cost between $300
million and $400 million, Kaneda said, meaning Indonesia’s
geothermal market may be worth as much as $38 billion within 15
years, based on the Indonesian government targets.  “Japan’s technological strength can set itself apart from
others,” Kaneda said, citing a method for preventing corrosion
caused by hydrogen sulfide in the ground. “Risks are involved
in geothermal projects at the initial stage of investment, so
government assistance is necessary,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michio Nakayama  in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  