-- Jordan Seeks Mitsubishi, Mitsui Investment in $14 Billion Power Projects
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-14T02:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/jordan-seeks-mitsubishi-mitsui-investments-in-14-billion-energy-projects.html
Jordan’s government is seeking
investments from  Mitsubishi Corp. ,  Mitsui & Co.  and other
Japanese companies in energy projects worth about $14 billion
needed to meet rising demand for power, an official said.  The Middle Eastern country, which imports 96 percent of its
energy needs, wants investment in its oil shale reserves, the
world’s fourth largest, Jordanian Energy Minister  Khaled Irani 
said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. The country is also
planning to develop wind, solar and geothermal power.  “There are many blocks in Jordan that are open to
investment in oil shale,” Irani, who is meeting officials from
Mitsubishi and Mitsui, said. “We welcome Japanese companies.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and Estonia’s Eesti Energia AS have
signed agreements on oil shale projects. Jordan forecasts fuel
consumption will increase to 10 million metric tons of oil
equivalent by 2020 from 7.5 million tons.  “With the increase in fossil fuel prices, extraction of
oil shale is becoming more and more feasible,” Irani said. At
crude oil prices higher than $65 a barrel, extracting oil from
shale in Jordan is economically viable, he said.  Crude has traded at an average of $77.93 a barrel this year
and was at $83.73 at 11 a.m. Tokyo time today.  The government estimates that electricity demand will
almost double in the next decade to 5,200 megawatts.  Japan Delegation  Oil shale is a sedimentary rock that contains solid
bituminous materials, which are released as petroleum-like
liquids when the rock is heated,  according  to the U.S.
Department of the Interior.  Irani is part of a delegation led by Prime Minister  Samir Rifai  visiting Japan, another country that imports most of its
fuel needs, to drum up interest in investing in the nation,
which borders Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Syria and Israel.  Irani is also meeting officials from  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd.  during his three-day visit, he said.  The almost landlocked country wants to get 10 percent of
its electricity from renewable sources by 2020, while nuclear
power is forecast to account for as much as 10 percent and oil
shale 14 percent, Irani said.  Jordan will open a tender for oil and gas blocks near
Irbid, northern Jordan by the end of this year, said Irani.
Several international companies are interested in the project,
he said, declining to identify them.  Wind Subsidies  The government will also announce details of subsidies for
solar power in the first quarter of 2011 to promote renewable
energy, he said.  Plans for new solar power projects will be outlined by the
end of this year. The government wants to tender as much as 100
megawatt of solar power capacity as the market grows and has
identified 15 potential sites for wind power projects.  The government will offer a site for a new wind project
within two years, Irani said. Bids are due by March next for the
$150 million Fejeij wind farm.  Japan and Jordan signed a nuclear cooperation treaty on
Sept. 10, paving the way for companies including Mitsubishi
Heavy to sell nuclear reactors to the Middle East country.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan promised to support Jordan’s plans
to build a nuclear power plant at a meeting with Rifai on Oct.
12, Kyodo News reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 