-- JPMorgan Chase Sells $4 Billion of Bonds Amid Home Foreclosure Scrutiny
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-14T20:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/jpmorgan-chase-sells-4-billion-of-bonds-amid-home-foreclosure-scrutiny.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, sold $4 billion of 10- and 30-year
debt as the lender bypasses concern over home foreclosure
practices.  The company issued $2.75 billion of 4.25 percent, 10-year
notes that yield 180 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $1.25 billion of 5.5 percent, 30-year bonds at a
spread of 165 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  JPMorgan sold the debt after attorneys general from all 50
states said yesterday they have opened an investigation into
whether lenders and mortgage companies falsified documents in
foreclosure proceedings. JPMorgan said it was adding $1 billion
to reserves set aside for repurchasing mortgages and also
expanded a review of foreclosures to about 115,000 files in 41
states from at least 56,000 loans in 23 states on Sept. 23.  “There was at least an estimate for the liability that
people could chew on and deal with when they announced the
reserves they took for the problem,” said  Lon Erickson , who
helps oversee $9 billion of fixed-income assets, including
JPMorgan bonds, at Thornburg Investment Management. “It makes
the market feel better when there’s a black-and-white number to
start with as a base and they can adjust up or down from
there.”  Investors ‘Comforted’  The estimates “comforted” investors, said Erickson, a
managing director at the Santa Fe, New Mexico-based company.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the review will
cost more money, though expenses will probably be
“incremental.”  The spreads on JPMorgan’s debt compare with 222 basis
points on the average bank bond, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporates, Banks index. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The bank’s last benchmark sale in dollars was Sept. 27,
when it issued $1.15 billion of three-year fixed- and floating-
rate debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s
Investors Service assigns JPMorgan a  grade  of Aa3 and Standard &
Poor’s ranks it A+, one step lower.  Bank of America Corp. is the largest U.S. bank by assets,
according to data compiled by the Federal Reserve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 