-- Kan's Currency Comments Aimed at Emerging Nations, Spokesman Sengoku Says
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-14T06:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/kan-s-currency-comments-aimed-at-emerging-nations-spokesman-sengoku-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
comments yesterday suggesting China and South Korea should stop
preventing their currencies from appreciating was directed at
emerging nations, the top government spokesman said.  Kan “was speaking from the standpoint that he hopes
emerging nations with massive trade surpluses improve exchange
rate flexibility,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told
reporters today in Tokyo.  “Guiding one’s currency lower is against the overall
coordination process,” among countries in the Group of 20, Kan
said yesterday in parliament. “We’d like South Korea and China
to take responsible actions according to the common rules.”  The remarks drew a rebuke from South Korea.  Kim Ik Joo ,
director-general of international finance at the Ministry of
Strategy and Finance, said he called Japan’s Ministry of Finance
to protest. He declined to say who he talked with. A Japanese
official declined to comment, saying on condition of anonymity
that the government was in close contact with South Korea.  Kan’s comments come amid mounting frustration over
countries that are relying on cheap currencies to boost economic
growth. Japan’s own intervention in currency markets for the
first time in six years last month to tame the yen’s advance to
a 15-year high against the dollar sparked criticism from
European policymakers and U.S. politicians.  Korean Complaint  South Korea, which hosts the G-20 leaders’ summit next
month in Seoul, complained about Kan’s comments, Yonhap News
Agency said, citing an unidentified finance ministry official.
Japan responded by saying it’s improper to comment on another
country’s currency policy and will try not to repeat the
incident, the report said.  South Korea posted a monthly trade surplus of $5 billion in
September as  exports  increased 17.2 percent, a government report
last week showed. China, the world’s biggest exporter, posted a
$16.9 billion trade surplus in the same month.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today that he
expects countries will find a way to cooperate on currency
issues.  The won has fallen 9 percent against the yen this year,
while rising 4.6 percent against the dollar. Japan’s currency is
up almost 15 percent against its U.S. counterpart and it reached
at 15-year high of 81.15 today in Tokyo.  China’s yuan rose to its strongest level since 1993 today
on speculation the government will yield to international
pressure to let the currency appreciate faster. The currency has
strengthened 2.5 percent since the country’s central bank four
months ago pledged to pursue a more flexible exchange rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  