-- Kazakhstan, Hong Kong Billionaires Li, Cheng, Yung Plan Fund, Premier Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2010-10-14T23:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/kazakhstan-hong-kong-billionaires-li-cheng-yung-plan-fund-premier-says.html
Kazakhstan has joined Hong Kong
billionaires  Li Ka-shing ,  Larry Yung  and  Cheng Yu Tung  to form a
$400 million private equity fund that will help Kazakh companies
list in the city, Prime Minister  Karim Massimov  said.  Kazyna Capital Management JSC, a unit of the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, will initially contribute $100 million
and four Hong Kong partners, including Li’s  Cheung Kong
(Holdings) Ltd. , will provide $300 million, the prime minister
said in an interview yesterday.  “In Hong Kong, guanxi is very, very important,” he said.
“We have trust in them, they are very serious partners, and
they have trust in the government of Kazakhstan.” “Guanxi” is
a Chinese term that refers to personal relationships.  Kazakhstan, the largest energy producer in Central Asia,
has the world’s 11th-biggest proven oil reserves and is becoming
an increasingly important source of natural resources for China,
as well as Russia.  Getting the nation’s supply of minerals, including coal,
iron ore, nickel, gold and uranium, to market requires billions
of dollars of investment in infrastructure, Massimov said.  “This is just initial; $400 million for these type of
businesses is peanuts,” he said.  Yung, former chairman of  Citic Pacific Ltd. , will invest
about $100 million through privately held Enterprise Holdings
Ltd., according to Gordon To, who will manage the investment on
Enterprise’s behalf.  Cheng, chairman of Hong Kong-based real estate investor  New
World Development Co. , will invest an undisclosed amount through
his closely held  Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd. , To said. He
also declined to say how much Li’s Cheung Kong and the fourth
participant, investor Dominic Lau, will contribute.  Wendy Tong Barnes , a spokeswoman for Cheung Kong, didn’t
immediately return a call yesterday seeking comment.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frederik Balfour  at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  