-- Kudrin Says Unilateral Efforts to Weaken Currencies `Especially Worrying'
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-14T12:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/kudrin-says-unilateral-efforts-to-weaken-currencies-especially-worrying-.html
Russian Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said efforts by some countries to weaken their currencies
to stimulate growth are “especially worrying.”  International policy makers failed to narrow their
differences during the International Monetary Fund’s annual
meeting last week in Washington after Brazil warned that a
“currency war” was under way. While the U.S. criticized China
for undervaluing the yuan, officials from emerging nations
blamed low U.S. interest rates for flooding them with capital.  “The unilateral attempts of some countries to make
decisions on managing their currency rates” to spur growth are
“especially worrying,” Kudrin said today in Moscow after
meeting European Union Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  Still, Kudrin said management of exchange rates isn’t the
only thing to blame for global “imbalances.”  Different levels of “competitiveness” are the main issue,
as well as “the stimulating monetary policy of some developed
countries, mainly the U.S., which use it as a way of solving
structural problems.”  Policy makers agreed last week that the IMF should police
exchange rates by preparing reports to show how the policies of
one economy affect others. The studies will focus on the U.S.,
China, the U.K. and the euro area. The next discussions will
take place during Group of 20 talks in South Korea next month.  Negative  “There have been negative developments, but I wouldn’t
call it currency wars,” Rehn said today. “We must avoid the
spiral of combative depreciation.” All countries have to focus
on “rebalancing” global  growth .  Global economic recovery, “which was recently gaining
momentum is significantly slowing” as the effect of anti-crisis
stimulus measures seems to be wearing off, Kudrin said. “A
further slowing of economic growth in the second half of 2010
and 2011 is a cause for concern.”  Emerging economies are unlikely to “fully compensate”
lower consumer demand in the U.S. and other developed countries,
he said. “Increased volatility of reserve currencies is another
sign of instability in the global financial system,” Kudrin
said.  Russia is moving away from managing the ruble toward a
free-float. The central bank yesterday widened the so-called
floating corridor it uses to guide the ruble against a basket of
dollars and euros and abolished a wider band set during the
credit crisis to “increase flexibility” of the exchange rate,
First Deputy Chairman Alexei Ulyukayev said.  That decision was “unrelated to the currency wars,”
Kudrin said. “It’s the opposite move, to intervene less in the
exchange rate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  