-- `Nightmare' Ends as U.S. Flights Return to Central Tokyo
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2010-10-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/narita-nightmare-ending-as-u-s-flights-return-to-tokyo-s-haneda-airport.html
For the first time in 32 years,
Tokyo banker  Edwin Merner  can fly to San Francisco without
having to travel more than an hour just to catch his plane.  Haneda Airport , 13 minutes by train from Merner’s office in
Tokyo’s center, is opening a $1.3 billion international terminal
and starting flights to the U.S. and Europe this month. The
expansion provides an alternative for the millions of business
travelers and tourists making the 70 kilometer (40 mile) journey
to and from Narita International Airport each year.  “If I go to Korea, it takes as long to get to Narita as
from Narita to Seoul,” said  Merner , president of Tokyo-based
Atlantis Investment Research Corp. “Going to Haneda is very
convenient. People will love it.”  Tokyo is boosting air traffic as it faces challenges from
Hong Kong, Singapore and Shanghai as regional financial hubs.
Combined expansions at Haneda, Asia’s second-busiest airport
after Beijing, and Narita will add about 1 trillion yen ($12
billion) to Japan’s economy next fiscal year by boosting tourism,
air cargo and real estate prices, the government said.  Japan Airlines Corp. ,  All Nippon Airways Co. ,  American
Airlines  and  British Airways Plc  are adding flights from Haneda
to New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris and Singapore.  “The advent of multiple new flights flying in and out of
Haneda is being viewed most favorably by senior financial
professionals,” said John McCrohon, a director of financial
services at recruitment consultancy  Robert Walters Japan K.K. 
The expansion will promote Tokyo as a “central business hub.”  Haneda , Japan’s busiest airport with 62 million passengers
last year, will add 40,000 overseas take-off and landing slots
along with the new 110 billion yen, five-story terminal. The
 building  has more than 100 restaurants and shops, including a
Hello Kitty outlet and a replica of an Edo-era street.  New Flights  All Nippon is adding five international destinations a week
from Haneda to cities including Los Angeles,  Honolulu  and
Singapore, while Japan Airlines will add flights to six overseas
cities, including Paris and San Francisco. The two airlines
already fly to Hong Kong, China and South Korea from the airport,
after Haneda reintroduced short-haul overseas flights in 2002,
when Japan and South Korea co-hosted soccer’s World Cup. Merner,
who flies overseas four or five times a year, said he already
uses Haneda for trips to Seoul and Hong Kong.  “We’re competing on time and we have a big advantage,”
said Mutsuo Egashira, a senior vice president at  Tokyo
International Air Terminal Corp. , manager of the new terminal.
“Tourism will have a significant impact on the economy.”  Delta Air Lines Inc.  will offer flights from the new
terminal to Los Angeles and Detroit, American will link to New
York,  Hawaiian Airlines Inc.  will fly to Honolulu and British
Airways to London.  Haneda Premium  Some airlines said they will charge a premium for flights
from Haneda, compared with Narita. All Nippon Air aims to get
higher fares from the downtown airport, charging about 10,000
yen more for some discount tickets. Japan Airlines said tickets
to Seoul’s Incheon and Honolulu may be more expensive.  “Haneda constitutes a real product benefit,” said  Mark Dunkerley , chief executive officer of Hawaiian Airlines.
“People are going to be able to fly to their favorite
destination from a more convenient airport.”  The expansion at Haneda includes a fourth runway that will
boost take-off and landing slots to 371,000 annually, according
to the transport ministry. Capacity may rise to 447,000 a year
by fiscal 2013 if the airport shows its traffic control system
can handle the increase, the ministry said. Narita increased
capacity 10 percent to 220,000 slots earlier this year and plans
to add another 80,000 slots by fiscal 2014.  Trillion Yen Boost  “The development and opening up of Haneda is good news for
Tokyo and the Japanese economy,” said  Laurie Price , director of
aviation strategy at Mott MacDonald Group Ltd. Air traffic
constraints “have been bad for Japanese trade and tourism,” he
said.  International passengers at Haneda will probably increase
to about 7 million in the first 12 months of operations,
compared with about 2.5 million a year now, said Egashira.  Narita will increase passenger numbers to  34 million  next
fiscal year from an estimated 33 million this year, according to
Narita International Airport Corp.  ‘At Capacity’  “Japan has been completely at capacity,” said  Giovanni Bisignani , chief executive officer of the International Air
Transport Association, a Montreal-based trade group.  Haneda’s new flights include a thrice-weekly service to
Kuala Lumpur by low-cost carrier AirAsia X Sdn, starting in
December.  “If we could get a daily flight to Haneda, that would be
fantastic,”  Azran Osman Rani , chief executive officer of
AirAsia X, the long-haul unit of AirAsia Bhd., told reporters in
Tokyo last month.  Tourists coming to Japan will climb to 15 million by 2013,
from 6.8 million last year, should the government meet its
estimates. About  15 million  Japanese traveled overseas last year.  “Haneda will be able to attract a greater amount of demand
from airlines,”  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , an analyst in Tokyo at
Shinsei Securities Co. “It will give a boost to the Tokyo
metropolitan area.”  Rail links will deliver passengers to Haneda’s new terminal
in  13 minutes  from either the city’s main loop line or from the
bullet train stop at  Shinagawa station  when it opens next week.
Beijing airport links to the city by fast train in  16 minutes .
Fliers to Hong Kong, which opened a new airport in 1998, can
take a train downtown in  24 minutes . The express train to Narita
takes an hour.  “Getting to Narita is a nightmare,” said Chieko Yamane,
48, a Tokyo office worker, who lives in Kanagawa prefecture, the
other side of Tokyo, and jets abroad three or four times a year.
“Haneda is much better, so easy and simple, especially when I
bring scuba gear. I can hardly wait.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at
   ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kiyotaka Matsuda  in Tokyo at
   kmatsuda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 