-- Pakistan Will Help Karzai `Wherever and However' With Taliban Peace Talks
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-15T16:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/nato-to-offer-practical-help-for-afghanistan-s-peace-talks-with-taliban.html
Pakistan will help Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  “wherever and however” with his tentative peace
talks with Taliban rebels, Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi 
said.  “Pakistan has given a clear signal to the Afghan
government that we are willing to help and facilitate but it has
to be their initiative,” Qureshi said in a news conference in
Brussels with European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton . Afghans need “to share their framework and thought
process.”  Efforts to reach a political settlement come as the public
in the U.S. and European countries grow weary of a nine-year
war. Tensions also grew this month with Pakistan, the most
important U.S. ally in the Afghan war, after the killing of
three Pakistani soldiers in an allied air strike prompted
Pakistan to block NATO supply routes to Afghanistan in protest.  Pakistan re-opened the crossing on Oct. 9, a conduit for
most of the 580 daily truckloads of supplies and fuel for the
142,000 North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops fighting the
Afghan Taliban. The South Asian nation had blocked the passage
on Sept. 30.  The U.S. administration, in addition to authorizing 30,000
more troops for Afghanistan in December, is seeking more
Pakistani military operations to prevent the Taliban and al-
Qaeda from crossing into eastern Afghanistan. The U.S. has also
donated $387 million toward Pakistani flood relief.  General Petraeus  U.S. General  David Petraeus , the top commander in
Afghanistan, today said “there have been several very senior
Taliban leaders who have reached out to the Afghan government at
the highest level, and have also in some cases reached out to
other countries engaged in Afghanistan.”  “These discussions to this point can only be characterized
as preliminary in nature. They certainly cannot be characterized
as negotiations,” said Petraeus, who is in London to meet with
Prime Minister  David Cameron  and defense ministry counterparts.  Petraeus said his forces had assisted in the Afghan talks.
“It would not be the easiest task for a senior member of the
Taliban to travel to Kabul without ISAF knowledge and
facilitation,” he said.  While the White House supports Afghan overtures to the
Taliban, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday in
Brussels stressed that Karzai knows U.S. support is conditional
on the Taliban renouncing violence and cutting ties with
terrorism.  Leaving the Taliban  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , also in Brussels
yesterday, said the U.S. is in “very close consultation” with
Karzai as signs indicate that lower-ranking fighters are leaving
the guerrilla movement.  “There’ve been an increasing number of people associated
with the Taliban who have reached out and said, you know, we
want to talk about an alternative to war,”  Richard Holbrooke ,
U.S. special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan, said in a news
conference in Brussels yesterday.  Holbrooke cautioned that “there’s been more written about
this than is actually going on” and that “this does not
constitute a negotiation or formal negotiations, but it falls
into the category of reintegration.”  President  Barack Obama  has added 30,000 troops to turn back
the Taliban in the main populated areas and to train Afghan
security forces sufficiently so the coalition can begin
withdrawing some forces in July.  Taliban Targets  The U.S. and its allies in Afghanistan also have stepped up
commando raids on Taliban targets. Gates said Aug. 31 that more
than 350 Taliban commanders had been killed or captured in the
prior three months. Almost 3,000 commando missions were
conducted from early May to early August, the highest tempo of
the war, according to the U.S.-led coalition.  NATO forces are willing to offer “practical assistance”
to aid the Afghan government’s peace talks with Taliban rebels,
Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  said yesterday. The
chairman of the peace effort, former Afghan President
 Burhanuddin Rabbani , heads a 68-member peace council set up last
week to accelerate informal talks under way between Karzai and
the insurgents trying to drive out foreign troops.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva   Msilva34@bloomberg.net  