-- Natural Gas Price Swings Drop to Tightest in Eight Years: Energy Markets
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-15T19:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/natural-gas-price-swings-drop-to-tightest-in-eight-years-energy-markets.html
Natural gas is trading in the
tightest range in eight years as rising U.S. production pushes
inventory levels close to last year’s record, undermining profit
for traders who thrive on price swings.  The fuel has stayed between $3.52 and $6.108 per million
British thermal units this year, the smallest difference since
2002, amid government forecasts for U.S. production to reach the
highest levels in 37 years. Gas may average $4.35 in the fourth
quarter, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News, up 2.7 percent from the previous
three-month period.  U.S. gas inventories will peak by the end of this month at
3.726 trillion cubic feet, 2.9 percent lower than last year’s
record of 3.837 trillion, the Energy Department estimated on
Oct. 13 in the monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook . Stockpiles
have risen even as a 37 percent decline in prices this year and
stricter pollution rules encouraged utilities to switch away
from coal. Gas-fired power production will climb 31 percent in
2010 from five years ago, according to the department.  “Low volatility is the new norm in the gas market,” said
 Hamza Khan , an analyst at the Schork Group Inc., a consulting
company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The upside is capped by
supply and the downside by fuel-switching.”  Lower volatility reduced the need for gas producers to
hedge their future production, according to  Chris Kostas , a
senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. Gas selling positions held by producers totaled
 546,548 contracts  in futures markets in the week ended Sept. 3,
the lowest level in six months, according to data from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Positions reached 552,782
in the week ended Oct. 5.  Low Volatility  Implied volatility for so-called at-the-money options
expiring in 30 days, a measure of expected price swings in
futures and a gauge of options prices, dropped to less than 34
percent March 12, the lowest level in at least five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has averaged more
than 47 percent this year, compared with almost 72 percent in
the same period last year. Lower volatility can reduce profits
for option traders.  “We’ve seen producers reducing their forward hedging as
they are less concerned that prices will be volatile or fall
further,” said Kostas. “On the speculative side, people are
making less money selling options.”  Natural gas for November delivery fell 12.2 cents, or 3.3
percent, to $3.535 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest settlement price since
Sept. 17, 2009. Gas averaged $4.235 in the third quarter, down
2.6 percent from the previous quarter. The first-quarter average
was $4.989, up 1.3 percent.  Increased Production  Companies have increased drilling of so-called
unconventional gas, according to Baker Hughes Inc. The number of
horizontal rigs, which are mostly used in shale-gas drilling,
rose to a record 929 in the week ended Oct. 8, the Houston-based
oil and gas field services provider said last week. The total
dropped by 3 this week to 926.  “The increase in the natural gas-directed drilling rig
count since mid-2009, comprised of a growing share of natural
gas-directed horizontal drilling rigs in the lower 48 states,
contributed to the production growth in 2010,” the Energy
Department said in the monthly report on Oct. 13.  Gas output will average 61.29 billion cubic feet a day this
year, according to the Energy Department, the most since 1973.
Production will be  2.2 percent higher  than last year.  “The market is very well supplied and that has eliminated
a lot of upside risks,” said Kostas.  Gas-Fired Power  Electricity generated using natural gas will rise to 2.461
billion kilowatt-hours a day this year from 2005’s 1.874
billion, according to  the Energy Department . Coal-powered
electricity will average 5.131 billion kilowatt-hours a day,
down from 2005’s 5.458 billion. The percentage of gas-fired
electricity will increase to a record 23 percent in 2010 from 18
percent in 2005, according to the department.  “You would expect utilities to use more natural gas, and
it’s not likely that gas prices will fall below $3,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an analysis and
research firm for energy companies based in London, Arkansas.  Gas demand may rise 2.4 percent this winter, led by power
plants and industrial consumers such as factories, the Natural
Gas Supply Association, a Washington-based industry group, said
in a report on Oct. 5.  Major Storms  The absence of major storms in the Gulf of Mexico during
September, typically  the most active month  of the hurricane
season, has also curbed price swings.  About 10 percent of U.S. gas output will come from federal
waters in the Gulf this year, down from 17 percent five years
ago, according to Energy Department estimates. Gulf production
dropped 52 percent in the past 10 years.  “Obviously we’ve got plenty of supply right now and we
have no immediate storm threats on the horizon,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hannover, a trading advisory
company in New Canaan, Connecticut.  The measure of natural-gas short positions held by
producers includes an index of four contracts adjusted to
futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas futures, Nymex Henry Hub
Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate Swaps, and ICE Henry Hub
Swaps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  