-- Nestle Gets Cheapest Loan Since 2007 as Banks Pursue High-Grade Borrowers
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-14T14:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/nestle-said-to-seek-4-billion-euro-credit-line-to-refinance-reduce-debt.html
Nestle SA  is borrowing at the
cheapest rate for a European company in three years as the
world’s biggest food company arranges a 4 billion-euro ($5.6
billion) credit line to refinance debt.  The maker of Nescafe and the eponymous chocolate is being
charged interest of about 10 basis points more than benchmark
lending rates, two people familiar with the matter said. That’s
the lowest since chemicals maker BASF SE raised $2.25 billion in
a seven-year loan at a margin of 10 basis points in April 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks are cultivating high-grade borrowers after being
pummeled by $1.8 trillion of losses in the credit crisis. New
Basel III regulations make it more expensive for them to lend to
riskier borrowers by raising the cost of the capital they’re
required to set aside against the loans.  “There are very few corporates these days which are rated
as high as Nestle, so for banks it carries very low credit
risk,” said  Anke Richter , a strategist at London-based
brokerage Conduit Capital Markets Ltd.  The new five-year revolving credit will replace financing
due Nov. 11, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the deal is private. Nestle pays a margin of 12.5 basis
points on money it draws from its existing facility, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Reduction  Robin Tickle , a spokesman for Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Nestle is reducing the size of its loan facilities from 6.5
billion euros after selling a stake in eyecare company Alcon
Inc. in August. The sale raised $28.3 billion allowing Nestle to
“substantially” reduce net debt of 29.6 billion Swiss francs
($31 billion), it said.  Citigroup Inc. is coordinating the transaction, the people
said. High-grade companies maintain credit lines to finance
their day-to-day operations or to back sales of other types of
debt such as short-term commercial paper. They typically don’t
draw on the loans.  Standard & Poor’s  ranks  Nestle’s debt at AA, the third-
highest investment grade. Moody’s Investors Service grades it
one step higher at Aa1, comparable to the level assigned by
Fitch Ratings. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  