-- New Zealand Central Bank Proposes Covered Bond Laws to Spur Formal Market
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-15T01:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/new-zealand-s-central-bank-seeks-feedback-on-regulation-of-covered-bonds.html
New Zealand’s central bank proposed
that local laws be changed to support the development of a
covered bond market in the South Pacific nation.  Increased sales of the notes would benefit the country’s
banks by attracting new investors and reducing funding costs,
 Grant Spencer , deputy governor of the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand in Wellington, said in a statement today.  “The covered bond market is already under way for New
Zealand banks under informal guidelines,” Spencer said. “The
Reserve Bank believes that some relatively minor legislative
changes would usefully support the development of this market.”  Covered bonds, mostly sold by European banks, attract
higher ratings than regular notes because they’re backed by
assets such as mortgages that stay on the lender’s balance sheet
and can be sold in the event of a default.  Bank of New Zealand 
sold the country’s first covered bonds in June, raising NZ$425
million ($322 million) from notes backed by mortgage payments.  Other issuers are considering their own programs, the
central bank said today, without providing details.  A legal framework for covered bonds would open the market
to overseas investors who are prevented from participating
without such legislative backing, Spencer said. Credit rating
companies may also view such a framework favorably, helping to
cut borrowing costs, he said.  “Introducing a legislative framework would make it more
like the traditional European covered bond markets and so would
be a positive move,” David Goodman, head of asset-backed
research at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney, said today. “It
would open up the market to potential investors who would only
be willing to buy legislatively backed covered bonds.”  Australia Ban  Australian banks are barred from selling covered bonds
because the securities conflict with banking laws that state
depositors’ interests should come ahead of creditors. The
 Australian Prudential Regulation Authority  enforces the ban
because such securities are not “consistent with depositor
preference provisions set out in the Banking Act,” according to
its website.  New Zealand’s central bank believes the benefits outweigh
any risks, and “does not consider that banks should be
prohibited from issuing covered bonds,” it said. Still, a limit
on issuance to 10 percent of a bank’s total assets is likely to
be necessary, according to the statement.  The central bank posted a  consultation paper  on its website
and is seeking feedback by Nov. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  