-- Nomura Plans Expansion of Australian Fixed-Income Team to Meet Asia Demand
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-14T01:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/nomura-plans-expansion-of-australian-fixed-income-team-to-meet-asia-demand.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
largest brokerage, will next year expand its fixed-income team
for Australia as demand for the region’s assets grows with Asia
leading the global economic recovery.  Nomura, which increased its workforce worldwide by almost
50 percent in two years, plans to add people in Sydney, London
and New York to its team covering interest rates, credit and
currencies, said  James Land , head of fixed income for Australia,
in an interview in Sydney. That will help the brokerage add
inflation and volatility products to its rates business, create
a global book for Australian and New Zealand products and expand
its foreign-exchange sales and trading teams, he said.  “Nomura plans to continue to invest in its Australian
business,” Land said. “Our customer base in Sydney is very
aware of the fact that the major driver of growth and the major
suppliers of capital over the next 10 years will come from Asia.
They need an Asian specialist.”  Chief Executive Officer  Kenichi Watanabe , seeking to
transform Nomura into a global financial firm, increased staff
worldwide to 27,393 employees as of June after snapping up
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European units and
boosting U.S. hires. The Asia-Pacific region is the firm’s
largest employee pool outside Japan, accounting for nearly 20
percent of staff, according to Nomura  filings .  The Tokyo-based brokerage will use its Japanese and Asian
networks to win business in Australia, Land said.  Asian ‘Niche’  “The Asian client base buys a lot of Aussie and kiwi
product and so us being in touch with that source of demand is a
massive comparative advantage,” Land said.  He also sees opportunities to develop the market for Asian
debt among Australian fund managers, who oversee the world’s
fourth-largest pool of pension funds, and in testing the
appetite among Asian issuers for Aussie-dollar denominated
bonds.  Sales of so-called kangaroo bonds reached a record this
year as Australian-dollar assets draw investors seeking top-
rated debt with higher yields than the near-zero benchmarks in
the U.S. and Japan. The Australian central bank’s key rate is
4.5 percent and the New Zealand equivalent stands at 3 percent.  Recent Hiring  Over the past two months,  Kurt Magnus  and  Jeremy Nambiar ,
former employees of Westpac Banking Corp., joined Nomura to
oversee currency sales and cash bonds, respectively.  John Barrasso , previously with Bank of Scotland, and  Rowan Addison  from Citibank Inc., will oversee the Australian and New
Zealand derivatives books, Land said. Nomura also brought in
 Kellie McKeown  as a director of rates sales.  In foreign exchange, Nomura will specialize in  Asian
currencies  including those of China, India, Korean and Japan as
Australian fund managers diversifying their investments into
Asia look to hedge currency risks, said Magnus.  “We’ve got a pretty rare opportunity in terms of our
access to Asian currency liquidity,” he said. “We can quote
the world’s currencies, but our niche is Asia.”  Nomura forecasts Australia’s dollar will breach parity with
its U.S. counterpart and remain near that level through 2011 and
2012. The currency rose 0.6 percent to 99.64 U.S. cents as of
12:47 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 