-- Northrop Ship Unit Said to Interest KKR, Bain, Carlyle, TPG
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-14T17:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/northrop-grumman-shipbuilding-unit-said-to-interest-carlyle-buyout-firms.html
Four private-equity firms are
exploring bids for  Northrop Grumman Corp. ’s shipbuilding unit,
which may draw offers for at least $2.5 billion by a deadline
next week, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Bain Capital LLC, Carlyle Group, KKR & Co. and TPG Capital
have been examining the unit’s finances and meeting with its
executives, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private. The price may range from $2.5
billion to more than $3 billion, the people said.  Northrop, which said in July it planned to exit the
business via a sale or spinoff, branched into shipbuilding in
2001. The Los Angeles-based company, the biggest maker of U.S.
Navy vessels, runs shipyards in Mississippi, Louisiana and
Virginia.  Chief Executive Officer  Wes Bush  said in July that the
division may attract “financial buyers who see it as a value-
creation opportunity.” Northrop is also considering spinning
off the unit to  shareholders , a move that would avoid a tax bill
and wouldn’t generate cash.  The ship unit doesn’t fit with Northrop’s strategy to sell
“fully integrated solutions” to the Navy because the U.S.
Defense Department buys electronics and weapons for its ships
from other suppliers, Bush said.  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Northrop, said the company
doesn’t comment on mergers and acquisitions.  Cleveland Ship  Cleveland Ship LLC, a company formed to bid for a new class
of Navy refueling vessels, has submitted a “multibillion-dollar
bid” for the division, CEO Edward Bartlett, a former Navy
officer, said in an Oct. 4 interview. He declined to provide
additional details.  The offer from Cleveland Ship won’t proceed unless the
company can show it can line up the necessary financing, said
one of the people speaking on condition of anonymity.  Northrop said in July it was closing its yard in Avondale,
Louisiana, and shifting work to Pascagoula, Mississippi, as a
first step in winding down the business. Bartlett said Cleveland
Ship expressed interest in Avondale earlier this year.  A Navy plan announced last month to accelerate production
of double-hulled oilers may enable Northrop, the largest maker
of Navy vessels, to keep the Louisiana shipyard open long enough
to find a buyer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 