-- Obama Says He Expects Post-Election Bipartisanship on Deficit, Education
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-14T21:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/obama-says-he-expects-post-election-bipartisanship-on-deficit-education.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
expects the period after the November elections will open more
opportunities for cooperation between Republicans and Democrats
on issues including the deficit, education and energy policy.  Obama, answering questions from an audience mostly made up
of college-age voters at a town hall in Washington, said he
would seek out Republican ideas on issues such as education and
energy policy in an effort to bring about more bipartisan
cooperation.  “We’re going to have a greater spirit of cooperation after
this election,” Obama said in response to a question from a
member of the audience.  Republicans may overturn the Democratic majority in the
House of Representatives and shrink the Democratic edge in the
Senate in the Nov. 2 elections.  Today’s televised town hall, carried live on  Viacom Inc .
cable channels BET, MTV, VH1 and CMT, follows recent political
appeals Obama made to young voters at George Washington
University in Washington, D.C., and universities in Wisconsin
and Maryland.  The president also took questions about his economic
policies, education, immigration and the ban against openly gay
men and women serving in the military.  Obama said the U.S. is facing “a critical time where we
have to solve big problems.” While promising to reach out to
Republicans after the election, he criticized the opposing party
for throwing up roadblocks to cooperation on issues,
particularly health care.  Political Consequences  “Some folks made a decision that it would be useful for me
to suffer this political defeat,” Obama said in response to a
question from a woman who identified herself as a Republican.  He defended his economic policies to a questioner who asked
why he should continue to support the administration when the
recovery has been so slow.  Obama said most of the 8 million jobs lost during the
recession that started in December 2007 “were lost before my
economic policies were put into place.” The economic stimulus
he pushed through Congress last year “worked in terms of
helping to cushion the fall,” Obama said.  The president vowed to keep pressing the Senate to pass
legislation that would repeal a law keeping in place the
military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy on gays in the
military.  Ending ‘Don’t Ask’  “Anybody should be able to serve and they should not have
to lie about who they are in order to serve,” Obama said.
“This policy will end. It will end on my watch.”  A federal judge in California ordered the military on Oct.
12 to “immediately suspend and discontinue any investigation,
or discharge, separation or other proceeding” under the policy
against anyone in its command.  Obama has been courting young voters to help his party beat
back a challenge from Republicans to control Congress.  Democrats can’t count on the high turnout among 18- to 24-
year-olds who helped propel Obama to victory two years ago,
according to  Curtis Gans , a professor at American University in
Washington who studies U.S. voting patterns.  “They voted in 2008 because of Iraq and Afghanistan,
Guantanamo, Abu Ghraib and hope for a different type of
politics,” he said. For this election, “they are
disillusioned, and I don’t think via MTV or any other mechanism,
the president will be able to create the type of fear that will
mobilize young people to vote.”  ‘Low Turnout’  Gans said he expects “a very low youth turnout,” likely
less than in the 2006 midterms when  Census Bureau data  showed
19.9 percent of registered 18- to 24-year-olds voted.  Participation in midterm elections is historically much
lower among all groups than in presidential years. In 2008, 44.3
percent of registered 18- to 24-years-olds voted. By comparison,
65 percent of registered voters ages 45 to 64 voted in 2008,
according to the Census Bureau.  Adding to the challenge for Obama, voters under 30 say they
are less interested in this year’s election than older voters,
and their support for Obama has declined, according to a Pew
Research Center  poll  of 2,816 registered voters conducted Aug.
25 to Sept. 6.  Obama’s approval rating among young voters has fallen to 58
percent, down from 71 percent in February 2009, the Pew poll
found. His approval rating among all voters was 46 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  