-- Occidental's Irani, Highest-Paid Oil Chief Executive, to Step Down in May
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-14T16:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/occidental-s-irani-highest-paid-oil-chief-executive-to-step-down-in-may.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Ray R. Irani  will take a pay cut and retire
next year in the wake of shareholder criticism of a compensation
package that made him the highest-paid CEO in the energy
industry.  Stephen I. Chazen , Occidental’s president and chief
operating officer, will become CEO when Irani steps down in May,
the Los Angeles-based company said today in a statement. Irani,
75, will remain chairman of the board until 2014.  Irani, a Beirut native who studied chemistry at the
University of Southern California, earned $31.4 million in 2009,
the most of any oil or power executive in a Bloomberg News
survey of compensation. That payday and a potential cash award
of $58.5 million this year prompted the  California State
Teachers’ Retirement System  and activist hedge fund Relational
Investors to agitate for change on the 13-member board.  The succession plan and new compensation formula “fully
resolve the concerns expressed during the two institutions’
discussions with the company over the past several months,” the
California pension fund and Relational Investors said in a joint
statement today.  Under the new proposal, Irani would be eligible for as much
as $26.3 million in salary, bonus and shares. The compensation
formula for Irani, Chazen and other senior executives was
overhauled to include a long-term incentive program linked to
the performance of a 12-company peer group, according to a
company statement.  ‘Substantially Lower’  The maximum payments possible from that long-term program
would be $20 million for Irani and $16 million for Chazen, which
the company said are “substantially lower than in previous
plans.” If the company ranks among the bottom three of its
peers, Irani and Chazen won’t receive the payouts, according to
the statement.  Irani and Chazen also were granted restricted shares valued
at $5 million and $4 million, respectively, that don’t vest for
three years. The stock awards will be forfeited if Occidental
fails to earn at least $10 billion in net income between now and
by Sept. 30, 2017, the company said in a regulatory filing.  Irani’s base salary will rise 11 percent to $1.3 million on
Nov. 1, the same amount he was getting before he took a
voluntary pay cut last year. Chazen’s salary will climb 39
percent on Nov. 1 to $1 million, according to the filing.  Peer Pay Ranges  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest oil company, paid
its CEO,  Rex Tillerson , a total of $27.2 million last year.
That’s a 16 percent decrease from 2008 after the company’s
shares dropped for a second consecutive year.  Occidental’s new compensation plan was approved by the
company’s board yesterday. Base salaries for top executives will
be “lower than virtually all” other similar companies, the
company said.  “We’re rewarding superior performance on the one hand and
keeping our compensation program in line with our peers on the
other,”  Spencer Abraham , chairman of the board’s compensation
committee and former U.S. energy secretary, said in a telephone
interview today.  Abraham said he’s not worried about an exodus of talent in
response to the new pay structure. “It’s a generous plan and
because it’s a generous plan it doesn’t put us at a disadvantage
to our peers,” he said.  Phibro Exemption  The new compensation formula doesn’t apply to  Andrew Hall 
or any employees in the Phibro energy-trading unit  acquired  from
Citigroup Inc. last year, Chazen said during an interview today.  Since succeeding  Armand Hammer  as CEO in February 1990,
Irani more than doubled the company’s oil reserves and
quadrupled crude and natural-gas production by focusing on
neglected oil fields in California and Texas.  Occidental shares returned 13 percent annually to investors
since Irani took over the top job, assuming reinvestment of
dividends, outperforming bigger rivals such as Exxon,  Chevron
Corp.  and ConocoPhillips.  Irani has forged personal relationships with Middle East
energy executives and politicians to compete with larger
competitors such as Exxon and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  for
contracts. In a June 2009 interview, Irani said he makes sure
Persian Gulf oil ministers have his home telephone number so
they can reach him day or night to discuss any concerns about
ongoing projects.  Chazen, 64, is a Michigan State University-trained
geologist who assists Irani in evaluating exploration projects
and acquisition opportunities. Chazen earned $13.5 million in
2009, 82 percent of which was in the form of stock awards,
according to a company filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  ‘King-in-Waiting’  “ Steve Chazen  has been the king-in-waiting for a while so
that’s not a surprise,” said  Paul Hodgson , senior research
associate at the Corporate Library, a Portland, Maine-based
adviser to institutional investors.  Occidental also said that  Howard I. Atkins , chief financial
officer at Wells Fargo & Co., was elected to the board. The 59-
year-old Atkins will fill one of the seats being vacated by
directors  John S. Chalsty  and  Irvin W. Maloney , who won’t stand
for re-election at the 2011 shareholders’ meeting, according to
the statement.  Chalsty and Maloney are both above the board’s retirement
age of 75. The board plans to nominate a new director candidate
before the 2011 shareholders’ meeting.  The California teachers’ pension held 1.36 million
Occidental shares as of June 30, according to a public filing.
Exxon, the world’s largest oil company by market value, was the
fund’s top holding. Relational Investors held 6.57 million
shares of Occidental at the end of June, the San Diego-based
firm’s fifth-biggest holding.  Occidental  rose  41 cents to $84.70 at 12:01 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
have risen 4.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll in  Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 