-- OGX in Talks With Several Bidders for Asset Sale After Boosting Reserves
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-10-14T17:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ogx-in-talks-with-several-bidders-for-asset-sale-after-boosting-reserves.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA ,
the oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , said it
is in talks with several bidders for a planned sale of oil
blocks in Brazil as it boosts potential reserves.  “When a guy thinks the evaluation is done, a new discovery
appears,” Chief Executive Officer  Paulo Mendonca  told reporters
in Rio de Janeiro today, without providing a timeline for the
deal’s completion. “OGX decided to sell a stake because we
found more oil than original estimates.”  OGX keeps making discoveries in the offshore Campos Basin
where the company is seeking a partner to buy as much as a 30
percent stake, Mendonca said. Campos will push OGX’s potential
oil reserves above the 6.7 billion barrels oil auditing firm
DeGoyler & MacNaughton calculated in a 2009 study, he said.  The U.S.’s  Devon Energy Corp.,  Norway’s  Statoil ASA  and
 Repsol YPF SA  of Spain have sold exploration acreage in Brazil
this year as the country expects to more than double production
over the next decade. Sinopec Group, China’s second-largest
energy producer, paid $7.1 billion for 40 percent of Repsol’s
Brazil assets on Oct. 3, almost triple analyst estimates.  Mendonca didn’t identify the companies involved in the
talks. Batista said July 1 there had been interest from “all
the big boys” except BP Plc, the London-based producer that
struggled for months to control the largest U.S. oil spill.  OGX fell 1.3 percent to 22.81 reais at 2:16 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading. The stock has climbed 33 percent this year, more
than the 4.2 percent gain of Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 