-- Onassis Plots to Kill Kennedy, Hamlet Goes Grungy: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-10-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/onassis-plots-to-kill-kennedy-grungy-hamlet-lustful-tyrant-london-stage.html
The ostensible mystery at the heart
of the play “Onassis” concerns a suggestion that shipping
magnate  Aristotle Onassis  paid for the assassination of  Robert F. Kennedy . The real mystery, though, is how such a clunky,
amateurish piece sailed into London’s West End.  Martin Sherman’s offering first appeared in Chichester in
2008 under the title “Aristo.” Would that his bio-drama had
stayed there and biodegraded in the nearby English Channel.  Based on Peter Evans’s book “Nemesis,” the play contains
the allegation that in 1968 Onassis paid $1.2 million to
Palestinian terrorist Mahmoud Hamshari to fund the assassination
of presidential candidate Kennedy. Supposedly, he wanted to
remove all opposition to his marriage to  Jacqueline Kennedy .  Since the allegation is shrouded in maybes and what-ifs, it
feels curiously leaky. Once you add in gobs of back story and
undigested exposition delivered straight to the audience by a
pseudo Greek chorus, you have a straight-to-scrapyard wreck.  The only scenes written with any seaworthiness are those
involving the cat-and-mouse relationship between Onassis and
Jacqueline (Lydia Leonard). There are too few of them to float
the piece as a whole.  Even the turbulent and operatic thrills of Ari’s life
involving  Maria Callas  never whip up a storm. The 20th century’s
most exciting soprano is reduced to a bit player who pops on to
deliver the occasional Medea-like curse to the gods and then
pops off again. In Anna Francolini’s performance, spirited
though it is, Callas sounds like a Brooklyn waitress.  Charming Macho  Robert Lindsay gives the title character a ruthless charm
and back-slapping Mediterranean machismo. Since there are plenty
of long self-justifying speeches to the chorus, and almost all
dramatic conflict is removed -- no mean feat considering how
many enemies Onassis made -- it still feels more like a
vaudevillian turn than a role.  Director Nancy Meckler sets the action on a low platform in
front of a blue Aegean sky. With the help of an occasional
railing descending from the flies, the stage becomes a yacht. I
see it all sailing swiftly into the sunset. Rating: *.  Enough of the labored marine metaphors. To hear the English
language used at its best, it’s hard to beat the textual clarity
of  Nicholas Hytner ’s new production of “Hamlet” at the
 National Theatre . In his modern-dress staging the actors make
the most of the poetry, and almost every shade of meaning and
flicker of motivation is as clear as could be.  Bitter Hamlet  Hytner presents Elsinore as a modern surveillance state,
with dark-suited apparatchiks sporting ear pieces in every
corner. Rory Kinnear’s Hamlet is shown early on disaffected with
this world. He’s a bitter, grungy teenager whose room is
littered with coffee cups and cigarette packets, and whose
manner is one of adolescent cynicism and witty mockery. If by
the end a note of spiritual transformation is missing, his is
still a highly engrossing performance.  He’s matched by Clare Higgins as a blowsy drunken Gertrude
and Ruth Negga as a particularly fragile Ophelia. Some of the
secondary roles, though good, don’t reach the same heights, and
thin-voiced Patrick Malahide lacks authority as Claudius.  Designer Vicki Mortimer uses just three movable walls to
create the various locations. Though it’s utilitarian and
efficient rather than exciting, Jon Clark’s lighting helps
create an atmosphere of oppression and mystery. Rating: ***.  Lustful Tyrant  There’s another mystery over at  English National Opera : Why
did anyone want to stage Handel’s slow, motivationally
unworkable opera “Radamisto” (1720)?  It tells the story of evil tyrant Tiridate (Ryan McKinny).
He spends the opera persecuting the object of his lust Zenobia
(Christine Rice) and her noble husband Radamisto (Lawrence
Zazzo). After causing much weeping and wailing, he suddenly
changes heart and becomes a good person in time for the final
chorus. With a deus ex machina so outrageous, it’s no wonder the
librettist wanted to remain anonymous.  Christine Rice sings with beautiful tone and thrilling
technique, and countertenor Zazzo is in good form too.  They’re not enough to rescue David Alden’s production from
the stodginess of its slow, stylized gestures or from the
silliness of its set. Designer Gideon Davey creates a few curved
moving panels that look like a 1970s Indian restaurant. With
Lawrence Cummings’s unvaried conducting, it all feels like a
long evening. Rating: **.  “Onassis” is at the Novello Theatre. Information:
 http://www.ambassadortickets.com  or +44-844-871-7627.  “Hamlet” is at the National Theatre. See or call
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  “Radamisto” is in repertory at English National Opera
through Nov. 4,  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
 Warwick Thompson , in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 