-- London Leads Rents to Record in `Landlords' Market'
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-15T08:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/london-leads-u-k-rents-to-a-record-high-as-landlords-market-prevails.html
A gauge of U.K. residential rents
climbed for an eighth month in September as a lack of mortgages
and affordable housing for sale drove letting fees in London to
a record high, LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average monthly rent for a home in England and Wales
rose 0.5 percent to 689 pounds ($1,106) from 685.70 in August,
the Newcastle, England-based  company  said in an e-mailed
statement today. That’s the highest since LSL started compiling
the index in June 2007. The average fee in London gained 1.1
percent to 972 pounds, also a record.  Potential homebuyers are putting off purchases due to
concerns about the impact of the government’s biggest budget
squeeze since World War II and a dearth of  affordable finance ,
LSL said. Landlords are benefitting from a lack of properties to
let as banks curtail mortgages for buy-to-let transactions,
reducing the number of rentals entering the market.  With “uncertainty over the direction of the economy, many
buyers are choosing to remain in rented accommodation for
longer,”  David Newnes , estate agency managing director of LSL,
said in the statement. “This has turned the buy-to-let market
into a landlord’s market, and many renters face increasing
rental costs while they delay their house purchase.”  Rental Yield  The average rental yield remained at 4.9 percent in
September as higher rents were matched by “modest” house-price
growth in the past three months, LSL said. The increase in rents
means that an investor buying property to let can now expect an
annual return of 9.2 percent, the company said.  Unpaid rent in the U.K. totaled 230 million pounds in
September, compared with 266.3 million pounds the previous
month, LSL said. That’s the equivalent of 10 percent of all rent
across the country, it said.  Amongst the 18,000 properties surveyed by LSL for the
gauge, monthly rents ranged from 4,117 pounds for an apartment
in London’s Kensington area to 250 pounds for a terraced house
in Huddersfield in northern England.  Rightmove Plc, the U.K.’s biggest property website, is
advertising a  four-bedroom apartment  with access to a communal
garden and tennis court in Cadogan Square in Knightsbridge near
Kensington in central London for rent at 2,100 pounds a week.
Website FindaProperty.com showed a  four-bedroom  detached house
in Huddersfield for rent at 695 pounds a month.  “The supply-and-demand imbalance is particularly severe in
the capital,” LSL’s Newnes said. “London is emerging as a
different market entirely from the rest of the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  