-- London Companies Underestimate Effect of Olympic Games, Deloitte Reports
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/london-companies-underestimate-effect-of-olympic-games-deloitte-reports.html
London businesses are
underestimating the effect of the  2012 Olympic Games  in the
British capital and need to improve their planning, accounting
firm Deloitte LLP said.  “Sixty percent of businesses in London expect virtually no
impact on their ability to operate ‘business as usual’ during
the Games,” Deloitte said in an e-mailed statement today.  The  London Olympic and Paralympic Games , which start July
27, 2012, will last for a combined 29 days over a six-week
period. They will attract more than 320,000 foreign visitors,
according to national tourism agency  VisitBritain .  “An event of this scale, with sites across London and
throughout the country, will present some serious challenges to
those companies who operate in and around venues for the Games
if they fail to understand and plan ahead,” Heather Hancock,
London 2012 partner at Deloitte, said in the statement.  Seventy percent of retailers questioned by Deloitte, and
more than half of the companies in the tourism, leisure and
hospitality industries, expect “virtually no impact,” on their
business from the Olympics.  “Many of these businesses need a wake-up call,” said Rick
Cudworth, head of Deloitte’s business continuity and resilience
team. “They operate in service industries where people are
vital, where the supply chain is time-critical and where having
products on the shelf or food to serve in restaurants is
essential to their daily business.”  No Boom?  The European Tour Operators Association last month said the
London Olympics are “distorting” the market for hotel rooms in
the British capital.  “My members move about 20,000 bed-nights in London every
night in August,” Tom Jenkins, executive director of the
 association , said in an interview on Sept. 17. “At the moment,
we can’t book those bed nights for 2012. That’s business that’s
gone. Once you scare that business away, it’s very difficult to
reestablish that pattern.”  He said that, in general, hosting an Olympic Games doesn’t
lead to a huge tourism boom as they’re a sporting, rather than
tourism, event. Some tourists may wrongly assume London will be
overpriced and crowded during the Games, and stay away, he
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  