-- Monsanto Asks SEC to Probe Analyst Who Said Justice Accord Near
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-14T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/monsanto-asks-regulator-to-probe-analyst-who-said-antitrust-agreement-near.html
Monsanto Co.  said it asked the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate an analyst’s
report that speculated the company may sign a consent decree
with the Department of Justice to settle antitrust concerns.  The company referred the Oct. 5 report by  Mark McMinimy , a
Washington-based agribusiness analyst at Concept Capital
Washington  Research  Group, to the SEC last week to probe
possible stock-price manipulation,  Scott Partridge , general
counsel for St. Louis-based Monsanto, said today. McMinimy
didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail requesting comment.  “The primary message of the report is completely
incorrect,” Partridge said in a telephone interview.  Partridge said it was “disturbing” that the Concept
Capital report came out a day before the company’s earnings were
reported. It will be up to the SEC to “determine whether this
was simply reckless or intended to put the company’s stock into
play” or “whether it truly was an effort by a competitor to
injure us.”  Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, has been
cooperating since last year with a Justice Department
investigation into potential anticompetitive practices in the
seed industry.  DuPont Co. , the second-biggest seed company, has
alleged in a federal lawsuit that Monsanto unfairly uses genetic
licenses to dominate the market for engineered seeds.  McMinimy’s Report  McMinimy said in the report, titled “Is a Consent Decree
with Monsanto Near at Hand?,” that an agreement would be
structured to ensure that rival seed makers can produce generic
Roundup Ready soybeans, which are engineered to resist
Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide, when the patent on the technology
expires in 2014.  Monsanto fell 57 cents, or 1 percent, to $54.12 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares 
rose 2.2 percent the day McMinimy released his report.  John Heine , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Monsanto Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  has said the
company will allow competitors to produce generic Roundup Ready
seeds after the patent expires. Partridge said today that the
company is taking steps to achieve that, including a commitment
through 2021 to provide safety data to key soybean-importing
nations to maintain import approvals.  Grant said in a January interview that the decision to
facilitate generics sets the template Monsanto expects to follow
as other technologies lose patent protection.  About  87 percent  of U.S. soybean plantings contain
Monsanto’s Roundup Ready trait. Monsanto has begun switching
growers to its more expensive Roundup Ready 2 Yield product,
predicting the seeds will boost soybean output 7 percent to 11
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 