-- Canada's Loonie Reaches Parity With U.S. Dollar for First Time Since April
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-14T20:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/loonie-strengthens-to-parity-with-u-s-currency-for-first-time-since-april.html
Canada’s dollar was worth more than
its U.S. counterpart for the first time since April as
speculation the economic recovery will accelerate bolsters the
currencies of nations dependant on commodities for growth.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie, is up 2.3 percent over
the past month versus the greenback, which has dropped against
all of its 16 most-traded counterparts during that period, on
concern that another round of Federal Reserve monetary easing
will debase the U.S. currency. Greenback losses accelerated
after Singapore’s central bank unexpectedly said it will allow
faster currency appreciation.  The move by Singapore “signals that all the Asian and
emerging-market currencies will continue to strengthen, and in
turn, the U.S. dollar weaken,”  Blake Jespersen,  director of
foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto, said via e-
mail. “The Canadian dollar will ride the coattails of these
other currencies as they strengthen versus the U.S. dollar.”  The loonie gained as much as 0.5 percent to 99.81 Canadian
cents per U.S. dollar, and was trading little changed at
C$1.0054 at 4:04 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0033 yesterday. One
Canadian dollar buys 99.46 U.S. cents.  Canada’s trade deficit narrowed more than expected in
August from a record the previous month, as imports fell and
shipments abroad increased. The deficit dropped to C$1.34
billion ($1.34 billion) in August, from a revised C$2.55 billion
in July, which was the largest in Statistics Canada records
dating to 1971, the agency said today in Ottawa. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the deficit would narrow to
C$2.3 billion, according to the median of 16 estimates.  ‘Stronger Position’  “The combination of a weaker U.S. dollar and higher
commodity prices put the Canadian dollar in a relatively
stronger position,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said via e-mail.  The loonie touched 99.31 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar on
April 21, the strongest level since June 2008. The currency has
averaged about C$1.275 per U.S. dollar over the past 10 years.
It’s up 5 percent this year against the greenback, after gaining
16 percent last year.  “The Fed is actively seeking a weaker currency,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of
Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “Clearly it’s U.S. dollar
direction that is driving the Canadian dollar. Gone are the days
when the Treasury secretary would stand up and say a stronger
U.S. dollar is in the interests of the U.S. administration.”  Low Rates  Traders are speculating the Fed will announce plans to
stimulate economic growth with additional asset purchases, so-
called quantitative easing, after its next two-day meeting,
which starts Nov. 2. The Fed bought $1.7 trillion in securities
through March to keep borrowing rates low.  “With a lot of QE already priced into the market, and
speculators running a large U.S. dollar short position, it’s not
obvious to me that we can make a significant new low in U.S.
dollar-Canada dollar at the moment,” Osborne said yesterday,
meaning the loonie may struggle to move much higher than parity.  The loonie traded on a one-for-one basis with the dollar in
September 2007 for the first time in three decades, capping a
five-year run on the back of booming demand for commodities.
Canada, the largest trading partner of the U.S., benefited over
that period from rising demand for copper, gold, wheat and oil
from the U.S. and emerging economies such as India and China.  Canada is the world’s second-largest producer of uranium,
after Kazakhstan, the second-biggest exporter of natural gas,
and sits on the largest pool of oil reserves outside the Middle
East. It’s also the world’s second-largest exporter of wheat.  Successive Increases  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group
of Seven central banker to raise borrowing costs when he lifted
the overnight rate by a quarter percentage point to 0.5 percent
in June. Successive increases in July and September brought the
rate to 1 percent. Policy makers meet on Oct. 19 to set rates.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said two days ago that Canada
will be the first G-7 country to balance its budget by 2015,
boosting the appeal of the nation’s debt to investors looking
for nations with relatively sound fiscal positions. Two-year
yields in Canada are the second highest in the G7 after Italy,
adding to the attraction for international bond buyers.  Canada’s deficit will be 1.6 percent of output next year,
compared with 6.1 percent in the U.S., 5.5 percent in the euro
zone and 8.2 percent in Japan, according to median estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Flatter Curve  Speculation that the  Bank of Canada  will leave rates
unchanged next week and at future meetings drove the spread
between Canada’s 2- and 10-year bonds to 133 basis points, the
narrowest in two years. The so-called yield curve reached 183
basis points in May.  The  spread  could tighten all the way to 107 basis points,
driven by the prospect of further easing in the U.S. and reduced
concern over inflation levels in Canada, according to  George Davis , chief technical analyst for foreign-exchange strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada.  “Technically and from a trend perspective, the flattening
bias is still very much present,” Davis, based in Toronto,
wrote in an e-mail. “There is very little in the way of rate
hikes priced into the two-year area right now, causing some
people to move out along the curve and purchase 10-year bonds.
This is helping the flattening trend.”  A so-called flatter yield curve is typically a sign that
investors don’t expect growth to be strong enough to spark
inflation, allowing them to accept lower yields to own long-term
debt relative to bonds with shorter maturities. Carney said
Sept. 14 the country’s recovery will be “slightly more
gradual” than expected earlier this year.  Canada’s benchmark two-year bond  yielded  rose 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.40 percent. The price of
the 2 percent security due in September 2012 fell 2 cents to
C$101.11. The 10-year yield climbed 2 basis points to 2.75
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  