-- OPEC Maintains Oil Production Quotas, Calls for Greater Rate of Compliance
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-14T15:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/opec-will-leave-oil-output-unchanged-as-some-members-seek-higher-oil-price.html
OPEC ministers agreed to leave oil-
production quotas unchanged and called on members to improve
compliance to the self-imposed limits as mixed growth in some of
the world’s biggest economies damps demand.  “The market is good, that’s why” we rolled over quotas,
Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said today in Vienna. Members
of the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , which
supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil, need to improve their
adherence to the group’s production limits, he said. OPEC agreed
to a record 4.2 million barrel-a-day cut in output in late 2008
as global demand fell 0.6 percent, the first decline since 1983.  “It further buttresses the notion that OPEC is satisfied
with current price levels,”  Jason Schenker , president of
Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based consultant,
said in an interview.  OPEC is producing above its limit as prices stay above the
$70-to-$80-a-barrel band that al-Naimi said is “ideal.”
Several ministers urged members to improve compliance, which
the International Energy Agency is at 54 percent of quotas.  “If prices move significantly higher, you could see OPEC
increase quotas. $100 oil may be enough to justify the calling
of an extraordinary meeting,” Schenker said.  The IEA said in a report yesterday global oil demand growth
will be mixed even as it raised estimates for this year and the
next. Strength in developed economies “contained quirks which
suggest it may not persist,” the energy adviser said.  Crude oil climbed for a second day, rising as much as 1.3
percent to $84.12 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, extending a 1.6 percent gain yesterday. It
was at $83.43 a barrel at 4:24 p.m. London time.  ‘Ideal Situation’  “The market is well supplied,” al-Naimi said today. “It
is an ideal situation we are in now. Nobody is complaining.
Consumers are happy, producers are happy. Companies are
investing.” Saudi Arabia is OPEC’s largest producer.  OPEC Secretary-General  Abdullah El-Badri  said crude
“prices are not high” and are “comfortable,” speaking at a
press conference after the group ended its meeting.  Iran’s oil minister,  Masoud Mir-Kazemi , will serve as OPEC
president during 2011, a spokeswoman for the group, Angela
Agoawike, said.  Oil consumption worldwide will average 86.9 million barrels
a day in 2010 and 88.2 million barrels a day in 2011, the IEA
said in its monthly Oil Market Report. That’s 300,000 barrels a
day more than last month’s forecast for both years.  The IEA raised its estimate of the amount of oil OPEC
producers will need to provide to balance world supply and
demand. Its new estimate is an average of 29.3 million barrels a
day for next year, or 100,000 barrels a day more than the
agency’s estimate for 2010.  OPEC raised  production  by 5 percent from a five-year low in
March 2009, and now exceeds its own target by 1.9 million
barrels a day, about the same amount as Angola alone produces.
Output from the 12 members was 29.1 million barrels a day in
September, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Production Cut  The group agreed to a record 4.2 million barrel-a-day cut
in production in late 2008 as global demand fell 0.6 percent,
the first decline since 1983. Compliance reached a peak of 79
percent in March 2009, based on Bloomberg data.  “We’re coming to the winter and this is the high season
for oil,”  Heliodoro Quintero , an oil consultant and former
Venezuelan governor to OPEC, said to  Maryam Nemazee  on Bloomberg
Television’s ‘Countdown’ program. “The next ordinary meeting of
the conference will be held next year in March - that is
probably the period of time they will check the demand. They
will check the compliance.”  OPEC will meet again on Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador, said the
group’s President  Wilson Pastor  who is also oil minister for
that country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Galal  in Vienna at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
 Ayesha Daya  in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  