-- Opel Chief Engineer Belts Out Drinking Songs to Revive GM Unit
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-14T22:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/opel-s-forst-uses-drinking-songs-to-meld-cultures-in-bid-to-rescue-gm-unit.html
Rita Forst , chief engineer at
General Motors Co.’s unprofitable Opel brand, must bridge a
cultural gap between the U.S. and Germany to overhaul the
European model line-up. The challenge plays to her strengths.  As an executive at the carmaker’s powertrain unit, she’s
belted out German drinking songs over dinners with Swedish
colleagues to loosen people up. While heading  GM’s  diesel engine
development center in Turin, Italy, she set up exchanges between
German and Italian employees who were reluctant to cooperate.  “You can only work in a globalized environment if you
know, accept and adapt to various cultures,” the 55-year-old
German said in an interview. “That can lead to friendships and
makes things a whole lot easier.”  Forst, the only female chief engineer at a major carmaker,
will need all the friends she can get since she became 
responsible for creating models for GM’s European unit to stop 
the exodus of customers to rivals such as Volkswagen AG.
Turning around the Ruesselsheim, Germany-based division is also 
critical to GM’s planned share sale later this year.  “She’ll have to scramble to gear up and complete Opel’s
range of cars, and do it in a way that they actually bring in
money,” said  Willi Diez , head of the Institute for Automobile
Industry in Nuertingen, Germany. “It remains to be seen to what
extent GM will let her tailor cars for European drivers.”  Forst says she aims to inject Opel with more “passion,”
fuel efficiency and clever design to win back buyers who fled as
GM debated whether to sell the unit. Opel’s share of western
European sales  plunged  to 7.1 percent in 2009 from 10.2 percent
in 2001, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association. Opel’s eight-month share was 7.2 percent.  GM ‘Empire’  The company’s new Astra Sports Tourer and Insignia sedan
provide a glimpse of where Opel is headed, Forst said. They
include features borrowed from higher-end vehicles like a
smoother ride through better control of the rear axle, and seats
that fold back at the push of a button.  Forst also points to a small car to be built from 2013 as
evidence of her push to make autos with what she calls stronger
lifestyle appeal. Her team of more than 5,000 engineers is
working on concepts for a convertible and coupe, niches GM
abandoned. German colleagues hope her plans win approval.  “Sometimes she’s just about to do something and then the
empire, GM’s development center, strikes back and shuts that
down,” said  Klaus Franz , Opel’s works council chief and a
colleague of 15 years. “But she doesn’t give up and still tries
to go for the best possible solution. I wish she’d find more
attentive ears in the male-dominated world of General Motors.”  Female Influence  The  automotive world  is tough for women, according to  Craig Giffi , who follows the industry at Deloitte LLP in Detroit.
Females held 11.5 percent of executive positions in 2006, the
most recent year examined, compared with 16.9 percent in 2008 at
all Fortune 500 companies, his study showed. At the same time,
women influence more than 80 percent of car purchases, he said.  “They’ve been women as buyers themselves, and they
understand that,” Giffi said of the importance of having more
female executives. “That’s an experience that’s invaluable and,
frankly, hard to duplicate.”  Successes for Forst, a 33-year Opel veteran, include
helping the company introduce the first three-way catalytic
converter in the early 1980s, which reduced nitrogen oxide
emissions. The following decade, she led the development of the
L850 light-alloy engine, later sold worldwide to reduce weight.  Seeking ‘Passion’  Forst says like any  executive  she must deliver on a daily
basis and juggle that with family life. That’s meant her husband
and two sons have accepted she might sit at the dinner table
answering messages at the end of a long work day.  “When women do something, they’re in it with all their
heart, emotions play an important role,” she said in an
interview Sept. 30 at the Paris Motor Show. “We know why we’re
doing it and where we want to go. That attitude is a big part of
my management style. I want to see passion.”  To break down hierarchical barriers at the office she holds
monthly meetings with staff from all levels and encourages them
to share what’s on their mind. She’s also set up an intranet
site for employees to contact her directly. She says she’s
received hundreds of messages, and answered them mostly in her
spare time.  “She’s outstanding, a very accomplished senior engineering
executive with a strong understanding of the product,” said  Dan Hancock , who was Forst’s boss from 2000 until 2005 and currently
is the carmaker’s vice president for global product alliances.
“With her business, people and communication skills, she is one
of our very gifted leaders at General Motors.”  European Turnaround  GM, based in Detroit, has pledged 3.6 billion euros ($5
billion) to rebuild Opel after pulling out of a deal last year
to sell the unit and failing to obtain European government
funds. GM needs to stop the drain in the region as it prepares
to sell shares after emerging from bankruptcy last year. The
first-half loss before interest and taxes in Europe hit $637
million and the costs for the turnaround will prevent a profit
next year, said  Nick Reilly , who heads GM’s European operations.  When Forst was tasked to set up a diesel development center
in Turin, she moved there from 2005 to 2008. She overcame German
engineers’ reservations about working with the Italians by
focusing on the advantages of cooperation, said Kjell ac
Bergstrom, powertrain chief at  Saab Automobile , which GM sold
this year.  “She clearly has the ability to thrive in these very
masculine surroundings,” said Bergstrom, who’s participated in
sing-a-longs over dinner at Forst’s house. “She stands up when
it blows hard.”  Green Roots  Forst says her drive to make Opel’s cars more fuel
efficient stems from the OPEC countries’ oil embargo of 1973,
which left highways across Europe deserted and made her a
supporter of the then-nascent green movement. She studied energy
and heat engineering at the University of Applied Sciences in
Darmstadt, Germany. She also spent a year in Michigan in the
1980s at GM’s academy for promising executives.  Forst is now working on the Ampera electric car, the
European version of the Chevy Volt, which will also have a
gasoline engine to extend the vehicle’s range by another 300
miles when the battery starts to run low after 40 miles. She
sees the car as a good example of embracing an alternative power
source customers are ready to buy.  “It’s not about driving innovation at all costs but about
stepping back and asking what’s best for the company,” she
said. “You can’t lose yourself in the quest for technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  