-- Mortgage Investors Urge State Attorneys General Not to Punish Bondholders
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-14T19:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/mortgage-investors-urge-state-attorneys-general-not-to-punish-bondholders.html
The  Association of Mortgage
Investors  urged state attorneys general probing foreclosure
practices to be careful not to harm investors in home-loan
 securities , who aren’t “the responsible parties.”  “A hasty and ill-formulated legal settlement may harm the
investors of mortgage-backed securities, namely retirees,
municipalities, government entities, state pension funds,
retirement systems, universities, and charitable endowments.
 Chris Katopis , the Washington-based trade group’s executive
director, said today in an e-mailed  statement .  Attorneys general from all 50 states said yesterday they
have jointly opened an investigation into whether lenders and
 mortgage  companies falsified documents in foreclosure
proceedings. Home-loan servicers, which manage outstanding
mortgages, including  Ally Financial Inc. , Bank of America Corp.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  have suspended some foreclosures or
evictions while they review paperwork.  “It is important that any legal settlement require large
banks and servicers to accept the legal responsibility for their
actions,” Katopis said. “Hasty action” by states may punish
investors who aren’t “the responsible parties,” the group
said.  ‘Shining Light’  The association, formed after a record tumble in the prices
of U.S. mortgage bonds without government backing, issued a
statement on Oct. 1 calling for securities trustees to probe
whether loan servicers are doing their jobs “properly” and
“audit and review the resulting losses to hold servicers
accountable for negligence.” The group also then said that
trustees should make sure that loans that were sold to mortgage-
bond trusts without the proper documents get repurchased.  “The solution to our national foreclosure crisis includes
the government shining light on any alleged misconduct,
requiring the big servicers to comply with their contractual
obligations, and when necessary, to buy back deficient
mortgages,” according to the group’s statement today.  Bank of America earlier this month won the dismissal of a
lawsuit by hedge funds managed by Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Greenwich Financial Services LLC sparked by the bank’s 2008
settlement with a group of state attorneys general over
Countrywide Financial Corp.’s lending practices, according to an
order filed yesterday.  In the suit, which sought class-action status, Greenwich
Financial argued that by agreeing to change the terms of 400,000
mortgages mostly owned by securities investors, Bank of America
was making bondholders pay for the misdeeds of Countrywide,
which it bought in 2008. Contracts for the 374 mortgage-bond
trusts at issue also required the bank to repurchase any
modified loans, according to the suit.  New York state Supreme Court Justice  Barbara Kapnick  ruled
that the plaintiffs failed to meet the preconditions required
under the trusts’ contracts for bringing a suit, including the
support of 25 percent of certificate holders. Greenwich
Financial is studying the opinion and will decide whether to
appeal,  Bill Frey , the firm’s head, said yesterday.  “If the investors do not band together, then they are 100
percent at the mercy of the large banks,” he said today in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  