-- Palm Beach Capital Management Sued by SEC in Petters Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-10-14T22:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/palm-beach-capital-is-sued-by-sec-accused-of-funneling-money-to-petters.html
Palm Beach Capital Management LP was
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
allegedly funneling investor money to  Thomas Petters ’s $3.5
billion Ponzi scheme.  The firm, Palm Beach Capital Management LLC and principals
Bruce Prevost and David Harrold were accused of deceiving
investors in a lawsuit filed by the regulator today in federal
court in Minneapolis.  “Of the approximately $3.65 billion invested in the
Petters Ponzi scheme at the time  of its collapse, the Palm
Beach funds accounted for more than $1 billion,” according to
the complaint. The SEC seeks a court order directing the
defendants to disgorge any ill-gotten gain from their venture.  Petters, who led Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Petters Group
Worldwide LLC, was sentenced last year to 50 years in prison
after his fraud conviction. Prosecutors said he conned investors
into underwriting fake purchase orders for  consumer goods  and
used the money to support a lavish lifestyle.  Prevost and Harrold used money from investors to buy more
than 2,000 promissory notes from Petters, the SEC said. When the
notes came due, rather than redeem them, the defendants
exchanged them for new notes purportedly backed by different
collateral, while concealing the swap agreements from investors,
according to the complaint.  Harrold’s attorney, Mitchell Herr, a Miami-based attorney
in  New York ’s Holland & Knight LLP, and Prevost’s lawyer,
Michael Band, each declined to comment on the allegations.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Prevost, 10cv4235, U.S. District Court for  Minnesota 
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in  St. Paul , Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  