-- PDVSA to Sell German Refinery Stake to Russian Company, Hugo Chavez Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-10-14T18:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/pdvsa-to-sell-german-refinery-stake-to-russian-company-hugo-chavez-says.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the
state-owned oil company, agreed to sell a German refinery stake
to a Russian company, President  Hugo Chavez  said, without naming
the potential buyer or the refinery.  “This is a good deal for us and Russia is very interested
in the stake for geopolitical purposes,” Chavez said today on
state television after arriving in Russia for an official visit.
“This liberates us from an asset that we don’t need and will
allow us to invest in other areas.”  OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil producer and refiner, was
in talks with PDVSA to buy its 50 percent stake in Germany’s
Ruhr Oel GmbH,  Peter O’Brien , the Russian oil producer’s vice
president for strategy, said on Sept. 8 in Moscow. BP Plc holds
the remaining 50 percent of the joint venture.  PDVSA, through Ruhr Oel, has a 12 percent stake in the Miro
refinery in Karlsruhe, 19 percent of the PCK refinery in
Schwedt, 13 percent in the Bayernoil refinery in Neustadt and a
stake in the Gelsenkirchen complex. PDVSA’s refining capacity
through the Ruhr Oel complex is 230,000 barrels per day,
according to PDVSA’s 2009 annual report.  Ruhr Oel also owns a stake in the Mulheim chemical plant,
according to Bloomberg data and BP’s website.  A Rosneft spokesman in Moscow, who isn’t authorized to
speak publicly, declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg
News. BP spokesman in London David Nicholas declined to comment.  Chavez said that PDVSA is still negotiating the price for
the refinery stake.  “We can’t say how much yet because it’s still being
discussed,” Chavez said. “There’s a haggling war but the price
will be fair for both of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  