-- Pernod Promotes Whiskey Ages to Win Drinkers in Diageo Dig
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/pernod-promotes-age-of-chivas-whiskey-to-win-customers-in-dig-at-diageo-.html
Pernod-Ricard SA , the owner of
Chivas Regal and Ballantine’s whiskeys, has a simple message as
it seeks to win drinkers from Diageo Plc: Age Matters.  The Paris-based distiller has been communicating the merits
of the spirit’s maturity to travelers at 12 airports since June
and plans to expand the marketing campaign to a further 17
locations,  Christian Porta , chief executive officer of Pernod’s
 Chivas Brothers  unit, said in an interview. These include the
U.S., the biggest market by value for Scotch exports.  “One of the objectives of explaining the age statement is
that people who are already buyers trade up, but it’s also to
convince people who are not necessarily whiskey drinkers to come
into the category,” Porta said.  Pernod is seeking to close the gap on larger competitor
Diageo, whose bestselling Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky outsold
Ballantine’s, its closest rival, by 8.6 million cases, or about
150 percent, last year, according to the  International Wine and
Spirit Record . The owner of The Glenlivet aims to grab a larger
share of a global market that Euromonitor says grew by 4.9
percent in 2009, excluding duty-free outlets.  “Partly this is a genuine explanation to consumers about
why you’d pay extra money for an older whiskey, but it’s also a
dig at Diageo,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London, said of Pernod’s age campaign.  Pernod sells blended whiskies including ones aged 12 years
and 30 years. The company’s so-called age statement on the label
of a blended whiskey refers to the youngest whiskey in the mix.  Whiskey Prices  Pernod’s cheapest best-selling Scotch whiskies are more
expensive than Diageo’s. Ballantine’s starts at 17.95 pounds on
 The Whisky Exchange , while Diageo’s Johnnie Walker Red Label
retails for 16.95 pounds. A bottle of 25-year-old Chivas Regal
goes for 165 pounds, while Johnnie Walker Blue Label sells for
135 pounds on the site.  Pernod’s approach differs from that of Diageo, whose
Johnnie Walker uses different colored labels to signify quality.  Age “is an important quality criteria,” for Diageo,
spokesman  James Crampton  said, though the company puts more
emphasis on flavor being the most important attribute, he said.  Pernod  started the campaign in airports in Korea, Japan,
Hong Kong and Australia with advertisements under the caption
“Look for the Number” alongside guided tastings of differently
aged blends of whiskey.  “Whiskey’s quite complicated; this is seen as demystifying
it,” said Robin Johnston, regional director at Chivas.  Campaign Extended  In addition to U.S. airports, the Age Matters campaign will
now be extended to include locations in the U.K., Vietnam,
Venezuela, Mexico and the Caribbean, according to Pernod.  The distiller declined to say how much of its overall
marketing budget would be used for Age Matters. The campaign
“comes on top of what we’re doing for the brands,” Porta said.  Focusing on age is “a good way of reminding people how
long it has taken, the value of the product,” according to
Porta. “In a lot of places around the world there’s a lot of
respect for age, there’s a respect for people who have
experience, who’ve been through a number of things in life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 