-- Philips, BASF May Lead Increase in European Earnings
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-15T16:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/philips-basf-to-lead-gain-in-european-earnings-on-exports-as-growth-cools.html
Earnings  at Europe’s biggest
companies probably rose in the third quarter, led by exporters
as emerging markets compensated for cooling economic growth.  Royal Philips Electronics NV , the world’s biggest lighting
company, may double profit to 366 million euros ($515 million)
from 174 million euros a year earlier when it reports earnings
on Oct. 18, according to 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It
made a third of revenue in emerging markets in the second
quarter and aims to raise that to at least 40 percent by 2015.  “We don’t have much concern about the ability for
corporates to match estimates,” said  Vincent Treulet , chief
strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Paris, which
oversaw 533 billion euros as of June 30. Beyond 2010, “it’s
becoming harder to display a strong growth in profits. Analysts
have tended to be quite aggressive.”  Earnings are rebounding from the third quarter of 2009,
when the euro-area economy emerged from its worst recession
since World War II. Growth may slow this quarter as the euro’s
12 percent gain since July and concern about the strength of the
recovery eat into profit. Europe’s economy will probably expand
1.7 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2011, according to an
Oct. 6 forecast by the International Monetary Fund.  Chemicals  Industrial production in Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
increased more than three times as much as economists forecast
in August, the Economy Industry said Oct. 7. BASF SE, the
world’s biggest chemical maker, expects a jump in sales this
year after demand from China spurred production during the
usually slower summer months, the company said Sept. 22.  BASF, based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, may say on Oct. 28
that profit rose to 1 billion euros from 237 million euros a
year earlier, according to six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chemicals companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 “will show the
best earnings in that index in the third quarter, but also in
the fourth,” said  Christian Stocker , senior strategist at
UniCredit in Munich.  Shares of  ASML Holding NV , Europe’s biggest semiconductor
equipment maker, rose the most in 19 months on Oct. 13 after
third-quarter earnings beat analyst estimates. The Veldhoven,
Netherlands-based company got half of its 2009 sales from Taiwan
and Korea and 4.3 percent in Europe.  Euro’s Advance  “Growth in emerging markets is holding up well,” said
 Romain Boscher , head of equities at Groupama Asset Management in
Paris, which oversees 97 billion euros. “What’s saving us is
the fact that large listed European companies make 60 percent of
their business outside Europe, including about 40 percent in
emerging markets.”  The euro may start to hurt earnings by making goods and
services less competitive on the world market, he said.  “The euro is more of a threat for 2011 than for 2010,”
Boscher said. “It passes into earnings with a six-month delay
as big companies use hedges.”  Siemens AG , which sells 85 percent of its goods outside
Germany, will probably post net income of 455 million euros for
its fiscal fourth quarter, according to the average of seven
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares with a 1.13
billion-euro loss in the year-earlier period and would be the
smallest profit since the quarter ended March 2008.  Siemens  added  0.7 percent to 81.06 euros at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. BASF climbed 1.7 percent to 50.97 euros.
Philips fell 1 percent to 23.88 euros.  BMW, Fiat  Carmakers  may also report higher earnings, and beat
estimates, UniCredit’s Stocker said.  “We can see some earnings surprises in the automotive
sector, but investors are already expecting to see very good
results,” he said. “Earnings will certainly be better than
average.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz
unit, the two biggest luxury-car makers, projected higher
fourth-quarter sales on surging demand in China.  Daimler’s third-quarter profit is estimated to be 1 euro a
share by five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, up from 4 cents a
year earlier.  Volkswagen AG  may increase earnings to 1.75 euros a share
from 43 cents, two analysts forecast. Nine-month deliveries
jumped 13 percent to a record 5.37 million vehicles, Europe’s
largest automaker reported today.  Fiat, Nokia  Fiat SpA  will raise its financial targets for 2010 when the
company reports quarterly figures on Oct. 21. The Italian
carmaker which manages Chrysler Group LLC will post a full-year
net income, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told
reporters in Paris on Sept. 30. The company had forecast “near
breakeven” in April.  Fiat rose 1.1 percent to 11.80 euros in Milan. Daimler
gained 0.7 percent in Frankfurt, while BMW fell 1.1 percent.  Nokia Oyj  is counting on its N8 smartphone to revive demand
after three reductions in forecasts.  The world’s biggest maker of mobile phones may report its
smallest profit in six quarters on Oct. 21 as it waited for the
phones to be finished and shipped. Net income was probably 188
million euros, based on a survey of 19 analysts. That compares
with a loss of 559 million euros a year earlier as the company
wrote down its Nokia Siemens Networks venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  