-- Pimco Cuts Treasury Holdings on Prospects Fed's QE2 to Have Limited Impact
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-14T08:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/pimco-sells-treasuries-on-prospect-fed-easing-round-to-have-limited-impact.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said it sold
Treasuries on expectations a second round of debt purchases by
the Federal Reserve will have limited impact.  “The market is very clearly anticipating that the Fed is
going to act,”  Douglas Hodge , chief operating officer, said in
an interview at the World Knowledge Forum in Seoul today. “The
challenge right now is the breadth of policy measures that can
be taken by the U.S. is rather limited.”  The Fed purchased $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009 under
a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE, and traders are
preparing for another round of buying they’ve dubbed QE2.
Hodge’s comments come as some investors voice concern that
record-low Treasury yields will curtail demand for U.S. bonds as
the Fed acts to spur economic growth.  “Even if the QE process is large and rates decline
further, in our view we’re approaching the end of the bond
market rally,” Hodge said. “From where we sit, it’s very hard
to suggest there’s going to be that kind of price appreciation
that we’ve seen in bonds over the last 12 to 24 months.”  Pimco Chief Executive  Mohamed A. El-Erian  has said the
minutes of the Fed’s September policy meeting show the central
bank will increase its Treasury purchases on Nov. 3 at the end
of its next meeting.  The U.S. two-year note  yielded  0.367 percent as of 8:20
a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The rate
dropped to a record low of 0.327 percent on Oct. 12.  ‘Safe Spread’  “We have reduced our Treasury holdings, the lowest
yielding instruments,” Hodge said today.  Bill Gross , who runs the record $252 billion Pimco Total
Return Fund, said last month he is looking for opportunities in
sovereign bonds.  “Pimco Total Return currently is employing what we call a
‘safe spread’  strategy , which seeks to identify sovereign
countries best able to handle a new normal global economy that
envisions slower growth and therefore increasing credit risks in
fixed-income markets,” Gross wrote in an e-mail.  Gross has said a new-normal era will be marked by slow
growth in developed economies and below-average returns.  India, China  Amid ebbing growth prospects for developed countries, Pimco
is increasing its focus in emerging markets, such as India,
China and Brazil, Hodge said, with infrastructure debt looking
attractive.  "There’s clearly great need to develop infrastructure," he
said. “We think it’s going to be burgeoning sector in all of
these countries as they begin to open their capital markets."  Pimco is buying high-quality corporate bonds in India and
and has investments in China via the non-deliverable forward
market, according to Hodge.  The Total Return Fund handed investors a 12 percent  gain  in
the past year, beating almost three-quarters of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pimco, which managed more than $1.1 trillion of assets as
of June 30, according to its website, is a unit of Munich-based
insurer Allianz SE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungmin Hong in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net 
Frances Yoon in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net .
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  