-- Poll Shows 55% in Saskatchewan Oppose BHP Billiton's Bid to Acquire Potash
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-14T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/poll-shows-55-in-saskatchewan-oppose-bhp-billiton-s-bid-to-acquire-potash.html
BHP Billiton  Ltd.’s $40 billion
hostile bid for  Potash Corp . of Saskatchewan Inc. is still
opposed by a majority of Saskatchewan residents, a survey
showed.  Fifty-five percent of 829 respondents said they either
“strongly” or “somewhat” oppose the takeover by the world’s
biggest mining company, compared with 13 percent who support it
and 21 percent who are indifferent, researcher  Insightrix 
Research found in a survey released today.  BHP’s campaign to boost local support for its bid “seems
to not be having an impact,” Lang McGilp, Insightrix’s manager
of research services, said today in a telephone interview.  Potash Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Bill Doyle  said this
week the company is evaluating “several” alternatives to BHP’s
bid. The Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company also pledged
yesterday to relocate executives responsible for legal affairs,
human resources and investor relations to the Canadian province
from company offices in suburban Chicago.  BHP Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  met with
lawmakers from Saskatchewan and the federal legislature last
month.  China’s Ambassador to Canada, Lan Lijun, said earlier today
that his country is watching “closely” BHP’s “hostile” bid
to acquire Potash. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a
conference on Chinese-Canadian relations, Lan said the
fertilizer is an important commodity for China. He also declined
to say if a China-backed bid for Potash would emerge, calling it
a “commercial” matter.  Potash, based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, rejected in
August a $130-a-share bid from Melbourne-based BHP.  The Insightrix poll was conducted online from Oct. 5 to
Oct. 7 and the company didn’t report a margin of error. An
August poll had also found 55 percent of Saskatchewan residents
opposed the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 