-- Prisa-Liberty Merger Offers `High-Charged' Potential for Returns, T2 Says
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-14T00:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/prisa-liberty-merger-offers-high-charged-potential-for-returns-t2-says.html
Liberty Acquisition Holdings Corp.
and  Promotora de Informaciones SA , Spain’s largest media
company, are attractive investments as the companies prepare to
merge, according to hedge fund T2 Partners LLC.  Investors should buy stock in Prisa, as the Madrid-based
company is known, and stocks or warrants in Liberty, a “blank
check company” created for the purpose of buying or merging
with a business, because the three instruments will gain if the
two companies merge, T2 co-founder  Glenn Tongue  said.  “It is a classic special situation,” said T2 Partners co-
founder  Whitney Tilson , who spoke with Tongue yesterday at the
Value Investing Congress in New York. “It has every market
inefficiency you can possibly look for.”  The publisher of El Pais newspaper aims to take over
Liberty to gain $870 million in cash to reduce debt, which
swelled after an expansion into television services and
threatened the company’s viability. In exchange for the cash,
Liberty investors will get a stake of more than 50 percent.  Shareholders of New York-based Liberty, led by  Nicolas Berggruen  and  Martin Franklin , haven’t voted on the deal in
which they could swap each Liberty share for 1.5 Prisa Class A
shares, 3 Class B convertible shares and 50 cents in cash.  Prisa’s stock will be worth about 2.78 euros in a merger,
according to Tongue. The shares closed at 1.84 euros yesterday.
The Liberty stock will ultimately be worth about $16.50, Tongue
said. It traded at $10.49 yesterday in New York. The Liberty
 warrants , which are a “high-charged way to play the situation”
and closed at $1.73 yesterday, are worth about $2.35, he said. A
warrant lets the owner buy a stock for a set price on a
predetermined date.  “The risks are the deal not closing and the execution of
the business plan because it is a relatively complicated company
that needs to get rationalized,” Tongue said. “There are very
powerful incentives for why everybody is going to vote in favor
of this transaction.”  He said the deal will probably close in about a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 