-- U.S. Producer Prices Rose in September on Food, Fuel
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-14T12:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/producer-prices-in-u-s-rose-0-4-in-september-core-up-0-1-.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. for
goods other than food and energy rose in September for a second
month at a pace that suggests limited demand is restraining
inflation.  The so-called core producer price  index  increased 0.1
percent last month, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Including volatile food and energy costs, wholesale
prices rose 0.4 percent, exceeding the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  With the recovery cooling from earlier this year, companies
are hampered in their ability to pass along gains in commodity
costs. The lack of inflation gives the Federal Reserve room to
pursue easier monetary policy as the unemployment rate holds
close to a 26-year high.  “We’re kind of in a zone where neither inflation nor
deflation is an overly significant concern,” said Russell
Price, a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
Detroit, who accurately forecast the gain in core prices. “Core
prices remain in check as demand remains subdued.”  Estimates  in the Bloomberg survey of 74 economists ranged
from a decline of 0.4 percent to a gain of 0.1 percent, after a
0.4 percent rise in August.  Excluding  volatile food and energy
costs, economists had also forecast a 0.1 percent gain.  A separate report from the Labor Department showed first-
time  claims  for jobless benefits rose by 13,000 to 462,000 in
the week ended Oct. 9. The  total number  of people on
unemployment insurance rolls decreased to the lowest level since
November 2008, while those getting extended benefits declined.  Stock-Index Futures  Stock-index futures pared gains after the reports. Futures
on the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index expiring in December rose 0.2
percent to 1,176.2 at 8:52 a.m. in New York, after rising as
much as 0.6 percent earlier. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note rose to 2.43 percent from 2.42 percent late yesterday.  The U.S.  trade deficit  widened more than forecast in August
as growing demand for autos and capital equipment made overseas
swamped a gain in exports. The gap widened 8.8 percent to $46.3
billion, Commerce Department figures showed today.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 4 percent more
for goods last month after a 3.1 percent year-over-year rise in
August.  Excluding food and energy, wholesale prices climbed 1.6
percent in the 12 months ended in September following a 1.3
percent year-over-year increase in August.  Food, Energy  The cost of food increased 1.2 percent in September from a
month earlier, the most since March. Energy prices increased 0.5
percent, led by liquefied petroleum gas.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 0.5 percent in
September and were up 5.6 percent compared with a year earlier,
today’s report showed.  Prices of crude goods, or raw materials, decreased 0.5
percent last month and were up 20.3 percent from a year ago.  The cost of finished capital equipment rose 0.1 percent in
September for a second month. Among consumer goods prices, food,
women’s apparel and shoes increased.  The lack of price pressures is one reason economists in a
Bloomberg survey taken Oct. 4 to Oct. 12 pushed back the timing
of the Fed’s first increase in the benchmark interest rate to
the first quarter of 2012, from the prior three months as
predicted in September. The lending rate target has been in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Monetary Policy  U.S. central bankers are debating the effects additional
monetary stimulus would have on prices as they try to speed up
the economy. The Fed’s statement on Sept. 21 was the first in
almost two years of near-zero interest rates to say too-low
inflation would warrant looser monetary policy.  The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.
Minutes from its Sept. 21 meeting, released this week, showed
policy makers discussed “several possible approaches” to
supporting economic growth, mainly purchasing longer-term
Treasury securities. Policy makers “saw only small odds of
deflation,” according to the minutes.  Some company officials say they are seeing signs of a
sustained recovery in the U.S.  “Except housing-related, we’re seeing things continue
their gradual recovery,” CSX Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Michael Ward said yesterday in a telephone interview, citing
increased automobile production as helping support growth. “You
are getting the drag effect you would expect as automotive
continues to rebound.”  Other Gauges  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods  imported  into
the U.S., released yesterday, fell 0.3 percent from the prior
month. Costs excluding petroleum climbed for a second straight
month.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably rose 0.2 percent in September for a third consecutive
increase, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before
the Labor Department’s report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  