-- Pubs With Landlord-Beer Deals Don't Hurt Customers, U.K. Regulator Rules
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-14T10:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/pub-customers-aren-t-hurt-by-pub-beer-deals-with-landlords-regulator-says.html
Punch Taverns Plc ,  Enterprise Inns
Plc  and other U.K. pub owners don’t hurt customers by requiring
bar lessees to buy their beer and cider through company
landlords, an antitrust regulator said.  The  Office of Fair Trading  today rejected for a second time
a complaint by the U.K. consumer group  Campaign for Real Ale ,
which claims the so-called supply ties protect pub companies
from competition and drive up prices.  “The pub sector in the U.K. is competitive,” the London-
based watchdog said in a statement today. The OFT “has not
found evidence of competition problems that are having a
significant adverse impact on consumers.”  U.K. lawmakers in May 2009 urged another antitrust
regulator, the  Competition Commission , to investigate how pub
companies force some outlets to buy beer at above-market prices.
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  has also said the industry
is “on probation” and must reform, the consumer group said.  “The OFT has squandered an opportunity to support a
process of industry self regulation to improve competition and
benefit consumers,” Campaign for Real Ale Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Benner  said today in a statement.  When the dispute began, about 28,000 British pubs were
bound to tenancy arrangements obliging them to buy beer and
cider from pub companies, often meaning they pay higher prices
than outlets that are free of a tie. The Real Ale group says the
deals force pubs to pay an extra 20,000 pounds each year.  The OFT, which first rejected the complaint in October
2009, reopened the investigation after CAMRA filed an appeal
with the  Competition Appeal Tribunal , which is ongoing. The
watchdog said “considerable competition” and choice between
pubs prevents the tie agreements from being used to inflate beer
prices beyond competitive levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 