-- Pyongyang's Chang Gwang Street Shows Capitalist North Korea
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2010-10-14T15:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/pyongyang-s-chang-gwang-street-reflects-gulf-in-north-korea-s-dual-economy.html
The two sides of Chang Gwang Street
in North Korea’s capital of Pyongyang show the gap between the
Stalinist country’s elites and its capitalist-minded citizens.  On one side, English-speaking officials mingle with black-
clad Dutch traders at the  Koryo Hotel . There, those with foreign
currency can buy beer brewed by Amsterdam-based  Heineken NV  
at the official exchange rate of 100 North Korean won to the 
U.S. dollar.  Across the street, a saleswoman at a private market giggles
when a foreign guest says he doesn’t have the 200 won needed to
buy a steamed vegetable bun. She flips the placard to reveal the
cost in dollars, the currency of a country that doesn’t have
diplomatic ties with North Korea. The price: 20 cents, implying
an unofficial exchange rate of 1,000 won to the dollar.  Communist countries from the Soviet Union to China have had
thriving black markets for so-called hard currencies such as the
dollar and yen. What makes North Korea exceptional is the gap
between the two rates, an indication of the economic weakness of
 Kim Jong Il ’s regime. North Korea’s economy is about 3 percent
the size of South Korea’s, according to Bank of Korea data
released June 25.  The gap between the official and market rates in China
“was not nearly as great in the early 1980s,” said  Ken Dewoskin , a director of Deloitte LLP’s China Research and
Insight Center in Beijing, who began his career watching China
in the mid-1960s and first traveled there in 1977. “Even closed
economies like Cambodia in the 1960s had only a two-to-one
pricing discrepancy.”  Private Enterprise  Kim moved last November and December to revalue the won,
taking two zeros off the currency and limiting the amount that
could be exchanged for new bills. The policy was designed to
rein in the richest of the private merchants, to whom North
Koreans increasingly were turning for goods as the official
economy stagnated, according to the University of Vienna’s
Rudiger Frank.  “The revaluation not only wiped out people’s savings, but
their trust in the government and their currency,” said  Ha Tae Keung , founder of  Open Radio for North Korea . “There’s a
widespread belief among North Koreans that their money is going
to get further devalued and they’ll get poorer just by holding
onto it.”  Pak Nam Gi, North Korea’s head of finance and planning, was
executed after the revaluation sparked unrest, South Korean
media reported earlier this year. The currency turmoil came amid
mounting speculation that Kim Jong Il’s health was failing.  Last month he promoted his son,  Kim Jong Un , to four-star
general, setting the stage for the second hereditary power
transfer in the totalitarian state.  Anniversary Celebration  The government made an unprecedented invitation to
international media to witness the Oct. 10 anniversary
celebrations marking the 65th anniversary of the Workers’ Party
of Korea.  The day after that event, Pyongyang residents, including
old men, children and women with babies on their backs, queued
up to use their won at the Chang Gwang Street market, with the
biggest lines for the cheapest goods.  Twenty-four people lined up to buy a small cone of vanilla
ice cream at 20 won each. A similar number were waiting for
shaved ice with sweet bean paste at 5 won a bowl. Another 15
were there to buy sweet potatoes, at 60 won per kilo.  No one was seen lining up to purchase Polish-style
sausages, which at 1,700 won each were priced at the equivalent
of 16 cans of Heineken beer at the hotel across the street.
While price tags at the Koryo are in won, the currency isn’t
accepted there.  Scotch and Olive Oil  That wasn’t a concern for people at the hotel, who were
buying foreign goods -- Scotch whiskey and Syrian olive oil were
on offer -- with dollars, euro and Chinese yuan, and driving
some of the new  Ford Motor Co.  Explorer and  Audi AG  sport-
utility vehicles that ply the capital’s roads.  One such customer was Remco Van Daal,  identified  by the
official Korean Central News Agency as the head of the Dutch
organization for the study of the Juche Philosophy, the North
Korean state ideology that stresses national self-reliance and
total loyalty to the leaders.  Van Daal and a colleague, who said he was also named Remco
and declined to give his last name, both had close-cropped blond
hair and wore black shirts and black pants. The only color on
their clothes was from the pins of Kim Jong Il’s father, state
founder Kim Il Sung, which they wore over the left side of their
chests.  Both said they were traders from Amsterdam, declining to
elaborate.  One hotel worker, who said he made about 2,500 won a month,
said the government provided people with most food staples and
other necessities, such as clothing and housing. The free
markets like the one across the street were there to supplement
their diets, he said.  “We don’t operate like a capitalist country,” said the
employee, who gave only his surname, Myung.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Pyongyang at
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  