-- U.S. Trade Gap Likely Widened in August on Stable Imports
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/trade-gap-probably-widened-in-august-as-u-s-imports-stabilized-after-drop.html
The U.S. trade deficit probably
widened in August as imports stabilized following their biggest
drop in more than a year, pointing to an economy struggling to
regain momentum, economists said before a report today.  The  gap  grew 2.8 percent to $44 billion from $42.8 billion
the prior month, according to the  median estimate  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The shortfall shrank by 14 percent
in July as demand for overseas goods fell by the most since
February 2009, when the U.S. was in the midst of the recession.  Imports  may be slow to strengthen as unemployment hovering
close to 10 percent limits consumer spending and prompts
businesses to keep a lid on inventories. Companies like  Intel
Corp. , on the other hand, are benefiting from improving  sales 
overseas, indicating exports will remain a bright spot for
American manufacturers.  “U.S. growth is relatively weak, so you are not going to
see a lot of strong import demand” said  Zach Pandl , an
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.
“Global growth, at least in the developing world, is quite
strong, so you are likely to see some growing demand for U.S.
exports.”  The Commerce Department’s report is slated for 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 75 economists
ranged from $40 billion to $47.5 billion.  Claims, Prices  A report from the Labor Department at the same time may
show first-time  claims  for unemployment benefits were little
changed at 445,000 last week, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed.  Also at 8:30 a.m., Labor Department data may show wholesale
prices climbed 0.1 percent last month after rising 0.4 percent
in August, according to the survey.  Because the U.S. buys more goods overseas than it sells
abroad,  exports  have to grow faster than imports just to keep
the trade deficit steady. That’s the most likely outcome given
the differences in growth, said Pandl, indicating the size of
the trade gap will be fairly steady in coming months.  “A flat trade deficit would be viewed as a very favorable
outcome in a growing U.S. economy,” said Pandl, since imports
usually outstrip exports in recoveries.  Trade subtracted 3.5 percentage points from growth in April
through June, the most since 1947, as imports surged at the
fastest pace since 1984. Foreign purchases detract from growth
because they signal demand is being filled by producers overseas
instead of American firms.  Growing Exports  The outlook for U.S. exports is holding up as emerging
economies from China to India and Brazil modernize their
infrastructure and their more affluent households can afford to
buy goods and services from abroad.  Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, is among U.S.
exporters profiting from growth in China. The Santa Clara,
California-based company this week predicted fourth-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates as demand in emerging
economies helped weather slowing purchases among consumers in
the U.S. and Europe, Intel Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith 
said in an interview.  That’s one reason shares of manufacturers have performed
better than the broader market this year.  S&P Supercomposite
Machinery Index , which includes Caterpillar Inc. and Deere &
Co., has climbed 29 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 5.6 percent gain in the S&P 500.  Lower Dollar  A drop in the value of the dollar, by making U.S. goods
cheaper to foreign buyers, may keep boosting exports. The U.S.
dollar has weakened 7.2 percent against a trade-weighted  basket 
of currencies since a high this year on June 7.  Growing friction over exchange-rate and trade policy
dominated discussions at the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meeting in Washington this month.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  were among those to signal
irritation that China is restraining its currency, the yuan, to
aid exports even as its economy outpaces that of other members
of the Group of 20. For their part, leaders of emerging
economies blamed too-low U.S. interest rates for a flood of
capital that is pushing up their currencies.  U.S. impatience with China boiled over on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let
American companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese
manufacturers from using an artificially weak yuan as a
competitive tool. The measure won’t go to the Senate until after
U.S. congressional elections in November.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  