-- U.S. Trade Gap Climbs More Than Forecast on Higher Imports
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-14T12:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/trade-gap-in-u-s-climbs-more-than-forecast-as-imports-increase.html
The trade deficit widened more than
forecast in August as growing U.S. demand for foreign autos and
capital equipment swamped gains in exports.  The  gap  grew 8.8 percent to $46.3 billion, exceeding the $44
billion median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.  Imports 
rose 2.1 percent, while exports increased 0.2 percent.  The gain in purchases of goods made overseas is a positive
signal that American companies are continuing to invest in new
equipment and rebuilding inventories. Foreign sales of U.S. goods
rose to the highest level in two years, one reason why
manufacturers like  Intel Corp . remain a bright spot in the
economic recovery.  “When U.S. domestic demand is growing at a reasonable pace,
that means import gains tend to more than offset export growth,”
 Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New
York, said before the report. “The trade deficit will remain on
a gradual widening trend.”  Estimates of the 75 economists surveyed ranged from $40
billion to $47.5 billion.  The August balance adjusted for inflation, which is the
figure used to calculate GDP, increased to $51.2 billion from
$47.3 billion. The gap compares with the average $47.9 billion a
month in the second quarter, indication trade may have slowed
growth last quarter.  Trade’s Influence  Trade subtracted 3.5 percentage points from growth in April
through June, the most since 1947, as imports surged at the
fastest pace since 1984. Foreign purchases detract from growth
because they signal demand is being filled by producers overseas
instead of American firms.  The drag from trade may be somewhat offset by bigger gains
in business investment in new equipment and inventories as the
figures showed American companies bought more semiconductors,
generators and toys abroad. The value of imports rose to $200.2
billion, just short of an almost two-year high reached in June.  U.S. exports increased to $153.9 billion, the highest level
in two years. The gain reflected increasing foreign demand for
food and industrial suppliers. Sales of American-made
semiconductors rose by $165 million for the month.  Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, is among U.S.
exporters profiting from growth in China. The Santa Clara,
California-based company this week predicted fourth-quarter sales
that beat analysts’ estimates as demand in emerging economies
helped weather slowing purchase among consumers in the U.S. and
Europe, Intel Chief Financial Officer  Stacy Smith  said in an
interview.  Emerging Markets  “We saw demand strength in emerging markets and the
enterprise segment of the market,” Smith said. “It was offset
by consumer demand in developed markets being a little less than
we thought when we started the quarter.”  A $1.7 billion slump in demand for U.S. commercial aircraft,
which is often volatile, restrained exports. Boeing Co., the
largest U.S. civilian aircraft maker, shipped 17 planes overseas
in August, down from 26 in July, according to company data.  The outlook for U.S. exports is holding up as emerging
economies from China to India and Brazil modernize their
infrastructure and more affluent households can afford to buy
goods and services from abroad.  A drop in the value of the dollar, by making U.S. goods
cheaper to foreign buyers, may keep boosting exports. The U.S.
dollar has weakened 7.2 percent against a trade-weighted  basket 
of currencies since reaching a one-year high on June 7.  China, Brazil  The deficit with China reached a record level for the month
as imports climbed.  Growing friction over exchange-rate and trade policy
dominated discussions at the IMF’s annual meeting in Washington
this month.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  were among those to signal
irritation that China is restraining its currency, the yuan, to
aid exports even as its economy outpaces that of other members of
the Group of 20. Leaders of emerging economies blamed a flood of
capital that is pushing up their currencies on too-low U.S.
interest rates.  U.S. impatience with China boiled over on Sept. 29 when the
House of Representatives passed a measure that would let American
companies seek import duties to prevent Chinese manufacturers
from using an artificially weak yuan as a competitive tool. The
measure won’t go to the Senate until after U.S. congressional
elections in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  