-- Rand Strengthens to More Than 2 1/2-Year High on Speculation of Fed Easing
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-14T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rand-strengthens-to-more-than-2-1-2-year-high-on-speculation-of-fed-easing.html
The rand climbed to a 2 1/2-year
high as gold rose to a record and U.S. jobless claims rose,
raising bets the Federal Reserve will take steps to boost
growth, widening the yield gap between emerging and U.S. assets.  The rand advanced as much as 0.7 percent to 6.7651 per
dollar and traded 0.1 percent stronger at 6.8016 at 5:48 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.8100. Gold, which with
platinum accounts for about a fifth of the nation’s foreign
revenue, rose to a record for a second day, gaining as much as
1.3 percent to $1,387.35 an ounce. Platinum for immediate
delivery rallied as much as 1.3 percent to $1,723.50 an ounce,
the highest in a week.  “If more quantitative easing is implemented, the rand
could go significantly stronger to 6 rand per dollar or below in
the month ahead,”  George Glynos , managing director of
Econometric Treasury Management in Johannesburg, said in a phone
interview today. “We don’t consider the rand to be that strong
because with the rand price of gold at 9,330 rand per ounce,
it’s the same as it was in the first quarter of 2009.”  Weaker-than-forecast U.S. job growth in September and an
unexpected increase in the number of Americans filing first-time
applications for unemployment benefits raised bets the nation’s
central bank may start a second round of government-debt
purchases while keeping interest rates at near-zero levels in a
process known as quantitative easing. This will spur demand for
higher-yielding assets, according to  Mohamed A. El-Erian  at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  ‘Overvalued’  The Fed could also exacerbate what has been described as a
“currency war” with China over its strict foreign-exchange
rules, enhancing fears of ensuing protectionism and boosting the
prices of precious metals and currencies from commodity-based
economies.  Benchmark interest rates of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25
percent in the U.S. have also encouraged investors to borrow
cheaply and invest markets offering higher returns, a strategy
known as the carry trade. South Africa’s  benchmark interest rate 
is 6 percent.  Gains in the rand, which has rallied 39 percent versus the
dollar since the start of 2009, are reducing the competitiveness
of exports and undermining the economy’s recovery. South African
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  yesterday said there is “no
disagreement that the rand is overvalued. The question is what
to do about it.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  today said the Group of 20
nations must take the lead to prevent a global “‘currency war”
in which each country tries to weaken its currency at the
expense of others.  Gordhan was referring to comments by Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , who said on Sept. 27 that a worldwide
currency war was already under way.  Government bonds advanced for a fourth day, with the
benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015 adding 12
cents to 125.98 rand. The yield on the bond fell 3 basis points
to 7.13 percent, near a record low reached on Sept. 9  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  