-- Mortgage Rate on 30-Year Loan Falls to Record 4.19%
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-14T16:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rate-on-30-year-fixed-mortgage-falls-to-4-19-from-4-27-freddie-mac-says.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell for a third
straight week to the lowest level on record, extending a slide
in borrowing costs as housing demand slumps.  Rates for 30-year fixed  loans  declined to 4.19 percent in
the week ended today from 4.27 percent, Freddie Mac said in a
statement. It is the lowest rate since the McLean, Virginia-
based company began tracking the data in 1971. The average 15-
year  rate  tumbled to 3.62 percent from 3.72 percent.  A six-month decline in mortgage rates has spurred a surge
in refinancing while doing little to increase property demand as
U.S. unemployment hovers near 10 percent. Sales of existing
homes were the second-lowest on record in August, the National
Association of Realtors in Washington said Sept. 23.  “It takes an awful lot of confidence to make the decision
to buy a house,” said  Don Rissmiller , chief economist at
Strategas Research Partners LLC in New York. “With the
historically very high unemployment rate, the confidence hasn’t
been there.”  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s applications  index 
increased 15 percent in the week ended Oct. 8, the Washington-
based group said yesterday. Refinancing jumped 21 percent, the
most in four months. Purchase applications fell 8.5 percent.  “Mortgage rates have followed Treasury yields down,” said
said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in St. Petersburg, Florida. “I think the bottom line is
they’ll stay low for quite some time.”  Treasury 30-year bonds today rose for the first time in
five days before a $13 billion sale, the final of $66 billion in
three note-and-bond auctions this week.  Foreclosure Sales  Sales of foreclosed properties accounted for almost a third
of all U.S. transactions in September, a sign that a prolonged
delay in repossessions may hurt the housing market, data vendor
RealtyTrac Inc. said in a report today.  Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, said Oct. 8
it would freeze foreclosures across the country, while JPMorgan
Chase & Co. has delayed seizures in 41 states and Ally Financial
Inc. in 23 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
at  kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 