-- Real Maverick Confronts One Word, Plastics: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-10-14T01:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/real-maverick-confronts-one-word-plastics-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Senator  Russ Feingold  of  Wisconsin 
is not among those members of Congress to have “gone
Washington.” He’s as Wisconsin as the  Green Bay Packers ,
walleyes, cheeseheads and  chocolate bacon on a stick .  When he ran in 1992, defeating Republican incumbent Bob Kasten after dispatching two wealthy Democrats in the primary,
Feingold posted five promises on his garage door that, 18 years
later, could serve as the manifesto for this election season’s
crop of angry outsiders.  Feingold pledged to live and send his children to public
school in Wisconsin, reject any pay raise, visit each of the
state’s 72 counties every year and rely on in-state
contributions for the bulk of his fundraising. To reduce the
influence of money in politics, he joined with Republican  John McCain , back when the Arizona senator was still copping to being
a maverick, on the McCain-Feingold campaign-finance law.  Feingold stuck to his promises and gave every sign of
becoming Senator for Life, following a quirky path in the
tradition of the Progressive Movement leader  Robert La Follette .
He is David against the Goliath of organized special interests.
He casts unpopular votes against popular spending programs such
as the prescription-drug benefit for seniors. He opposed the
North American Free Trade Agreement, the war against  Iraq ,
 deregulating banks  and, nine years later,  bailing them out .  A study by a Harvard University fellow,  cited  in a recent
article in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, found that Feingold’s
voting behavior deviated from prevailing left-right patterns
more dramatically than any other senator in seven of the nine
sessions of Congress in which he has served.  2004 Re-election  This was just fine with the Wisconsin electorate, which
granted him a third term in 2004 with 55 percent of the vote.
For much of this year, he seemed to be one politician who
needn’t worry about the tsunami of disgust aimed at incumbents.  Then along came  Ron Johnson , a quiet businessman who became
wealthy manufacturing plastics. (Fill in your own joke from
“ The Graduate .”) A political neophyte, Johnson was lured to
the Tea Party last fall when organizers of a rally needed a
businessman to join Joe the Plumber on stage.  Johnson spoke of the rise of a socialist, European-style
state that would diminish America’s place in the world. He
demonized Obamacare for a government takeover of the best
health-care system in the world, the one that made it possible
for two skilled doctors to save the life of his daughter,
Carrie, born with a congenital heart defect.  Outside In  The Little Carrie speech ricocheted around the state after
being picked up by conservative talk radio. A candidate was
born. Willing to spend his considerable savings on a challenge,
Johnson turned Feingold into a  Washington  insider basking in
power while Badger State voters lost their jobs, their houses
and their life savings.  By highlighting Feingold’s vote for the economic stimulus
of 2009, Johnson appealed to nervous independents who have
joined angry conservatives in an obsession with spending --never
mind the economists who agree that extra  government spending  was
essential to save the country from a depression.  By the “I’m not a witch” standards of many of this year’s
challengers, Johnson looks positively statesmanlike, even as he
displays more attitude than positions.  He can sound like an audio-books version of “ Atlas
Shrugged .” He recites jeremiads about government incursions
into our lives, the decline of property rights and high
taxation. He expresses general admiration for Republican
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s free-market  Roadmap for America’s
Future  without specifying which of its many painful cuts he
would embrace. He’s been vague since  attributing global warming 
to sunspots.  Ahead in Polls  Johnson is ahead by about 7 points in recent  polls  as he
threatens to take out a politician as anti-establishment as they
get.  Feingold needs to excite hard-core Democrats if he’s to
gain a fourth term. So why, when President  Barack Obama  visited
the state that fell hard for him in 2008, did Feingold have
pressing business elsewhere?  Yesterday, Feingold found himself available to appear with
the Democrats’ most valuable asset, first lady  Michelle Obama ,
who steered clear of issues at a fundraiser in  Milwaukee  in
favor of Mother-in-Chief bromides: “My children are the center
of my world. My hopes for their future are at the heart of every
single thing I do. And that’s really why I’m here today.”  That, and to drag a wounded senator back to Washington --
although short of personally escorting voters to the polls,
there’s little she can do to get Democrats excited.  Business First  Feingold and other endangered Democrats face the oddest of
coalitions. Working-class voters most damaged by corporate
America have made common cause with new, faux populists to
demand tax cuts for the wealthy, the continued under-regulation
of corporations such as BP Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
the repeal of Obama’s health-system overhaul so that insurers
can decide who will and won’t get care. What’s best for business
is best for America.  Those are mere details at a time when voters seem willing
to send clowns to Washington just to put some new faces in the
circus.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  