-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Advance Before $13 Billion Sale of the Securities
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-14T15:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/treasury-10-year-yield-near-one-week-high-as-world-equity-markets-advance.html
Treasury  30-year bonds rose for the
first time in five days as the U.S. prepared to sell $13 billion
of the debt and Federal Reserve pledged to buy the securities as
part of a program to keep borrowing rates low.  Ten-year Treasury yields were near the highest in more than
a week as data showed the U.S. trade balance widened while
producer prices held steady and initial claims for jobless
benefits increased. Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said it sold U.S. debt,
betting a second round of buys by the Federal Reserve, a move
called quantitative easing, would have limited effects.  “The bond has disengaged itself from other issues on the
curve,” said  Thomas Simons , a government debt economist in New
York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 18 primary dealers required
to bid at Treasury auctions. “We may have gotten ahead of
ourselves in selling the bond to this degree.”  The 30-year  bond yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.82 percent at 11:15 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 10-year  note yield  was
three basis point higher at 2.45 percent. It reached 2.48
percent yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 5. The two-year
note was up one basis point to 0.37 percent.  Wholesale costs in the U.S. for goods other than food and
energy rose in September for a second month at a pace that
suggested limited demand is restraining inflation. The so-called
core producer price index increased 0.1 percent, Labor
Department figures showed, matching August’s pace.  Jobless Claims  Initial unemployment claims unexpectedly rose last week to
462,000, another Labor report showed, while the Commerce
Department said the U.S. trade deficit widened more than
forecast in August to $46.3 billion.  “The data won’t write the story for today -- it will be
about the 30-year auction,” said  Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader
in New York at Societe Generale. “Based on what some of the Fed
speakers said and the fact that Pimco is not sure of the
effectiveness of QE, it still provides a real good cloud of
uncertainty.”  Long bonds yielded 3.8 percent in pre-auction  trading ,
compared with the 3.92 percent yield of the last sale, held on
Sept. 9.  Thirty-year yields rose on each of the past four trading
days before on concern a resumption of debt purchases by the Fed
as part of its quantitative-easing plan would concentrate on
debt maturing in five to 10 years. The yields reached a three-
week high of 3.88 percent yesterday.  30-Year Yields Up  “Today’s 30-year auction might be a challenge as the Fed
seems to prefer buying” shorter-dated securities,  Steve Barrow ,
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank
Plc in London, wrote in a research report. “But yields have
risen quite a bit into the sale, so we are not sure that it will
be a disaster.”  Treasuries fell yesterday after demand was weaker than
average at a sale of 10-year notes that raised $21 billion. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 2.99 versus an
average of 3.1 for the past 10 sales. The offering drew a yield
of 2.475 percent.  Thirty-year bonds later erased losses after the Fed said it
would purchase about $32 billion in U.S. debt over the next
month, including securities maturing in 2040, in its program to
reinvest proceeds from its holdings of mortgage bonds.  30-Year Sale  Investors  bid  for 2.73 times the amount of long bonds on
offer last month, versus an average of 2.70 for the past 10
sales. Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes
foreign central banks, bought 36.1 percent of the securities,
versus the 10-auction average of 35.8 percent.  The U.S. auctioned $32 billion of three-year debt on Oct.
12 at a record-low yield of 0.569 percent and $21 billion of 10-
year notes yesterday at a yield of 2.474 percent, the lowest
since January 2009.  The Treasury can continue to cut auctions of nominal
coupons of less than 7 years’ maturity by $1 billion per month
until the February quarterly refunding on anticipation that the
U.S. budget deficit will narrow, according to primary dealer
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The firm lowered its forecast for the
fiscal year 2011 deficit to $1.25 trillion, from $1.3 trillion.  Fed policy makers next meet Nov. 2-3. New York Fed
President  William Dudley , the Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren  and
Chicago’s  Charles Evans  all advocated more action to boost the
economy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 4 restarting
large-scale asset purchases would probably spur growth.  A government report tomorrow will show U.S. inflation was
in check last month, economists said. Consumer prices rose 0.2
percent in September after a 0.3 percent gain the prior month, a
Bloomberg News survey forecast.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between 10-year and 30-
year debt narrowed for the first time in 10 days, decreasing to
1.36 percentage points. The gap widened to a record 1.41
percentage points yesterday as the prospect of Fed easing stoked
inflation expectations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  