-- Treasuries Fail to Extend Rally as Monetary Easing Spurs Inflation Outlook
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-14T05:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/treasuries-fail-to-extend-rally-as-monetary-easing-spurs-inflation-outlook.html
Treasuries failed to extend a month-
long rally on speculation the Federal Reserve will try to
increase inflation through so-called quantitative easing as
policy makers seek to sustain an economic expansion.  The Fed will probably initiate a second round of Treasury
purchases, being called QE II, which will spur demand for
higher-yielding assets, according to  Mohamed A. El-Erian  at
Pacific Investment Management Co. Policy makers use this
strategy to spur growth by keeping borrowing costs low. The
government plans to sell $13 billion of 30-year bonds today.  “Even if the Fed launches QE II, Treasury yields will
rise,” said  Takuya Yamamoto , who helps oversee $102 billion in
assets as a portfolio manager in Tokyo at Diam Co., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest life insurer. “The market has priced in
QE II. Investor sentiment on the economy will improve and
inflation expectations will increase.” Diam trimmed its
Treasury holdings this week, he said.  Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 2.42 percent as of 1:38 p.m.
in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent
security maturing in August 2020 traded at a price of 101 3/4.
The rate dropped to 2.33 percent on Oct. 8, which was the least
since January 2009.  “By buying securities, the Fed will be looking to ‘push’
others into taking more risk -- to push investors to move out on
the risk spectrum and buy corporate bonds and stocks,” El-Erian
said in the Financial Times, in an article dated yesterday and
published on Pimco’s website.  Asia Stocks  MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index of  shares  rose 1.9 percent to a
two-year high, helping curb demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  The yield on an index of U.S. corporate bonds narrowed to
2.73 percentage points over Treasuries from this year’s high of
3.25 percentage points in June, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Forecasts for Fed easing sent the dollar to a 15-year low
of 81.17 yen today.  The 30-year bonds being sold today yielded 3.82 percent in
pre-auction  trading , the same as the auction yield the last time
the securities were sold on Sept. 9.  Investors  bid  for 2.73 times the amount of debt on offer
last month, versus an average of 2.70 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect  bidders , the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 36.1 percent of the securities, versus the
10-auction average of 35.8 percent.  The sale is the last of three auctions this week totaling
$66 billion.  Inflation Credibility  Richmond Fed Bank President  Jeffrey Lacker  said a policy
focused mainly on employment risks hurting the central bank’s
credibility in keeping inflation low.  “With inflation reasonably close to any plausible
definition of price stability, and all expectations measures
pointing in the right direction, making unemployment a policy
imperative poses clear risks to the credibility of our long-run
inflation goals,” Lacker said yesterday in a speech in Chapel
Hill, North Carolina.  Central bankers, seeking ways to boost growth after
lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying $1.7 trillion
of securities, are weighing strategies for raising inflation
expectations and expanding the balance sheet by buying
Treasuries, according to minutes of the Fed’s Sept. 21 meeting.  Some Fed officials are concerned that expectations of lower
inflation will become self-fulfilling, the minutes said.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in 2003 that Japan could beat
deflation by using a “publicly announced, gradually rising
price-level target.”  Price Reports  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, widened to 2.07 percentage
points yesterday, the most since June. It is approaching the
five-year average of 2.10 percentage points.  Singapore signaled today that it will allow faster currency
gains to curb inflation in the island-state.  The Fed is already reinvesting proceeds from its holdings
of mortgage bonds in Treasuries. Ten- and 30-year  Treasuries 
erased losses yesterday after the Fed said it would purchase
about $32 billion in U.S. debt over the next month.  “The buybacks were announced and were larger than people
expected, which has led to some buying,” said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Capital Markets
LLC, a New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.  Government reports today and tomorrow will show U.S.
inflation was in check last month, economists said.  Prices paid to producers gained 0.1 percent, slowing from
0.4 percent in August, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Labor Department
issues the number today. A separate report from the department
tomorrow will show consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September
after a 0.3 percent gain the prior month, the surveys show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 