-- Rio, BHP Ore Venture Said to Be Target of EU Antitrust Complaint
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-14T20:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rio-bhp-deal-said-to-be-target-of-eu-complaint-threatening-iron-ore-plan.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group , the largest and third-largest mining companies, are
expected to receive a formal complaint from European Union
antitrust regulators over their plans to create an iron ore
joint venture, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The so-called statement of objections from the European
Commission may be issued within days, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the decision hasn’t been made
public. The commission’s statement may lead the companies to
abandon the plan to combine their iron-ore assets in Western
Australia, one of the people said.  The companies, the second- and third-largest exporters of
the steelmaking raw material, would save at least $10 billion in
costs by combining their mines, railroads and ports in the
remote Pilbara region of Western Australia. The deal requires
regulatory and shareholder approval and has been opposed by
steelmakers in Europe and Asia.  “Both BHP and Rio have noted over several months the more
challenging regulatory environment,” UBS AG analysts led by
 Olivia Ker  in London said in a note. “A favorable outcome
looked less likely.”  BHP, based in Melbourne, and Rio said today they hadn’t
decided on the “next steps” after Japanese and German
regulators objected to their plans. They “noted with
disappointment the statement today by the German Federal Cartel
Office that its current intention is to prohibit” the venture,
according to a joint statement.  Regulators’ Concerns  Tony Shaffer , a spokesman for London-based Rio, declined to
comment and BHP spokesman Ruban Yogarajah wouldn’t comment
beyond the earlier statement. European Commission spokeswoman
 Amelia Torres  couldn’t immediately be reached.  The commission will say it objects to the venture, Reuters
said earlier, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
case.  “The parties continue to believe that the joint venture is
pro-competitive and will increase the supply of iron ore,” BHP
and Rio said in their statement. “However, both BHP Billiton
and Rio Tinto acknowledge the concerns expressed by some
regulators and the obstacles to achieving clearance.”  Germany’s antitrust body told the mine operators of its
concerns over the venture and will send a letter of objection
next week, the regulator’s spokesman  Kay Weidner  said today. The
companies will be able to respond before a final decision is
taken, she said. Japan’s regulator today said it’s “concerned”
the venture may limit competition.  Deal Deadline  The two companies agreed in June 2009 to the 50-50 venture,
with BHP agreeing to pay Rio a $5.8 billion so-called
equalization payment. The original accord will terminate if the
conditions of the deal aren’t satisfied by Dec. 31, the
companies said when they announced the plan. The venture,
initially due to be completed by mid-2010, has been delayed as
authorities from Australia to Europe study the proposal.  The Japan Fair Trade Commission  told the two mining
companies of its concern over a possible violation of
antimonopoly laws on Sept. 27, Wataru Kobayashi, director of the
commission’s merger and acquisition division, said by phone.  The JFTC will make a final decision after hearing responses
from the companies, he said, without specifying the timing.  Rio Bid  Australia’s competition regulator said on Sept. 30 it has
all the information it needs to make a ruling and the timing of
the verdict was up to the companies. South Korea’s antitrust
regulator said April 14 it would complete its review in the
second half of this year. The European Commission’s preliminary
investigation is “coming to an end,” Torres said last week.  BHP abandoned a $66 billion hostile bid for Rio in 2008,
citing Rio’s high level of debt and economic uncertainty. That
deal won approval from the U.S. Department of Justice and
Australia’s competition regulator. Europe had asked for
divestments in iron ore and coal.  Rio Tinto  advanced 2.4 percent to 4,134.5 pence by the 4:30
p.m. close of trading on the London Stock Exchange. BHP  dropped 
0.1 percent to 2,215 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  