-- Rio, BHP Haven't Decided `Next Steps' on Venture as Japan, Germany Object
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-14T16:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rio-bhp-haven-t-decided-next-steps-on-venture-as-japan-germany-object.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto
Group, the largest and third-largest mining companies, haven’t
decided any “next steps” for their proposed iron ore venture
after Japanese and German regulators objected to the plans.  BHP and Rio “have noted with disappointment the statement
today by the German Federal Cartel Office that its current
intention is to prohibit” the venture, the companies said today
in a joint statement. “No decisions about next steps have been
taken at this stage while regulatory discussions continue.”  The companies, the second and third-largest exporters of
iron ore, would save at least $10 billion in costs by combining
their mines, railroads and ports in the remote Pilbara region of
Western Australia. The deal requires regulatory and shareholder
approval and has been opposed by steelmakers in Europe and Asia.  “The parties continue to believe that the joint venture is
pro-competitive and will increase the supply of iron ore,” they
said in the statement. “However, both BHP Billiton and Rio
Tinto acknowledge the concerns expressed by some regulators and
the obstacles to achieving clearance for the joint venture.”  Germany’s antitrust body told the mine operators of its
concerns over the venture and will send a letter of objection
next week, the regulator’s spokesman  Kay Weidner  said today. The
companies will be able to respond before a final decision is
taken, she said. Japan’s regulator today said it’s “concerned”
the venture may limit competition.  Japanese Concerned  The two companies agreed in June 2009 to the 50-50 venture
with BHP agreeing to pay Rio $5.8 billion in a so-called
equalization payment. The original accord will terminate if the
conditions of the venture aren’t satisfied by Dec. 31, the
companies said when they announced the plan. The venture,
initially due to be completed by mid-2010, has been delayed as
authorities from Australia to Europe study the proposal.  Japan’s regulator today said it’s “concerned” the venture
may limit competition.  The Japan Fair Trade Commission  told the
two mining companies of its concern over a possible violation of
antimonopoly laws on Sept. 27, Wataru Kobayashi, director of the
commission’s merger and acquisition division, said by phone.  The JFTC will make a final decision after hearing responses
from the companies, he said, without specifying the timing.  Australia’s competition regulator said on Sept. 30 it has
all the information it needs to make a ruling and the timing of
the verdict was up to the companies. South Korea’s antitrust
regulator said April 14 it would complete its review in the
second half of this year.  European Investigation  The European Commission’s preliminary investigation is
“coming to an end,”  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the
regulator, said last week.  BHP abandoned a $66 billion hostile bid for Rio in 2008,
citing Rio’s high level of debt and economic uncertainty. That
deal won approval from the U.S. Department of Justice and
Australia’s competition regulator. The European Commission had
asked for divestments in iron ore and coal.  Rio Tinto  advanced 2.4 percent to 4,134.5 pence by the 4:30
p.m. close of trading on the London Stock Exchange. BHP  dropped 
0.1 percent to 2,215 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  