-- Rio Tinto's Third-Quarter Iron Ore Output Rises to Record on China Demand
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-10-14T16:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rio-tinto-s-third-quarter-iron-ore-output-rises-to-record-on-china-demand.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, said third-quarter iron ore output rose
to a record. The company’s shares climbed to a two-year high.  Production expanded to 47.6 million metric tons in the
three months ended Sept. 30, from 47 million tons a year
earlier, London-based Rio, the world’s second-biggest exporter
of the commodity, said today in a statement.  Rio approved $1.3 billion of expansions at its Australian
iron ore mines in the quarter as demand surged from steel mills
in China, the world’s biggest producer of the alloy. The company
also set  production records  for alumina and coking coal and is
running its mines at close to or above capacity to benefit from
strong prices, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Albanese  said today.  “It’s all about iron ore, the operations are running well
and it was a very solid quarter,”  Olivia Ker , an analyst at UBS
AG in London who has a “buy” rating on the stock, said today
by phone. “The story for Rio this year is to get a year of good
delivery under its belt and re-focus on growth, and this is
exactly what they are doing. With the iron ore price ticking up,
it’s all playing out well for them.”  Rio  rose 2.4 percent to 4,134.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London, the highest since Sept. 1, 2008. It earlier
advanced 4.4 percent to A$82.08 on the Australian stock
exchange. The stock, which has 25 “buy,” four “hold” and one
“sell” recommendation among analyst outlooks compiled by
Bloomberg, has gained 22 percent in London trading this year.  “Our investment in organic growth is gathering momentum,”
Albanese said in the company’s statement  China, Prices  Metal prices  gained 23 percent in the quarter, according to
the London Metal Exchange index, a measure of six metals
including copper, aluminum and nickel. China’s economy will
likely grow 9.9 percent this year from a year earlier and reach
10 percent in 2011, the Caijing magazine reported this week,
citing a study by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  The iron ore price is likely to extend recent gains through
the fourth quarter as Chinese buyers, the world’s biggest, and
other consumers restock, UBS analysts led by Sydney-based Tom
Price wrote in an Oct. 12 report. The price for ore shipped to
China has risen 7 percent this month to $150.80 a ton, according
to The Steel Index.  Production of coking coal rose 17 percent to 2.4 million
tons after Rio increased investment in the operations in
Australia, it said. Thermal coal output declined 14 percent
because of wet weather at the Hunter Valley mines in Australia.
The company reduced its thermal coal forecast by 3 percent for
2010 to 19.1 million tons.  Lower grades at the Grasberg mine in Indonesia cut mined
copper output by 19 percent to 159,700 tons and gold by 33
percent to 187,000 ounces, it said. Its full-year mined copper
production forecast was cut 4.3 percent to 660,000 tons. Alumina
output gained 6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  