-- Roche Third-Quarter Sales Fall on Lower Demand for Tamiflu Antiviral Drug
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-10-14T15:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/roche-nine-month-sales-decline-1-as-demand-for-tamiflu-vaccination-falls.html
Roche Holding AG , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, reported a 7 percent decline in
third-quarter revenue as demand for the Tamiflu antiviral fell.  Sales  dropped to 11.5 billion Swiss francs ($12.1 billion)
from 12.4 billion francs a year earlier, the Basel, Switzerland-
based company said today in an e-mailed statement. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had a median estimate of 11.8 billion
francs. Roche doesn’t release  quarterly  earnings.  Tamiflu sales tumbled after the pandemic swine flu that
swept the globe last year waned and government orders for
stockpiles of the drug were filled. Roche said it expects global
health reform to cut revenue growth, stripping about 2
percentage points off sales this year and 2.5 percentage points
in 2011. Sales of the Avastin cancer medicine, the company’s
best-seller, are under threat because of U.S. and European
regulatory reviews of the drug’s use in breast cancer.  “The top three products missed our estimates and Avastin’s
not looking good,” said  Carri Duncan , an analyst at Macquarie
Group in Zurich. “We’ve seen sequentially that growth in
Avastin sales is coming down and I don’t see how it’s going to
get better.”  A strong Swiss franc weighed on revenue during the third
quarter, reducing the value of sales generated in other
currencies, the company said.  The shares declined 70 centimes, or 0.5 percent, to close
at 138.4 francs in Zurich.  Full-year Forecast  Roche reiterated its forecast for the year, saying core
earnings per share, which excludes exceptional items and
amortization and impairment of intangible assets, will probably
increase at a double-digit pace in 2010 at constant exchange
rates. The company wasn’t more specific. Sales are expected to
grow in the mid-single-digit range in local currencies. The
outlook excludes revenue from Tamiflu.  Sales of Tamiflu, which can ease the symptoms and duration
of infection with flu, dropped to 98 million francs during the
third quarter from 994 million francs a year earlier. Roche said
it expects the medicine to bring as much as 1 billion francs in
revenue this year. The World Health Organization in August
declared an end to the pandemic.  Avastin Sales  Sales of Avastin increased about 1 percent to 1.61 billion
francs, below analyst estimates of 1.69 billion francs. Roche is
seeking to reassure investors that growth remains intact after
the drug failed in several clinical trials this year and health
regulators examined its use against breast malignancies. The
company halted development of the drug as a therapy for
colorectal cancer after initial treatment.  An advisory panel to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
in July voted 12 to 1 in favor of rescinding the so-called
accelerated approval for Avastin in breast cancer. The agency on
Sept. 17 delayed Roche’s application to expand use of the drug
against breast tumors, while European regulators said Sept. 24
that they would review use of the medicine against the same
disease. The medicine is approved for several cancer types,
including colorectal and lung tumors.  “Regulatory and reimbursement uncertainty” over Avastin’s
use against breast cancer weighed on sales of the therapy in the
U.S. during the third quarter, Roche said.  No Signs of Impact  “A number of physicians are wondering about the future of
the indication,” Pascal Soriot, head of the Swiss company’s
pharmaceuticals division, said on a conference call. The company
“hasn’t seen any signs of an impact” from the European review
of the drug, he said. Roche isn’t promoting Avastin’s use
against breast cancer in the U.S. pending an FDA decision on the
drug, Soriot said separately.  Peak annual sales of the medicine would likely be at the
low end of the company’s current forecast of 8 billion to 9
billion Swiss francs if the FDA were to revoke approval, Chief
Executive Officer  Severin Schwan  has said.  Third-quarter revenue from MabThera, used to treat non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis, increased about 1
percent to 1.52 billion francs, lagging analyst estimates of
1.57 billion francs.  Sales of Herceptin, which targets the HER-2 protein linked
to breast tumor growth, rose about 2 percent to 1.36 billion
francs from 1.33 billion francs. The drug in January won
European approval as a treatment for stomach cancer that has
spread in patients who test positive for HER-2.  Genentech Acquisition  The three medicines were developed by U.S. biotechnology
company  Genentech Inc. , which Roche fully acquired last year for
$46.8 billion. Roche is getting more income from the top-selling
drugs thanks to the acquisition, which the company expects to
yield savings of 1 billion francs a year by 2011.  The Swiss company has also had drug development setbacks
this year, including delays to the experimental T-DM1 breast
cancer medicine and the taspoglutide diabetes treatment.  Revenue from the Swiss company’s pharmaceuticals business
fell 9 percent to 9 billion francs from 9.9 billion francs a
year earlier. Revenue from the diagnostics division gained less
than 1 percent to 2.48 billion francs. Roche is seeking to weave
the two businesses more tightly together to better match
patients with the most suitable treatments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  