-- Rooney Halts Contract Talks, May Leave United for Madrid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-14T09:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rooney-halts-contract-talks-may-leave-united-for-madrid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Rooney Running?  Wayne Rooney  has stopped negotiations with Manchester
United and may consider a move to Real Madrid because of
disputes with coach  Alex Ferguson  and media scrutiny of his
life,  the Mirror said .  Rooney was going to get a raise from his current 90,000
pounds ($144,000) a week salary after the World Cup, although
now the player has held up talks, the newspaper said.  Juventus for Johnson?  Liverpool defender  Glen Johnson  may be a January transfer
target for Juventus,  the Mirror said.   The player is under contract until 2013, but the Italian
club may try to take advantage of the unsettled ownership
situation at Liverpool, the newspaper said.  Van der Sar Replacement?  Manchester United’s Ferguson watched Rangers goalkeeper
 Allan McGregor  during Scotland’s 3-2 loss to Spain this week as
part of the club’s search for a replacement for  Edwin van der Sar ,  the Sun said .  McGregor would cost 7 million pounds, much less than other
goalkeepers United is monitoring, the newspaper said.  Jack’s Start  Arsenal teenager  Jack Wilshere  may start England’s match
against France next month at Wembley as coach  Fabio Capello 
tries out younger players,  the Sun said .  Wilshere, 18, will probably be joined by Arsenal teammates
 Theo Walcott  and  Kieran Gibbs , as well as Manchester City’s Adam
Johnson, the newspaper said.  Benayoun’s Blame  Israeli midfielder  Yossi Benayoun  blames Chelsea’s medical
staff for missing the Achilles injury that will keep him out for
six months,  the Mail said.   The player will have an operation this weekend after
Israeli doctors diagnosed the problem, which was dismissed as
“something small” by Chelsea staff, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  