-- Roubini Expects 35-40% Chance of a Double Dip Recession in U.S.
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-14T05:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/roubini-expects-35-to-40-chance-of-u-s-entering-a-double-dip-recession.html
New York University Professor
 Nouriel Roubini  said he expects a 35 percent to 40 percent
chance of the U.S. entering a double-dip recession,
highlighting the risks faced by the world’s largest economy.  “Since second quarter growth in U.S. was only 1.7
percent and everything’s going to be weaker in the second
half of the year, by the fourth quarter economic growth in
the U.S. could be as low as 1 percent,” Roubini said in a
conference today in Seoul. “The growth rate is so low it’s
going to feel like a recession even if technically this is
not a recession.”  Federal Reserve policy makers last month said U.S.
growth is likely to be “modest in the near term” and added
that they are prepared to ease monetary policy further if
needed. The recovery of advanced economies including the U.S.
is likely to be anemic and “U-shaped,” Roubini said.  The dollar today fell to a 15-year low versus the yen
and its weakest since January against the euro before the
release of economic reports likely to fuel speculation the
Fed will loosen credit further to support prices. The U.S.
currency traded at 81.19 yen at 2:02 p.m. in Tokyo from 81.81
in New York yesterday, and is at $1.4075 per euro from
$1.3961.  High Unemployment  A U.S. jobless rate hovering near 10 percent is shaking
consumer confidence and limiting spending, the biggest part
of the economy.  Roubini, who predicted the credit crisis, said that the
U.S.’s potential growth rate is about 3 percent. Since the
pace of expansion is much slower than that, there won’t be
enough creation of jobs in the U.S., he said.  Weak U.S. growth in the second quarter means the odds of
a double-dip recession is as high as 40 percent from the
previous 25 percent, said Roubini, chairman of New York-based
Roubini Global Economics LLC.  Deflation Risk  Deflation is the biggest risk for advanced economies,
Roubini said. Japan’s  producer prices  in September fell for
the first time since July as the yen’s gain makes imports
cheaper, according to Bank of Japan data released today.  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September after
a 0.3 percent gain the prior month, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
tomorrow’s report.  Roubini said Japan’s central bank isn’t reacting
aggressively to economic developments. The Bank of Japan on
Oct. 5 created a 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) fund to buy
bonds and other assets, and pledged to keep its benchmark
interest rate at “virtually zero” until the end of
deflation is in sight.  In contrast with the sluggish pace of recovery among
advanced economies, emerging economies are likely to undergo
rapid and sharp rebounds, Roubini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul  at
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  