-- Rove's Groups Lead Outside Spending Blitz as Republicans Target Colorado
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-10-14T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rove-s-groups-lead-spending-blitz-in-colorado-elections-after-court-ruling.html
Colorado may be the No. 1 election
battleground in the U.S. for Republicans, if the money pouring
into the state is any measure.  Independent groups reported spending $9.4 million on
federal campaigns there between Sept. 1 and Oct. 12, more than
in any other state, with $7.5 million -- 80 percent -- going to
help Republican candidates, records show. Leading the way were
two groups advised by strategist  Karl Rove , American Crossroads
and Crossroads GPS, which said yesterday they have raised $56
million for races nationwide, exceeding their $50 million goal.  The state may provide the best measure of the power of
outside money in American elections this year. Critics say a
Supreme Court decision that freed corporations to spend funds
from their treasuries on elections has spurred a flood of
special interest money that’s mainly helping Republicans.  “You can’t have your television on for 10 or 15 minutes
without seeing at least two or three ads saying that someone
shouldn’t have been born,” said  Kenneth Bickers , chairman of
the political science department at the University of Colorado
in Boulder. “It’s the stakes that drive campaign ads. This is a
state where Democrats might be able to hold a seat or
Republicans could pick it up.”  While Colorado supported Obama in 2008, it lined up for
Republicans in nine of the 10 previous presidential elections.
It also went from having two Republican senators and only two
Democratic members of the House to the opposite.  Bennet’s Race  Now, Democratic Senator  Michael Bennet  is facing a
“tossup” race against Republican  Ken Buck , according to the
Cook Political Report. And Colorado features three House
Democrats,  Ed Perlmutter ,  John Salazar  and  Betsy Markey , whose
close contests also make them vulnerable to Republican attacks.  With an 8.2 percent unemployment rate, Colorado is beating
the national average, yet isn’t faring as well as neighbors such
as Kansas, Nebraska and Utah. Buck, like the pro-Republican
outside groups, has focused on the issue of government spending,
trying to appeal to voters’ concern over the deficit.  Colorado is “very much a swing state, and Republicans
think they can drive it back” into the party’s control, said
 Timothy Wirth , a Democrat and former Colorado senator.  Republicans need to gain 39 House seats and 10 Senate seats
to win control of Congress.  ‘Hijacking’ of Democracy  So much money has flowed into Colorado that the state has
become a focal point of complaints by Democrats about tax-exempt
organizations not naming their donors.  David Plouffe , an adviser
to President  Barack Obama , last week singled out Colorado,
saying it’s part of a “hijacking of our democracy” nationwide.  The money -- most of which is directed at Bennet’s race
against Buck, a favorite of Tea Party activists critical of
federal government power -- can have an outsized effect in
Colorado. By comparison, outside groups reported spending about
$600,000 less in Pennsylvania through Oct. 12, even though the
state has almost three times as many voting-age residents, U.S.
Census data shows.  Colorado “has emerged as an important barometer of
national trends,” said  Michael Franz , co-director of the
 Wesleyan Media Project , which tracks political ads. Because
Bennet was appointed to replace  Ken Salazar , Obama’s choice for
Interior secretary, it’s easier to make the race “about Obama
and the Democrats than in other places,” he said.  ‘Critical Race’  American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS spent $3.6 million
through Oct. 12 to oppose Bennet. “His mistakes: costing us
money,” says one American Crossroads ad that focuses on
Bennet’s support for Obama’s health-care legislation.  A
Crossroads GPS spot  says Bennet is on a “spending spree.”  Virtually all that money went toward television ads.
 American Crossroads  is also undertaking a get-out-the-vote
effort to bring more Republicans to the polls on Nov. 2.  “All of the political calculus tells us that this is a
critical race for control of the U.S. Senate and one that’s very
winnable,” said  Jonathan Collegio , a spokesman for the groups.
In recent polls, Buck has led Bennet by an average of 3
percentage points, according to the Real Clear Politics  website .  American Crossroads discloses its donors; Crossroads GPS is
set up as an issue-advocacy group and doesn’t. In its last
report, American Crossroads disclosed two $1 million donations
from Texas businessmen  Trevor Rees-Jones  and  Robert Rowling .
Neither responded to requests for comment.  ‘Political Ploy’  Democratic National Committee Chairman  Tim Kaine  called on
Rove to reveal Crossroads GPS’s backers. “If Mr. Rove has
nothing to hide, this shouldn’t be a problem,” Kaine said in a
statement.  Collegio called Kaine’s remarks “a political ploy”
designed to distract Americans from concerns about the economy.  “I’m helping both of these groups by raising money for
them as is allowed under the laws of the United States,” Rove
said on “Fox News Sunday” on Oct. 10.  Rove and former Republican National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie  helped conceive of the new groups.  The spending by outside organizations is helping
Republicans overcome a deficit in party fundraising. While the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee spent $4.4 million in
Colorado on ads to oppose Buck, its Republican counterpart spent
$1.6 million to take on Bennet through Oct. 12. Bennet himself
had four times as much cash as Buck as of July 21, the last
reporting date.  Other Groups  Republican-leaning groups including the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint ’s Senate
Conservatives Fund and the American Future Fund are also
spending money in Colorado, along with the Club for Growth.
After Rove’s groups, the Chamber led the spending with about
$1.1 million in ads.  Pro-Democratic groups including the League of Conservation
Voters and  Working America , which is affiliated with the AFL-CIO
labor federation, are spending more of their money on ground
operations. The biggest outside expenditure came from Campaign
Money Watch, a group that advocates stronger campaign-finance
laws, which reported $730,000 for an ad opposing Buck.  While Democratic-leaning groups were largely “absent,”
pro-Republican groups had run about 5,500 ads through Sept. 15,
said Franz, a government professor at  Bowdoin College  in
Brunswick, Maine. The Chamber is mainly focusing on Denver and
Grand Junction, and the Crossroads groups are mostly targeting
the Denver and Colorado Springs markets, he said.  “This is the year” for Republicans to win back seats,
said  E. Scott Adler , a political science professor at the
University of Colorado in Boulder. “They’re going to seize on
those opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 