-- Liverpool Soccer Dispute Moves Toward Resolution in Two Courts
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-14T23:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/royal-bank-of-scotland-asks-court-for-injunction-in-liverpool-soccer-case.html
Judges on both sides of the
Atlantic Ocean are moving toward a resolution of the legal
dispute blocking the sale of Liverpool soccer club to the
owners of baseball’s Boston Red Sox.  With a deadline looming today for repayment of a loan
owed by the club’s current owners, a judge in Dallas
scheduled a hearing this morning to reconsider his 2-day-
old order that temporarily halted the sale of one of the
world’s most popular sports teams.  Hours after a judge in London ordered current
Liverpool owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  to end their
Texas lawsuit, state court Judge Jim Jordan in Dallas said
he would hear arguments about whether to continue his
injunction.  “This smacks of forum-shopping,” Jordan said during
yesterday’s hearing.  The soccer club, a five-time European champion, is off
to its worst start in more than 50 years. The team is in
18th place in the 20-club league, putting it at risk of
relegation -- at the end of each season, the bottom three
teams in the Premier League standings swap places with 
three teams in the second division of English soccer.  American businessmen Hicks and Gillett went to the
Dallas judge to block the forced 300 million pound ($475
million) sale of Liverpool to  John W. Henry ’s New England
Sports Ventures LLC, which controls the Red Sox.  Liverpool’s board has approved the sale. Hicks and
Gillett say the offer is too low, and have accused the
independent board members of ignoring more attractive bids.  Since their 219 million pound leveraged buyout in
2007, Hicks and Gillett have clashed with each other and
have angered Liverpool fans because of rising debt and
their failure to build a promised new stadium.  Six-Month Extension  Hicks and Gillett were granted a six-month extension
to repay by lenders  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Wells Fargo & Co. in April, with the agreement that the
club be put up for sale and that independent Chairman
 Martin Broughton  be appointed.  Hicks and Gillett have until today to pay back the 237
million pound loan. The bid from the New England group
would repay 200 million pounds of the debt on completion.  Yesterday, RBS won a U.K. court ruling preventing
Hicks and Gillett from proceeding with the Texas lawsuit.
Justice  Christopher Floyd  gave the pair until today to end
the suit.  The Texas lawsuit by Hicks, 64, and Gillett, 71, seeks
$1.6 billion in damages from RBS and independent club board
members.  The U.K. High Court decision “is not directed at a
foreign court, but directed at the respondent personally to
prevent him from pursuing or continuing activities that are
abusive,” Floyd said.  Texas Jurisdiction?  In Dallas, an attorney for New England Sports Ventures
told Jordan he was surprised by the lawsuit filed in Texas.
“We think the Texas court does not have jurisdiction,”
 George W. Bramblett  said.  Stephen Fox, an attorney representing Hicks and
Gillett, told Jordan his side was negotiating with RBS
about repaying the debt and that the current owners want to
resolve the loan separately from the sale of the team.  “It looks as though they are out of the game now as
far as any overseas jurisdiction is concerned,” said  Danny Davis , an attorney at Mishcon de Reya in London who is not
involved in the case. “The judge has effectively blocked
any other order from being made.”  One of the other potential purchasers, Singapore
billionaire Peter Lim, withdrew his 320 million pound offer
today, saying the board won’t speak to him.  Lim Withdraws Offer  “The board and RBS have chosen not to respond or to
discuss my offer with me,” Lim said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. “My representatives even offered to meet
the board last night.”  Hicks and Gillett point to interest from Lim and
others as the reason they needed to go to the U.S. courts.
RBS’s attorney countered that the American legal system had
no reason to be involved.  “This dispute concerns an English football club and
three English companies,” RBS lawyer Richard Snowden said.
“It has no connection whatsoever with Texas, other than
the fact that Hicks and Gillett may reside there. It’s a
plain attempt to frustrate and disrupt proceedings.”  New England Sports Ventures agreed to the deal on Oct.
6.  “We are the owners, with a capital ‘O,’” said David
Chivers, an attorney for the Boston group. “The owners,
small ‘o,’ from beyond the grave are seeking to exercise
with their dead hand a continuing grip on this company.”  The case is: The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Thomas
O Hicks, George N Gillett, KOP Football (Cayman) Limited,
KOP Football (Holdings) Limited, KOP Football Limited;
HC10C03206; High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  