-- Ruble Tumbles to 9-Month Low on Euro Lure After Jobs Data, Wider Corridor
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-14T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ruble-tumbles-to-9-month-low-on-euro-lure-after-jobs-data-wider-corridor.html
The ruble slid to its weakest level
in almost nine months against the euro as worse-than-expected
U.S. jobs data lured investors to Europe’s common currency and
traders tested the central bank’s commitment to a free float.  Russia’s currency slid 0.6 percent to 42.31 per euro by the
5 p.m. close in Moscow, the lowest level since Jan. 28. It
weakened 0.3 percent to 35.5725 against the dollar-euro  basket 
used by policy makers to manage swings in the currency.  The euro climbed as much as 1.2 percent against the dollar
as a government report showed initial jobless claims rose more
than economists expected in the week ended Oct. 9, boosting
prospects the Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further,
pushing the dollar lower.  Bank Rossii  widened the so-called
floating corridor it uses to guide the ruble yesterday as it
seeks “increased flexibility” in the exchange rate, according
to First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  “The euro has been surging, there’s just more demand for
it at the moment,” said  Elisabeth Gruie , an emerging-markets
strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank.
“The fact the central bank will intervene less in the ruble
means it will react more freely and be more volatile.”  Russia is pursuing its target of a free floating ruble by
2012 even as other emerging markets step up currency controls in
a bid to restrict speculative inflows amid what Brazil’s Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  calls a “currency war.” The world’s
largest energy exporting nation is moving in the “opposite”
direction to countries that have increased interventions or
imposed capital controls including Brazil, South Africa and
South Korea, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said in Moscow
today.  Corridor Widened  The currency was little changed at 30.06 per dollar by
close of trading in Moscow, after earlier strengthening as much
as 0.8 percent.  The ruble’s trading corridor versus the basket was expanded
from 3 rubles to 4, Ulyukayev said yesterday while declining to
specify its parameters. The band is now 32.9 to 36.9 against the
 basket , from the previous 33.4 to 36.4, according to  Vladimir Osakovsky , Moscow-based economist for UniCredit SpA, Italy’s
largest bank.  “Sentiment is good and there’s no huge downward pressure
on the ruble,”  Alexey Moiseev , chief economist and head of
research at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of Russia’s
second-largest bank, said in a phone interview in Moscow today.
Bank Rossii is “using this small window of opportunity to
increase the ruble’s flexibility, it’s very smart.”  ‘Optimal Position’  The ruble is in an “optimal position” at the moment and
won’t move in either direction “excessively,” Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  told reporters in the southern Russian city of
Sochi today. Even if Russia resumes net inflows of capital next
year it won’t be enough to “shock” the ruble, Ulyukayev said
in Moscow today.  Options traders remain bullish on the ruble versus the
euro, with the currency’s one-week risk reversal rate --the
premium of put options over calls -- at 0.1 percent, from as
high as 1.6 percent last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ruble is the European developing-nation currency
that traders are most bullish on against both the euro and
dollar, apart from the Turkish lira, one-week risk-reversal
rates show.  Prospects of further easing in U.S. monetary policy have
spurred yields on Russian government Eurobonds to record lows.
The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 declined for a
fourth day, to 4.10 percent, the lowest since the notes were
first sold in April. Dollar bonds maturing 2015 yielded 2.91
percent today, breaking 3 percent for the first time yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  