-- Rupee Credit-Default Swaps Join Yuan to Become Asia's First: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-15T10:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/rupee-credit-swaps-mirror-yuan-on-local-currency-debt-india-credit.html
India and China are poised to become
the first emerging markets in Asia to trade credit-default swaps
on local-currency debt as investors seek protection against
losses from funding projects in the region’s fastest-growing
economies.  Regulators in the two nations say they intend to limit the
contracts to bondholders to deter speculators and avoid a repeat
of the global financial crisis that was partly blamed on the
 $615 trillion  over-the-counter derivatives market. That
conflicts with the wishes of the industry’s trade group.  India needs money for a planned $1 trillion investment in
roads, ports and power plants, while yuan bond sales climbed to
a record this year. The cost of swaps protecting against a
default by State Bank of India was 161.9 basis points yesterday,
compared with 116.3 for Bank of China Ltd. and 42.1 for U.S.
government debt, according to data provider CMA in New York.  “The ability to use credit-default swaps as a way to hedge
India infrastructure risk is a positive development,” said
 Scott Bennett , the Singapore-based head of regional credit at
the Asia unit of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, which oversees
$261 billion globally. Restrictions against speculation would
help reduce volatility, he said in an interview this week.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, an
industry trade group known as ISDA, said in a draft report to
the  Reserve Bank of India  on Oct. 4 that there should be no
restrictions because “speculators are necessary for markets to
be more liquid, efficient and complete.”  Proposed Regulations  Regulations will be released after talks with investors and
banks, the central bank said in an Aug. 4 statement.  “We are hopeful of starting it by the first week of
January,” Deputy Governor Shyamala Gopinath said in the
northern Indian city of Chandigarh yesterday. “We are working
on the reporting platform. We are assessing various suggestions
and feedback on the introduction of credit-default swaps.”  China will introduce credit-default swaps by the end of the
year to help banks manage risk, though it won’t permit contracts
on high-risk assets such as subprime mortgages, Shi Wenchao,
secretary general of the National Association of Financial
Market Institutional Investors, said in New York last month.  The People’s Bank of China formed the association in 2007
to help develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets.
No one was available for comment when Bloomberg News made a
telephone call to its main office in Beijing yesterday.  Pimco Interested  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 a year on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt for five years.  India Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said March 23 that the
country wants investors to provide half the $1 trillion needed
for infrastructure spending in the five years starting April
2012. Road Transport and Highways Minister  Kamal Nath  said in an
Oct. 5 interview with Bloomberg-UTV that pension funds in Canada
and Europe pledged to invest in bonds issued by road projects.  “While derivatives right now is almost a dirty word, the
facts of the matter are that they do provide a different means
to gain access into these markets as well as to essentially
focus the risk in your portfolio,”  Douglas Hodge , chief
operating officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an interview
yesterday in Seoul.  Draft Guidelines  The central bank said in  draft guidelines  issued on Aug. 4
that it will allow approved market makers to buy and sell credit
protection. Other users of the products will only be able to buy.  ISDA says foreign institutional investors who hold rupee
bonds should be able to sell protection as it would lead to a
more actively traded market. The association is “concerned
whether there will be sufficient depth and liquidity given the
proposed restrictions on the type of instrument and, more
importantly, the permitted participants,”  Jacqueline Low ,
ISDA’s Singapore-based senior counsel for Asia, said in an e-
mail to Bloomberg News on Oct. 13.  India’s central bank postponed introducing default swaps in
2003, citing a need for banks to improve their risk-management
practices, and held off again in 2008 as global credit markets
seized up.  Busiest Year  The corporate bond market in India is poised for its
busiest year since Bloomberg began tracking it in 1999. Sales
have climbed to 1.53 trillion rupees ($34.7 billion), surpassing
a previous record of 1.48 trillion rupees set last year. Chinese
bond sales rose to 1.54 trillion yuan ($232 billion) from 1.48
trillion yuan in the same period of 2009.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 rose to
8.06 percent today from 8.02 percent, according to central bank
data. The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated five-
year  company debt  instead of similar-maturity government notes
has shrunk 22 basis points to 65 basis points this year,
Bloomberg indexes show.  Securities & Exchange Board of India  data show overseas
investors more than doubled purchases of Indian debt this year
to $10.2 billion as of Oct. 13 to benefit from growth in Asia’s
third-biggest economy. Gross domestic product expanded 8.8
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the most since 2007
and the fastest pace among major economies after China’s 10.3
percent and Brazil’s 8.81 percent.  Likely Companies  The surge in inflows spurred Prime Minister Singh to
increase the cap on international holdings of rupee bonds last
month by 50 percent to $30 billion.  “Any state-run company, whether in the infrastructure or
manufacturing space, will be a lovely candidate” for credit-
default swaps,  Krishnamurthy Harihar , Mumbai-based treasurer at
the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd., South Africa’s second-largest
financial services company, said in an interview yesterday.  Power Finance Corp Ltd. and Rural Electrification Corp Ltd.
would be suitable candidates to have contracts written on their
debt, he said.  Power Finance, based in New Delhi, sold 9.5 billion rupees
of 7.89 percent bonds last month that mature in 2012. Their
yield was at 7.865 percent yesterday, according to Barclays Plc
prices on Bloomberg. The yield on Rural Electrification’s 18
billion rupees in 8.75 percent bonds due July 2025 was little
changed at 8.734 percent.  Default swaps “will bring back those investors into the
market who are comfortable with the market risk but not with
credit risk,”  Hitendra Dave , head of global markets for HSBC
Holdings Plc in India, said in an interview on Oct. 11.  The rupee advanced 4.8 percent since Aug. 4 to trade at
44.04 per dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has strengthened 5.6 percent this year.  “India’s strong domestic savings pool should help meet
infrastructure funding,”  Sukumar Rajah , who manages $5 billion
of Asian equities as chief investment officer at Franklin
Templeton Investments, said in a telephone interview yesterday
from Chennai. “This should throw up large opportunities for
global investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 