-- Russia's Currency Reserves Exceed $500 Billion for First Time Since 2008
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-14T10:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/russia-s-foreign-reserves-touch-two-year-high-as-euro-surges-versus-dollar.html
Russia’s  international reserves  rose
to the highest in two years last week as the strengthening euro
bolstered the world’s third-largest foreign currency stockpile.  Reserves jumped $6.7 billion to $501.1 billion, Russia’s
central bank said in a  statement  on its web site today. It’s the
first time the reserves have broken $500 billion since mid-
October 2008, a month after the collapse of U.S. brokerage
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the global credit
crisis.  “This is only because the euro moved so much,”  Alexey Moiseev , chief economist and head of research at VTB Capital,
the investment banking arm of Russia’s second-largest bank, said
by phone in Moscow today. “Russia will give up the 500 level as
soon as the euro starts to pare back its gains.”  The euro climbed 1.1 percent against the dollar last week,
its fourth straight week of gains, as investors shunned U.S.
assets amid concern the economic recovery will slow and the
Federal Reserve may ease monetary policy further. Euros account
for 41 percent of Russia’s reserves, while dollars constitute 47
percent, British pounds 10 percent, Japanese yen 2 percent,
along with a small amount of Swiss francs, First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said in June.  Russia is concerned about the “increased volatility” of
reserve currencies as it could be a sign of increasing
instability in the global financial system, Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  said in Moscow today. The U.S. is using monetary
policy as a way of “solving structural problems” in its
economy, he said.  ‘Gradual Devaluation’  The U.S. benchmark interest rate is a record low 0.25
percent, spurring investors to shun the currency and seek out
higher yielding assets elsewhere.  Russia  reduced  its reserves from a record $598.1 billion at
the beginning of August 2008 to $376.1 billion in March 2009,
the lowest since at least January 2008. The nation’s central
bank buys and sells foreign currency to manage the ruble and
prevent swings that hurt exporters and used the reserves to
engineer a “gradual devaluation” of the currency between
November 2008 and the end of January 2009, as the global
economic crisis and credit crunch hit.  Bank Rossii hasn’t intervened to steer the ruble since mid-
September so currency management is not a factor currently
influencing reserves, Moiseev said.  Given the weakening dollar, Russia is “considering many
options” for diversifying the stockpile, Bank Rossii’s
Ulyukayev told reporters in Moscow yesterday. There are many
currencies “with good potential” that are not fully
convertible, which takes them out of consideration for reserves,
Ulyukayev said. Russia wants a varied reserves make-up of liquid
currencies because it decreases risk, he added.  Only China and Japan have larger reserves than Russia, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  