-- Ryanair Wants New Engines on Boeing 737s to Cut Fuel Costs
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-10-15T19:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ryanair-cfo-pushes-for-new-engines-on-boeing-737s-to-reduce-fuel-expenses.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc  and Southwest
Airlines Co., two of the biggest operators of Boeing Co. 737
single-aisle jets, are pushing the manufacturer for new engines
to help cut fuel costs if an all-new model remains years away.  Fuel accounts for almost 40 percent of the airline’s
expenses, and a manufacturer that could deliver a plane with
12 percent to 14 percent higher fuel efficiency would let
Dublin-based Ryanair cut its costs per passenger by 10 percent
to 12 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Howard Millar  said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s a very significant number that you can’t ignore,”
Millar said yesterday. “We’re obviously very interested” in
the concept of new engines.  Boeing and  Airbus SAS  are weighing the merits of an upgrade
for their best-selling planes as they’ve pushed back plans to
develop new ones until as late as 2025, saying technology isn’t
ready. Both companies aim to decide by year-end whether to offer
new engines on existing models by the middle of this decade to
help customers reduce fuel consumption in the meantime.  Boeing, which initially targeted 2015 for a replacement to
the 737, has said it would prefer to focus on a new jet because
customers don’t see a business case for the interim-engine step.
Chief Executive Officer  Jim McNerney  has said customers would
wait for a new plane if it’s possible by early next decade, a
timeline that the Chicago-based company is assessing this year.  ‘New Economics’  “We certainly recognize the need for new economics,”  Mike Van de Ven , Southwest’s chief operating officer, said today.
“We are indifferent to whether that’s a new airplane or a re-
engined airplane. One thing is for sure, waiting until 2025 to
make a change is not an option.”  Ryanair’s Millar said his preference would be an all-new
single-aisle aircraft that could offer even greater savings than
one with a new engine. However, delays on recent aircraft
programs such as Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and Airbus’s A380 show
that manufacturers tend to struggle to maintain their proposed
introduction schedules for new jets, he said.  “Boeing’s talking about maybe building a new plane for
2020, but what is that date realistically?” Millar said. “It’s
probably a bit further out. The ability of any manufacturer to
deliver anything on time has to be questioned these days.”  Boeing’s decision may slide into next year as the company
continues to study the market and technology, its commercial
president,  Jim Albaugh , said in a Sept. 27 interview. Airbus has
also pushed back its verdict by several months.  Airbus Meeting  Airbus Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  met with the
Toulouse, France-based company’s executive committee this week,
and the managers decided to delay an announcement, said two
people familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the plan hasn’t been made public.  While Airbus has been more open to the concept of new
engines, the company has cautioned that embarking on the project
may cause a shortage of engineers on other programs, such as the
A380 superjumbo that’s only lately been stabilized, and the A350
wide-body jet that Airbus wants to bring to the market by 2013.  Boeing faces similar concerns, as its engineers finish work
on the 787 Dreamliner, now almost three years behind schedule,
and 747-8 jumbo jet and begin revamping the 777 to intensify
competition with the A350.  Ryanair and Dallas-based Southwest operate with exclusively
Boeing fleets. The Irish discount carrier has 250 737-800s and
plans to increase its fleet to 299 by March 2013. Southwest, the
world’s largest low-cost airline, has 544 737s, with 116 on
order.  Albaugh said in July that Southwest’s CEO will be “very
involved” in Boeing’s single-aisle decision and “whatever we
do, it’s going to be something that Gary Kelly likes.”  More Complex  Fitting new engines on the Boeing model is more complex
than on the Airbus, because the wings sit closer to the ground,
requiring changes to parts including landing gear. The cost of
an all-new jet is about $10 billion. New engines would cost no
more than 1.5 billion euros ($2.11 billion) and be ready for
service around 2015, Airbus estimates.  While new engines promise to cut specific fuel consumption
by about 15 percent, the savings on direct costs to airlines
would translate into just half that amount as fuel is only part
of the cost in operating planes. Another compromise is a likely
cut to payload or range, because the new engines are heavier.  The power plants on offer are made by Pratt & Whitney and
CFM International, a joint venture between  General Electric Co. 
and France’s Safran. The 737 now operates on only CFM engines,
while the Airbus A320 has two engine options.  “It’s really a decision for the manufacturers,” Millar
said. “It’s still evolving as to what they’ll do. Boeing has
talked about it, Airbus seems closer to doing it, but obviously
we’re very interested in what’s going on in that space.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  