-- S. Korea Holds Key Interest Rate as Won Surge Imperils Exports
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-14T05:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/s-korea-holds-key-interest-rate-as-won-surge-imperils-exports.html
The  Bank of Korea  left borrowing
costs unchanged for a third straight month as an appreciating
won threatens export growth while offering a damper for
inflation in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board kept the
 seven-day repurchase rate  at 2.25 percent, the central bank said
in Seoul today. Six of 10 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
forecast the decision. The rest predicted a 0.25 percentage
point increase, following a similar move in July from a record-
low 2 percent.  The won’s 8 percent jump against the dollar in the past
three months is non-Japan Asia’s second biggest, endangering the
trade gains fueling South Korea’s recovery. The advance may also
curb accelerating inflation, giving the central bank more room
to join counterparts from Malaysia to Australia in pausing
interest-rate increases.  “The Bank of Korea probably couldn’t raise rates alone
when other central banks are easing monetary policy,” said  Lim Ji Won , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Seoul. Still,
there may be an increase next month if the won stabilizes after
the summit of the Group of 20 economies, given borrowing costs
are still “super low,” Lim said.  The benchmark  Kospi  stock index advanced 0.6 percent to
1,886.80 as of 1:47 p.m. in Seoul. The won climbed 0.7 percent
against the dollar to 1,113.10, near a five-month high,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exchange-Rate Risk  Currency is a major issue in interest-rate policy, and the
central bank remains “wary” of inflation pressures, Kim said
after today’s decision. Exchange-rate volatility is among the
threats to economic growth, the central bank said in a statement.  Countries from Brazil to China, Japan and South Korea
itself have moved to limit the rise in their currencies this
year to shield their exporters. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  yesterday urged South Korea to stop preventing its exchange
rate from appreciating.  The U.S. and Europe have been pressuring emerging-market
nations to let their exchange rates appreciate to help rebalance
demand in the global economy. Singapore’s central bank today
signaled it will allow a faster gain in the island’s currency to
curb inflation, even as its economy shrank last quarter.  Disputes over currencies dominated the International
Monetary Fund’s annual meeting last week and may figure again at
the G-20 summit in Seoul in November. The issue “will and must
be dealt with under the G-20 framework talks,” Kim said.  Accelerating Inflation  The Bank of Korea reiterated it will seek to ensure price
stability while sustaining growth. The economy will continue to
expand on exports, though slowdowns overseas pose risks, it said
in a statement after the decision.  South Korea’s  consumer prices  climbed 3.6 percent in
September from a year earlier compared with 2.6 percent in
August, nearing the top of the central bank’s target of 2
percent to 4 percent on average through 2012.  Rising demand and raw-material costs have been driving
consumer price growth, which will likely remain above 3 percent
on a year-on-year basis, the central bank said in today’s
statement. Monetary policy should move “in a preemptive
manner,” and today’s decision wasn’t unanimous, Kim said.  The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due in June 2013 slid 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 3.16 percent as of
11:42 a.m., according to prices from Korea Stock Exchange.
That’s the lowest level for a benchmark three-year note on
record, according to central bank data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Import Prices  South Korea’s  import prices  jumped 7.8 percent in September
from a year earlier in won terms, a separate Bank of Korea
report showed today. Prices climbed 12.4 percent based on the
foreign currencies used in the import contracts, indicating a
stronger won is helping to curb the cost of inbound shipments.  “The Bank of Korea is probably setting a whole new game by
allowing a stronger won as the first-line defense to curb
inflation rather than raising interest rates,” said  Kwon Young Sun , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. “It’ll
focus on the Korean won in deciding monetary policy, rather than
the rate normalization.”  Exports , which account for about half the economy, gained
at the slowest pace in 11 months in September. They have boosted
earnings this year at companies including  Samsung Electronics
Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat screens and
mobile phones.  Aside from the impact of elevated U.S. unemployment and
European austerity, the policy board also has to contend with
record household debt and sliding property prices.  Home prices will continue to fall after declining about 10
percent in areas around Seoul this year, Moody’s Investors
Service said on Sept. 7. The “high indebtedness and
vulnerability of households to a rise in interest rates are
further increasing the downward pressure,” the company said.  The economy grew 7.6 percent in the first half and is
projected to expand 5.9 percent over 2010, according to the
central bank’s figures.  -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz  in Hong Kong and  Frances Yoon  in Seoul. Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,  Paul Panckhurst   To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  