-- Canadian Volatility Index to Start Next Week, Toronto Exchange Group Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-14T18:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/s-p-tmx-to-start-volatility-index-for-the-canadian-stock-market-next-week.html
TMX Group Inc. introduced a Canadian
volatility index that the owner of the Toronto and Montreal
stock exchanges will publish with Standard & Poor’s, and said it
plans to introduce futures and options on the gauge.  The S&P/TSX 60 VIX will measure implied volatility, the key
gauge of equity derivatives prices, for stocks over the next 30
days, based on the cost of index options traded on the Montreal
Exchange, the companies said in a statement. The Canadian gauge
uses the same methodology as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index , or VIX, which has become a U.S. benchmark
measure since it was introduced in 1993 to evaluate the cost of
 S&P 500  contracts.  “Our intention is to be launching products such as futures
and options,”  Alain Miquelon , president of the Montreal
Exchange, said in an interview. “The first step is to get the
index out there so that it has a history.”  The introduction expands the licensing and marketing
agreement that S&P, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., has with CBOE,
owner of the largest U.S. options market. The companies have
agreements with Euronext in Paris, Taiwan Futures Exchange,
India’s National Stock Exchange and the Australian Stock
Exchange to apply the VIX methodology to products on those
markets. Euronext is owned by New York-based NYSE Euronext.  The S&P/TSX 60 VIX will be calculated in real time, which
would allow S&P and TSX to list futures and options on the
index. The Montreal Exchange, which is owned by TSX, already
publishes  the MVX , an implied volatility index that’s calculated
once a day based on prices for options on the iShares S&P/TSX 60
Index Fund.  TMX and S&P will begin publishing the index on Oct. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 