-- Safaricom of Kenya Plans to Boost Access to Credit, Insurance
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-14T09:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/safaricom-of-kenya-will-boost-access-to-credit-insurance-for-unbanked-.html
Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-network operator, said it plans to expand the marketing
of mobile phone-based banking services, boosting access to
credit and insurance products for “unbanked customers.”  Cellphone companies in  Kenya  are turning to data-content
offerings such as mobile money-transfer programs and broadband
Internet to help offset expected revenue losses amid a reduction
in call charges that began two months ago.  Users of Safaricom’s M-Kesho, a mobile phone-based deposit-
taking program that pays interest, will be able to apply for 30-
day loans of between 100 shillings ($1.24) and 5,000 shillings
from about December,  Betty Mwangi-Thuo , chief of new products,
said in an interview from Nairobi, the capital, on Oct. 12.  “We are doing this for the bulk of M-Pesa subscribers who
are unbanked, who haven’t had access to financial services at
the next level,” she said. M-Pesa, Safaricom’s mobile money-
transfer service, almost doubled its subscriber base to 13
million by the end of September from a year earlier, she said.  While about one-third of Kenyans don’t have a bank account
and can’t get credit from lenders, 51 percent of the country’s
inhabitants have a cellphone. Safaricom has 78.3 percent of the
mobile-phone market in East Africa’s largest economy.  Barclays Deal  Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd., Kenya’s biggest lender by
market value, yesterday reached an agreement with Safaricom
enabling the clients of the lender to use M-Pesa to make
deposits and withdrawals. It’s the eighth bank to partner with
Safaricom, the companies said.  A survey of customers done by Safaricom last year showed
that people saved as much as $3 and three hours of their time by
transferring money through M-Pesa compared with traditional
methods like transporting the cash on the bus or sending it with
family and friends, Mwangi-Thuo said.  Safaricom’s stock advanced for the first time in five days
today, gaining 5 cents, or 1 percent, to 4.9 shillings at 11:52
a.m. in Nairobi today. A close at this level would be its
highest since Sept. 8.  Introduced on May 18, M-Kesho, which means “mobile
tomorrow” in Swahili, enables  Equity Bank Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
lender by bank accounts, to tap into Safaricom’s network of
almost 20,000 M-Pesa agents to offer mobile-banking services to
clients. About 700,000 M-Kesho bank accounts have been opened,
Mwangi-Thuo said.  Life Insurance  Insurance products offered through M-Kesho for accidents,
medical and funeral expenses will also include full life
insurance coverage by about mid-2011, according to a company
statement. Premiums will be 530 shillings a year, she said.  Revenue from data services increased by 73 percent in the
12 months through March and accounted for 19 percent of total
sales in the period, compared with 13 percent a year earlier,
Safaricom  said in May . Mwangi-Thuo wouldn’t say what amount the
company is targeting in the period ahead.  An estimated 1 billion shillings per day is transacted
through M-Pesa, about 90 percent of which is person-to-person
transfers, while the remainder is split between paying for goods
and services or “bulk” disbursements such as salaries, she said.
 Vodafone Plc , the world’s biggest telecommunications company,
owns 40 percent of Safaricom and the intellectual property
rights to the money-transfer system.  Competition  Mobile-network competition intensified in August when
Kenya’s industry regulator ordered operators to halve the rates
they charge each other to transmit calls across networks. That
triggered a wave of cuts in call costs by companies to as low as
2 shillings per minute.  Zain Kenya, the country’s second-biggest mobile-network
operator owned by  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , plans to recruit as many
as 25,000 agents to help boost the popularity of its Zap mobile
money-transfer service, Managing Director Rene Meza said on
Sept. 23.  Telkom Kenya Ltd., a joint venture between Kenya’s
government and  France Telecom SA , plans to launch a mobile
money-transfer service known as Orange Money before the end of
the year, while Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd., a unit of India’s
Essar Group, already has a version of the system that is known
as yuCash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 