-- Santos Prices 300 Million Euro Follow-On Hybrid Bonds for Gas Projects
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-15T05:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/santos-prices-300-million-euro-follow-on-hybrid-bonds-for-gas-projects.html
Santos Ltd. , Australia’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, priced an additional 300 million
euros ($421 million) of hybrid notes to help fund its Gladstone
liquefied natural gas project.  The bonds, following last month’s sale of 700 million euros
of hybrid securities, were issued at an implied yield of about
8.05 percent, according to an e-mailed statement from UBS AG,
which helped manage the sale with Deutsche Bank AG. The notes
priced 20 basis points tighter than the earlier bonds, UBS said.  “The success of the deal was underpinned by the hybrid’s
strong secondary trading performance over the last three
weeks,”  Barry Sharkey , director of hybrid capital markets at
UBS in Sydney, said in the statement.  The Gladstone project in Queensland state is among A$200
billion ($198 billion) of proposed LNG ventures in Australia
targeting Asian demand for cleaner-burning alternatives to coal,
according to figures last month from the Australian Petroleum
Production & Exploration Association. The development, with two
production units, may cost A$16.4 billion according to Deutsche
Bank, and  Santos  aims to commit to the first stage of the
project by the end of this year.  The 1 billion euros of notes, rated BB by Standard &
Poor’s, are due in September 2070 and pay a coupon of 8.25
percent for the first seven years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The hybrids, which blend characteristics of debt and
equity, will cut the amount of shares the company may have to
sell in the future to fund the gas venture while maintaining its
BBB+  rating , Santos said in a regulatory filing today.  Secondary Market  The bonds rose 0.88 cents to close at 102.8 cents on the
euro yesterday, yielding 7.715 percent, according to Frankfurt
Exchange prices on Bloomberg.  Santos shares rose 0.6 percent to A$12.91 on the Australian
stock exchange at the 4:10 p.m. market close today, compared
with a 0.2 percent decline for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.
The Adelaide-based company’s stock climbed as much as 1.3
percent today.  “Given the strong support received for our initial hybrid
issue in September, we received significant demand from
investors for a follow-on issue,” Santos Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Wasow  said in the company’s statement.  The additional notes received 620 million euros worth of
bids from more than 60 investors, according to UBS.  The bonds may be redeemed by Santos after 7 years and will
otherwise convert to floating-rate notes that pay a coupon of
6.851 percentage points more than the three month euro area
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 