-- Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister Naimi Says Demand for Oil Is `Very Healthy'
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-14T09:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/saudi-arabia-s-oil-minister-naimi-says-demand-for-oil-is-very-healthy-.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al- Naimi  said oil demand is “very healthy.” He spoke to reporters
this morning at the Vienna headquarters of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries shortly before ministers began
their meeting. Al-Naimi made the following comments:  On the prospect of maintaining current OPEC quotas:  “Has anybody said anything about a change in the scene?
Nobody has said anything.”  On market fundamentals:  Current prices are “good,” and Asian demand is “good.”  “The market is well supplied. It is an ideal situation we
are in now. Nobody is complaining. Consumers are happy,
producers are happy. Companies are investing.”  Demand is “healthy. Very healthy.”  On the economy:  Asked about the possibility that the Federal Reserve may
embark on another round of bond purchases, he said: “Anything
that stimulates growth is good.”  “I hope we don’t have a double dip. Everybody is working
very hard to avoid an economic slowdown. People’s prosperity is
very important.”  On low compliance with OPEC production quotas:  “Compliance is OK. The market is happy with the supply and
demand.”  On oil prices at $84 a barrel now:  “The market is happy with what it is today.”  On the impact of the weak U.S. dollar:  “Currencies change every day. How many times does the
dollar go down, and how many times does it go up. So why
worry?”  On Saudi Arabia’s current production:  The country is producing 8.1 million barrels a day, he
said.  On Iraq and Iran’s new proven reserve estimates:  “Every country is free to say what their reserves are. So
whatever they say, that’s their reserves.”  On the prospect of an OPEC meeting this December:  “That remains to be seen. It is not on the agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  