-- TPG Said to Be in Talks to Buy Seagate for $7.5 Billion With KKR
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-15T16:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/seagate-technology-receives-preliminary-interest-on-taking-company-private.html
TPG Capital and KKR & Co. are in
talks to acquire  Seagate Technology Plc , a deal that would mark
the disk-drive maker’s second leveraged buyout in a decade,
according to people with direct knowledge of the discussions.  The private-equity firms are considering an offer of about
$16 a share, which would value the company at $7.55 billion,
said two of the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. The firms are looking to contribute
about $4 billion in equity and may seek other buyout funds as
partners, the people said. Bain Capital LLC also is interested
in the deal, according to one person familiar with the firm.  Seagate said yesterday it was in talks to be taken private,
without identifying the parties involved. TPG rekindled 
discussions with Seagate after an earlier proposal with 
Silver Lake broke down, the people said. TPG persisted 
in trying to keep the deal alive, entreating other firms 
to get involved, according to the people.  “Seagate’s buyout is shaking up the tech industry and
we’ll see more M&As as the boom in smartphones and tablet PCs
causes a paradigm shift,” said  Seiichiro Iwamoto , who helps
oversee $35 billion in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.
“Companies that only make PC-related products are increasingly
concerned about their profits in the future and need to look to
smartphones and network technologies.”  Shares Rise  Seagate , the world’s largest maker of disk drives used in
computers and other electronics, surged 19 percent to $15.16 at
12:04 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares had dropped 30
percent this year before today. A $16-a-share bid would be 26
percent higher than yesterday’s closing price.  Western Digital Corp., the second-biggest disk-drive
company, also rose, gaining 8 percent to $31.89 in New York
Stock Exchange  trading  on speculation it too may become a
takeover target.  Morgan Stanley and Perella Weinberg Partners LP will serve
as financial advisers and Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and
Arthur Cox are the legal counsel in the discussions, Seagate
said yesterday in a statement.  Brian Ziel , a spokesman for the
company, declined to comment further.  Demand for storage has helped fuel a rebound in Seagate’s
 sales  and profit in the past year, following a decline during
the recession. The Scotts Valley, California-based company,
whose competitors include Japan’s Hitachi Ltd. and Toshiba
Corp., had a market value of about $6 billion, based on
yesterday’s closing stock price.  Striving to Be Seagate  “They’re doing more of the right things than Western
Digital or Hitachi,” said  David Rubenstein , a Tokyo-based
analyst at MF Global Ltd. “Those are all striving to be like
Seagate.”  Seagate reported net income of $379 million in the second
quarter, compared with a loss of $83 million a year earlier, as
sales rose 13 percent to $2.66 billion.  Silver Lake isn’t involved in the current proposal, the
people said. Its earlier talks with TPG unraveled after Seagate
failed to meet financial targets that underpinned the proposed
 $7 billion  transaction, one person familiar with the matter
said. Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp.
were advising and offered lending on the deal, the people said.  TPG, located in Fort Worth, Texas, and  Silver Lake , based
in New York and Menlo Park, California, owned Seagate before the
company’s initial public offering. They bought Seagate in 2000
and took it public in 2002 for $12 a share.  Buyout Drought  KKR, a private-equity firm founded by buyout pioneers  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts  in 1976, is located in New York. The
company listed shares on the New York Stock Exchange this year.  Buyout firms have struggled to restart dealmaking after the
global financial crisis froze credit markets in mid-2007, ending
the biggest LBO boom in history. The firms pool money from
investors to take over companies, financing the purchases mostly
with debt, and intend to sell them later for a profit.  TPG, along with  Blackstone Group LP  and Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, pursued an ultimately unsuccessful takeover of
Fidelity National Information Services Inc. in May. The private-
equity groups offered more than $15 billion for the company,
people with knowledge of the deal said at the time.  Seagate’s disclosure comes amid discussions by buyout firms
to take over Yahoo! Inc., fueling speculation the drought of
deals may be ending. AOL Inc. has talked with private-equity
funds including Silver Lake about a possible bid, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  “The LBO market may be coming back: Sentiment is there,
returns have been good and the people who are looking for assets
are those top-tier funds sitting on cash,” said  Kathleen Ng ,
managing director at the Centre for Asia Private Equity Research
Ltd. in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  