-- Serbian Central Bank Raises Main Interest Rate to 9.5% on Inflation Threat
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-10-14T11:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/serbian-central-bank-raises-main-interest-rate-to-9-5-on-inflation-threat.html
Serbia’s central bank increased its
benchmark interest rate to 9.5 percent, the highest in Europe,
as rising food prices threaten its inflation target.  The half-point increase today by the Belgrade-based
 National Bank of Serbia  was its  third in three months  and met
the expectations of 13 of 21 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. One
forecast the two-week repurchase rate would rise to 10 percent,
while seven predicted no change.  Rate-setters “took into account pressures based on
inflationary expectations, fuelled by rising food prices” and
“an expected faster recovery in aggregate demand,” the bank
said on its website. “By raising the benchmark rate, the bank
ensures that inflation falls within target in the medium term.”  Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  said on Oct. 6 that monetary
policy “has no other choice” than to be restrictive as
domestic demand poses a risk to inflation, which quickened to
7.7 percent in September from 6.6 percent in August as food and
beverage prices rose 2 percent on the month.  The dinar strengthened 0.4 percent after the rate decision
to trade at 106.00 to the euro at 1:03 p.m. in Belgrade,
according to Bloomberg data.  Weak Dinar  The currency has lost 9.3 percent against the euro this
year, the sixth-worst performance among about 170 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, behind the Venezuelan, Guinean, Ethiopian,
Mozambique and Ugandan units.  The central bank said in its statement that it sees the
impact of the decline affecting inflation “for some time” and
translating into higher import prices.  The dinar’s slide also puts pressure on the bank, which has
sold more than 2 billion euros ($2.82 billion) to support the
currency, former board member  Djordje Djukic  said on Oct. 5.  “The two previous rate increases have left the market
unimpressed, while companies continue to repay their debt to
foreign creditors, trying to cut future exchange rate risks,”
he said. The bank should opt for “bigger rate moves” to swing
market sentiment.  Analysts at Hypo-Alpe-Adria said in a note to investors
before the rate announcement that a further tightening of policy
may lie ahead to bring inflation back within the band.  The central bank sees inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of 2011 and at 4 percent,
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  