-- Serra Closes Lead in Brazil Presidential Race After Courting Evangelicals
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-10-14T14:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/serra-closes-lead-in-brazil-presidential-race-after-courting-evangelicals.html
Brazilian presidential candidate
 Jose Serra  is targeting religious voters as he closes a 14-
percentage point gap with  Dilma Rousseff  ahead of a runoff
election later this month.  While Brazil is famous for skimpy bikinis and naked
carnival dancers, church attendance and faith-based voting are
on the rise in Latin America’s biggest economy. The number of
Brazilians who identify themselves as evangelical Christians has
increased to 24 percent this year from 19 percent in 2002, when
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was elected, according to
Sao Paulo-based polling firm Datafolha. Both candidates are
courting this growing constituency by visiting churches and
canvassing for votes with religious leaders.  Serra has benefitted more from the trend after Rousseff’s
past statements on abortion led some Christians to view her with
suspicion, said  Rafael Cortez , a political scientist at
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada. The issue has shifted the
debate away from the  economy , where Rousseff has an advantage
after she served as cabinet chief for Lula’s government, which
lifted 21 million people out of poverty, he said.  “This blocked her victory in the first round and could
even impede her victory at the end of October,” Cortez said in
a telephone interview in Sao Paulo.  Serra had 47.7 percent support, trailing Rousseff by 4.6
percentage points, in a Sensus poll of 2,000 people published
today. The Oct. 11-13 poll had a margin of error of 2.2
percentage points. Rousseff won 47 percent of the first-round
vote on Oct. 3, compared with 33 percent for Serra and 19
percent for the Green Party’s  Marina Silva , an evangelical
Christian.  Silva’s ability to attract more votes than polls had
predicted has led both campaigns to seek support among her
backers, some of whom identify with her anti-abortion views.  Saying Mass  At an Oct. 11 rally in Goais state, Serra was accompanied
by a priest in his open car and he used the image of a sonogram
and newborn baby in a television advertisement.  Rousseff told 51 evangelical Christian leaders in Brasilia
yesterday that she would veto any attempt to legalize abortion
or gay marriage if elected on Oct. 31, according to  Marcelo Crivella , an evangelical pastor and pro-government senator who
attended the meeting. After attending mass on Oct. 11, she told
reporters that her faith helped her overcome a battle with
lymphatic cancer last year.  The two candidates clashed over abortion in their first
head-to-head debate Oct. 10. Serra criticized Rousseff’s
comments in a videotaped interview from July, circulated on the
Internet, that abortion must be treated as a “public health
issue” rather than a religious one.  ‘Two-Faced’  “You clearly said you were in favor of legalizing abortion
and then you said the opposite,” Serra, 68, said. “It’s about
being coherent, and not two-faced, saying one thing and then
another.”  The 62-year-old Rousseff, in response, accused Serra’s
campaign of “slander” and of falsely accusing her of favoring
killing babies.  Brazil’s current abortion law, which both candidates say
they support, allows pregnancy to be terminated only if it
results from rape or it puts the mother’s life at risk.  Brazil has the world’s largest Roman Catholic population,
and the second-largest number of Christians after the U.S.
Brazil’s evangelical population has risen since the 2000 census,
when Roman Catholics were 74 percent of the population and
evangelicals 15 percent, said  Paul Freston , author of
“Evangelicals and Politics in Asia, Africa and Latin America.”  As church attendance has grown, evangelicals have been
taking a bigger role in business and politics, Freston said.
Crivella’s church, the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God,
is the owner of Brazil’s second-biggest television network, Rede
Record.  Evangelical Caucus  The evangelical caucus will control 63 of 512 seats in the
lower house when the next Congress is sworn in, according to
estimates by the Inter-Union Parliamentary Advisory Department,
a Brasilia-based policy group that follows congress.  As the race narrows, outreach to religious voters could
become more decisive and the debate over abortion more heated,
according to  Paulo Sotero , director of the Brazil Institute at
the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington.  “Although most Brazilians will not vote because of
abortion, 5 percent to 10 percent of them may,” Sotero said in
a phone interview. “That may be enough to move the election in
one direction or the other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 Mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  