-- Singapore Risks Recession Bump on Road to World Fastest Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-14T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/singapore-risks-recession-bump-on-road-to-world-fastest-economy-for-2010.html
A slide in  Singapore ’s manufacturing
in the second half of 2010 risks pushing the country into its
second recession in as many years even as the economy stays in
the running to be the world’s fastest growing for the full year.  The 19.8 percent annual rate of decline in gross domestic
product in the third quarter halted a record pace of expansion
in the first half, according to a trade ministry report
yesterday. The government says the economy may expand as much as
15 percent this year, a prediction echoed by the  International
Monetary Fund  and eclipsed only by Qatar, which is forecast by
the lender to grow 16 percent.  Dubbed the Asian economy with the “most violent swings in
industrial production” by Credit Suisse Group AG, Singapore has
remained vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas demand for
manufactured goods even after the government boosted financial
services and tourism. Growth in 2011 may be a third of this
year’s pace, according to a central bank survey of economists,
as the global recovery threatens to peter out by year-end.  “The first half was astoundingly strong and this
moderation in the third quarter was a long time coming,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at  Capital Economics    Asia ) Pte in
Singapore. “A technical recession is really nothing to panic
about. Underlying growth momentum remains healthy despite the
easing in the pace of economic activity.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of
Singapore’s economy, climbed 12.1 percent from a year earlier in
the three months through September, about a quarter of the 46.1
percent surge from April to June. The trade ministry said the
decline was “largely attributable” to the biomedical industry.  Tightening Policy  Still, the Monetary Authority of Singapore unexpectedly
signaled yesterday it will allow faster currency gains to curb
inflation, saying it will steepen and widen the currency’s
trading band while continuing to seek a “modest and gradual
appreciation.”  The move came as  China , the country blamed by U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this week for prompting other
countries to restrain their currencies, started allowing faster
gains in the yuan.  “Domestic cost pressures are rising, given the high level
of resource utilization in the economy and tight labor market in
particular, as well as the diminishing boost from the cyclical
uplift in productivity seen earlier this year,” the central
bank said. “The balance of risks is weighted towards inflation
going forward.”  Property Curbs  The central bank’s policy tightening comes weeks after the
government announced measures to cool the  property market ,
including increasing down payments for second mortgages and
imposing a stamp duty on property held for less than three years
to curb speculation.  The island led 36 markets around the world in property-
value changes in the second quarter, gaining 34 percent from a
year earlier, according to the Global Property Guide. Wages rose
an average 4.8 percent in the first half as the economy added
more than 61,000 jobs from January to June.  Singapore’s services industry is still expanding. The
city’s two casino resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and Las
Vegas Sands Corp. have attracted millions of visitors, while
financial companies such as New York-based buyout and hedge-fund
firm Fortress Investment Group LLC are setting up offices on the
island of 5 million people.  “Strong growth in employment and earnings would continue
to lend support to private consumption and domestic demand,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s economists Shirla Sum and Enoch Fung
said in a report yesterday. “Robust expansion in the  tourism
industry  will likely continue to benefit the services sectors.”  Trade Dependence  GDP may expand 14.9 percent in 2010, according to the
median forecast in a survey of 20 economists by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore released Sept. 1. The Southeast Asian
nation may expand 5 percent in 2011, the survey showed.  Singapore’s dependence on overseas trade, with non-oil
exports equivalent to more than half of GDP, makes it vulnerable
to fluctuations in global growth and changes in demand for
manufactured goods. A government push to reduce the country’s
reliance on electronics by developing the pharmaceutical
industry hasn’t tamed the swings.  The country emerged from its last recession in the three
months through June 2009, after the global slump caused the
economy to contract in the four previous quarters. Before the
decline in July to September this year, GDP expanded at an
annual 27.3 percent pace in the second quarter from the previous
three months.  Dodging Recession  Analysts at Capital Economics, Standard Chartered Plc and
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. are among those predicting another
quarter-on-quarter contraction for the final three months of
2010, while  David Cohen  of Action Economics says it may be a
“close call.” Bank of America Merrill Lynch predicts the
economy will “dodge” a second recession.  Production of drugs and medical devices is the fastest-
growing part of Singapore’s manufacturing industry as the
government woos investors including  Pfizer Inc . and Novartis AG.  Output by such companies can vary more than in other
industries, partly because drugmakers such as GlaxoSmithKline
Plc, which makes ingredients for its best-selling asthma
treatment Advair and the AIDS drug Combivir in Singapore, shut
plants for cleaning before making different products.  “The biomedical shutdowns were specific to the third
quarter,” said Chua Hak Bin, a director of global research at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore. “We expect some of
the plants to restart in the fourth quarter. Plus, services held
up well in the third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  