-- Singapore's Central Bank Seeks Faster Currency Gains to Curb Inflation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-14T03:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/singapore-central-bank-to-steepen-widen-currency-band-to-curb-inflation.html
Singapore will seek faster currency
appreciation to curb accelerating inflation even as growth in
the local economy slows, the central bank said today in its
semi-annual exchange-rate review.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  will steepen and widen
the band in which the republic’s dollar trades against a
weighted basket of currencies, keeping the midpoint unchanged,
it said in a statement. The currency climbed to the strongest
level versus its U.S. counterpart since 1981 after the surprise
announcement that was forecast by only one of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This is effectively monetary tightening and reflects
concerns about domestic inflation,” said  Kit Wei Zheng , a
Singapore-based economist at Citigroup Inc. “The steeper slope
will allow a faster pace of appreciation. The wider band will
deal with the increased volatility in the market.”  Singapore’s dollar climbed 0.7 percent to S$1.2941 versus
the greenback as of 10:56 a.m. local time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier rose as much as 1 percent to
S$1.2893, the strongest level since 1981 when Bloomberg began
compiling the data. The currency has gained 8.3 percent this
year, the third-best performance among the 10 most-traded Asian
currencies excluding the yen.  The central bank uses the currency rather than a benchmark
interest rate to manage inflation, guiding the local dollar
within a band of undisclosed trade-weighted currencies and
adjusting the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing
the band’s slope, centre or width.  Economy Slows  In a surprise move in April, the MAS embarked on an
unprecedented tightening by shifting to a stronger range for
currency fluctuations and seeking further appreciation
thereafter, the first such combined move in its 39-year history.  Gross domestic product shrank an annualized 19.8 percent in
the third quarter from the previous three months, the trade
ministry said separately today. The economy expanded 10.3
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier. Inflation will
accelerate to 4 percent by the end of the year, the MAS said.
That compared with 3.3 percent in August.  “Singapore’s economy will continue to expand, although at
a slower and more sustainable pace after recovering robustly
from the downturn,” the MAS said. “For 2010 as a whole, GDP is
on track to grow by 13 percent to 15 percent.”  “Maximum Flexibility”  “The main message is that it is a hawkish stance but they
are also giving themselves maximum flexibility to adjust their
policy in response to external developments in between official
policy reviews,” said  Pieter Van Der Schaft , head of Asian
rates research at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, the only bank
surveyed by Bloomberg that forecast the tightening. “Growth is
very strong now but going into 2011, global growth could
decelerate and the next policy announcement is six months
away.”  Singapore’s dollar will rise to S$1.24 against the
greenback by the middle of 2011, Van Der Schaft predicted. That
compares with a median estimate of S$1.28 in the Bloomberg News
survey conducted last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  in Singapore at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  