-- Singapore to Allow Stronger Currency Even as Economy Contracts
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-14T03:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/singapore-s-economy-shrinks-as-manufacturing-slows-currency-band-widened.html
Singapore unexpectedly signaled it
will allow faster currency gains to curb inflation even as the
economy shrank, with slowing global growth hurting demand for
drugs and electronics. The local dollar rose to a record.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said today it will
steepen and widen the currency’s trading band while continuing
to seek a “modest and gradual appreciation.”  Gross domestic
product shrank  at a 19.8 percent annual rate in the third
quarter from the previous three months after climbing a revised
27.3 percent in April to June, a separate report showed.  “The implication is that Singapore is less worried about
growth and more worried about upside risks to inflation,” said
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of Southeast Asian economics at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore.  The decision follows pressure from the U.S. and Europe on
emerging-market nations to let their exchange rates appreciate
to help rebalance demand in the global economy. It also comes as
China, the country blamed by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  this week for prompting other countries to restrain
their currencies, starts allowing faster gains in the yuan.  Singapore’s dependence on overseas trade, with non-oil
exports equivalent to more than half of GDP, makes it vulnerable
to swings in global growth.  Currency Climbs  The island’s currency rose 0.8 percent to S$1.2932 per U.S.
dollar as of 10:37 a.m. local time. It earlier reached S$1.2893,
the strongest since 1981 when Bloomberg began compiling the data,
and has gained 8.4 percent this year, making it the third-best
performing currency in Asia excluding Japan. Today’s climb of as
much as 1.06 percent was the biggest since June 21.  Yuan forwards were near a two-year high today. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards were at 6.4510 per dollar, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen about 3.3 percent from the
spot rate over the next year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The forward contracts have risen 1.5 percent this
month.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  uses the currency
rather than a benchmark interest rate as its main tool to manage
inflation. All but one of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey
had expected the central bank to forgo a more aggressive
strengthening in the Singapore dollar, a decision that may have
helped support overseas sales by manufacturers including  Hi-P
International Ltd .  “Singapore is the most vulnerable Asian country to the
slowdown in the global trade cycle,” Prior-Wandesforde said.
“The widening of the band initially will be seen as hawkish but
longer-term may actually be used in a more dovish direction as
and when the economy slows quite sharply.”  Property Curbs  At its April monetary policy review, Singapore’s central
bank said it would shift the local dollar to a stronger range to
trade in and sought an appreciation thereafter, the first such
combined move in its history.  Singapore in August announced measures to cool the property
market, including increasing down payments for second mortgages
and imposing a stamp duty on property held for less than three
years to curb speculation.  “Domestic cost pressures are rising, given the high level
of resource utilization in the economy and tight labor market in
particular, as well as the diminishing boost from the cyclical
uplift in productivity seen earlier this year,” the central
bank said today. “The balance of risks is weighted towards
inflation going forward.”  Korea Holds  The steeper slope will allow a faster pace of appreciation
while the wider band will address the increased volatility in
the market, said  Kit Wei Zheng , a Singapore-based economist at
Citigroup Inc. He said today’s policy change was “effectively a
form of monetary tightening and reflects concerns about domestic
inflation.”  In contrast, the Bank of Korea left borrowing costs
unchanged for a third straight month today as an appreciating
won threatens export growth in Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  Singapore’s inflation accelerated to an 18-month high of
3.3 percent in August. The central bank forecasts price gains
may quicken to about 4 percent by the end of 2010 and “stay
high” in the first half of 2011, it said today.  The island’s policy move contrasts with Asian nations from
Thailand to Japan, which have taken steps in the past month to
cool an appreciation in their currencies that is threatening
exports. Japan intervened last month to ease gains in the yen
and Thailand said this week it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining
South Korea and Brazil in seeking to slow inflows as capital
floods into emerging and Asian economies.  Bellwether Economy  Singapore’s GDP rose a record 18.3 percent in the first
half, the trade ministry said. Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong 
has said the economy may “moderate” in the coming months,
citing risks from Europe and the U.S.  “Singapore is typically a bellwether for the region’s
export outlook and it is the first to show cracks as global
growth slows,”  Alvin Liew , an economist at Standard Chartered
Plc in Singapore, said before the report. Threats to Asian
growth include “the fading impact of stimulus packages,
stubbornly high unemployment rates and austerity measures that
are likely to crimp consumption in the West,” he said.  Manufacturing Cools  Singapore’s  economy  grew 10.3 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, compared with a revised 19.6 percent
expansion in the previous three months, the government said. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists was
for a 10.8 percent gain. The 19.8 percent annual rate of
contraction last quarter from the previous three months compares
with the median forecast for a 15.7 percent decline among 19
economists  surveyed .  Manufacturing , which accounts for about a quarter of
Singapore’s economy, climbed 12.1 percent from a year earlier in
the three months through September, after surging a revised 46.1
percent in the second quarter.  The construction industry gained 6.7 percent, while
services grew 10.2 percent. The city’s two casino resorts run by
 Genting Singapore Plc  and Las Vegas Sands Corp. have attracted
millions to its gaming centers, while employment growth is
boosting spending at malls and restaurants.  The government reiterated its prediction for  GDP  to rise 13
percent to 15 percent in 2010. That pace would put Singapore in
the running to be the world’s fastest-growing nation in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  