-- Sony Delays Release of `Gran Turismo 5' Racing Game
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-10-14T02:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/sony-pushes-back-release-of-gran-turismo-5-racing-game-for-playstation.html
Sony Corp.  delayed the global
release of the “Gran Turismo 5” car-racing title for its
PlayStation 3 video-game console a second time because of
production problems.  The company will sell the title “this holiday season,”
 Satoshi Fukuoka , a spokesman at the game unit in Tokyo, said by
telephone today. Tokyo-based Sony had planned to sell the game
on Nov. 2 in the U.S. and Europe and the following day in Japan.  “ Gran Turismo 5 ” is the biggest exclusive game this
holiday season for Sony, which uses such titles to lure buyers
to its hardware. Console makers typically record losses for the
machines in the first few years of development and sales because
the cost of materials takes time to drop, forcing them to rely
on software to boost earnings.  “‘Gran Turismo’ is one of the most important products
coming from Sony this year for its gaming business,” said  Jay Defibaugh , a games analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. in
Tokyo. “The product highlights the graphic strength of the
PS3” and is a genre with global appeal, he said by telephone.  Sony  rose 2.1 percent to 2,642 yen at the 11 a.m. break on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen 1.1 percent this
year while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average has
dropped 9.2 percent.  Fukuoka declined to comment on whether “Gran Turismo 5,”
which can be played in 3-D, will go on sale in time for Black
Friday, the day after Thanksgiving and usually the busiest
shopping day of the year in the U.S.  About 56 million copies of the “Gran Turismo” game series
has been sold since its debut in 1997, Fukuoka said.  The March release of “ God of War III ,” another title
exclusive to the PS3, helped raise U.S. sales of the console by
44 percent that month from a year earlier, according to
researcher NPD Group Inc.  Sony aims to make its game unit profitable in the year
ending March 2011, the company said in November last year. The
console maker stopped losing money on PS3 hardware in the
quarter ended March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 