-- Sony Sees `Strong' Europe Christmas Sales on PS3 Rise
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2010-10-14T17:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/sony-sees-strong-europe-christmas-sales-says-ps3-may-beat-its-targets.html
Sony Corp. , the maker of the
PlayStation 3, sees “very, very strong” Christmas holiday
sales for its video-game consoles in Europe, said  Andrew House ,
head of Sony Computer Entertainment in the region.  The company expects to exceed its target of sales of
15 million PS3s in its fiscal year, aided by “strong demand”
in Europe and North America, House said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Rome.  “Sales have been significantly up year-on-year in a market
that has been overall slightly down,” he said.  Sony Computer Entertainment Europe distributes and markets
Sony’s gaming products in 99 territories across Europe, the
Middle East, Africa and Oceania. Since the launch of PlayStation
3 in November 2006, the company has sold more than 38 million
units globally, according to an Oct. 13 statement.  Sony, based in Tokyo, and  Microsoft Corp. , maker of the
Xbox, are introducing motion-activated products to compete with
 Nintendo Co. ’s industry-leading Wii console. Sony unveiled its
Move motion-activated peripherals on Sept. 19, while Microsoft
will begin selling a motion-sensing peripheral called Kinect in
November.  Move has had “very significant sales in the first month
since launch, somewhere in the region of 1.5 million units for
the new controller across just Europe,” House said. “The
initial sales response has been so far in excess of our initial
plan that we’ll probably be looking at accelerating
production.”  Game Delay  Sony delayed the global release of the “ Gran Turismo 5 ”
car-racing title for its PlayStation 3 a second time because of
production problems, it said yesterday.  The company had planned to sell the game on Nov. 2 in the
U.S. and Europe and the following day in Japan. “ Gran Turismo
5 ” is the biggest exclusive game this holiday season for Sony
and about 56 million copies of this game series have been sold
since its debut in 1997.  “There has been a small, minor delay in terms of the last
stages of getting the game released but we remain very confident
that the game will be released before the end of this year,”
House said.  House repeated that Sony is aiming to make its game unit
profitable in the year ending March 2011.  “We have lots of confidence in our ability to hit our
profitability target this year,” he said. “But currency
movements present significant challenges” including the
“continued rapid appreciation of the yen which is a challenge
for our business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Rotondi  in Rome at 
 frotondi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 