-- South Africa Studying How Other Countries Have Curbed Currency Strength
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-14T17:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/south-africa-studying-how-other-countries-have-curbed-currency-strength.html
South Africa is looking at the type
of actions other countries have taken to curb their currencies
following a surge of foreign capital inflows, central bank
Governor  Gill Marcus  said.  The bank is in talks with the  National Treasury  on what is
the best way to address the rand’s strength, Marcus said at the
Monetary Policy Forum in Pretoria today.  South Africa’s 6 percent benchmark interest rate compares
with deposit rates near zero in the U.S., Japan and euro-zone
countries, fueling demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets. With rates likely to remain low for longer in the U.S.,
capital inflows into emerging markets will probably continue to
increase, boosting currencies such as the rand, the Reserve Bank
said in its Monetary Policy Review, released in Pretoria today.  “Are we concerned about the rand? Of course,” Marcus
said. “That doesn’t mean we target a specific level of the
rand.”  The rand has climbed 39 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of 2009, crimping exports and undermining the
recovery in Africa’s biggest economy. The Reserve Bank last
month cut its economic growth forecast to 2.8 percent from 2.9
percent.  Intervention Limited  While the Reserve Bank has been buying dollars to curb the
rand’s gains, its intervention has been limited by the increase
in costs to maintain foreign currency  reserves , which resulted
in the bank posting a loss of 1 billion rand in the year through
March. National Treasury Director-General  Lesetja Kganyago  said
last month that South Africa can’t impose a tax on foreign
portfolio inflows, as Brazil did, because it relies on these
flows to finance the country’s current-account deficit.  Increasing foreign inflows are “uncomfortable to deal
with” and are “an area of concern,” Reserve Bank Deputy
Governor  Daniel Mminele  said at the forum today.  The rand’s strength has helped to keep  inflation  inside the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range since February, with
the rate falling to an annual 3.5 percent in August. That
enabled the central bank to cut the benchmark  interest rate  by
half a percentage point to 6 percent last month, the eighth
reduction since December 2008. The bank expects inflation to
stay below 6 percent until the end of 2012.  “The inflation outlook remains benign,” the bank said in
its report today. “The major downside risk to the inflation
outlook remains the exchange rate, which has been impacted
significantly by the capital inflows responding to the low
interest-rate climate in the advanced economies.”  ‘An Outlier’  While growth is accelerating in emerging-market economies
in Asia and Latin America, “South Africa is somewhat of an
outlier and domestic economic growth has remained below
potential,” according to the report. “The growth outlook
remains subdued and unemployment remains high.”  The economy’s first  recession  in 17 years in 2009 pushed up
the jobless rate to 25.3 percent, the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank would like to see an economic recovery
that’s “not just consumer-related,” Marcus said. The latest
manufacturing data “confirm what we’ve been seeing for some
time,” she said, adding that the “recovery is fragile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 