-- South Africa's Inflation Outlook is `Benign,' Growth `Subdued,' Bank Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-14T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/south-africa-s-inflation-outlook-is-benign-growth-subdued-bank-says.html
South Africa’s inflation outlook is
“benign” as the rand holds onto its gains against the dollar,
while economic growth is “subdued,” the central bank said,
indicating there is room for further interest rate cuts.  The Reserve Bank will conduct monetary policy in a flexible
manner, “mindful of the state of the economy and financial
stability considerations,” the bank said in its Monetary Policy
Review, released in the capital, Pretoria, today.  Inflation  has been inside the bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range since February, slowing to an annual 3.5 percent in
August as the rand soared against the dollar and food prices
eased. That enabled Governor  Gill Marcus  to cut the benchmark
 interest rate  by half a percentage point to 6 percent last
month, the eighth reduction since December 2008. The bank
expects inflation to stay below 6 percent until the end of 2012.  “The inflation outlook remains benign,” the report said.
“The major downside risk to the inflation outlook remains the
exchange rate, which has been impacted significantly by the
capital inflows responding to the low interest rate climate in
the advanced economies.”  South Africa’s key rate compares with deposit rates near
zero in the U.S., Japan and the euro region. With rates likely
to remain low in the U.S., capital inflows into emerging markets
will probably continue to increase, the Reserve Bank said.  ‘Overvalued’  Marcus said yesterday there is consensus the rand is
“overvalued,” though it’s not clear how to address the
currency’s appreciation, given the rising cost of adding to
foreign currency  reserves . Selling rand to buy dollars may also
have a limited impact because average daily trade in the rand is
about $24 billion, she said.  “There’s no question that it hurts many areas of the
economy,” Marcus said. “There is no disagreement that the rand
is overvalued. The question is what to do about it.”  The rand has climbed 39 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of 2009, crimping exports and undermining the
recovery in Africa’s biggest economy. The Reserve Bank last
month cut its economic growth forecast to 2.8 percent from 2.9
percent.  While growth is accelerating in emerging-market economies
in Asia and Latin America, “South Africa is somewhat of an
outlier and domestic economic growth has remained below
potential,” the report said. “The growth outlook remains
subdued and unemployment remains high.”  The economy’s first  recession  in 17 years in 2009 pushed up
the jobless rate to 25.3 percent, the highest of 62 countries
tracked by Bloomberg.  World Cup  While consumer spending is recovering, it’s unclear how
much of this is due to expenditure during the soccer World Cup,
when thousands of overseas fans boosted sales of food and
clothing, the Reserve Bank said.  That “raises doubts about the sustainability of
expenditure, particularly in the light of weak credit
extension,” the bank said. “Growth in private-sector gross
fixed capital formation has been lagging and is also seen to be
a constraint on growth.”  Consumers account for two-thirds of spending in South
Africa and a slow recovery in their expenditure may undermine
 economic growth , which eased to an annualized 3.2 percent in the
second quarter from 4.6 percent in the previous three months.  The Monetary Policy Committee said after its last rate cut
on Sept. 9 that it viewed the current monetary policy stance as
“appropriate” and there was limited room to lower rates
further. That view was “conditional upon no significant changes
in the variables that impact on inflation,” the Reserve Bank
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 