-- Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Climb in Chicago as Weakening Dollar Stokes Demand
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-10-14T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/soybean-corn-and-wheat-futures-climb-as-weakening-dollar-increases-demand.html
Corn, soybeans and wheat rose in
Chicago as the dollar weakened, making U.S. supplies more
attractive to importers and prompting investor buying.  December-delivery corn gained 0.9 percent to $5.745 a
bushel at 1:27 p.m. Paris time on the Chicago Board of Trade
after reaching $5.78. Soybeans for January delivery added 0.9
percent to $11.98 a bushel and December-delivery wheat climbed
0.3 percent to $7.05 a bushel.  The  U.S. Dollar Index , a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s value, fell for a third day on speculation the
Federal Reserve will ease monetary policy further to help
economic growth. Farm exports may exceed 2008’s record $115.3
billion on surging corn, soybean and wheat prices,  Joe Glauber ,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief economist, said
yesterday.  “A weaker dollar will, all things otherwise being equal,
push commodity prices higher,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said in
his daily newsletter. “The attitude is, ‘The dollar’s weak, buy
corn, buy anything, it’s all going up.’”  A sliding dollar makes raw materials priced in the currency
cheaper in terms of other monies and spurs demand for
commodities as alternative investments. Gold and tin rose to
records today and copper advanced to a 27-month high.  Milling Wheat  Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris fell 0.8 percent to 216.50 euros ($304.51) a metric ton.
In dollar terms, the contract was little changed from yesterday.  U.S. exporters sold 297,500 tons of soybeans to China, the
world’s biggest consumer of the oilseed, for delivery in the
marketing year that began Sept. 1, the USDA said yesterday. As
of Sept. 30, U.S. exporters had outstanding soybean sales to
China of 12.47 million tons, it said last week.  “This continued purchase of soybeans by the Chinese
remains a supportive influence,”  Luke Mathews , a strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia, said by phone from Sydney.  The U.S. government agreed yesterday to allow as much as 15
percent ethanol in gasoline for use in car models from 2007 or
later, raising the blend from 10 percent. Ethanol accounts for
about 30 percent of corn use in the U.S., according to the
Washington-based Renewable Fuels Association.  “It is a supportive influence for total ethanol
consumption in the U.S., and therefore a supportive influence
for corn,” Mathews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net  