-- Spain's Underlying Inflation Accelerates on Tax Increases to Cut Deficit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-14T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/spain-s-underlying-inflation-accelerates-on-tax-increases-to-cut-deficit.html
Spain’s underlying inflation rate
accelerated in September after the government increased sales
tax as part of its efforts to slash the third-largest budget
deficit in the euro region.  Core consumer prices , which exclude energy and fresh food,
gained 1.1 percent from a year earlier, compared with an
increase of 1 percent in August, the National Statistics
Institute in Madrid said today. The headline rate, based on
European Union calculations, was 2.1 percent, above an initial
estimate of 2 percent published on Sept. 29.  Spain’s government raised the main rate of value-added tax
to 18 percent from 16 percent in July, as part of its efforts to
cut the deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product next year
from 11.1 percent of GDP in 2009. The economy emerged from an
almost two-year  recession  in the first half, though the Bank of
Spain estimates the recovery slowed in the third quarter.  Excluding the effect of the tax increases, the EU-
harmonized measure rose 0.7 percent in August from a year
earlier, compared with the reported headline rate of 1.8
percent, INE said today. INE will give an estimate of the tax
effect on September inflation in next month’s report.  As households rein in spending to pay off debt accumulated
during a 10-year housing boom, Spain’s economy will contract 0.3
percent in 2010, while the euro area as a whole and the U.S.
expand, according to the International Monetary Fund.  The government also forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction. It
expects the economy to grow 1.3 percent next year, less than a
previous forecast of 1.8 percent, because of the impact of
austerity measures including public-wage cuts and a freeze on
pensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 