-- Spanish Banks Reduce ECB Borrowings for Second Straight Month in September
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-14T09:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/spanish-banks-reduce-ecb-borrowings-for-second-straight-month-in-september.html
Spanish banks reduced their European
Central Bank borrowings by 11 percent in September as easing
concerns over the sovereign debt crisis allowed lenders to
resume bond sales.  Banks’ ECB borrowings fell to 97.7 billion euros ($137.7
billion) from 109.8 billion euros in August, the Bank of Spain
said today on its  website . That compared with an increase to
447.7 billion from 428.5 billion euros for lenders in the euro
area overall. Portuguese banks’ ECB financing also fell,
declining 19 percent, its central bank said Oct. 11.   Spain’s banks including  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA 
and  Banco Santander SA  have resumed debt sales since results
from stress tests on July 23 eased investor concerns about the
strength of the financial industry. ECB Governing Council
members Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez and Ewald Nowotny have
warned banks in the past two months against depending on the
central bank’s funds.  Nowotny said Sept. 6 that addiction to ECB liquidity is “a
problem” that “needs to be tackled.” Council member Mario
Draghi said on Oct. 1 the ECB must be free “from the
constraint” of dependency on its funding before it can
implement an exit strategy. The Bank of Spain “has been
encouraging” banks to “go out into the market when there are
opportunities,” Bankinter SA Finance Director  David Perez Renovales  said Sept. 14.  Still, Banco Santander, the most profitable bank in the
euro region, is paying more to borrow from the market than less
profitable European banks, amid investors’ concerns that weak
economic growth in Spain will make it more difficult for the
government to meet its deficit-reduction goals. With the highest
 unemployment  rate and third largest deficit in the euro region,
Spain’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service on
Sept. 30 citing concerns about the nation’s ability to grow.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Emma Ross-Thomas  in
Madrid at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John Fraher at
   jfraher@bloomberg.net  