-- Sprint Aims to Keep Wireless Customers by Lowering Bills Every Six Months
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-14T13:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/sprint-aims-to-keep-wireless-customers-by-lowering-bills-every-six-months.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, said it will reward customers
loyal to its  Boost Mobile  prepaid brand by lowering their bills
every six months.  The carrier will knock $5 off the $50 monthly price of its
unlimited talk, text and Web plan after every six months of on-
time payments, to drop the bill to as low as $35,  Bob Stohrer ,
Sprint’s prepaid marketing chief, said in an interview.  “It’s just as important to reward our customers and get
them to stay around as it is to acquire new customers,” Stohrer
said.  The loyalty program is the first of its kind for prepaid
mobile plans in the U.S., according to  Charles Golvin , a
Forrester Research Inc. analyst. Sprint is seeking to retain
Boost customers, who tend to leave in greater numbers than the
carrier’s other prepaid brand,  Virgin Mobile .  Boost customers who lower their bills through the program,
known as “Monthly Unlimited with Shrinkage,” will remain at
that pricing indefinitely, Stohrer said. Users of  Research In
Motion Ltd.  BlackBerrys can drop their $60 monthly bill to as
low as $45, under the program.  “This is the form of program that really means something
to prepaid customers who tend to make their choices based on
price,” Golvin said in an interview. “But it does come with
some risk because customers who will switch for price will leave
for price too.”  Sprint added 173,000 prepaid customers in the second
quarter, compared with 348,000 in the first quarter.  Boost’s current $50 monthly plan compares with similar
plans of $55 for  Leap Wireless International Inc.  and $50 for
 MetroPCS Communications Inc.  AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless
don’t offer prepaid plans with unlimited Web use, according to
their websites.  Separately,  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile USA said
yesterday it will offer prepaid plans for $70 per month offering
unlimited talk, text and up to 2 gigabytes of data use.  Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, fell 8 cents to
$4.55 at 9:39 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
The shares had jumped 27 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  