-- State Street Names Anderson as Investment Chief for Fixed Income, Currency
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-14T17:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/state-street-names-anderson-as-investment-chief-for-fixed-income-currency.html
State Street Corp. , the second-
biggest money manager for institutions, named  Kevin A. Anderson 
as global chief investment officer for fixed income and
currency, replacing  Mark Marinella , who resigned.  Anderson, who joined the firm in 2001, was previously head
of fixed-income beta solutions, the Boston-based company said
today in a statement.  Marc Reinganum , head of international
active developed-markets equities, will take on additional
responsibilities, becoming head of the U.S. active-equity team.  Marinella’s appointment as fixed-income CIO in November
2007 was part of a series of personnel changes at State Street
Global Advisors, the company’s money-management unit, following
losses in bond funds that led to lawsuits from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. He replaced  Paul Greff .  “Over the past three years, the fixed-income investment
team has strengthened and refined its investment capabilities,
restoring active fixed-income performance where needed and
laying the groundwork for future growth,”  Rick Lacaille , global
CIO of State Street Global Advisors, said in the statement.  Anderson, who is based in London, was promoted in February
2008 when State Street created a new team of six executives to
oversee global fixed-income investments. He is a graduate of the
University of Southampton in England, with a doctorate in
theoretical physics, and the University of Edinburgh in
Scotland.  State Street agreed in February to pay $313 million to
settle allegations from the SEC and other regulators that it
helped some investors get out of a bond fund saddled with risky
mortgages, leaving others to shoulder the losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  