-- States Should Cut Pension Costs, Not Default on Debt, Deutsche's DWS Says
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-10-14T17:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/states-should-cut-pension-costs-not-default-on-debt-deutsche-s-dws-says.html
States should cut pension costs
through measures such as extending the retirement age rather
than defaulting on debt, DWS Investments said in a report.  Pension funds are “unsustainable on their current
trajectory,” and “represent a significant and growing threat
to the long-term financial health of muni bond issuers,”
according to the e-mailed report released today by the research
unit of  Deutsche Bank AG .  The average state’s pension is 76 percent funded, according
to data compiled for the Bloomberg Cities and Debt Briefing in
New York last month. Illinois’ is only 50 percent funded;
Kentucky, New Hampshire and Louisiana are funded at 60 percent
or lower. The average five-year return of pension assets is
about 3 percent, below the 7 percent or 8 percent benchmarks
many states use, according to consulting firm Wilshire
Associates.  The severity of budget problems makes unions more willing
to work with legislators to change laws and write new ones, the
study said. Some states are prohibiting “spiking,” a practice
that allows public workers to take overtime and opt out of
vacation time in order to create an inflated benchmark for
future benefits.  Other measures include changing from defined-benefit
programs to defined-contribution programs and reducing the
public workforce, said the report.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  proposes legislation
raising the retirement age and rescinding the pension increase
granted in 2001. Minnesota is attempting to change its cost-of-
living formula for retirees, the report said.  Defaulting on debt to free up capital would “handicap
their access to the capital markets,” according to the report.  “After years of watching the unfunded obligation of
municipalities, we are finally seeing an environment where
reform is possible,” the report said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 