-- Statoil, Turkish State Oil Company to Team Up on Black Sea Oil Exploration
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-14T14:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/statoil-turkish-state-oil-company-to-team-up-on-black-sea-oil-exploration.html
Statoil ASA, Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, and Turkey’s state oil company Turkiye
Petrolleri AO are forming a partnership to explore for oil in
the Black Sea, Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said today.  “Statoil will do exploration in the Black Sea,” said
Yildiz, speaking at a conference in Istanbul today. “They will
soon start talks with TPAO for a joint venture.”  The Norwegian company approached Yildiz about a week ago
with a proposal to work with TPAO in Turkey, Baard Glad
Pedersen, a spokesman, said by phone today. Statoil, which has
no operations in Turkey, has not met with TPAO yet, Glad
Pedersen said. “We believe this is an area with potential --
that’s why we’re taking this initiative,” he said.  Statoil, which has operating rights on about 80 percent of
Norway’s oil and gas production, is expanding abroad to counter
dwindling North Sea reserves. Oil output offshore Norway is
forecast to drop 6 percent in 2010, declining for a 10th year,
according to the Norwegian Petroleum Directorate. Statoil is
ceasing investment in Iran, which neighbors Turkey, under U.S.
pressure. President  Barack Obama  in July signed a law broadening
the scope of sanctions against Iran.  TPAO has joint ventures with Chevron Corp., Exxon Mobil
Corp. and Petroleo Brasileiro SA in the Black Sea.  Yildiz also said that Turkey and China may cooperate in
coal-fired and nuclear power projects. He said the country,
currently in talks with South Korea to build a nuclear power
plant, may turn to Japan’s Toshiba Corp. if those negotiations
fail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  