-- Howard Buffett Says Don't Expect Third-Generation at Berkshire
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/step-out-of-that-ferrari-and-ask-am-i-a-corvette-guy-jason-h-harper.html
Howard Buffett , the  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc . director and potential successor to his father
 Warren Buffett  as chairman, said he doesn’t expect a third
generation of the family to lead the firm.  “We all go out and do the things that we want to do and
the things we think we can do best,” Howard Buffett, 55, said
yesterday in an interview at a World Food Prize conference in
Des Moines, Iowa. “It’s very unusual to have a second or third
generation that really are the best to fit into something that
you’ve created much earlier.”  Warren Buffett, after  building Berkshire  through four
decades as chairman and chief executive officer, has made
succession plans for after his retirement or death. The  company
board  will split Buffett’s duties among more than one manager.
Warren Buffett said in 2006 that his son Howard, a farmer and
 author , would safeguard Berkshire as non-executive chairman.  “My dad has said to me what he would expect, and I think I
can do it,” Howard Buffett said. “My job is to make sure
Berkshire doesn’t change. And that’s about all he’s said to
me.”  Howard is the second of Warren Buffett’s three children and
the only one on Berkshire’s board. Asked if the family’s next
generation had a place at Berkshire, Howard Buffett said,
“probably not.” His son, Howard W. Buffett, has an
agriculture-related job for the U.S. Department of Defense.  ‘Lack of Clarity’  Successors will take charge of a company whose  composition 
and culture is largely the expression of just one person. Warren
Buffett, 80, plans takeovers, selects  investments  and oversees
CEOs who run the Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s more than 70
subsidiaries. Berkshire, valued at more than $200 billion,
hasn’t publicly said who will fill the role of CEO and manage
investments.  “We remain concerned about a lack of clarity around Warren
Buffett’s succession plans because we believe he is synonymous
with Berkshire Hathaway,”  Jay Gelb , an analyst at Barclays Plc,
said in an Oct. 1 research note.  Buffett hasn’t announced plans to step down, and Howard
Buffett said, “He’ll be around a long time.”  Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, relied on advice
from his son when weighing Berkshire’s 2002 purchase of
agricultural-products firm CTB Inc. Howard Buffett endorsed the
company, which has grown under Berkshire through acquisitions.  “I checked with Howie; he told me CTB was an absolute
first-class company,” Buffett said in remarks posted on CTB’s
 website . “Howie would rather spend an evening on a tractor in
the field than a date with  Angelina Jolie , which is not true of
all members of the family, but that’s true of Howie.”  Angelina Jolie, Shakira  “Angelina never forgot that,” said Howard Buffett, whose
book,  “Fragile: The Human Condition,”  includes testimonials
from Irish rocker  Bono  and  pop singer  and friend  Shakira .  Howard Buffett, a Berkshire director since 1993, is an
 ambassador against hunger  for the United Nations World Food
Program and runs  the Howard G. Buffett Foundation , which aids
subsistence farming. Buffett spoke at the conference yesterday,
and his foundation announced $13 million in grants over four
years to small farmers in El Salvador, Guatemala and Nicaragua.  Africans who farm plots of less than 3 acres (1.2 hectares)
will need tailored solutions that may be different from the
“Green Revolution” that boosted crop yields in Asia, Buffett
said in his speech. A “Brown Revolution” to improve soil
quality is more important to the region’s agriculture than new
seeds and fertilizers, Buffett said.  ‘Food Security’  “Food security is complicated, agriculture is
complicated,” said Buffett, whose presentation included
anecdotes and photographs from interviews with African farmers.  Howard Buffett said he refrains from proposing that his
father invest in farming. Berkshire, which owns units selling
insurance, energy and consumer goods, can  make more money  by
distributing agriculture-related products, he said.  “I learned a long time ago never to talk to my dad about
agricultural acquisitions,” Buffett said. “He used to always
say, you know, that farming is about the worst business in the
world. And it is, it’s very volatile, very difficult, it changes
all the time. And you can’t control Mother Nature.”  Warren Buffett has committed more than 99 percent of his
wealth to charity and in June publicly challenged billionaires
to give away half their money. Most of Buffett’s fortune,
estimated by Forbes magazine at about $45 billion, will go to
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The billionaire also funds
charities run by his children and one named after his deceased
first wife.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 