-- Rattner Said to Be Near Settlement With SEC in Corruption Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/steven-rattner-said-to-be-near-settlement-with-sec-in-corruption-probe.html
Former political consultant  Henry “Hank” Morris , charged as part of New York Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo ’s probe of corruption at the state’s pension fund,
reached a plea deal with prosecutors, a Manhattan judge said.  The deal follows news last month that Quadrangle Group LLC
co-founder  Steven Rattner , the subject of state and federal
investigations of corruption at the fund, is near a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  “The court is not willing to consider this on such short
notice,” New York State Supreme Court Justice  Lewis Stone  said
of the deal at a hearing yesterday. “In a matter as weighty as
this, the court wants an opportunity to consider the papers.”  Rattner, 58, arranged to retain Morris, the former chief
political consultant to ex-New York Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , as
a placement agent and paid him more than $1 million in sham
“finder” fees, according to the SEC and  Cuomo . Rattner also is
accused of setting up a DVD distribution deal for a movie
produced by the brother of a pension fund official. Hevesi
pleaded guilty last month.  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for
Cuomo, declined to comment.  In exchange, Quadrangle, a New York-based private-equity
firm, obtained $100 million in investment commitments from the
New York state Common Retirement Fund, said Cuomo, who resolved
a probe of the firm in April for $7 million.  Morris was awaiting trial on charges he corrupted the
investment process to benefit money managers who made campaign
contributions and politically connected placement agents who
received lucrative fees, including himself.  At least six other people besides Hevesi have pleaded guilty
in connection with the New York probe, 15 firms besides
Quadrangle have settled and more than $139 million has been paid
to the fund and the state, according to Cuomo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York State Supreme Court
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net  and;
 Karen Freifeld  in New York State Supreme Court
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net  and;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 