-- Cohen Says Preconditions in Place for Stocks Rally: Tom Keene
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-14T17:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/stock-rally-preconditions-in-place-optimism-needed-cohen-says-tom-keene.html
Abby Joseph Cohen , the  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  strategist known for predicting the bull market in
the 1990s, said that while the fundamental factors for a U.S.
stocks rally are in place, greater optimism among investors is
needed for an advance to begin.  “The preconditions include very significant amounts of cash
on the sidelines and, very importantly, attractive valuation,”
Cohen, 58, spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview today on
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “When investors feel more
confident in the economic expansion, equities could perform
quite well. The S&P 500, for example, is notably underpriced.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell as much as 16 percent
since reaching this year’s high in April on concern that U.S.
unemployment and widening budget deficits in Europe would derail
global growth. The measure is valued at 12.3 times estimated
profits for the next year, compared with the 56-year average of
about 16.5 times reported earnings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 rose 15 percent from July 2 through yesterday
on expectations the Federal Reserve will buy bonds to stimulate
the economy, a tactic known as quantitative easing, to inject
cash into the economy.  “People who watch this very closely for us on the trading
desks and elsewhere are saying they think a good deal of likely
‘QE2’ is already priced in not only in the United States, but in
other countries,” she said.  No Recession  Cohen, the top-ranked strategist in Institutional
Investor’s surveys in 1998 and 1999, said there are signs of
recovery in the housing market and that “the global economy is
out of recession and won’t be going back in.”  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
in the U.S. has increased two straight months. The National
Association of Realtors’ index of pending home resales rose 4.3
percent in August, more than forecast, after a revised 4.5
percent gain the prior month that was less than initially
estimated. Compared with the same month a year ago, pending
sales were down 18.4 percent.  “Typically, equities will track economic growth,” Cohen
said today. “The U.S. economy has been one of the best of the
developed economies and we think that will continue. The
prospects, that is, the potential growth rate for the United
States exceeds that, we believe, of Europe and also Japan.”  The strategist told Bloomberg Radio on Feb. 17 that the S&P
500 was undervalued because the recession had ended and the
economy was on the mend. Back then, when the  gauge  was trading
below 1,100, Cohen said that the fair value for the benchmark
was between 1,250 and 1,300. It closed at 1,178.10 yesterday.  Her predictions were not always correct. Cohen stayed
bullish on computer-related stocks for too long as the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index suffered a bear market from March 2000 to
October 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 