-- Structured Bonds Multiply as Ruble Debt Spurs Deutsche Bank: Russia Credit
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-10-15T10:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/structured-bonds-multiply-as-ruble-debt-spurs-deutsche-bank-russia-credit.html
Sales of structured notes
denominated in rubles may quadruple in the next year as
investors snap up the securities to profit from the economic
rebound in the world’s biggest energy-exporting nation.  Issuance of credit-linked notes, whose returns are based on
the performance of underlying debt, will surge three or fourfold
within 12 months, according to Metropol IFC, an independent
investment bank in Moscow. While banks disclosed 7.3 billion
rubles ($243 million) of structured debt sales this year, the
actual amount is “much larger,” said  Tim McCarthy , who helps
oversee $1 billion of emerging-market assets as a fund manager
at Geneva-based  Valartis  Group Asset Management. Disclosed deals
may reach $1 billion by the end of next year, he said.  Barclays Capital ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
are reviving the market for structured debt after 2.3 billion
rubles of sales in 2009 as investors seek ways to sidestep
requirements that include registering with a local broker, a
process that can take as long as a year. Russia’s recovery from
its worst recession on record is luring foreign investors
expecting ruble bonds to catch up after underperforming Brazil
and China this year.  “Russian structured notes are poised for significant
growth in the next eight to 12 months, driven by investors’
appetite for riskier assets,”  Mark Rubinstein , head of research
at Metropol IFC, said in a phone interview.  Russian ruble debt returned 4.4 percent this year compared
with 12.6 percent for Brazil and an average of 7.2 percent for
the countries included in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Emerging Local
Markets Plus Index.  Barclays, Deutsche Bank  Barclays, based in London, sold 2.5 billion rubles of 11.2
percent coupon structured notes due in December 2014 at a price
of 118.683 to yield about 6.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes package the Russian
government’s 11.2 percent coupon OFZs due in December 2014.
Since the Barclays notes were first issued on May 21, the OFZs
have gained 1.6 percent, lowering the yield to 6.6 percent.  Deutsche Bank raised 330 million rubles in a sale of three-
year structured notes yielding about 5.3 percent on Sept. 24,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The securities are based on the
same-maturity OFZs yielding 5.8 percent.  Banks sold a total of 12 ruble-denominated structured
notes, also known as credit-linked notes or CLNs, led by London-
based Barclays with four deals totaling 3.8 billion rubles, the
data for this year show. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank has sold
three of the securities totaling 1.5 billion rubles, JPMorgan,
based in New York, raised 1 billion rubles from three deals and
ING Groep NV sold two notes at 590 million rubles. Banks last
year sold seven structured notes.  Investor Confidence  Issuance is picking up as investor confidence improves
after Russia’s record 7.9 percent economic contraction last
year. The economy will grow by 3.9 to 4.5 percent each of the
next three years, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on
Oct. 6 in Moscow. The recovery is being spurred by an increase
in the price of oil, Russia’s main export, which traded above
$80 a barrel through October.  The ruble will strengthen 6.9 percent against the central
bank’s target currency basket of dollars and euros by the end of
next year, according to the median of five forecasts on
Bloomberg. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 30.3933 per dollar in three months.  Brokerage Agreement  The ruble, which depreciated to a low of 31.8 per dollar in
June, has climbed 0.3 percent this year, underperforming the
Brazilian real’s 4.9 percent gain and the South African rand’s
8.5 percent rally. It slid 0.4 percent today to 30.19 per dollar
by 1:42 p.m. in Moscow.  “The Russian CLN business goes in waves,” said  Edward Franklin , an emerging-markets credit trader at JPMorgan in
London. “The local currency weakened a bit from July onwards
and I think once it broke through 31 against the dollar people
started to think about adding CLNs again.”  Investors in structured debt avoid the need to set up an
agreement with a local brokerage, which is a requirement for
buying ruble bonds.  “The logic behind the existence of credit-linked notes is
to allow offshore investors to gain access to borrowers in major
jurisdictions,” Igor Zelezetskii, a structured finance analyst
at Moody’s Investor Service in London, said in a phone
interview. “Banks acting as intermediaries in the market
usually have lending and legal expertise in the country.”  ‘Wouldn’t Touch’  Bank Julius Baer & Co., the 120-year-old Swiss private
bank, and Aviva Investors, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer,
are keeping out of ruble-denominated structured debt.  “We wouldn’t touch Russia here,”  Thomas Maurer , a trader
of fixed-income structured products at Bank Julius Baer said in
a phone interview from his office in Zurich. “Maybe the only
reason you would buy these CLNs is if you can’t find enough
bonds to buy.”  Buyers of structured debt don’t receive the registration
documents that allow holders of regular bonds to exercise legal
rights in the case of default, according to Maurer. Buyers can
typically only trade structured notes with the issuing bank,
creating the risk they won’t be able to sell the notes when they
want to, Maurer said.  “The liquidity is often very questionable and the exit of
the trade if it’s structured may only be with the counter party,
the one with whom you do the deal,” said  Jeremy Brewin , who
manages $2.4 billion of emerging-market assets for Aviva in
London. “Structured notes are not a solution unless it’s
extremely difficult to get access to the market and in the case
of Russia it isn’t.”  Indonesia, Ukraine  In Indonesia, where investors are required to hold domestic
bonds for at least a month, structured debt sales have tripled
to $1.8 billion this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Issuance linked to Ukraine’s debt is almost four times higher
than Russia at $948 million.  Russia “could be a much larger market,” McCarthy at
Valartis said. Issuance may rise as the government plans to
increase bond sales, providing a greater pool of securities to
package into credit-linked notes, he said.  The Finance Ministry is targeting a record 1.3 trillion
rubles of bond sales next year to fund a budget deficit it says
will reach 3.6 percent of gross domestic product.  The government’s ruble bonds due in August 2016 fell today,
pushing the yield up one basis point to 7.09 percent. The yield
on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 dropped two basis points to
4.158 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 198, according to
JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. The difference compares with 140 for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 176 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower than Russia’s Baa1 ranking at Moody’s.  The so-called  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 51 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps declined 0.5 basis point
to 133 today, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to
data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost one basis point more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  Fees Climb  Banks are charging more for selling structured debt than
they were before the global credit crisis, when fees for five-
year notes dropped to 0.5 percent,  Guy Thomas , the global head
of emerging-market credit structuring at ING Groep NV, said in a
phone interview from London. “They’ve widened considerably this
year,” said Thomas.  Fees are as much as 60 percent lower on average than for
Eurobond underwriting, Rubenstein at IFC Metropol said.
Structured debt sales are “smaller and faster to do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  