-- Sudanese General Tanginye Holds Talks About Joining Southern Sudan's Army
-- B y   A l a n   B o s w e l l
-- 2010-10-14T13:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/sudanese-general-tanginye-holds-talks-about-joining-southern-sudan-s-army.html
A former  Southern Sudan  militia
leader currently serving as a general in Sudan’s army began
talks with the semi-autonomous region’s leader to switch sides
ahead of an independence referendum next year.  “We have not reached that conclusion, but we are in the
process of negotiating,” Sudanese Armed Forces Major-General
Gabriel Tanginye said in an interview after a meeting today with
Southern Sudanese President  Salva Kiir  in the capital, Juba.  “The president is my brother and he is my leader,” he said.  Tanginye led a southern border militia allied to the
Khartoum government during Sudan’s 21-year civil war that ended
in 2005. Two million people died in the conflict. Under a peace
deal that ended the war, Southern Sudan gained self-rule before
a January 2011 referendum in which it can choose to secede and
form a new country.  Members of the Sudanese Armed Forces loyal to Tanginye in
Malakal, a southern city near Sudan’s north-south border,
clashed with Southern Sudan’s military, the Sudan People’s
Liberation Army, in 2006 and 2009 in breach of the peace deal.
The fighting in 2006 left about 150 people dead, according to
the United Nations.  Last week, Kiir pardoned Tanginye as well as other renegade
militia leaders, including former SPLA General George Athor, who
attacked an SPLA barracks and went into hiding after losing a
gubernatorial election in April.  “He has pardoned us and we have also pardoned him too,”
Tanginye said.  Unity  The meeting with the former militia leader comes a day
after Kiir opened a three-day conference in Juba between Kiir’s
ruling party, the SPLM, and opposition politicians including  Lam Akol , Kiir’s only rival in presidential elections in April. In
his speech, Kiir urged southern politicians to unite ahead of
the secession referendum.  Kiir has invited other leaders of armed groups in Southern
Sudan for talks, Ezekial Gatkuoth, a member of the SPLM
leadership, said by phone today in Juba.  “The purpose of the meeting is to make sure that all
Southern Sudanese are united on the referendum,” he said.  Preparations for the plebiscite are behind schedule.
Initial voter registration, which according to law was to have
been completed by the end of August, is now scheduled to take
place next month.  Speaking at the UN in New York on September 24, Kiir warned
that “any delays risk a return to instability and violence of a
massive scale.”  Southern Sudan pumps most of Sudan’s crude, which at
490,000 barrels a day makes the nation the third-largest
producer in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the  BP Statistical
Review of World Energy .  Oil pumped in the south is exported through a pipeline
running north to Port Sudan on the Red Sea. Under the peace
deal, the two sides split southern oil revenue. No agreement has
been reached on revenue sharing or pipeline usage fees if
Southern Sudan secedes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 