-- Swank’s Bartender Mom Gets Law Degree, Frees Brother: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/swank-s-bartender-mom-gets-law-degree-frees-innocent-brother-rick-warner.html
Convinced that her brother was
wrongly convicted of murder, a high-school dropout becomes a
lawyer while raising two sons and working part time as a
bartender. She takes over his appeal, finds missing evidence and
wins his release from prison.  The most amazing thing about the far-fetched plot of
“ Conviction ” is that it’s true.  Starring  Hilary Swank  and  Sam Rockwell  in Oscar-caliber
performances, this tearjerker about Betty Anne Waters’s two-
decade quest to free her brother Kenny is a testament to sibling
love and an indictment of a criminal-justice system that is
reluctant to admit mistakes.  Writer Pamela Gray and director  Tony Goldwyn  (who
collaborated on the acclaimed drama “ A Walk on the Moon ”) push
a lot of emotional buttons. While overdone at times, the film
has an undeniable raw power.  It opens with a slow pan of the bloody 1980 murder scene in
Ayer, Massachusetts, where a woman who lived near Kenny is found
in her trailer home with 30 stab wounds. He was an immediate
suspect -- primarily because he had broken into the victim’s
home as a kid -- but there was no physical evidence linking him
to the crime.  Scene-Stealing Rockwell  Several years later, a former girlfriend told authorities
Kenny had confessed the murder to her. Her testimony helped
convict him in 1983 and send him to prison with a life sentence.  That’s when Betty Anne’s exhausting journey began. The
movie chronicles the obstacles she overcame to free her brother.
She almost flunked out of law school, was told key evidence had
been destroyed and faced strong resistance from those who helped
convict Kenny.  Swank is fine here, though the big revelation is Rockwell,
an indie favorite who has specialized in playing eccentric
outcasts. His portrayal of Kenny, a charming troublemaker who
was farmed out to foster homes by a single mom overwhelmed by
her nine children, is a scene-stealer.  Minnie Driver  excels as a law-school friend who supports
Betty Anne’s mission and  Peter Gallagher  portrays  Barry Scheck ,
the former O.J. Simpson attorney whose Innocence Project aided
her case. There are also strong performances by  Melissa Leo  as a
cop who pressured witnesses to back the prosecution and  Juliette Lewis  as a former girlfriend who testified against Kenny.  Insulting Audience  Based on DNA findings and recanted testimony, Kenny Waters
was released in 2001 after spending 18 years in prison. The
movie ends on a happy note, with brother and sister sitting by a
lake enjoying his newfound freedom.  What the movie doesn’t mention, even in its updates on the
main characters before the closing credits, is that Kenny died
six months after his release when he fell from a 15-foot wall. I
know Hollywood dislikes sad endings, but withholding such vital
information is an insult to the audience.  “Conviction,” from Fox Searchlight Pictures, opens
tomorrow across the U.S. Rating: ***  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 