-- Sweden Needs Higher Rates Amid Rebound, Riksbank Official Says
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 2010-10-14T10:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/swedish-economic-growth-needs-rates-to-rise-faster-riksbank-official-says.html
Sweden’s economic recovery calls for
more interest-rate rises and any delays in continuing monetary
tightening might require more dramatic increases in future,
Riksbank Deputy Governor  Barbro Wickman-Parak  said.  “I do not believe in a wait-and-see strategy that could
mean that the repo rate needs to be raised even faster further
ahead,” Wickman-Parak said in a speech published on the bank’s
website today. “A slightly higher  interest rate  now could make
households begin to adjust and contribute to a more subdued
development. To me, this is a well-balanced monetary policy.”  Policy makers have raised the repo rate twice since July,
bringing it to 0.75 percent at their September meeting. They
announce their next decision on Oct. 26. Sweden’s economy is
poised to deliver the biggest economic rebound in the European
Union this year as growth surges 4.8 percent, the government
said on Oct. 12. That will recoup most of last year’s 5.1
percent slump.  “The Swedish economy has come through the crisis
relatively well,” Wickman-Parak said. “Although the fall in
gross domestic product was greater in Sweden than in many other
countries, the recovery has gone more quickly and we are now on
much more stable ground than most others.”  The krona rose as much as 0.4 percent against the euro and
was trading at 9.2382 at 12:47 p.m. in Stockholm. Against the
dollar, the krona rose 0.9 percent to 6.5643, making it today’s
top performer against both the euro and the dollar of the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on Sweden’s
two-year government note rose 4 basis points to 1.46 percent.  ‘Little Doubt’  “There is little doubt that Wickman-Parak is prepared to
vote for rate hikes at the next few meetings,” said  Bengt Rostrom , an economist at Nordea Bank AB, in a note to clients.
“She believes the Swedish economy is strong, which justifies a
less expansionary monetary policy, even if cost pressure is
moderate in the near future.”  The  Riksbank  on Sept. 2 reiterated its forecast that the
repo rate will average 2.1 percent in the third quarter next
year and 3.1 percent a year later.  Wickman-Parak said household borrowing growth is a “risk
factor,” adding that a lower repo rate “means there is a risk
that the debt ratio will continue to build up from already high
levels.” Employment growth may also lead to a tight labor
market, she warned.  Monthly household borrowing growth has averaged 9.5 percent
since October 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Unemployment dropped to 7.4 percent in August from 8 percent in
July.  ‘Too Expansionary’  “If monetary policy is too expansionary for too long, and
the wheels are allowed to spin too fast, this could create
problems with bottlenecks, if not during the forecast period
then immediately thereafter,” Wickman-Parak said.  The Riksbank’s six-person board has been divided on its
decision to increase interest rates since July. Deputy Governor
 Lars E. O. Svensson  told Svenska Dagbladet last month continued
monetary tightening may lead to “a catastrophe” for Sweden’s
economy as a stronger krona hurts exports and quells inflation.  Deputy Governor  Karolina Ekholm  said in a Sept. 29
interview she thinks the rate path should be less steep.  “The fact that we executive board members have had some
differences of opinion recently has come under focus recently,”
Wickman-Parak said. “But one thing that should be remembered is
that dissension is hardly strange on a monetary policy
committee.”  Still, she said the bank needs to find a code of conduct in
its public discussion of diverging views on policy.  “A monetary policy committee must not only agree that it
can disagree, it must also agree on which way it is okay to
disagree,” Wickman-Parak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toby Alder  in Stockholm at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  