-- Swiss Banks Buck Secrecy Squeeze With $53 Billion of Inflows
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s   a n d   M i k e   E .   B l o o m b e r g
-- 2010-10-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/swiss-banks-buck-secrecy-squeeze-with-net-customer-inflows-of-53-billion.html
Swiss private banks withstood
assaults on client secrecy by the U.S., France and Germany to
attract more than 50 billion francs ($53 billion) of assets
since the end of 2007.  While  UBS AG  customers withdrew 248 billion francs during
the past two and a half years, those redemptions were exceeded
by net flows into the nation’s 19 other biggest banks by client
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Pictet & Cie. and Bank Sarasin &
Cie. won the most funds, bringing in almost 196 billion francs
between them. Swiss firms opened branches elsewhere in Europe to
keep clients who no longer want to bank in Switzerland, and
invested in Asia, where the number of millionaires rose 26
percent last year.  “The Swiss private banks have been underrated by those who
said they were on their last legs,” said  Sebastian Dovey , a
managing partner at Scorpio Partnership, a London-based
consulting firm. “The reality shows that while they may have
been badly bruised during the financial crisis, their businesses
are relatively intact and are poised for growth.”  The industry was shaken on March 13, 2009, when Switzerland
agreed to work with countries investigating tax evasion to avoid
being blacklisted as a haven by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. The Swiss have initialed or signed
28 tax treaties since then to implement international standards
and help track down tax evaders. Only 16 percent of the 863
billion francs held in Swiss banks by European nationals were
declared, according to  estimates  last year by Geneva-based
broker Helvea.  Resolving Secrecy  Swiss banks hope to retain an element of secrecy by
proposing a withholding tax on foreigners’ offshore accounts,
where client identities would remain secret.  “Until the question surrounding banking secrecy has been
solved, Switzerland will only grow moderately, especially with
the western European neighbor states,”  Walter Berchtold , head
of Credit Suisse’s private banking unit, said during a Sept. 14
presentation in Zurich.  Credit Suisse, which holds about 100 billion francs in
offshore assets from Germany, France, Italy and the U.K., is
“more or less sticking” to a 2009 target of attracting 175
billion francs to 225 billion francs of net inflows by the end
of 2012, Berchtold said.  The Zurich-based bank, Switzerland’s second largest after
UBS, received almost 125 billion francs since the end of 2007,
according to Bloomberg data.  Onshore Shift  Compliance costs for Swiss banks, which manage an estimated
27 percent of the world’s offshore wealth, are increasing as
European clients repatriate assets to their home countries, said
 Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich.  “Europe has changed from an offshore to an onshore
environment,” Nielsen said. “While assets across the industry
are relatively stable, the impact is visible on gross margins”
because of rising costs, she said.  Gross margins at Credit Suisse’s wealth management division
fell  15 basis points  to 120 basis points in the second quarter
from a year earlier. A basis point is a hundredth of a
percentage point.  “It gets more and more complicated, specifically in the
cross-border business,”  Rolf Boegli , Credit Suisse’s head of
Swiss private banking, said last month. Higher compliance and
information technology costs may drive consolidation in the
industry and makes banks “mindful about the quality of assets”
they acquire, he said.  Hiring Bankers  The companies that have attracted the most client inflows
have been hiring bankers from competitors, said  Christian Stark ,
an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Zurich.  Sarasin gained three places in the Swiss rankings of asset
managers since the end of 2007, while Geneva-based Union
Bancaire Privée fell four slots, according to Bloomberg data.
Basel-based Sarasin, which posted the biggest percentage gain in
assets under management over the period, has said it plans to
add 50 private bankers a year.  The top four positions by client assets remained unchanged
at UBS, Credit Suisse, Pictet and London-based HSBC Holdings
Plc. Julius Baer Group Ltd. leapfrogged Lombard Odier Darier
Hentsch & Cie. into fifth place after acquiring ING Groep NV’s
Geneva-based wealth business last year.  Zurich-based UBS has suffered client defections after
reporting more than $57 billion of writedowns and losses from
the credit crunch that was exacerbated by the collapse of
investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
UBS also has agreeed to pay $780 million to avoid prosecution
for helping wealthy Americans evade taxes.  UBS Rebound  Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said in July that
the bank was “upwardly confident” it can stop asset outflows
this year. The end of the U.S. cross-border case will help UBS
hire more client advisers after 1,149 departures in 2009,  Juerg Zeltner , head of wealth management, said the same month.  “UBS will be out of the woods if they show positive new
money in wealth management,” said Vontobel’s Nielsen.
“Returning the bank to positive net new money is the last thing
which Gruebel has to fulfill.”  The following table shows client assets managed by Swiss
banks or Swiss-domiciled foreign institutions at the end of
June, with the percentage change from the end of 2007 and total
net new money over the two-and-a-half year period.  Figures for some wealth managers, including Pictet and UBP,
include non-private banking assets. All figures are in billions
of Swiss francs.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Lloyds Banking Group Plc declined to
provide figures.  (a) Doesn’t provide semi-annual NNM
(b) NNM for 2009 only
(c) Owned by Credit Suisse
(d) End-2009 AuM
(e) Zuercher Kantonalbank started its private banking unit Oct.
1, 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net 
Michael E. Bloomberg in Geneva at 
 mbloomberg8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  