-- Swiss Stocks Decline; Shares of UBS, Credit Suisse, Roche Lead SMI Lower
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-14T15:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/swiss-stocks-gain-for-second-day-syngenta-swiss-re-rise-as-roche-slides.html
Swiss equities declined as losses at
banks and a slump in sales at  Roche Holding AG  overshadowed
gains at  Syngenta AG  and  Swiss Reinsurance Co.   UBS AG lost 1.5 percent and Credit Suisse Group AG declined
1.4 percent. Roche Holding AG dropped 0.5 percent as it posted a
decline in third-quarter revenue. Syngenta climbed 3.8 percent
as the world’s biggest maker of agricultural chemicals reported
quarterly sales ahead of analysts’ estimates. Swiss Reinsurance
Co. advanced 2.5 percent as  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. upgraded the
world’s second-biggest reinsurer.  The  Swiss Market Index  lost 0.2 percent to 6,440.97 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has lost 7.6 percent from
this year’s high on April 15 as concern re-emerged that the
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will crimp economic growth.
Still, the gauge has risen 2.3 percent this month amid
speculation the Fed will announce plans to stimulate economic
growth as the recovery wanes. The broader Swiss Performance
Index decreased 0.1 percent today.  “The earnings season will gather pace next week with more
companies scheduled to deliver earnings after today’s news flow
on sales by Syngenta and Roche,” said  Manfred Hofer , head of
equity analysis at LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,
Switzerland, which oversees about $73 billion. “There’s a
potential for a setback in European markets and the SMI in the
next weeks as suggested by the underperformance in banking
shares, but that would give a buying opportunity. The benchmark
for Swiss stocks could rise to a maximum of 6,600 points before
the correction.”  Syngenta, Swiss Re  Syngenta increased 3.8 percent to 274 Swiss francs after
posting third-quarter sales ahead of analysts’ estimates and
saying improved profitability in seeds should help meet a goal
of matching last year’s profit.  Revenue totaled $2.2 billion, compared with $2 billion in
the year-earlier period, the Basel-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. Analysts predicted $2.08 billion,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Swiss Re rose 2.5 percent to 47.66 francs. JPMorgan lifted
its recommendation to “overweight” from “neutral.” The
brokerage said “the company looks undervalued relative to its
peers for what we believe is an equal risk profile as we believe
the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services positive outlook means
Swiss Re is likely to return to AA- by May 2011.”  Roche lost 0.5 percent to 138.4 francs. The world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs reported a 7 percent decline in third-
quarter revenue as demand for the Tamiflu antiviral fell.  “The lower-than-expected third-quarter performance is
likely to put more pressure on Roche’s share price,” Helvea SA
wrote in a note.  Sulzer, UBS  Sulzer AG  rose 1.3 percent to 118 francs. The world’s
second-largest maker of pumps said its order intake this year
will be “slightly” above last year’s figure, after reporting a
7.4 percent increase to 2.45 billion Swiss francs in the first
nine months.  UBS AG  ended a two-day gain, losing 1.5 percent to 17.37
francs as banking stocks were the worst performers in Europe
today. Switzerland’s biggest bank defended its decision not to
take any legal action against former executives and board
members, saying it “learnt the lessons” from the credit crisis
and its dispute with U.S. tax authorities.  Credit Suisse Group AG , the country’s second-biggest bank,
lost 1.4 percent to 42.64 francs.  Actelion Ltd. gained 6.6 percent to 53 francs, having
earlier risen as much as 11 percent. Actelion hired investment
bankers at Moelis & Co. for advice as the drugmaker
considers a potential sale, people with knowledge of the matter
said earlier this week. Spokesman Roland Haefeli declined to
comment on today’s surge in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 