-- U.A.E. 2011 Growth Forecast Cut to 2.9% at EFG-Hermes on Slower Spending
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-14T12:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-a-e-2011-growth-forecast-cut-to-2-9-at-efg-hermes-on-slower-spending.html
The United Arab Emirates economy may
grow 2.9 percent next year, investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE  said today, lowering its forecast from 3.4 percent on fewer
expected projects in Abu Dhabi and slower spending in Dubai.  The change comes “on signs of weaker-than-expected project
implementations in Abu Dhabi and lower oil production
increases,” economists  Monica Malik  and Mohamed Abu Basha wrote
in the quarterly report released today. “Deleveraging, further
Dubai Inc. restructuring, falls in real estate prices, and
fiscal retrenchment in Dubai should result in a weak domestic
demand environment in the medium term.”  The International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6 that it
expected the U.A.E. economy to expand 3.2 percent in 2011,
adding that the “health of the corporate sector” remains a
challenge. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main holding
companies, last month said it secured approval from creditors to
change the terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Property prices in Dubai tumbled more than 50 percent after
crude oil prices fell to a four-year low of $32.40 a barrel in
December 2008, leaving companies unable to raise new funding.
The U.A.E. is the world’s fifth biggest oil exporter, according
to OPEC’s annual statistical bulletin.  “We believe that the U.A.E.’s investment environment,
driven largely by Abu Dhabi, is not as strong as the project
data suggest,” the report said. “We still see the U.A.E. as
having the weakest domestic demand environment in the GCC
region, with structural challenges in Dubai adding to this.”  While Abu Dhabi’s fiscal position remains strong,
investment activity in the U.A.E.’s capital is “weak” as the
emirate seeks to redefine its economic objectives, the report
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 