-- U.K. Defense Ministry Criticized by Auditor for Cost Overruns Under Labour
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-k-defense-ministry-criticized-by-auditor-for-cost-overruns-under-labour.html
The U.K. Ministry of Defense was
criticized for its procurement failures under the last
government before an announcement by Prime Minister  David Cameron  next week about which military programs will be axed.  The National Audit Office  said in a report published in
London today that decisions by the ministry to try to balance
the defense budget reduced its cash-flow requirements in the
short term, while leading to greater long-term costs.  The ministry’s failure to make “realistic budgetary
provision” for all likely outcomes and the slowing of projects
led to costs rising 3.3 billion pounds ($5.3 billion) in 2009-10
for the 15 largest equipment procurement programs, the NAO said.  “Central departmental decisions were taken to balance the
defense budget, which had the effect of driving very significant
additional cost and delay into the equipment program,” Amyas
Morse, the head of the NAO, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This represents poor value for money for the taxpayer.”  Cameron will tell lawmakers on Oct. 19 how his
administration plans to redefine military needs. The
announcement will take into account a 38 billion-pound funding
gap in the arms-procurement budget, spiraling costs and the
government’s overall  156 billion-pound budget deficit .  “The MoD has been living beyond its means for too long and
project costs have been allowed to get out of control,” Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox  said in an e-mailed statement. “Next week’s
Strategic Defense and Security Review will provide a long-
awaited opportunity for the MoD to plan properly for the future
and to get back to a balanced budget.”  Examples of waste in today’s NAO report include the
ministry not making realistic provision for all potential costs
on the Eurofighter GmbH Typhoon combat aircraft, when the
department “decided that it needed to spend 2.7 billion pounds
on the program including the purchase of 16 additional aircraft
to meet contractual agreements.”  The ministry also slowed work on new aircraft carriers,
being built by a group including BAE Systems Plc, Babcock
International Group Plc and Thales SA, leading to further costs
of 650 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 