-- U.K. Banks May Be Barred From Paying Fines for Traders Who Violate Laws
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-14T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-k-banks-may-be-barred-from-paying-traders-fines-to-increase-deterrence.html
U.K. banks may be blocked from
paying fines levied on traders as part of a proposed rule change
barring firms from covering the costs of penalties for employees
who break the law.  The measure would help give “credible deterrence” by
putting the burden of potential punishment on the individual,
the  Financial Services Authority  said today in a  statement  on
its website listing proposed amendments to its practices.  “Individuals would be less likely to be put off from
breaching our rules if they expected their employer to pay any
financial penalty,” the FSA said.  The FSA has stepped up its regulation activity and levied
more than 84 million pounds ($135 million) in  fines  this year,
up from a total of 35 million pounds for all of 2009, according
to data on its website. It’s won three of the four insider-
trading prosecutions it has brought to trial after complaints it
did little to block the financial crisis.  The regulator said it had no details on how widespread the
practice is, calling it “a potential regulatory failure.”  The FSA also offered to expand its clemency program for
people and firms cooperating with probes to those facing
suspension. The proposal would extend the 30 percent cut in
fines that rewards settling a probe to suspensions, meaning a
company facing a maximum one year ban would have it trimmed to
seven months, the FSA said.  The regulator will solicit comments on the proposals until
Dec. 14 and plans to publish the policy in January.  A proposed reorganization of the agency could combine the
FSA’s enforcement unit, which prosecutes insider trading and
market abuse, with the U.K. Serious Fraud Office and parts of
the Office of Fair Trading to create an economic crime agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 