-- U.K. Banks Banned From Some Credit Insurance Sales
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-14T11:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-k-antitrust-regulator-to-ban-banks-from-selling-most-credit-insurance.html
Barclays Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc  and other U.K. lenders will be banned from selling most
types of credit insurance at the same time they sell the
underlying financial products, an antitrust regulator said.  The decision today comes a year after Barclays and Lloyds
won an appeal blocking the first effort by Britain’s  Competition
Commission  to change the sales process for payment-protection
insurance, known as PPI, to ensure it isn’t pushed on consumers.  “This is a very intrusive remedy,” said Mark Friend, an
antitrust lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London. “The concern
for banks will be that it results in an overall reduction in
demand for PPI, which arguably is in no-one’s interests.”  Britain’s financial regulator, the  Financial Services
Authority , is also moving ahead with plans to overhaul the
country’s loan-insurance market. PPI, sold to cover payments on
credit cards and mortgages in case of sickness or unemployment,
generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds ($8.7 billion) of annual
revenue for U.K. banks.  “We have come to a clear view that, overall, customers
will benefit significantly from the market reforms we propose
introducing for PPI products,” Competition Commission Deputy
Chairman Peter Davis said in a statement today.  Brian Capon , a spokesman for the  British Bankers’
Association , said the ban may result in more bankruptcy filings
by people who don’t have a financial safety net.  “There is a real danger that this will result in fewer
people taking out PPI, leaving them with no protection if they
lose their job,” Capon said today in a statement.  Judicial Review  The BBA is also seeking a judicial review of the FSA’s
plans to modify how complaints about the insurance products are
handled.  The London-based Competition Commission also banned so-
called single-premium PPI, where customers pay for insurance in
a lump-sum that’s added to the total cost of the loan. The FSA
last year also asked banks to stop selling single-premium PPI,
saying customers weren’t getting a fair deal.  Customers who buy PPI usually aren’t aware that they can
buy the insurance from other companies, and they rarely compare
prices and contract terms, or switch providers, the Competition
Commission said.  “In the absence of such competitive pressure, consumers
are charged high prices,” the regulator said today.  The antitrust watchdog, which introduced today’s ban in a
preliminary decision in May, must draw-up an order and set aside
time for implementation by banks before the ban can be
implemented. The banks could also appeal again.  Convenience Issue  In an early win for the banks, an  appeals  tribunal in
October 2009 ruled that the regulator failed to fully consider
the convenience to consumers who buy the insurance at the same
time they purchase the loan it protects. The new study reviewed
the issue and said banks were “overstating the loss of
convenience” that would result from a ban.  Barclays spokesman Alan White and Lloyds spokeswoman
 Heather Scott  didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Banning point-of-sale PPI could ultimately reduce sales
because customers who have more time to consider the product
might decide they don’t need or want it, the Competition
Commission said in the report.  Most of the U.K.’s 12 million PPI policies are sold when
consumers take out a loan, credit card or other type of credit,
the regulator said last year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Erik Larson at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 