-- U.K. to Set Aside $11 Billion for Education of Poor Children, Clegg Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-k-to-set-aside-11-billion-to-educate-the-poorest-children-clegg-says.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
will set aside 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) to help Britain’s
poorest children through school and college, in an effort to
soften the impact of the nation’s largest fiscal austerity
package since World War II.  The program will fund 15 hours of pre-school education for
disadvantaged children from age 2, give schools extra money to
take on pupils from poorer households and provide help for
bright students to go to college. Clegg won’t give details on
where the money will come from, his office said.  “It is hard to think of how money could be better spent,”
Clegg will say in a speech in Chesterfield, central England,
later today, according to excerpts released by his office. “Not
only because we are helping those children who have least
control over their own fortunes, but because the benefits will
be felt across our society as a whole.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will give
details next week of how he will slash 83 billion pounds of
government spending over the next four years as he tries to
reduce a  budget deficit  that this year will account for 10
percent of economic output. Clegg, a Liberal Democrat, will say
he wants the pain to be fairly spread across society.  “The spending review is a difficult process,” Clegg will
say. “As a government, and as individual ministers, we need to
be able to look ourselves in the mirror and know we did the
right thing, even when -- especially when -- it is a hard
thing.”  The deficit plan has led to tensions in the coalition
government of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats that was
forged after May’s inconclusive general election.  Most departments are facing budget cuts of a quarter in
Osborne’s deficit-reduction effort. As many as 500,000
government jobs may be lost by 2015, according to the
independent fiscal watchdog set up by Osborne, a Conservative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on at
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 