-- U.S. Steelmakers Move to Block Chinese Investments After Anshan's Venture
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-14T15:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-steelmakers-move-to-block-chinese-investments-after-anshan-s-venture.html
U.S. steelmakers, working to block
Chinese investments such as a planned venture by  Anshan Iron &
Steel Group  in Mississippi, produced a report saying companies
in China get illegal government subsidies.  Groups representing  Nucor Corp.  and  U.S. Steel Corp.  listed
government loans, tax breaks and payments they said their
counterparts in China receive. Much of the aid violates World
Trade Organization rules and may give Chinese companies an
unfair advantage if they invest in the U.S., according to the
report released today.  “By making its steel industry artificially competitive in
world markets, the Chinese government has disadvantaged market-
oriented producers around the globe,” the  American Iron & Steel
Institute  and the Steel Manufacturers Association said in the
report. “Deploying its steel-producing, state-owned enterprises
overseas to compete in private markets will only further distort
global steel markets.”  With Chinese foreign investment poised to expand, the
complaints from steelmakers indicate the fight over Anshan may
set the terms for future disputes between U.S. producers and
Chinese companies. While steelmakers complain that government-
supported Chinese firms can undercut them in the American
market, many U.S. communities are seeking overseas investment to
rebuild factories and boost employment.  Cheap credit and benefits from ties to the Chinese
government has meant that all of the expansion in global steel
production in the past decade has come from China, said  Alan Price , a lawyer at Wiley Rein LLP in Washington who wrote the
report.  ‘Government Intervention’  “That does not happen without major government
intervention,” Price said in an interview. “The report starts
to lay out the broader ground for action on WTO violations.”  Anshan announced May 18 that it was forming a venture with
Amory, Mississippi-based  Steel Development Co.  on a $200 million
factory that will produce 300,000 tons of reinforcing bar a
year. Additional plants may follow, it said at the time.  Anshan’s planned “small” investment in the U.S. shouldn’t
be politicized by U.S. lawmakers,  Yao Jian , a spokesman at
China’s Ministry of Commerce, said in July.  Even that investment is part of the Chinese government’s
“Going Abroad” strategy, and is not based solely on commercial
terms, Price said.  “The whole ‘Going Abroad’ strategy is government supported
and directed,” he said. “We’re at a crossroads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  