-- U.S. Asks Judge to Dismiss Gulf Deep-Water Drilling Ban Suit as Irrelevant
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-14T01:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-asks-judge-to-dismiss-gulf-deep-water-drilling-ban-suit-as-irrelevant.html
U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar ’s lawyers asked a federal judge in New Orleans to throw
out most of an oil industry lawsuit challenging the legality of
a deep-water drilling moratorium that the government has lifted.  U.S. regulators imposed the moratorium on drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on July 12, to replace an earlier
ban struck down by U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New
Orleans. Feldman threw out the first ban, imposed after the  BP
Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, as too broad.  Offshore service companies challenged the second moratorium
as well, in a lawsuit pending before Feldman, claiming Salazar
had broken federal statutes in imposing a ban that was harming
the Gulf Coast’s economy. The U.S. earlier asked Feldman to
reject this lawsuit, calling the ban a matter of public policy.  Salazar terminated the deep-water moratorium yesterday, six
weeks before it was set to expire, saying the industry was
meeting milestones for improvements in drilling safety. He said
vital oil-spill response capabilities had also become available
since BP’s blown-out well was permanently sealed in September.  “The secretary’s termination of the suspensions under the
July directive has eradicated the effects of the alleged
violations by providing plaintiff with the relief it was
seeking,’’  Ignacia Moreno , an assistant attorney general in the
Justice Department’s environmental division, said today in a
court filing. “The termination directive has mooted plaintiff’s
claims.’’  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 