-- U.S. Export-Import Bank Says Persian Gulf Aircraft Aid Fills Financing Gap
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-14T13:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-export-import-bank-says-persian-gulf-aircraft-aid-fills-financing-gap.html
The  U.S. Export-Import Bank  said
governmental aircraft financing for Persian Gulf airlines such
as Emirates doesn’t distort global markets because the funds
fill a need that financial institutions aren’t meeting.  “When it comes to exports, banks have been more reluctant
to make loans when it comes to foreign credits than domestic
credits,” Export-Import Bank Chairman  Fred Hochberg  told
reporters today at a briefing in Dubai. “We exist to level that
playing field and take out market distortions.”  U.S. and European airlines are urging governments to limit
financing of aircraft exports to avoid giving an advantage to
competitors abroad buying from Airbus SAS and Boeing Co., the
Washington-based Air Transport Association trade group said in a
letter yesterday to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .
Hochberg said the needs of plane manufacturers and carriers must
be considered when private banks won’t give loans for purchases.  “There are a lot of countervailing forces in terms of the
aircraft industry, from the manufacturers to the airlines,”
Hochberg said. “What is under discussion is how to find the
most equitable way of dealing with it.”  Emirates overtook Cologne, Germany-based  Deutsche Lufthansa
AG  last year as the world’s biggest carrier in terms of
international traffic. The Dubai-based airline financed 20
percent of its aircraft purchases through export credits,
Hochberg said. The U.S. Export-Import Bank also guaranteed $414
million of Emirates’ bonds last year to fund the purchase of
three  Boeing  777s.  Ex-Im’s Role  “We exist when the private sector financing is not able to
make financial support,” Hochberg said.  Air France-KLM Group  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri
Gourgeon and Lufthansa CEO  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  are among
executives attending an Association of European Airlines meeting
in London tomorrow to discuss a joint push with U.S. rivals for
changes to state export guarantees for aircraft purchases.  The Export-Import Bank and its counterparts in  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development  countries are looking
at whether to set new policies when rules on state backing for
aircraft purchases expire at the end of 2010, Hochberg said.  “We’ve always been in compliance and we’ll stay in
compliance” with OECD trade rules, Hochberg said.  The role of export financing has ballooned since the credit
crunch reduced banks’ willingness to lend. The share of plane
deliveries covered by government guarantees more than doubled to
34 percent in 2009, according to figures from Toulouse, France-
based Airbus and Chicago-based  Boeing , the world’s two biggest
makers of commercial aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   Eevans3@bloomberg.net . 