-- U.S. Home Seizures Reach Record Amid Foreclosure Review
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-home-seizures-climb-to-record-as-banks-review-foreclosure-practices.html
More than 100,000 U.S. homes were
seized by lenders in September, a record number that probably
will decline in coming months as major banks halt repossessions
and review their foreclosure practices.  Lenders took over 102,134 properties last month, RealtyTrac
Inc. said in a report today. That was the highest monthly tally
since the company began tracking the data in 2005, surpassing
the August record of 95,364.  Foreclosure filings , including
default and auction notices, rose 3 percent from the prior month
to 347,420. One out of every 371 households received a notice.  Sales of properties in the foreclosure process accounted
for almost a third of all U.S. transactions in the month, a sign
that a prolonged delay in repossessions may hurt the housing
market, RealtyTrac said.  Bank of America Corp.,  the largest U.S.
lender, said Oct. 8 it would curtail foreclosures across the
country, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.
stopped seizures in 23 states where court approval is required.  “We’re talking about loans that are almost certain to be
foreclosed on,”  Rick Sharga , senior vice president of Irvine,
California-based RealtyTrac, said in an interview. “The delays
are only providing a stay of execution.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states began a coordinated
investigation yesterday into whether lenders used false
documents and signatures to justify foreclosures. Banks and
mortgage companies would be “well served” to cooperate with
the probe and should consider negotiating settlements with
borrowers in cases of potential fraud, Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  told Bloomberg Television.  Revising Procedures  “Banks treat their customers with contempt, but if someone
can’t pay the mortgage, the lender gets the collateral,” Mark
Goldman, a real estate professor at San Diego State University,
said in a telephone interview. “At the end of the day, this is
a procedural situation, and banks will revise their
procedures.”  Foreclosure filings  totaled 930,437 in the third quarter, a
4 percent rise from the previous three months and a 1 percent
decline from the same period of 2009, according to RealtyTrac.
Lenders seized a record 288,345 properties in the period, up 22
percent from a year earlier.  “We expect to see a dip in those bank repossessions -- and
possibly earlier stages of the foreclosure process -- in the
fourth quarter,” RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer  James Saccacio  said in the report.  Judicial State Sales  Filings in the states most affected by courts reviews of
foreclosure documents accounted for 40 percent of the total in
the third quarter, RealtyTrac said. Those states had 36 percent
of repossessions.  In September, foreclosure sales in those states made up 32
percent of all U.S. distressed transactions, based on
preliminary RealtyTrac data.  Nationwide, sales of homes in default or foreclosure
accounted for 31 percent of all transactions last month. Bank-
owned properties made up 18 percent of sales, RealtyTrac said.  Nevada  had the highest foreclosure filing rate for the 16th
straight quarter. One in every 29 households got a notice,
almost five times the national average. A total of 38,429 Nevada
homes received filings, down 20 percent from a year earlier.  Arizona had the second-highest rate for the fifth straight
quarter. One in 55 households, three times the national average,
got a filing. Florida ranked third with one in 56 households and
California was fourth at one in 70, RealtyTrac said.  Idaho ranked fifth, with one in 86 households. Filings were
up almost 14 percent from a year earlier.  California Leads Filings  Five states accounted for more than a third of all U.S.
filings, led by  California ’s 191,016. Filings in the most
populous state fell 24 percent from a year earlier and 1.  Florida ranked second with 157,026 filings, little changed
from a year earlier. Arizona was third at 49,103, down 2 percent
from the third quarter of 2009.  Illinois was fourth at 47,802 filings and  Michigan  was
fifth at 46,100. Both states showed increases on a quarterly and
yearly basis. Others in the top 10 were Georgia, Nevada, Ohio,
Texas and Washington, according to RealtyTrac.  The company sells default data from more than 2,200
counties representing 90 percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  