-- Labor Department Requires 401(k) Fee Disclosure
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-14T16:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-labor-department-will-require-401-k-fee-disclosures-starting-in-2012.html
Employer-sponsored 401(k) retirement
plans will have to disclose fees that savers pay on investments
and transactions by 2012, the U.S. Department of Labor said.  “Participants will be able to understand the dramatic
effect fees play in the returns that they get,” Assistant
Secretary of Labor  Phyllis Borzi  said in a conference call
today.  The regulations, which will apply to the plans by Jan. 1,
2012, will require companies to provide investors information on
administrative and investment fees charged to their accounts in
their quarterly statements, the Labor Department said.  Regulators and legislators have been studying  fees  for
401(k) plans as more workers use them to save for retirement. An
estimated 72 million participants have 401(k)-type retirement
plans with assets totaling about $3 trillion, the department
said.  “Participants really haven’t been confronted with the fees
they pay,” said  David Wray , president of the Profit
Sharing/401k Council of America, a Chicago-based non-profit
association of employers that sponsor retirement plans. While
investors have been able to get many details on fees upon
request or by searching through paperwork, “the difference here
is some of that information is going to be given to you whether
you ask for it or not,” he said.  Explanation of Costs  Participants new to the plans must receive an explanation
of costs when first signing up for an account, the department
said. The regulations also will require 401(k) providers to give
participants enough information to allow cost comparisons with
other investment choices and a website with additional details.  “This rule provides uniform disclosure to workers about
what they pay for investment options in their retirement
plans,” Secretary of Labor  Hilda Solis  said today.  Fidelity Investments, the largest U.S. provider of 401(k)
plans, has been enhancing participant statements, its online
presentation of fees and its marketing materials to provide more
disclosure, Beth McHugh, vice president of market insights for
the Boston-based company, said in an interview yesterday. The
new features will be ready by the government’s deadline at the
latest and “will go beyond the regulations,” she said.  Fidelity, Putnam Accounts  About 11 million workers have their employer-sponsored
retirement plans with Fidelity, which manages $735 billion in
401(k) account assets, the firm said.  Putnam Investments announced yesterday it will start
disclosing to participants this month more information online
about the fees they pay on each investment. The Boston-based
money manager has about $17 billion in 401(k) assets.  The Department of Labor announced a separate  rule  in July
that would enhance disclosure of 401(k) fees by requiring plan
providers to report to plan sponsors direct and indirect
compensation received in connection with account services. That
requirement will take effect July 16, 2011, the Labor Department
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 