-- U.S. Stocks Retreat as Banks Tumble on Foreclosure Concerns
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-14T20:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-yahoo-chevron-climb-as-apollo-tumbles.html
U.S. stocks declined, dragging
benchmark indexes down from five-month highs, as financial
companies slumped amid concern over growing legal scrutiny of
home foreclosure practices.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co.
slid more than 4 percent to lead financial stocks in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  to a 1.8 percent drop, the  biggest 
among 10 industry groups. Apollo Group Inc. sparked a plunge in
education stocks after withdrawing its forecast for fiscal 2011.
Yahoo! Inc. gained 4.5 percent and EMC Corp. rose 4.5 percent on
reports they may be takeover targets.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,173.81 at 4 p.m. in New
York, paring its rebound from this year’s low on July 2 to 15
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 1.51 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,094.57.  “Investors are afraid of how much mortgage debt could
actually come back onto banks’ balance sheets,” said  Anton Schutz , who manages $250 million of financial stocks at Mendon
Capital Advisors Corp. in Rochester. “People are really
questioning the way these banks underwrote mortgages, their
entire process.”  Stocks extended losses and the S&P’s 500 Financials Index
fell the most in two months as home seizures reached a record in
September. Lenders took over 102,134 properties last month,
RealtyTrac Inc. said in a report today, the highest since the
company began tracking the data in 2005. Foreclosure filings,
including default and auction notices, rose 3 percent from the
prior month. One out of every 371 households received a notice.  Foreclosure Probe  The National Association of Attorneys General said
yesterday it will conduct a coordinated inquiry among all 50
states into whether banks and loan servicers used false
documents and signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of
foreclosures.  Bank of America , the largest U.S. lender, fell 5.2 percent
to $12.60 for the biggest drop in the Dow average. Wells Fargo,
the top U.S. home lender, retreated 4.2 percent to $24.72.
Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank, declined 4.5
percent to $4.06.  The S&P 500 rose for a fourth day yesterday, buoyed by
indications the Federal Reserve may announce plans to resume
buying Treasury securities next month to bolster the recovery
and better-than-estimated third-quarter  earnings.   JPMorgan, Apollo  JPMorgan Chase & Co., the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, fell 2.8 percent to $38.72. The bank set aside $1.3
billion of additional litigation reserves during the third
quarter, including expenses for mortgage-related matters, and
may have to pay penalties in the  foreclosure  investigation, its
chief executive officer said yesterday. JPMorgan’s reserves
“set off a ‘how much do other banks have to set aside?’
scramble,” Schutz said.  Bond insurers MBIA Inc. and Ambac Financial Group Inc., and
mortgage-insurance companies including Radian Group Inc., PMI
Group Inc. and MTG Investment Corp. all advanced. The
Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers said in a letter last
month to Bank of America that it should repurchase as much as
$20 billion in home loans that were based on wrong or missing
information.  “Any questions about fraud at the originators could lead
to a higher level of claim denials” by the mortgage insurers,
 Douglas Harter , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
said in an e-mailed response to a question.  H&R Block Inc.  slid 10 percent to $12.31, the third-biggest
drop in the S&P 500. The biggest U.S. tax preparer originated
mortgages through January 2008.  Education Slump  Apollo Group, the biggest education company by enrollment,
plunged 23 percent to $38 for the biggest drop in the S&P 500.
The operator of the University of Phoenix withdrew its 2011
forecast citing regulatory scrutiny and a possible 40 percent
decline in new students.  Education companies were the six-biggest decliners in the
Russell l000 Index. Education Management Corp., DeVry Inc.,
Career Education Corp., ITT Educational Services Inc. and
Strayer Education Inc. each fell at least 14 percent.  EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage computers, added
4.5 percent to $21.21 for the biggest gain in the S&P 500. The
London-based Evening Standard reported that Oracle Corp., which
has said it’s in the market for semiconductor companies and
makers of industry-specific software, might pay $40 a share for
EMC.  Yahoo ! rose 4.5 percent to $15.93. The owner of the second-
most popular U.S. Internet search engine is working with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to help defend against possible takeover
approaches, according to three people familiar with the matter.  ‘Cheap Valuations’  “You continue to see technology M&A activity,” said  Wayne Wilbanks , chief investment officer of Wilbanks Smith & Thomas in
Norfolk, Virginia. “Cheap valuations combined with easy money
from the Fed and private equity gives you incredibly strong
underpinnings.”  Verizon Communications Inc.  led telecommunications
companies to the only gain among the S&P 500’s 10 industry
groups. Verizon Wireless, co-owned by Verizon Communications and
Vodafone Group Plc, will begin competing with AT&T Inc. in
selling Web access for Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer on Oct.
28. Verizon rose 0.7 percent to $32.44.  An unexpected increase in the Labor Department’s weekly
tally of new claims for jobless benefits reinforced expectations
that unemployment above 9 percent will draw a monetary policy
response from the Fed. Initial unemployment claims rose by
13,000 to 462,000 in the week ended Oct. 9, helping spark a drop
in the dollar, which fell to a 15-year low against the yen and
reached its weakest versus the euro since January.  “The market is more infatuated with these weekly and
monthly numbers than ever before,” said  Larry Peruzzi , senior
equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets Inc. in Boston. “The
bulk of the move is coming from these numbers and what you’re
able to infer from that about whether there’s going to be
continued easing from the Fed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 