-- U.S. Bank Stocks Slide on Concern Over Foreclosure Inquiry
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-10-14T21:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/u-s-bank-stocks-slide-on-concern-over-foreclosure-inquiry.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup
Inc.  and  H&R Block Inc.  plunged, leading a drop in financial
stocks, on escalating concerns that faulty handling of home
loans and foreclosures will fuel costs.  H&R Block dropped $1.38, or 10 percent, to $12.31 at 4:15
p.m. in New York, the third-biggest decline among stocks in the
S&P 500 Index. Bank of America slid 5.2 percent,  Wells Fargo &
Co.  declined 4.2 percent, and Citigroup tumbled 4.5 percent.
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and New York-
based JPMorgan Chase & Co., which fell 2.8 percent, were today’s
worst performers in the 30-member  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  “You have a new cloud forming on the horizon which could
be anything from something minor to something that really slows
down the process” of foreclosures, said  Benjamin Wallace , an
analyst at Grimes & Co. in Westborough, Massachusetts, which
manages about $900 million and owns stock in JPMorgan and Wells
Fargo. “There was some certainty coming back but this mortgage
stuff has just reversed that.”  The declines reflect doubt about costs that banks might
bear on so-called mortgage put-backs from investors or insurers
who challenge the loans as well as uncertainty about the
potential costs of legal fights over foreclosures, analysts
said. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
at a conference in Boston, said the market’s volatility is
unprecedented.  ‘Nothing Different’  “There’s nothing different about our company today than
yesterday,” he said. “I’m not sure it is justified.”  The  Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers , a trade
group for bond insurers, said in a letter last month to Moynihan
that his bank should repurchase as much as $20 billion in home
loans that were based on wrong or missing information.  MBIA Inc. , the world’s biggest bond insurer, surged 16
percent to $13, the highest level in more than two years, after
climbing 4.6 percent yesterday.  Ambac Financial Group Inc. 
jumped 19 percent today, and Assured Guaranty Ltd. rose 9
percent.  Armonk, New York-based MBIA has sued mortgage sellers
including Countrywide Financial, now part of Bank of America,
and  Credit Suisse Group AG  over loans that failed to meet their
promised quality. The loans were packaged into bonds through a
process known as securitization and the bonds were insured by
MBIA.  ‘Another Defect’  Most losses that MBIA has paid or expects to pay on
mortgage-related securitizations are linked to fraud or breaches
of warranties or other representations, which originators are
“contractually bound to remedy,”  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for
the insurer, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Ineffective loan-transfer documentation would be another
defect falling into this category,” he said. “We expect these
repurchase obligations to be honored and therefore we anticipate
substantial recoveries on these transactions.”  The declines come a day after JPMorgan, the second-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, said it was adding $1 billion to reserves
set aside for repurchasing mortgages and also expanded a review
of foreclosures to about 115,000 files in 41 states, from at
least 56,000 loans in 23 states on Sept. 23. JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  said the review will cost more money, though expenses will
probably be “incremental.”  ‘Will Have Legs’  “There is some realization that this is something that
will have legs and will be an overhang well into next year,”
said  Jon Fisher , a portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Minneapolis, which oversees more than $18 billion.
“You don’t know how big it could be and at the end of the day
government will determine the size of the issue.”  Attorneys general from all 50 states have joined to open an
investigation into whether lenders and  mortgage  companies
falsified documents in foreclosures proceedings. Lenders
including  Ally Financial Inc.  and Bank of America have also
suspended some foreclosures or evictions to review paperwork.  Paul Miller , an FBR Capital Markets analyst, estimated
today that a three-month delay in seizures and other litigation
expenses could cost U.S. lenders $10 billion. He estimated Sept.
20 that U.S. banks may lose $44 billion and as much as $91
billion buying back defective mortgages, saying repurchase
losses are “more of an earnings issue rather than a capital
issue.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Matt McCormick , a banking-industry analyst and portfolio
manager at Cincinnati-based  Bahl & Gaynor Inc. , said his firm is
avoiding most U.S. bank stocks because the uncertainty is too
great. He said he doesn’t think banks’ management teams know how
bad the problems could turn out to be.  “I don’t think they truly know the depth of the
exposure,” McCormick, whose firm manages $2.9 billion, said
today. “There are more unknowns than knowns, and investors
today are not going to tolerate that.”  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on Bank of
America bonds jumped 12 basis points to 194 basis points and
earlier traded as high as 205 basis points, according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group. A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point. The swaps are trading at the highest since
July, according to data provider CMA.  Swaps on Citigroup jumped 6 basis points to 173 and
contracts on Wells Fargo rose 10 to 130, Phoenix prices show.  Confidence Eroding  The market’s reaction to questions about errors in mortgage
securitizations and foreclosures show investors are having new
doubts about the value of bank assets, said  Michael Shinnick , a
fund manager in South Bend, Indiana for Wasatch Advisors Inc.,
which has $8.5 billion under management. Investors’ confidence,
which had been bolstered by a rebound in bank earnings, is
eroding again, he said.  “There is enough circumstantial evidence to suggest that
the marks may not be accurate,” said Shinnick, whose $305
million fund has owned bank stocks in the past. He has no
position now. “When you analyze a bank, you have to start with
book value and with the overhang from real estate. I just don’t
have confidence in that book value,” he said.  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, originated
mortgages through January 2008. Some of the mortgages were
bundled into mortgage-backed securities  The tax preparer’s “exposure” to put-backs may range from
$1.20 a share to $12.60 a share “depending on the frequency of
claims and the severity of losses that are assumed,” said  Bill Carcache , a Macquarie Research analyst, in a note to clients
today.  ‘Highly Susceptible’  The company, based in Kansas City, Missouri, told investors
last month to ignore speculation that it may be forced to buy
back faulty mortgages or that costs may swamp reserves.  The company is “highly susceptible to mortgage put-back
headlines as they are smaller players, whereas the bigger banks
are better able to absorb the potential losses,”  Andrew Kuan ,
senior trader at Primus Asset Management in New York, said in an
e-mail yesterday.  The crisis will worsen unless regulators move quickly to
find a national solution, said  Katherine Porter , a visiting
professor at Harvard Law School who has studied banks’
foreclosure practices.  “If the delays drag on and the lawsuits ramp up, we’ll see
a twin hit to the economy; banks are very large players in the
overall stock market, for example, and if their stocks start
falling, that is not good,” Porter said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There could be, in the worst-case
scenario, a real downward hit to both the stock market and also
to the overall housing economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  