-- UBS Won't Take Legal Action Against Former Executives
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-14T12:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/ubs-defends-decision-not-to-take-legal-action-against-former-executives.html
UBS AG  defended its decision not to
take any legal action against former executives and board
members, saying Switzerland’s biggest bank “learnt the
lessons” from the credit crisis and a dispute with U.S. tax
authorities.  “With our decision to refrain from legal proceedings, we
do not want to gloss over the mistakes made by UBS or absolve
those involved of their corporate responsibility,” Chairman
 Kaspar Villiger , 69, said in a statement today. “We have learnt
the lessons of the past and the new management is now placing
UBS’s focus on sustainable success. It is important that we can
now concentrate on the future.”  Shareholder groups Deminor, Actares and Euroshareholders
sent a letter last month to Villiger, urging him to file charges
against former executives after investors at the annual meeting
in April refused to approve actions of the management and board
of directors for 2007. UBS published a 76-page  report  today that
summarizes what went wrong and explains why the bank doesn’t
want to pursue any legal action.  The Swiss government propped up UBS in October 2008 after
the bank had amassed the biggest writedowns and losses from the
credit crisis among European lenders at the time. Four months
later, Switzerland had to hand data on about 300 UBS clients to
U.S. authorities in an unprecedented move to avoid a criminal
indictment of the bank on charges it helped Americans evade
taxes. UBS later agreed to pass along information on as many as
4,450 more accounts.  Legal Opinion  To prevent a repeat of those events, Switzerland is
negotiating dozens of double-taxation agreements and plans to
publish guidelines for all money managers about accepting money
from non-residents.  UBS  and  Credit Suisse Group AG  were ordered
to cut their assets and risk-taking and increase capital to
levels exceeding international requirements to reduce the
possibility that one of them would have to be bailed out again.  In today’s report, produced on the recommendation of the
Swiss parliamentary committee, UBS detailed the insufficiencies
of its risk controls before the financial crisis and its
shortcomings in monitoring compliance at the wealth management
business. The bank had been “too ambitious” in its growth
plans and some employees were lacking professional knowledge to
deal with the unravelling of the financial crisis, Villiger said
at the presentation of the report in Zurich.  In a statement of opinion commissioned by UBS and published
with the report,  Peter Forstmoser , an emeritus professor of law
at the University of Zurich and former chairman of Swiss
Reinsurance Co., said that “omissions” can be identified that
would be a sufficient basis for legal proceedings against former
individual directors or executives.  ‘More than Uncertain’  Still, Forstmoser supported UBS’s decision not to take
legal action, citing the overall interests of the company and
its shareholders. UBS said it is “more than uncertain” that
any lawsuits would be successful, while such cases usually
“last many years, generate high costs, lead to negative
international publicity and thus hamper UBS’s efforts to restore
its good name in the markets in which it operates.”  Villiger said he isn’t aware that any large shareholders
are planning to file charges, and that the bank doesn’t want to
risk weakening its position in pending class-action lawsuits in
the U.S. by starting proceedings against former executives. UBS
currently estimates its position in the pending lawsuits as
“good,” he said.  UBS fell 0.5 percent to 17.56 francs by 1:17 p.m. in Swiss
trading, capping the gain for 2010 at 9.4 percent.  Disciplinary Actions  The bank has replaced almost all the members of the
 executive board  and the board of directors since the beginning
of the credit crisis. UBS has reviewed all businesses within its
investment bank, gave extended powers to risk controllers and
revamped its compensation system to avoid future losses.  Asked about succession planning for himself and Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 66, Villiger said the board is
drawing up profiles of possible candidates, though UBS still
needs “stability” in management.  In relation to the U.S. tax case, UBS took disciplinary
action against about two dozen employees and trained more than
17,500 staff on cross-border compliance. The bank said its exit
from the U.S. cross-border business was “largely completed” by
the end of July, with about 90 percent of all accounts
terminated.  As of November, UBS said it will require clients opening an
account with the bank to sign a declaration stating whether they
or any beneficial owner of the account are a U.S. national,
green card holder or U.S. resident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 