-- UN to Move Troops to Border of Southern Sudan to Deter Referendum Violence
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-14T20:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/un-to-move-troops-to-border-of-southern-sudan-to-deter-referendum-violence.html
The  United Nations  will move
peacekeeping troops in Southern Sudan to the region’s northern
border to deter violence stemming from a referendum that might
split the country, a senior UN official said.  UN troops will move within weeks to “hot spots” along the
border,  Alain LeRoy , head of UN peacekeeping, said in an
interview after briefing the  Security Council  on the plan. He
said the UN lacks the troop strength to create a full “buffer
zone” along the 1,200-mile border, as Southern Sudanese
President  Salva Kiir  has requested.  “We will increase our presence but only in some
hotspots,” LeRoy said. “We have already some teams sited along
the boundary.” He said creation of a buffer zone such as Kiir
proposed was unrealistic because “we have limited capacity.”  Oil-rich  Southern Sudan  is scheduled to vote Jan. 9 on
whether to secede from Sudan. The region pumps most of Sudan’s
crude, which at 490,000 barrels a day makes the nation the
third-largest producer in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  Talks on the referendum broke down earlier this week when
the parties disagreed about voter registration issues. Under a
2005 peace agreement, Abyei is scheduled to hold the referendum
to determine whether it will be administered by the government
in Khartoum or the Southern Sudan seat of power in Juba.  Civil War  Next year’s vote is a key component of the 2005 agreement
that ended a two-decades-long civil war between Sudan’s Muslim
north and the south, where Christianity and traditional beliefs,
largely animism, dominate. About 2 million people died in the
conflict, and more than 4 million were displaced.  Voter registration was scheduled to begin in November.
After talks broke down, the State Department announced that
Ambassador Princeton Lyman would travel to Khartoum and Juba to
engage both parties on referendum issues.  “The parties must reach consensus if the referendum is to
take place as scheduled,” said State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  said today. “Is this going to be an enormous
challenge?” Crowley said. “Yes.”  LeRoy said he couldn’t specify how many troops would be
moved to the border because the redeployment was still being
planned. The UN has 10,600 soldiers and civilian police in
Southern Sudan to monitor the 2005  peace agreement .  Fears of New Conflict  During the Security Council’s recent trip to Sudan, Kiir
“warned that he fears the north may be preparing for war and
may be moving troops southwards,” U.S. Ambassador  Susan Rice 
told the Security Council. “He stated that the south proposes a
UN-administered buffer zone, spanning 10 miles to the north and
south of the border, in which no troops would be present.”  The UN envoy representing the government in Khartoum
rejected the idea of a buffer zone and said any troop movements
in the region were part of a normal rotation.  “We are one country, so this is too early to speak
about,” Ambassador Daffa-Alla Elhag Ali Osman said in an
interview. “We don’t think there is a need for forces to be
positioned on the border. The picture should not be depicted as
if there is tension or war. Relations are civil.”  Rice said there was little support in the Security Council
for creation of a buffer zone.  “I think most council members are skeptical, to say the
least, of the feasibility of a force that could line the
entirety of the border,” she said. “The troops don’t exist; it
couldn’t be constituted quickly enough. But there is serious
discussion of alternative models that might focus on those areas
along the border that are most vulnerable or at high risk of
violence and where civilians may be most at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  