-- Hungarian Stocks, Forint Tumble on Bets New Tax Will Hurt Profits, Economy
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-10-14T11:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/hungarian-stocks-forint-tumble-on-concern-orban-s-taxes-will-hurt-economy.html
Hungary’s main stock index fell from
a five-month high and the forint weakened against the euro on
speculation planned special taxes will reduce companies’ profits
and hinder the country’s economic recovery.  The  BUX  equity index declined 1 percent as of 1:08 p.m. in
Budapest, led lower by phone operator  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. ’s 3.7
percent drop and oil refiner  Mol Nyrt. , which have a combined 40
percent weighting within the index. The forint depreciated 1
percent to 274.56 per euro, the most among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungarian assets reversed yesterday’s gains after Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said today in Budapest new, temporary
taxes will take away half of the telecommunications and energy
industry’s profits. The move will raise an additional 161
billion forint ($833 million) annually for three years to help
the country cut its fiscal deficit, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said yesterday.  “Both the amount as well as the three-year period is a
deep negative surprise,” stock analyst  Akos Herczenik  at
Raiffeisen Research in Budapest wrote in a report to clients
today. “The suspension of transfers to private pension funds
weakens their purchasing power on the market.”  Orban said yesterday the government will withhold social-
security payments to private pension funds through the end of
next year, saving 30 billion forint a month from Nov. 1.
Pension-fund association Stabilitas Penztarszovetseg criticized
the proposal yesterday, calling it a “cloaked
nationalization.”  ‘Anti-Growth’  The prime minister promised last month to reduce the budget
gap to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this year and less
than 3 percent in 2011, after falling out with the European
Union and International Monetary Fund over the same targets in
July. The EU and IMF saved Hungary from default with a 20
billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout loan in 2008.  Orban “is refusing to take any expenditure-side austerity
measures and is instead undergoing revenue-side contortions,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at Nomura International Plc.
in London, wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “This will likely
allow them to meet the deficit targets. This is not credible
fiscal policy, it is anti-growth.”  The government expects the special tax, which will be in
place for three years ending 2013, to generate revenue of 70
billion forint from the energy industry, 61 billion from
telecommunications and 30 billion from retailers, Orban said.  Companies are likely to pass the taxes on to consumers,
crimping domestic demand and economic growth, said  Gyula Toth ,
emerging-market strategist at  UniCredit SpA  in Vienna. The IMF
forecasts the economy will expand 0.6 percent this year, after
shrinking 6.3 percent in 2009.  “The deficit goal seems to be achievable nominally, but I
don’t like the details,” Toth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  