-- Turkey Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Unchanged for 11th Month on Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-10-14T16:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/turkey-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-unchanged-for-11th-month-on-inflation.html
Turkey’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for an 11th consecutive month
after announcing it has other tools to rein in the domestic
credit expansion that’s driving economic growth.  The central bank in Ankara kept its  one-week repo lending 
rate at 7 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today.
That matched the  estimate  of all 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The bank will release minutes of the meeting within
eight working days.  The bank is keeping the rate at a record low even after the
economy grew as fast as China’s in the second quarter of the
year and  inflation  accelerated. Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  says core
inflation points to falling price pressures and that the
European debt crisis may hurt growth in the months ahead.  “Despite the sharp recovery in economic activity, the bank
sounds confident about the disinflation process and is
determined to remain on hold for an extended period,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in a note to investors before the decision. The bank’s
confidence is based on “benign core inflation data, lira
strength and uncertainties over global growth dynamics.”  Gross domestic product  grew an annual 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, the statistics office said on Sept. 14. The
economy won’t sustain that pace in the second half of the year,
Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  said Oct. 12, forecasting
full-year growth of 6.8 percent.  Consumer loans  had increased 25
percent this year as of Sept. 24, according to the central bank.  Liquidity Withdrawn  Yilmaz on Sept. 23 raised the level of reserves that banks
must deposit with the central bank, withdrawing about 2.1
billion liras ($1.4 billion) in liquidity that it had added
during the global financial crisis.  The bank said it plans to use the required reserves “more
actively” in future. It has also been reducing the rate at
which it borrows from the money market, to encourage banks to
lend to one another rather than rely on the central bank.  Inflation  accelerated to 9.2 percent in September from 8.3
percent a month earlier. The bank had predicted the increase and
said inflation will slow to about 7.5 percent by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 