-- Venice ‘Postcards’ by Canaletto, Rivals Go on Show: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-10-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/venice-luxury-postcards-by-canaletto-rivals-go-on-show-martin-gayford.html
Here’s a question: “When is a
 Canaletto  not a Canaletto?”  The answer might seem obvious: when it was painted by
somebody else. This is what “Canaletto and His Rivals” at the
 National Gallery  in London investigates.  It’s an old-fashioned show, all about connoisseurship --
that is, who made which picture, and when? Views of 18th-century
Venice present thorny problems of that kind, as so many of the
artists who did them were connected in some way to Canaletto,
otherwise known as Giovanni Antonio Canal (1697-1768).  The exhibition is made up of his work, plus that of his
predecessors, pupils, competitors, and two of his nephews. On
show are numerous paintings that closely resemble each other.
Never before can so many views of the Grand Canal and Doge’s
Palace have been shown together in one place.  The show makes close comparisons between highly similar
pictures. Here’s a view of “Campo Santa Maria Formosa” by
Canaletto, and here’s one of the same subject by his nephew
Bernardo Bellotto (1722-1780). Spot the difference! There are
certainly conclusions to be drawn from such juxtapositions. In
this case, the Bellotto is plainly better than his uncle’s work.  All those comparisons are likely to bemuse visitors who
aren’t specialists in 18th-century Venetian view painting
(close, presumably, to 100 percent of them). That’s a shame,
because the show contains fabulous pictures, including moody
early Canalettos in which he almost seems like a pre-Romantic
artist.  Good and Boring  There are other equally intriguing questions that the show
doesn’t quite address: Why was Canaletto so good and, at the
same time, sometimes so boring? The answers are to do with
market forces and technological innovation.  The 18th-century boom in views of Venice was an early
symptom of the international tourist trade. These works weren’t
sold to Venetians, who knew what their city looked like already.
They were sold to foreign travelers -- mainly English and more
infrequently German -- who came on the Grand Tour. These
visitors generally wanted souvenirs of the most obvious places,
the kind that would later be on postcards, hence the
interminable representations of the Doge’s Palace. Canaletto did
his best not to repeat himself, yet tedium sometimes set in.  The technology was the camera obscura -- a filmless
predecessor of the modern camera. Art historians tend not to
like the idea that old masters used these devices. A fierce
rear-guard action is still being fought against the notion that
Vermeer and Caravaggio used cameras. But in the case of
Canaletto and his contemporaries the evidence is unequivocal:
there’s even a caricature of one of the artists in the
exhibition, Michele Marieschi (1710-1743), standing beside a
portable version of the device.  Shrinking St. Mark’s  How did it help? These pictures aren’t just copies of the
images the artists saw in their cameras. For one thing, many of
them are seen from imaginary or impossible positions. Often they
subtly redesign the buildings of Venice (shortening the bell
tower of St. Mark’s to make it fit, for instance).  The camera obscura was an aid with architectural
verisimilitude -- there are drawings by Canaletto that have
obviously been traced from the image in the camera. Above all,
it helped him to paint natural-seeming daylight. He was, a
contemporary noted, a painter who could “make the sun shine.”
That was his secret.  “Canaletto and His Rivals,” which is sponsored by Credit
Suisse Group AG, is at the National Gallery, London, through
Jan. 16, 2011. The show later travels to the National Gallery of
Art, Washington, D.C. (Feb. 20-May 30, 2011) Information:
 http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk  and  http://www.nga.gov .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 