-- Verizon to Sell Apple IPad Oct. 28 Bundled With Wi-Fi Device
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-14T20:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/verizon-to-sell-apple-ipad-oct-28-bundled-with-wi-fi-device.html
Verizon Wireless will start selling
 Apple Inc. ’s iPad at more than 2,000 company stores on Oct. 28,
gaining better access to a tablet device that rival carrier AT&T
Inc. has provided service for since its debut.  An iPad with 16 gigabytes of storage and a portable Wi-Fi
device called MiFi to connect to the Web will sell for $629.99
combined, Verizon, the biggest U.S. mobile carrier, said today
in a statement. A model with twice the storage will go for
$729.99 and a version with 64 gigabytes is priced at $829.99.  Verizon Wireless is using smartphones and devices like
Apple’s touch-screen tablet computer to boost  revenue  from data
plans. The announcement may signal that Apple and Verizon have
reached an agreement for an iPhone that will work on Verizon’s
network, which uses so-called CDMA technology, said  Maynard Um ,
an  analyst  for UBS AG, in a research note.  “The ability for Apple and Verizon Wireless to reach a
working agreement on the iPad gives more credence to our view
that a CDMA iPhone is likely to come,” Um said. “Supply
constraints for both iPads and iPhones have begun to ease, a
positive for Apple as we believe these products should be two of
the most heavily gifted items.”  A Verizon iPhone would end AT&T’s exclusive contract to be
the carrier for the handset in the U.S., a right it has had
since the iPhone was introduced in 2007. Verizon plans to start
selling the iPhone in January, two people familiar with the plan
said in June.  Expanding Availability  Apple is expanding the distribution for the iPad to fend
off competition from tablets by Samsung Electronics Co., Dell
Inc. and BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. said it will start selling the iPad at its Sam’s
Club locations yesterday.  AT&T, which has provided Web access for the iPad since
April, also said today that it will begin selling the tablet in
its stores on Oct. 28.  Verizon Communications Inc. , which co-owns Verizon Wireless
with Vodafone Group Plc, rose 23 cents to $32.44 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. Dallas-based AT&T
added 3 cents to $28.50, and Apple gained $2.17 to $302.31 on
the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Card-Sized Device  Verizon’s iPad data plans  start  at $20 a month for up to 1
gigabyte of usage, and go as high as $80 a month for 10
gigabytes. The Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based carrier will also
sell the iPad without the MiFi device, starting at $499, the
same price that the tablet is available in Apple’s stores.  The MiFi 2200 is a credit-card sized gadget that lets users
link up to five Wi-Fi-enabled devices to the Web. Sprint Nextel
Corp., the No. 3 U.S. mobile carrier, has promoted a similar
arrangement, encouraging customers to connect iPads to the Web
via its Overdrive portable Wi-Fi device. Cristi Allen, a
spokeswoman for Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint, declined to
comment on today’s announcement.  AT&T  is the only U.S. carrier selling an iPad model that
connects directly to its mobile-phone network. Those versions
start at $629, and the carrier charges $14.99 a month for a plan
that includes 250 megabytes of data and $25 for 2-gigabyte plan.
Brenda Raney, a Verizon spokeswoman, declined to say if that
carrier plans an iPad that connects directly to its wireless
network.  Devices that allow users to surf the Web provide the
carriers a new revenue stream from data plans as voice sales for
mobile and home-phone lines stall or  decline . Verizon is
upgrading its network to a faster, fourth-generation technology
called long-term evolution to improve the performance of mobile-
Web connections and add new features.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  