-- LVMH Third-Quarter Sales Rise 24% on Watches, Handbags
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-14T07:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/lvmh-says-third-quarter-sales-rise-24-as-all-units-achieve-higher-revenue.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ,
the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, said third-quarter sales
rose 24 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as wealthy
customers bought more watches and accessories.  Revenue increased to 5.11 billion euros ($7.2 billion) from
4.14 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today. That compared with the 4.88 billion-euro average  estimate 
of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The first nine months of 2010 confirmed the company’s
confidence for the year, LVMH said. Demand for luxury goods is
recovering as wealthy Asian shoppers splurge on timepieces and
handbags, and retailers replenish inventories in the U.S. and
Europe after the industry’s worst year on record.  Burberry Group
Plc , the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer, said yesterday that
second-quarter revenue rose 11 percent, while Hugo Boss AG
raised full-year sales and earnings forecasts today.  At LVMH “all divisions did better than we expected,” said
 Melanie Flouquet , an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove in Paris.
Watches and LVMH’s retail unit outperformed the most, she said.  LVMH fell 70 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 110.15 euros at 9:13
a.m. in Paris trading, after initially rising to a record 112
euros. The shares have risen more than 40 percent this year,
giving the maker of Zenith watches and Fendi handbags a market
value of about 54 billion euros.  Leather-Goods Unit  At the fashion and leather-goods unit, the company’s
largest, revenue increased 26 percent, led by the Louis Vuitton
brand. LVMH is building a new leather-goods factory in Marsaz,
France as demand outstrips supply, Chief Executive Officer
 Bernard Arnault  said in July.  The company will start selling a new line of leather goods
in the fourth quarter, it said today, adding that “strong
momentum” has returned to the Fendi and Donna Karan brands
since the beginning of the year.  Watch and jewelry revenue advanced 30 percent. U.S.
retailers have rebuilt their depleted inventories and sales to
end-consumers have improved,  Jean-Claude Biver , CEO of Hublot,
the Swiss watch brand owned by LVMH, said last month. Hublot
gained market share with its Big Bang and King Power lines.  Sales of wines and spirits gained 24 percent, while perfume
and cosmetics advanced 17 percent, boosted by sales of Christian
Dior perfume and lipsticks, LVMH said.  Revenue at the selective-retailing unit, which includes
Sephora and DFS, rose 24 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 