-- Warsaw Exchange Starts Share Sale, Extending Polish IPO Boom
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2010-10-14T14:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/warsaw-bourse-set-to-start-ipo-as-government-seeks-cash-to-cut-budget-gap.html
Poland seeks to raise as much as
1.15 billion zloty ($415 million) from the initial public
offering of the Warsaw Stock Exchange, the first bourse operator
in emerging Europe to go public.  The government, which is selling 26.8 million shares, or a
64 percent stake of the country’s sole stock exchange, set the
maximum price for individual investors at 43 zloty a share, the
Treasury Ministry said on its  website . Orders will be taken for
institutional investors starting tomorrow and ending on Oct. 28,
based on a prospectus published on the exchange’s  website  today.
The shares will begin trading Nov. 9, based on the prospectus.  The IPO is part of a plan to raise 25 billion zloty ($8.8
billion) this year to help finance the budget gap and curb
borrowing. Poland has sold stakes in the nation’s biggest
insurance, energy, copper and phone companies this year.  “The words ‘stock exchange’ alone are electrifying for
investors in Poland, so we may have solid demand,” said
 Jaroslaw Lis , who helps manage the equivalent of $2.5 billion at
Union Investment TFI SA in Warsaw. “Current market sentiment
will help the sale, as will the exchange’s monopoly position.”  Based on the maximum offer price, the Warsaw exchange is
valued 17.9 times its 2009 net income, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  NYSE Euronext , the biggest operator of U.S. stock
exchanges, trades at 12 times reported earnings for the past 12
months, while Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. is valued at 11 times
reported profit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most IPOs  The Polish stock exchange is the third-largest in emerging
Europe after those of Russia and Turkey, with a market
capitalization exceeding $193 billion. It has expanded the
fastest in the region, more than doubling the number of traded
companies and almost tripling daily stock turnover in the past
decade, according to  data  on its website.  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs annually in
central Europe since at least 2004, Bloomberg data show.
Companies have raised $4.36 billion in 52 IPOs this year, with
the largest coming from state-owned energy utility  Tauron Polska
Energia SA  and insurer  Powszechny Zaklad Ubezpieczen SA .  Czech betting company Fortuna Entertainment Group NV,
Polish television broadcaster 4Fun Media SA as well as property
developers Robyg SA and ED Invest SA are among companies holding
IPOs in Warsaw this month as the market’s  benchmark WIG20 Index 
climbed to the highest level in more than two years.  ‘Beating Heart’  “The bourse is the vibrant beating heart of our economy
and its IPO is just another step in our plan to build a strong
financial hub in Warsaw,” Treasury Minister  Aleksander Grad 
said at a news conference today.  Accelerating state-asset sales and rising stock turnover on
the Polish exchange have prompted international banks to expand.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG this year
announced plans to set up offices in Warsaw. Credit Suisse Group
AG reopened a brokerage this year after shuttering its Warsaw
stock-dealing business in 2003.  The bourse is the second exchange IPO this year, following
a June listing by CBOE Holdings Inc., the last major U.S.
securities exchange owned by its members. Individual investors
will be offered as much as 30 percent of 26.8 million shares
being sold in the IPO and the government is to decide on the
sale of its remaining 35 percent stake in the next three to five
years, according to the prospectus.  There are more than 550 companies trading on Warsaw’s main
market and NewConnect platform for smaller companies. The CEE
Stock Exchange Group, which includes regional peers in Vienna,
Budapest, Prague and Ljubljana, had 259 companies last month,
according to  the Federation of European Securities Exchanges .  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS
are global coordinators of the Warsaw exchange’s IPO. Ipopema
Securities SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale SA, PKO Bank
Polski SA, Bank Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank SA, Banco
Espirito Santo SA, IDM SA and Wood & Co. are helping manage the
sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  