-- ECB's Weber Says Emergency Support Must Be Tied to Conditions
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-14T11:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/weber-says-emergency-aid-for-nations-must-be-tied-to-painful-conditions.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member  Axel Weber  said future emergency support to euro-
region member states must be tied to “strict and painful”
conditions to encourage governments to stick to budget rules.  “A temporary financial support for member states should
remain an option at best used only if there’s a clear,
considerable contagion risk for the rest of the currency union
and if, secondly, the use is tied to strict and painful
conditions,” Weber said at an event in Berlin today. Funds
should be raised by individual member nations rather than
through a joint measure such as Eurobonds, he said.  European leaders are seeking ways to tighten budget-deficit
rules after Greece’s debt crisis forced countries in May to
pledge an unprecedented rescue package to prevent the crisis
from spreading across the 16-member region. While governments
from Ireland to Portugal have since stepped up spending cuts,
investors remain concerned about countries’ ability to fund
themselves.  “Measures for crisis management need to be tailored in a
way that entails as little as possible distortion of
incentives” for member states, Weber said. “That’s why it’s
indispensable to credibly anchor the no-bailout principle.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Irish and
Portuguese 10-year bonds over German bunds climbed to records as
recently as Sept. 28. The Irish spread was at 397 basis points
today, Spain’s at 170 points and Portugal’s at 385 points.
Greece’s premium was at 656 points.  Deficit Sanctions  Weber, who is also head of Germany’s Bundesbank, called for
a system of “automatic sanctions” for countries breaching the
region’s budget rules. It’s important not only to monitor
countries’ shortfalls but also their debt, he said. His
Luxembourg colleague  Yves Mersch  said in London today that he
would favor “more automaticity” for sanctions and that
governments’ capacity to plead “exceptional circumstances” to
avoid penalties should be curtailed.  Weber’s comments come two days after he said the ECB’s
purchases of government bonds “should now be phased out
permanently” and that the risk of exiting too late is greater
than the danger of withdrawing measures too early. The ECB
started buying bonds in May to help restore confidence.  “In the current situation, which is marked by uncertainty,
a credible consolidation can serve as an anchor,” Weber said
today. “A continuous expansive financial policy for countries
with massive household problems is” no longer an option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at  rbuergin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  