-- Wetherspoon Executives, Down, Harbottle, Leave in Unexplained Departures
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-14T09:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/wetherspoon-senior-executives-leave-pub-company-in-unexplained-departures.html
JD Wetherspoon Plc , the U.K. owner
of more than 750 pubs, said Finance Director  Keith Down  and
Chief Operating Officer  Paul Harbottle  will leave the company,
without giving a reason for the departures.  Down, who joined in January 2008, and Harbottle, who has
been at Wetherspoon since 2003, will be leaving in “due
course,” the Watford-based company said in a statement today.  The timing of the departures is a coincidence, Chairman  Tim Martin  said in a phone interview. “There wasn’t a plot or a
scam or a scheme,” he said, declining to go into more detail.  Analysts expressed surprise that two of the company’s top
executives were leaving at the same time.  “The City never likes to see these departures without an
obvious reason,”  James Dawson , an analyst at Charles Stanley &
Co. Ltd., said in a phone interview.  Paul Hickman , an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt in London, said
there may have been “a strategic disagreement” about using
cost savings to protect margins. “As a result, we have concerns
that margins may come under more pressure than we have been
assuming,” said Hickman, who lowered his  recommendation  on the
pub company’s shares to “hold” from “buy.”  Wetherspoon fell as much as 4.1 percent in London trading
and was down 11.3 pence, or 2.5 percent, at 443.4 pence as of
10:02 a.m. The stock has risen 4.3 percent this year.  Analyst  Nigel Parson  at Evolution Securities Ltd. described
joint board departures as “most unusual.” “It’s an
uncompromising culture at Wetherspoon and you either like it or
you don’t,” the analyst wrote in a note.  Chief Executive Officer  John Hutson  will take on
Harbottle’s responsibilities, while Deputy Finance Director  Kirk Davis  will become interim finance director, Wetherspoon said.  Martin said he was “happy” that the board wouldn’t be
overstretched as a result of the departures.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Farrand at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net  