-- Wilders-Backed Dutch Government Plans to Cut Immigration, Development Aid
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-10-14T11:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/wilders-backed-dutch-government-plans-to-cut-immigration-development-aid.html
The Netherlands, the second-largest
exporter in the euro zone, got a new government today backed by
 Geert Wilders ’s anti-Islam party that plans to cut immigration
and reduce spending on development aid and the European Union.  “The Dutch are increasingly scared of the outside world,
instead of seeing it as a chance to profit from foreigners by
trading,” said Lans Bovenberg, a professor of economics at
 Tilburg University . “This Cabinet is a next step in that
direction.” He called it “a worrying development, as our
country profits from the openness to the world and from people
coming in.”  The Netherlands, with 16.6 million people, is home to
Europe’s largest  port, Rotterdam , and relies for more than 70
percent of its gross domestic product on exports, mainly to
neighboring countries, the U.K. and the U.S. The Dutch economy’s
recovery from the worst recession in six decades was export-led,
according to data from the national statistics bureau, CBS.  The new prime minister,  Liberal Party  leader  Mark Rutte ,
43, presented his Cabinet of Liberals and Christian Democrats to
 Queen Beatrix  in The Hague today after four months of coalition
talks. His two-party government relies on Wilders, 47, to pass
legislation in parliament, including a planned ban on full-face
Islamic veils and stricter immigration rules.  About 1.5 million Dutch voters cast ballots for Wilders’s
 Freedom Party , which wants to stop the building of mosques and
withdraw from the EU. Wilders called Turkey’s Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan , whose party has its roots in Islam, a
“total freak” in March. During a visit to Germany last month,
he said Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is accepting “Islamization as
inevitable.”  ‘Banana Republic’  Bart Jan Koopman, director of  Fenedex , an association of
about 1,200 Dutch exporting companies, including Heineken NV and
 Royal Philips Electronics NV , warned that such remarks may harm
Dutch trade.  “Germany isn’t exactly a banana republic, it is our
largest trading partner,” he said. “If that’s going to be at
the order of the day, it isn’t going to help us businesswise.”  The Netherlands, which has been known for accepting
foreigners since Portuguese Jews sought refuge there, has played
an outsized role in the world economy since the founding of the
Dutch East India Company in 1602. The merchant empire, which
focused on trading instead of cultural colonization, once
stretched from the Caribbean to Indonesia.  ‘More Modest’  “The presence of Wilders indicates that this image of
tolerance isn’t correct anymore,” said James Kennedy, a
professor of Dutch history at the  University of Amsterdam . “The
Netherlands has become more modest in its international
ideals.”  The new government has said it wants to reduce its
international involvement, cutting development aid by 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion), and lowering its contribution to the EU,
of which it was one of the founders. The Cabinet will also
consider reducing its network of embassies and consulates.  In his 2008 movie “Fitna,” Wilders called on Muslims to
rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the Koran. The film
sparked protests in majority-Muslim countries including
Indonesia and Pakistan and led to calls to boycott Dutch
products in Malaysia and Iran. He is on trial in Amsterdam on
charges of defaming Muslims in the film and in newspaper
editorials.  The Netherlands has about 850,000 Muslims, according to
Dutch statistics bureau 2006 data. Most are of Turkish or
Moroccan origin.  The new government is the first in the Netherlands since
World War II not to have a parliamentary majority. Ten parties
won seats in parliament in the June 9 election, with only the
Liberals taking more than 20 percent of the vote.  “This minority government won’t win a beauty contest, but
there was no other solution,” said  Sylvester Eijffinger , a
professor of economics at Tilburg University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 