-- Witness Barred From Embassy Bomb Case Not `Credible,' U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-14T22:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/witness-barred-from-embassy-bomb-case-not-credible-u-s-judge-says.html
A federal judge said he barred a key
witness from testifying against  Ahmed Ghailani , charged with
bombing two U.S. embassies in 1998, because the man wasn’t
“credible” and because Ghailani was “coerced” into
identifying him while in CIA custody.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in New York said Oct. 6 he
wouldn’t allow Hussein Abebe, a Tanzanian miner, to testify he
sold five crates of dynamite to Ghailani before the blasts in
Tanzania and Kenya. Kaplan issued a full ruling today explaining
his decision, some of which remained classified and redacted.  Kaplan said Ghailani, held by the CIA from 2004 to 2006
after he was captured in Pakistan, was coerced into identifying
Abebe, who wasn’t found until eight years after the attacks. The
judge also said the reasons Abebe gave during a pretrial hearing
for wanting to testify against Ghailani were “unpersuasive
pretense” and that his motive was “purely to avoid prosecution
and other feared adverse consequences.”  “The record makes it clear that Abebe never would have
been identified and located without the information contained in
a series of coerced statements made by Ghailani,” Kaplan wrote
in today’s 60-page ruling.  Ghailani, 36, is the first detainee held in Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, to be tried in a U.S. civilian court. Opening statements
and witness testimony in his Manhattan jury trial started this
week. He faces 224 counts of murder for the death toll in the
attacks and may be sentenced to life in prison if convicted.  Pleaded Not Guilty  Ghailani, who pleaded not guilty to charges that he helped
deliver bomb-making components used in the Tanzania blast, says
he didn’t knowingly participate in the attacks and was duped by
others into running errands for their plot.  Kaplan heard last month from Abebe, 46, who hasn’t been
prosecuted by U.S. or Tanzanian authorities. Abebe told the
judge that Ghailani “tricked” him into selling the dynamite
for “pearl mining.” Abebe told Kaplan he wanted to testify
against Ghailani because he was “anxious to be coming to clean
myself up.”  Abebe said he cried after an August 2006 session with
Tanzanian authorities “because he was angry that the people
responsible for the bombings had used him in this manner,”
according to Kaplan’s ruling today.  ‘Tears Were Products’  “The court does not credit that testimony,” Kaplan wrote.
“The tears were products, at least primarily, of Abebe’s fears
of adverse consequences as a result of his admitted involvement
in the bombings.”  Ghailani is charged with participating in a global
conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden . He was captured
in Pakistan in 2004 and held by the Central Intelligence Agency
at secret sites where he was subjected to what the U.S. has
called “enhanced interrogation techniques” and what his
lawyers have labeled “torture.”  He was moved to Guantanamo in 2006 and transferred to
federal court custody in New York in 2009, after the Obama
administration said it planned to close Guantanamo and try some
terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  ‘Critical’ Witness  A prosecutor described Abebe as a “critical” witness, the
only person who could give a first-hand account of Ghailani’s
role in the attacks. Prosecutors previously told Kaplan they
wouldn’t use Ghailani’s confessions after they acknowledged his
statements were obtained under coercion. The U.S. had argued
Abebe cooperated willingly and that his testimony was removed
from any information Ghailani provided about him.  The judge rejected the government’s arguments in today’s
ruling.  “If the government is going to coerce a detainee to
provide information to our intelligence agencies, it may
not use that evidence-- or fruits of that evidence that are tied
as closely related to the coerced statements as Abebe’s
testimony would be here -- to prosecute the detainee for a
criminal offense,” Kaplan wrote.  The judge also said he isn’t sure that Abebe’s testimony
would be admitted in a military tribunal instead of a civilian
trial.  “It is very far from clear that Abebe’s testimony would
be admissible if Ghailani were being tried by military
commission, even without regard to the question whether the
Fifth Amendment would invalidate any more forgiving provisions
of the rules of evidence otherwise applicable in such a
proceeding,” he wrote.  Kaplan previously rejected Ghailani’s bid to dismiss his
indictment based on a claim of outrageous government misconduct
for the alleged torture. He also refused to dismiss the
indictment as a violation of the defendant’s right to a speedy
trial.  Prosecutors Won’t Appeal  Prosecutors said Oct. 10 that they wouldn’t appeal Kaplan’s
decision excluding Abebe’s testimony and would carry on in the
trial without him.  A delay in the trial would inconvenience many government
witnesses who have “long waited to see the defendant tried for
his crimes,” prosecutors said in their letter to Kaplan.  In another development, Kaplan today approved a lawyer to
represent Juror No. 6. The judge said the juror, whose identity
hasn’t been disclosed because the panel is anonymous, brought to
his attention a “possible violation” of a federal law that
protects juror’s rights while serving. Kaplan said the juror had
requested legal representation.  Notes From Jurors  At the start of court yesterday, Kaplan said that he had
received notes from two jurors and a letter from an employer of
a third juror saying that serving on the case would be a
hardship. Their requests came on the second day the jury had
been seated in the case.  Kaplan denied their requests. “This creates an extremely
difficult problem for me,” he said. “You all had quite a few
opportunities to include whether serving on this jury would be a
hardship.”  During jury selection last month, Kaplan repeatedly asked
jurors to indicate if serving on a trial that could last more
than two months would be a hardship. None indicated such service
would be a problem.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-CR-1023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 