-- Won Trades Near 5-Month High, Bonds Rise After Bank of Korea Rate Decision
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-14T08:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/won-trades-near-5-month-high-bonds-rise-after-bank-of-korea-rate-decision.html
South Korea’s government bonds
surged to a record and the won traded near a five-month high
after the central bank held off from raising interest rates
today.  Exchange-rate volatility is among the threats to
economic growth, the Bank of Korea said in a statement after
the rate decision. Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said
yesterday policy makers should take preemptive action to curb
inflation, which accelerated to an 18-month high in September.  “At this time, the appreciation of the won and
prospects for the global economy are priorities,” said
 Christian Carrillo , Tokyo-based head of Asia-Pacific
interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA. “If they hike
now and the won appreciates sharply, it’s equivalent to
double monetary tightening.”  The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due in June 2013 slid
17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 3.11 percent,
according to prices from Korea Stock Exchange. That’s the
lowest level for a benchmark three-year note on record,
according to central bank data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The won rose 0.9 percent to 1,111.10 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, after yesterday climbing 1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
strengthened 2.4 percent so far this month, and reached
1,110.75 on Oct. 11, the strongest level since May 3.  Rate Unchanged  The Bank of Korea kept its  seven-day repurchase rate  at
2.25 percent for a third month today, having raised it from a
record-low 2 percent in July.  Six of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast no change while the remaining
four expected a quarter of a percentage point increase.  The Bank of Korea reiterated it will seek to ensure
price stability while sustaining growth. The economy will
continue to expand on exports, though slowdowns overseas pose
risks, it said in a statement.  Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent from a year earlier in
September, toward the top end of the Bank of Korea’s targeted
range of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012. Governor Kim
said the latest rate decision was not unanimous, adding that
it’s hard to fight inflation using only interest rates.  South Korea’s import prices jumped 7.8 percent in
September from a year earlier in won terms, a separate Bank
of Korea report showed today. Prices climbed 12.4 percent
based on the foreign currencies used in the import contracts,
indicating a stronger won is helping to curb the cost of
inbound shipments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 