-- Yahoo Said to Hire Goldman to Handle Takeover Approaches
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-15T01:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/yahoo-said-to-work-with-goldman-sachs-to-defend-against-possible-takeovers.html
Yahoo! Inc. , which spurned an
acquisition bid from Microsoft Corp. in 2008, is working with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to help defend against possible
takeover approaches, said three people familiar with the matter.  While the Sunnyvale, California-based company hasn’t
received an offer, Yahoo has been working with advisers for
about two weeks to field any approach, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private.  AOL Inc. 
has talked with private-equity funds including Silver Lake about
a possible bid, two people familiar with the matter said.  Yahoo climbed 4.5 percent today after paring earlier gains
of as much as 9.9 percent. The company had lost half its value
since Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, withdrew an
almost $50 billion bid in 2008, and sales haven’t grown under
Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , leaving Yahoo vulnerable to
fresh overtures.  “The shareholders own this company and the shareholders
have lost a lot of value because of the actions of the directors
and the management of this company,” said  Lawrence Haverty , a
portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc., which holds Yahoo
shares. “Something’s going to happen.”  Discussions between AOL and private-equity firms are
preliminary and have recently focused on a possible purchase of
parts of  Yahoo , two people said. The private-equity funds have
weighed raising $10 billion to $12 billion, these people said.  Takeover Defense  Neither AOL nor private-equity funds have made an approach
to Yahoo, the people said. Representatives of AOL, Yahoo and
Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Yahoo began preparing for an outside offer after some of
its advisers picked up tips that private-equity funds were
trying to raise money for a takeover, these people said.  Private-equity firms, bankers and some Yahoo  investors  have
been pitching the idea of a Yahoo takeover to AOL and News
Corp., according to a person familiar with the conversations.
The idea is that Yahoo should focus on being a media company and
align itself with another media-focused business, the person
said. A spokeswoman for News Corp. declined to comment.  Yahoo rose 68 cents to $15.93 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . AOL fell 17 cents to $24.95 on the
New York Stock Exchange. AOL has gained 7.2 percent  this year .  After withdrawing its Yahoo takeover bid, Microsoft struck
a 10-year agreement to handle search for Yahoo’s sites.
Microsoft has no current plans to make another bid for Yahoo and
expects that its search deal would stand up to a change of
ownership, two people familiar with the matter said.  Ballmer’s Comments  Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer , when asked whether he’s
interested in bidding for all or part of Yahoo, said that’s “not
something I’m working on.” Asked to elaborate, he declined to
comment. Earlier he had held a question-and-answer session at
the University of Washington in Seattle.  AOL’s discussions focus on bringing Yahoo’s media
operations under the management of AOL CEO  Tim Armstrong ,
according to two of the people.  Yahoo General Counsel  Michael Callahan  has been in charge
of the takeover-defense effort, two people said. The company’s
thinking is that an outsider may be interested in Yahoo’s 39
percent stake in China-based Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which
analysts say is worth about $10 billion, these people said.  John Spelich , Alibaba’s spokesman in Hong Kong, didn’t
reply to requests seeking comment.  Alibaba, China’s biggest electronic-commerce company, said
last month it offered to buy back its stake in May, though the
talks collapsed the following month.  Alibaba Stake  Now that Yahoo uses Microsoft’s Bing search technology and
is phasing out its own capabilities, Alibaba no longer needs the
company as a partner,  David Wei , head of the Chinese company’s
Alibaba.com Ltd. unit, said Sept. 10.  Alibaba Group sold the stake to Yahoo in 2005 for $1
billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese unit. Under the
agreement, Alibaba would have the right to buy back the stake if
Yahoo were to be taken over, according to a 2005 SEC filing.  The Hangzhou-based parent of Hong Kong-listed Alibaba.com
operates Yahoo’s local website and other Internet businesses,
including Taobao.com, China’s biggest online shopping site.  Yahoo also owns 35 percent of  Yahoo Japan Corp. , operator
of the nation’s most visited Web portal.  Fumihiro Ito , a
spokesman at Yahoo Japan’s largest shareholder, Softbank Corp.,
said the company is sticking with its intention of holding on to
its stake.  Yahoo in Asia  Yahoo’s enterprise value after removing the stakes in
Alibaba and Yahoo Japan is about $13.3 billion, compared with
AOL’s $2.9 billion valuation, according to Miller Tabak & Co.
analyst  David Joyce .  If AOL were to be involved in a deal, private-equity
funding would be necessary, unless it was structured as a
reverse merger with AOL gaining managerial control, Joyce, who
recommends buying AOL stock, wrote in a note today.  A combination of AOL and Yahoo would bring together Web
properties that have struggled against  Google Inc.  and Facebook
Inc. Yahoo, under a turnaround effort led by  Bartz , announced
last month the exodus of three of its top managers after
reporting second-quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  AOL, also in a turnaround effort led by CEO  Armstrong , was
short of sales estimates in its second quarter after being spun
off from Time Warner Inc. last December.  This isn’t the first time the combination of AOL and Yahoo
has been considered. Time Warner CEO  Jeff Bewkes  said in
December 2008 that talks about possible deals for AOL were under
way with Yahoo, Microsoft and Google. When those talks didn’t
lead anywhere, Time Warner opted for a spinoff.  News Corp ., based in New York, owns the Wall Street
Journal, Fox News, a film studio and MySpace. AOL, since its
December spinoff from Time Warner, has been trying to reshape
itself into a media-driven company by investing in community
news and niche online content and last month buying news blog
TechCrunch Inc.  The technology blog AllThingsD previously reported that
companies including AOL and Silver Lake have weighed an offer
for Yahoo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  