-- Yields Hit Lowest Since '92 for Companies on Foreign Cash: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-14T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/yields-hit-lowest-since-92-for-companies-on-foreign-cash-canada-credit.html
Yields on Canadian corporate  debt 
are at the lowest levels in at least two decades as
international investors purchase record amounts of the nation’s
bonds and as the government plans to balance its books by 2015.  The yield-to-maturity on a broad index of investment-grade
corporate debt, comprising 705 bonds with a par value of C$278
billion ($277 billion), fell to 3.566 percent on Oct. 11, the
lowest since June 1992, when Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
begins. Yields reached 6.18 percent in October 2008, the highest
in more than six years, amid a worldwide credit crunch.  Foreign investors purchased record amounts of government
bonds through July, government data show, and Canada’s economy
is matching Germany’s as the strongest among its developed peers
after the recession. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said two days
ago that Canada will be the first Group of Seven country to
balance its budget by 2015. Two-year yields in Canada are the
second highest in the G7 after Italy, adding to the attraction
for international bond buyers.  “The dominant factor remains the search for yield that
comes as government bond yields are driven so low,”  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed income and currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, wrote in an e-mail. “Weak
price pressures and disappointing growth” are also driving
yields lower, as well as the prospect of another round of
quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, Chandler wrote.  Extra Yield  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of corporate rather than federal debt
widened yesterday to 145 basis points, from 144 basis points the
day before. Spreads were as wide this year as 154 basis points
in June. Relative corporate yields in the U.S. stood at 180
basis points, and at 168 basis points for a broad index of
global corporate bonds, the Merrill Lynch data as of Oct. 12
showed.  Corporate bonds in Canada have made investors 0.2 percent
this month, according to the Merrill Lynch data, compared with
0.6 percent gains each for U.S. and global corporate bonds. U.S.
corporate yields stood at 3.579 percent on Oct. 12, compared
with 3.36 percent for global corporates.  Weaker employment and housing data helped push bond prices
higher. Canada’s five-year bond yield touched 1.85 percent two
days ago, the least since April 2009. The 10-year bond yield
fell to 2.68 percent the same day, the lowest since March 2009.  Employment gains averaged 6,600 during the past three
months, down from the 75,530 average in the previous quarter,
according to Statistics Canada. Housing starts fell 1.5 percent
to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 186,400 in September,
Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp. said last week.  Among Group of Seven countries, Canadian government two-
year debt yields this week stood at 1.37 percent, compared with
1.67 percent in Italy and 0.36 percent in the U.S.  Global Buying  Foreigners are buying Canadian federal, provincial and
mortgage bonds, driving benchmark yields lower and dragging down
corporate returns at the same time, Chandler said. Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s 5.141 percent bonds due in November 2012 yield
1.84 percent, according to the Merrill data. Hydro One Inc.’s
5.77 percent bonds maturing the same month yield 1.943 percent.  International investors bought C$56 billion of Canadian
bonds more than they sold through July, the most since
Statistics Canada  data  begins in June 1988. Net sales were
C$47.2 billion last year, and have averaged about C$19 billion
during the past decade, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Foreigners purchased C$9.6 billion more Canadian corporate
bonds than they sold through July, about half the C$17.2 billion
during the same period last year, according to Statistics Canada
data. Spreads tightened from as wide as 401 basis points in
January 2009 to 114 basis points in March.  Spreads Tighten  Spreads “have been tightening steadily over the past 18
months and this, in addition to the low government bond yields,
has helped to drive yields lower,”  Robert Follis , managing
director of corporate bond research at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit, wrote in an e-mail. Low yields are “mostly
due to the continuing strong demand for all fixed-income
products, but also due to the low interest-rate environment,
which puts downward pressure on government yields.”  Statistics Canada is scheduled to report international
securities transactions for August on Oct. 18.  Two-decade low yields mean companies can borrow more
cheaply, giving them scope to shore up balance sheets by
refinancing higher-cost debt and improve  earnings . A company
raising C$100 million would save about C$2.6 million in interest
costs a year if it borrowed money now, compared with going to
market in October 2008. Rogers Communications Inc., Enbridge
Inc. and Hydro One were among companies that sold debt last
month, making it the busiest September for corporate issuance
since 2007.  Provincial Bonds  Canada’s provincial bond market, with about C$458 billion
outstanding, is up 0.2 percent this month, compared with the 0.1
percent advance in Merrill’s index of Canadian government bonds.
Yields on the provincial index reached 2.911 percent on Oct. 11,
also the lowest since the data begins in 1992. The Standard &
Poor’s TSX Composite, the nation’s primary stock gauge, is up
2.5 percent in October.  Corporate yields may remain low through the end of the year
because another round of quantitative easing by the Fed could
drive funds into stocks and, for those accounts that don’t have
the flexibility to buy equities, into corporate bonds, according
to RBC’s Chandler.  Traders are speculating the Fed will announce plans to
stimulate economic growth after its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Disappointment Risk  “There’s some risk of disappointment if the Federal Open
Market Committee fails to deliver on QE promises,” Chandler
wrote. “However, I’m sure they’re cognizant of this risk and if
the statement underscores that they will do ‘whatever is
necessary,’ it’s possible the benign backdrop for corporate
bonds will hold through to the end of the year.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  became the first G7
central banker to raise borrowing costs since July 2008 when he
lifted the overnight rate by a quarter percentage point to 0.5
percent in June, from a record low 0.25 percent. Successive
increases in July and September brought the overnight rate to 1
percent. Policy makers next meet on Oct. 19 to set rates. The
central bank releases its quarterly monetary policy report a day
later.  The two-year interest-rate swap, a gauge of the average
short-term rates during the next two years, rose to 1.54 percent
yesterday, the highest since Sept. 30. The rate reached a six-
month low 1.30 percent on Aug. 24.  Canada’s deficit will be 1.6 percent of output next year,
compared with 6.1 percent in the U.S., 5.5 percent in the euro
zone and 8.2 percent in Japan, according to median estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  