-- Yoplait Stake Is Said to Draw Interest From Grupo Lala, Mengniu
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-14T10:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/yoplait-stake-is-said-to-draw-interest-from-grupo-lala-china-mengniu-kkr.html
PAI Partners’s planned sale of its
stake in yogurt maker Yoplait is drawing interest from Mexico’s
Grupo Lala and  China Mengniu Dairy Co. , said people with
knowledge of the matter.  KKR & Co. is considering whether to bid with China Mengniu,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the sale
process is private. BC Partners Ltd., Lion Capital LLP and AXA
SA’s private-equity arm are among the other buyout firms also
weighing an offer.  General Mills Inc.  may also bid, they said.  Yoplait has grown to become the world’s second-largest
yogurt brand by distributing products through General Mills in
the U.S. and other partners around the world. PAI is considering
selling its 50 percent stake in a deal that may value Yoplait at
about 1.2 billion euros ($1.69 billion), people involved in the
talks said in July.  PAI, which manages a 2.7 billion-euro buyout fund in Paris,
and dairy cooperative Sodiaal hired banks including Morgan
Stanley and Societe Generale to manage the sale, said four
people with knowledge of the matter last month. Sodiaal, which
founded Yoplait and owns the other half of it, doesn’t intend to
sell its shares. PAI has owned its stake in the Boulogne-
Billancourt, France-based company since 2002.  The sale process is in the early stages and it isn’t clear
whether any potential acquirers have signed confidentiality
agreements or formally expressed an interest.  Buyout Funds  Groupe Lactalis might be interested in Yoplait, said  Luc Morelon , a company spokesman, yesterday. Last month, Challenges
magazine reported KKR’s interest, and the Sunday Times reported
that General Mills is considering an offer and Nestle SA may
submit a bid.  Leveraged buyout fund managers such as BC Partners and
Lion, both based in London, have led $127 billion of purchases
in 2010, more than double the amount in the year-earlier period,
as they seek to return profit to investors and persuade them to
commit money to new funds.  Mengniu spokeswoman  Zhao Yuanhua  and a spokesman for Grupo
Lala declined to immediately comment. Officials at AXA, General
Mills, Lion, BC Partners, KKR, and Nestle declined to comment.  Jacques Caillaud, a spokesman for Sodiaal, declined to
comment. A spokesman for PAI didn’t return calls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anne-Sylvaine Chassany  in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 