-- Record Loans in Hong Kong as Shimao Hunts Dollars: China Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-14T17:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-14/yuan-bond-sales-hit-record-led-by-railways-as-spreads-narrow-china-credit.html
Hong Kong loans are on track for a
record year as Chinese companies, facing financing restrictions
at home, take advantage of lower funding costs in a market led
by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Chongqing Iron & Steel Co. (601005)  paid 5.76 percent interest for a
three-year yuan loan and about 3.29 percent for U.S. dollars
when it borrowed in China last month. In Hong Kong,  Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd. (813)  paid about 2.99 percent for a $460
million, three-year loan in May, and China Vanke Co. got five-
year money for 3.1 percent in April. Lending in the city rose to
$26.1 billion this year, topping a previous record of $23.5
billion set in the same period in 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Whenever these companies can they’ll try and borrow in
Hong Kong rather than tap the market in China,” David Yim, an
executive director of debt capital markets at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said in a phone interview from Hong Kong.
“Companies prefer to borrow in weaker currencies. It’s almost
one-way traffic now.”  HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, remained the top arranger of
Hong Kong loans after China’s government imposed a 7.5 trillion
 yuan  ($1.1 trillion) annual limit on  new lending  by local banks
this year in an effort to prevent asset bubbles. China faces
increasing pressure to let its currency appreciate as global
leaders say the yuan gives the world’s fastest-growing major
economy a trade advantage. A stronger yuan would make it cheaper
for Chinese companies to service dollar debt.  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan appreciated 2.6 percent since its peg to the
dollar was scrapped on June 19, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. Among the so-called BRIC group of
emerging economies,  Brazil ’s real rose the most over the same
period at 7.2 percent,  India ’s rupee strengthened 3.7 percent
and the Russian ruble appreciated 2.7 percent.  The yuan rose 0.2 percent to 6.6508 against the U.S.
currency yesterday. The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency
against six of its peers, slid to the lowest level of the year
as increases in jobless claims and the trade deficit underscored
the challenges facing the Federal Reserve to boost economic
growth.  Of the 74 loans arranged for Chinese companies in Hong Kong
dollars or greenbacks this year, almost three-quarters are
denominated in the U.S. currency, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  China Vanke (000002) , the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, and a Hong Kong unit of Beijing-based Citic Group,
were among borrowers that helped push loan volumes to almost
five times the $6.1 billion recorded in the same period last
year.  ‘Price Differential’  “There’s a definite price differential that’s opened up
between China and Hong Kong,” said Phil Lipton, HSBC’s Hong
Kong-based head of syndicated finance for Asia-Pacific debt
capital markets. “Chinese companies are tapping offshore
liquidity because U.S. dollar borrowings on the mainland are
more expensive.”  HSBC, based in  London , arranged almost as many Hong Kong
loans as Bank of China Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc combined,
with an 11.8 percent market share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cost of borrowing yuan-denominated loans in  China  is
fixed by regulators, with companies typically paying between 90
percent and 100 percent of a rate set by the People’s Bank of
China. The benchmark rate for one- to three-year money is set at
5.4 percent, with loans of more than five years set at 5.94
percent, according to the central bank.  Libor  The three-month  London interbank offered rate  for dollars,
the most widely-used measure of lending costs, was last at
0.2891 percent, according to the British Bankers’ Association.
The three-month Hong Kong interbank offered rate is 0.32929
percent.  “Borrowing in China is pretty tight this year as banks
have to comply with loan-to-deposit ratios,” Yim said. ‘If
companies borrow in yuan, lending rates are regulated and
there’s a minimum even if you’re a top credit.’’  Hong Kong operates as a special administrative region in
China with its own legal and financial systems.  Lower Risks  China’s world-beating economic growth and improving
creditworthiness are helping to spur yuan appreciation. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 3.5 percent to
6.4310 per dollar in the past month in Hong Kong, reflecting
bets for a gain of 3.4 percent from the onshore spot rate. The
contracts, settled in dollars, enable investors to buy and sell
assets at a set price on a specified date.  The risk of insuring against a default by the Chinese
government is falling. Five-year credit-default swaps on the
nation’s bonds fell 31 percent in the past month, the biggest
drop among the Group of 20 nations, and last traded at 52 basis
points, according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.28 percent China government bond due in
August 2020 rose 19 basis points to 3.39 percent since trading
started on Aug. 12, Interbank Funding Center data show.  Currency controls on the yuan restrict remittances of money
borrowed overseas, and a Chinese company planning to borrow
dollars within the domestic financial system must demonstrate a
specific need for that currency, according to Eric Chan, London-
based Standard Chartered’s North Asia head of loan syndication.  “Those companies are using Hong Kong as a platform to
raise funds in dollars,” Chan said in a phone interview from
Hong Kong. “With companies needing funds to refinance and for
expansion, the Hong Kong loans market will continue to be active
in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  