-- `Pistol' Palin Waltzes Through Dance Contest Aided by Tea Party
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 2010-11-04T18:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/-pistol-palin-waltzes-through-abc-s-dance-contest-with-tea-party-support.html
The Tea Party wave that swept
Republicans to a U.S. House majority may also be shielding
 Bristol Palin  from elimination on ABC’s “Dancing With the
Stars.”  Palin, the daughter of former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin ,
survived a seventh week on the  Walt Disney Co.  network’s show
Nov. 2, the night Republicans gained at least 60 House seats.
The 20-year-old was saved by viewers’ votes after her Viennese
waltz received the judges’ worst score. Ex-Los Angeles Laker
 Rick Fox  got the hook, based on the lowest combined tally.  “There’s a strong popular movement behind Sarah Palin at
the moment and she’s receiving a lot of support from the Tea
Party,” Conrad Green, executive producer of the program, said
in an interview. “It’s entirely possible some of those people
are behind Bristol for political reasons.”  “Dancing With the Stars,” ABC’s most-watched show, pairs
celebrities with professional dancers in weekly elimination
rounds that weigh the public’s votes and judges’ scores equally.
The program, airing Monday and Tuesday nights in the U.S.,
consists of a performance night and a results night. The format
allows weaker participants with a fan base to advance.  “As we know, the Tea Party can get out the vote,” said
 Brad Adgate , research director at New York advertising company
Horizon Media Inc. “You’ve got to suspect there is a lot of
grass-roots support pulling her up from the bottom rung.”  Most-Watched Show  “Dancing With the Stars” drew 19.9 million viewers to its
Nov. 1 show, topping the 14.5 million who watched the San
Francisco Giants win baseball’s World Series, Adgate said,
citing Nielsen Co. data. The show’s audience is 70 percent
female with a median age of 57, he said. Season to date, it’s
the most-watched program on any network, Nielsen data show.  Bristol Palin first received public attention for her
teenage pregnancy during the 2008 presidential campaign, when
her mother was Republican  John McCain’s  running mate. She has
since advised teens to think twice before having sex. Palin has
discussed the contradiction between those views and the
suggestive nature of some dance numbers.  “I go around and I talk about abstinence, and then I’m out
here in my underwear doing a dance about sex and stuff,” Palin
said during the show’s fourth week. For the  rumba  that week,
with her parents in the audience, she dressed in a black-
sequined leotard with a loose white-sequined blouse, and pulled
partner Mark Ballas’s shirt off over his head.  Forgotten Steps  The following week, dressed as a gorilla, Palin received
the lowest score on the judges’ leader board after forgetting a
few steps of a jive to The Monkees’ signature tune. After the
audience vote, former “Brady Bunch” mom  Florence Henderson  was
booted.  Palin was rehearsing and unavailable for an interview, Amy
Astley, a show publicist, said in an e-mail.  Sarah Palin, who resigned as governor in July 2009, has
attended at least two of the shows and dubbed her daughter “the
Pistol” -- a nickname that’s been adopted by co-host  Tom Bergeron . On election night on Fox News, she broke away from the
political talk for a moment to savor Bristol’s advance.  “Bristol Palin is safe, now I can concentrate on these
other votes,” Sarah Palin said.  The elder Palin campaigned for victorious Republican
candidates including Senators-elect  Rand Paul  in Kentucky and
 Marco Rubio  in Florida, helping to raise her profile as the most
visible leader of the conservative Tea Party movement.  Contestants , now down to five, include singer  Brandy Norwood , actress  Jennifer Grey , Disney Channel star Kyle Massey
and former NFL quarterback  Kurt Warner .  Bristol Palin has improved each week and has “human
qualities” that make people want to vote for her, executive
producer Green said. The show doesn’t collect detailed
information on voters and doesn’t release figures, he said.  “We’ll see what happens after the election,” Green said.
“If her vote trails off, that would be telling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Nancy Moran  in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  