-- Activision's Profit Triples on ``StarCraft II'' Title; Outlook Falls Short
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-11-04T20:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/activision-s-profit-triples-on-starcraft-ii-title-for-pcs.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. , the largest
video-game maker, said third-quarter profit tripled on sales of
titles such as “StarCraft II.” The company’s fourth-quarter
forecast fell short of analysts’ estimates.  Net income jumped to $51 million, or 4 cents a share, from
$15 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier, Santa Monica,
California-based Activision said today in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit of 12 cents topped the 9-cent average
estimate of 21  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  Game players snapped up the latest update to “StarCraft,”
a personal-computer game. Activision sold more than 1 million
copies of “StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty” on the first day.
The “Call of Duty” title remained a top 10 seller worldwide in
the quarter, the company said, citing industry researchers.  “We’re benefiting from having a very small number of very
high-quality releases,” Chief Executive Officer  Bobby Kotick 
said in an interview. “We have a lot of confidence in the
products we’re releasing and creating.”  Activision, controlled by Paris-based  Vivendi SA , rose 18
cents to $11.63 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading  and has gained 4.7 percent this year. Activision merged
with Vivendi’s games division in July 2008.  Third-quarter sales rose 6 percent to $745 million.
Excluding changes in deferred revenue, sales totaled $857
million and exceeded the $748.7 million average estimate of
analysts.  This quarter, Activision forecasts profit of 47 cents a
share excluding items. Sales, excluding changes in deferred
revenue, will be $2.2 billion. Analysts project profit of 51
cents, the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg, and
sales of $2.3 billion on that basis.  Industry Slump  Like  Electronic Arts Inc. , which reported results on Nov.
2, Activision has been weathering an industry sales slump by
relying more on digital and online sales. Consumers continue to
play its “Call of Duty” and “World of Warcraft” franchises
online, Kotick said.  The company plans to release “Call of Duty: Black Ops” on
Nov. 9. Orders have exceeded levels for the earlier “‘Call of
Duty,” the company said. It will follow that in December with
another installment of “World of Warcraft.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 Cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  