-- Adoptions in U.S. Near Six-Year Low as Number of Chinese Orphans Dwindles
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-04T13:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/adoptions-in-u-s-near-six-year-low-as-number-of-chinese-orphans-dwindles.html
The number of U.S.  foreign adoptions 
is near a six-year low due to greater barriers overseas and
fewer orphans coming from a  wealthier China , U.S. Special
Adviser for Children’s Issues Susan Jacobs said.  Total adoptions to the U.S. fell last year to 12,753 and
will “be somewhere in that ballpark” in 2010, Jacobs said in a
telephone interview. “Domestic adoptions in China are on the
rise and international adoptions are taking longer, so it’s
harder to adopt there.”  Over the next decade, Ethiopia is set to surpass China as
the biggest source of U.S. adoptions. The number of children
adopted annually from Asia’s biggest economy has dropped to
3,000 from 7,900 over the past five years, State Department
figures show. There were 2,277 Ethiopian children placed in
American homes in 2009 compared with 442 in 2005, the data show.  After peaking in 2004, total U.S. adoptions began to drop
as standards became  more stringent  and applications from
countries such as Vietnam and Guatemala were suspended amid
allegations of corruption and fraud. Processing adoptions from
Nepal were the latest to be put on hold this year.  Adoptions from Russia, about 10 percent of the U.S. total,
also declined. Russian authorities had threatened to suspend
adoptions by U.S. citizens after the case earlier this year of a
7-year-old boy who was sent back alone to Moscow by his adoptive
American mother.  “The threat was out there but it never came to pass,”
Jacobs said. “We have been negotiating with the Russians for a
number of months on how adoptions will proceed in the future,
and we are getting close to an agreement and we hope we have
something signed by the end of the year.”  The adoption figures for the year ended Sept. 30 will be
released by the State Department this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  