-- Maine Seeks U.S. Waiver for Blackstone's `Junk' Health Insurer
-- B y   D u n e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/maine-seeks-u-s-waiver-for-blackstone-s-junk-health-insurer.html
Maine wants an exemption from the
federal health-care law to keep a Wall Street-controlled insurer
with a history of allegedly abusive practices from leaving the
state.  Mila Kofman, Maine’s insurance superintendent, asked the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for a three-year
waiver from the law’s requirement that  insurers  spend 80 percent
of premium revenues on medical care.  Without the waiver, Kofman said in a July 1 letter to HHS
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius , HealthMarkets Inc. will probably
drop its Maine policyholders, who represent a third of the
state’s individual market.  HealthMarkets,  based in North
Richland Hills, Texas, is 77 percent-owned by funds run by
 Blackstone Group LP  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   Maine’s  request  is the latest example of the difficulty the
Obama administration is having enforcing the strictures of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, passed in March.
Although others have received waivers from the act’s rules,
consumer advocates say the HealthMarkets group is different.  “If you grant a waiver to a junk health-insurance provider
that is among the worst in America, then you might as well not
have a health reform at all because you’re never going to say no
to anyone,” said  Jamie Court , president of Consumer Watchdog, a
California non-profit that has asked the Obama administration to
deny waivers to a unit of HealthMarkets. “This is ridiculous.”  ‘Junk Insurance’  Kofman’s letter was followed by one  from  the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners asking to loosen the 80
percent requirement, which takes effect Jan. 1, 2011.  The City of Los Angeles sued HealthMarkets and its Mega
Life and Health Insurance Co. unit on Oct. 20 for allegedly
selling “junk insurance” with obscure provisions that left
customers “without coverage when they needed it most.”
Blackstone and Goldman Sachs are also defendants.  HealthMarkets spokeswoman Donna Ledbetter declined to
comment on the litigation or the Maine request.  Last year, Mega Life and two other HealthMarkets units
settled Massachusetts allegations of unfair and deceptive
practices by agreeing to a five-year ban on selling health
insurance in the state. HealthMarkets agreed to pay $20 million
in a 2008 settlement of a 35-state examination of alleged
deficient claims and complaint handling.  Maine fined Mega Life
$1 million and  forced refunds  of $4.6 million that year for
charging excessive rates. The HealthMarkets companies did not
admit fault in any of the cases.  More Waivers Sought  HealthMarkets’ withdrawal from Maine “would have a serious
destabilizing effect in our individual market,” Kofman said in
her letter. Kofman is a former Georgetown University associate
research professor and an expert in health-insurance scams.  Maine is one of at least three states, including Iowa and
South Carolina, that have asked for exemptions from the
administration’s rules on how much insurers have to spend on
care. Those requests accompany  30 others by employers , labor
associations and insurers to get exemptions to regulations
barring “mini-med” plans that McDonald’s Corp. and other
employers use to offer limited-benefit coverage to hourly
workers. Waivers are also being sought from rules stopping
companies from shopping for a new insurer if they want to avoid
requirements about what benefits they have to provide.  The Department of Health and Human Services will decide
whether Maine gets its waiver once the final rules for the
health-care law are written later this year. Jessica Santillo, a
spokeswoman for the department, declined to comment on Maine’s
request or on HealthMarkets.  Seeking Damages  HealthMarkets has been engaged in a “scheme to defraud
consumers” for more than a decade, according to a civil
 complaint  filed last month by Los Angeles City Attorney  Carmen Trutanich . Blackstone and Goldman Sachs must have, or should
have, known that the company was involved in a scheme to sell
ineffective insurance, the complaint says, alleging they
facilitated it “through their control of the board of directors
of defendant HealthMarkets Inc. and key board committees.”  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, and
 Andrea Raphael , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  The lawsuit accuses the insurers of unfair competition and
false advertising and seeks a court order requiring
HealthMarkets and its subsidiaries to provide coverage in
keeping with its promises, statutory damages of $2,500 per
violation and restitution.  Medical-Loss Ratio  HealthMarkets’ Mega Life unit insured 13,535 people in
Maine’s individual market as of September 2009, according to a
February  report  from the Maine Bureau of Insurance. The
company’s medical-loss ratio on such policies averaged 51
percent in the five years from 2004 through 2008, the report
said. The figures don’t include the refund order by the state.  Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, a unit of Indianapolis,
Indiana-based  WellPoint Inc. , accounted for 49 percent of
Maine’s individual market in 2009, and its average medical-loss
ratio for the same five-year period was 88 percent for Maine
individual health policies, according to the report.  HealthMarkets had $1.1 billion in revenue in 2009 from its
health insurance business, company  filings  say. The company was
bought by affiliates of Blackstone, Goldman Sachs and other
investors in April 2006. Blackstone and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners held about 55 percent and 22 percent, respectively, of
the shares as of Dec. 31, 2009, according to the company’s 2009
annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dune Lawrence  in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 