-- Alcatel-Lucent Falls on Lower-than-Expected Operating Margin
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-04T17:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/alcatel-lucent-has-unexpected-35-million-profit-on-sales-retirement-gain.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA , France’s largest
telecommunications equipment maker, fell the most in almost nine
months in Paris after reporting an operating margin below some
analysts’ expectations.  Shares declined 7.9 percent after the Paris-based company
reported an adjusted gross margin of 33.8 percent in the third
quarter, compared with 33.4 percent a year ago, even as it
posted a surprise 25 million euro ($35 million) profit aided by
a one-time pension gain and higher sales.  “The margin wasn’t as good as expected, and the surprise
was more based on financial factors than operations,”  Mirko Maier , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuertemmberg in Stuttgart,
said by phone.  Telecommunications equipment suppliers like Alcatel-Lucent
are looking to ride the wave of operators upgrading networks
strained by data-hungry devices such as  Apple Inc.’s  iPhone and
Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry. Shipments of smartphones
worldwide rose 95 percent in the third quarter compared with the
same period last year, according to analyst firm Canalys.  Alcatel shares  tumbled to 2.33 euros in Paris.  Alcatel’s margin performance is “a product mix and a
geographic mix phenomenon,” Chief Financial Officer  Paul Tufano 
said at a press conference in Paris today. In the third quarter,
the company was “not able to capture some of the upside growth
because of component shortages,” he added.  Easing Shortages  In the latest quarter, Alcatel’s revenue climbed 11 percent
to about 4.07 billion euros, led by a 10 percent gain in the
Networks business segment.  It confirmed its full-year outlook, and said the quarter’s
 net profit  included “a one-time gain related to post-retirement
benefit plan amendment” of 30 million euros before tax.  “Alcatel-Lucent is back to growth,” Chief Executive
Officer  Ben Verwaayen  said on a conference call with reporters.
Shortages of basic components like transistors that have dogged
the company, meanwhile, “will materially come down in the
coming quarters,” he added.  The company, based in Paris, has lost money in all but
three quarters since 2006, when it was created by the 2006
merger of Alcatel and Lucent Technologies. Verwaayen, the former
CEO of  BT Plc , has pledged to make Alcatel-Lucent a “normal
company” by the end of 2011 under a turnaround plan.  Alcatel yesterday announced it intends to sell its vacuum
technology unit to Germany’s Pfeiffer Vacuum Technology AG for
about 200 million euros, part of Verwaayen’s strategy to exit
less promising businesses. In May, the company completed the
sale of its 20.8 percent stake in aerospace supplier Thales SA
to Dassault Aviation SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 