-- Aldar of Abu Dhabi Needs $2.7 Billion to `Survive,' Bank of America Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-04T13:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/aldar-of-abu-dhabi-needs-2-7-billion-to-survive-bank-of-america-says.html
Aldar Properties PJSC,  Abu Dhabi’s
largest developer, will need 9.8 billion dirhams ($2.7 billion)
by 2011 to “survive” as the United Arab Emirates’ real-estate
market recovers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  While “Aldar will benefit from sovereign support, we are
skeptical about the terms of a new financing solution,” Dubai-
based analyst  Abdelrali El Jattari  wrote in a report dated Nov.
2. “Aldar could surprise on the upside if it received an
explicit sovereign-guaranteed issuance in the current easier
credit market.” Aldar is rated “underperform” by the bank.  The deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led
property prices in Abu Dhabi to decline by more than 30 percent
from their peak in mid 2008, according to Jones Lang LaSalle
estimates published in February. The developer has about 26
billion dirhams  of debt outstanding,  according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares  have slumped 54 percent  this year.  Aldar sold assets on Yas Island to the emirate’s government
for 9.14 billion dirhams, it said in March. The company is due
to announce  third-quarter earnings  next week. The  median
estimate of three analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg is for a fourth
consecutive quarterly loss of 215 million dirhams.  ‘Enough Liquidity’  Sorouh Real Estate Co.,  Abu Dhabi’s second biggest
developer by market value, also needs funding, the report said.
“While the company has enough liquidity to manage its
short-term commitments, we believe that access to external
funding is essential if it is to deliver on time,” El Jattari
wrote.  Sorouh and Aldar are leading a construction drive in Abu
Dhabi. Sorouh is building thousands of homes, offices and retail
spaces around canals and parks on Abu Dhabi’s Al Reem and Lulu
islands.  The company will deliver most of the apartments in its Sun
and Sky towers in 2011 and double rental income when it
completes the Alrayyana middle-income housing project by the end
of the year, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Amos  said Nov. 1.
Sorouh’s third quarter profit  fell 68 percent  to 59.3 million
dirhams. The shares have  slumped 31 percent  in 2010.  Stronger Fundamentals  Dubai’s  Emaar Properties PJSC,  builder of the world’s
tallest skyscraper, is Bank of America’s preferred real estate
stock in the U.A.E. for its “stronger fundamentals, more
attractive valuation and absence of funding issues despite the
short-term weakness reflected in third-quarter results,” El
Jattari wrote.  “We expect Emaar to raise more debt locally to finance its
international development,” he said. The developer raised $500
million from the sale of a five-year convertible bond to help
repay short-term debt.  Emaar reported a  7 percent drop  in third-quarter profit to
612 million dirhams on Oct. 27,  missing analysts’ estimates , on
higher costs and writedowns. The shares have  lost 3.1 percent
this year  and closed at  3.74 dirhams today in Dubai.    To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  