-- HP, Ally, Porsche, MGM, Terra Firma Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-11-04T12:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ally-porsche-mgm-terra-firma-mazda-madoff-in-court-news.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , accusing Oracle
Corp. of harassing its new chief executive officer, refused to
accept service of a subpoena requiring Leo Apotheker to testify
at a trial over SAP AG’s downloading of Oracle software.  SAP, the largest maker of software for business
applications, is defending itself against a 2007 lawsuit by
Oracle over what SAP has acknowledged were “inappropriate”
downloads by a now-defunct software maintenance unit. Oracle
will show a videotaped deposition of Apotheker, SAP’s former
CEO, today and Oracle CEO Larry Ellison will testify tomorrow,
SAP said Nov. 3.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for HP, said in an e-
mailed statement that Oracle chose not to include Apotheker as a
live trial witness until he was named CEO of HP.  “Oracle had ample opportunity to question Leo during his
sworn deposition in October 2008,” Mangalindan said. “Given
Leo’s limited knowledge of and role in the matter, Oracle’s
last-minute effort to require him to appear live at trial is no
more than an effort to harass him and interfere with his duties
and responsibilities as HP’s CEO.”  Oracle , in its trial that began this week in federal court
in Oakland, California, is seeking billions of dollars in
damages from SAP, according to court documents. A lawyer for
Oracle told jurors on Nov. 2 that Apotheker “was very
involved” with the unit, called TomorrowNow.  “Mr. Apotheker started work for HP on Monday, but it now
appears that the HP Board of Directors has decided to keep him
away from HP’s headquarters and outside the court’s
jurisdiction,” Oracle’s spokeswoman, Deborah Hellinger, said in
an e-mail. “We will continue to try to serve him.”  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more, click here.  Ally Will Keep ResCap, ‘Screwed Up’ Using Robosigners  Ally Financial Inc. , the auto and home lender, said the
company was “embarrassed” that it used so-called robosigners
to fill out foreclosure documents.  “We screwed up,” Chief Executive Officer Michael
Carpenter, 63, said yesterday during a conference call on third-
quarter earnings for Detroit-based Ally. “We had a robosigner
affidavit problem. No question about it. We’re embarrassed about
it and we fixed it going forward.”  Any errors will be corrected and the company is “confident
that we did not  foreclose  on anybody inappropriately,”
Carpenter said. “It’s up to us to prove that.”  Ally suspended evictions by its GMAC Mortgage unit in 23
states during September after an employee testified that he
signed foreclosure documents without ensuring their accuracy.
That touched off a nationwide examination of practices at other
mortgage firms, with attorneys general from 50 states conducting
a joint probe.  Last month Ally extended its review to all 50 states before
resuming sales in those cases where it didn’t find errors,
according to spokeswoman Gina Proia.  “We’ll be the first to say we screwed up on robosigner
 affidavits , but we’re not going to say we screwed up on
foreclosures,” Carpenter said yesterday.  Ally has reviewed more than 9,500 files and fixed some
affidavits, with remaining reviews likely to be completed by the
end of the year, Carpenter said.  Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray sued Ally last month,
claiming the lender used fraudulent practices to foreclose on
homeowners.  For more, click here.  Judge Dismisses Challenge to Deep-Water Drilling Ban  An oil industry challenge to the Obama administration’s ban
on deep-water drilling was rendered irrelevant by new rules that
rescinded the moratorium, a U.S. judge said yesterday in
dismissing the industry’s claim.  U.S. Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar imposed the
moratorium on drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet on July
12, replacing a ban struck down by U.S. District Judge Martin
Feldman in New Orleans. Feldman threw out the first ban, imposed
after the  BP Plc  oil spill, as too broad.  Offshore service companies challenged the second moratorium
as well, claiming Salazar broke federal statutes by imposing a
ban that was harming the economy of the Gulf Coast. Regulators
rescinded the second ban Oct. 12 and asked Feldman to scrap the
lawsuit as moot. Feldman yesterday agreed with the U.S.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Ex-Trader Goffer Seeks Separate Trial in Galleon Case  Former Incremental Capital LLC trader Emanuel Goffer,
accused of conspiracy stemming from the Galleon Group LLC
insider trading probe, asked a judge to give him a separate
trial from his co-defendants, including his brother.  Goffer’s lawyers said the evidence against him is
“limited” compared to the “broad” scope of evidence against
his five co-defendants, including his brother, Zvi Goffer, who
founded Incremental and is a former Galleon trader.  “The government’s evidence against other defendants --
such as Zvi Goffer, who is charged with two conspiracies and
eight counts of securities fraud -- will presumably be different
and disproportionately larger than the evidence presented by the
government against Emanuel Goffer,” his lawyers, Michael Ross
and Pery Krinsky, said yesterday in court papers.  The government alleges Emanuel Goffer, who is charged with
one count of conspiracy and two counts of securities fraud,
participated in only one conspiracy, while his co-defendants are
accused of participating in two separate schemes. His five co-
defendants are charged with eight counts of securities fraud.
All six have pleaded not guilty.  The disparity exposes “Emanuel Goffer to a serious risk of
unfair prejudice,” the lawyers said, and “strongly favors
severance of Emanuel Goffer’s trial.”  Goffer was among seven people indicted in January for
trading on inside tips obtained from lawyers at Ropes & Gray LLP
and elsewhere. One of the seven, David Plate, pleaded guilty on
July 16 and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.  They are among 21 people who were charged in two
overlapping insider trading cases involving Galleon Group
founder Raj Rajaratnam in a case brought by prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Twelve have pleaded guilty. Most have agreed to cooperate
with prosecutors and testify against others.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Porsche Likely to Win Appeal Over 2009 Meeting, Court Says  Porsche SE , the maker of the 911 sports car, is likely to
win an appeals case over a shareholder meeting during its failed
bid to take over Volkswagen AG, a German judge said in a
preliminary assessment of the case.  Minority investors may not win their bid to invalidate
shareholder votes over directors’ approval of an
“unconscionably” high salary for Chief Executive Officer
Wendelin Wiedeking and other officials, Presiding Judge Eberhard
Stilz said at a hearing at the Stuttgart Higher Regional Court.  “It’s important to stress that it is not our task to rule
on whether the compensation was illicit or whether the bid to
take over Volkswagen was handled in line with the law,” Stilz
said yesterday. “We only have to judge whether the
shareholders’ decisions were taken wrongfully, and that only
indirectly touches these issues.”  The failed bid led to Wiedeking’s ouster in 2009,
regulatory probes, and lawsuits in U.S. and Germany. Volkswagen
agreed to join with Stuttgart-based Porsche in August 2009 after
the sports-carmaker’s debt tripled to more than 10 billion euros
($14 billion) following the failed bid. Porsche in fiscal 2008
paid 143.5 million euros to its management board.  Shareholders have wide discretion when deciding whether to
discharge directors and executives from liability over their
actions, Stilz said. The court may still change its view after
hearing the parties’ arguments, according to the judge. The
court scheduled a ruling for Nov. 17.  “If this court grants a carte blanche to Porsche over
these issues, it would be a catastrophic signal, also in terms
of the competition of financial markets,” said Martin
Weidemann, a lawyer for the plaintiffs. “It will also be an
issue what courts in this country can offer investors.”  Porsche considers the claims unfounded, company spokesman
Albrecht Bamler said in an interview Nov. 2.  The case is OLG Stuttgart, 20 U 2/10.  Airgas Asks Appeals Court to Toss Meeting-Date Ruling  Airgas Inc. , seeking to fend off a $5.5 billion takeover by
 Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , told Delaware’s Supreme Court
that a ruling shortening the date for its annual meeting
“radically reduces” the power of directors.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III erred
in finding the meeting-date change didn’t wrongfully shorten the
terms of Airgas directors on the staggered board, a lawyer for
the gas supplier told the court yesterday. The decision may
allow Air Products to improperly gain control of the rival
industrial gas supplier at the January meeting, the lawyer
argued.  Should the court uphold Chandler’s ruling, it would
“fundamentally diminish the ability of boards to do what they
think is the right thing for shareholders,” Theodore N. Mirvis,
one of Airgas’s lawyers, said during the hourlong argument.  A lawyer for Air Products, Gary Bornstein, countered that
overturning Chandler’s ruling would leave boards with “an
inflexible rule” on when annual meetings could be held.  Officials of Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas have
repeatedly rejected Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products’
$65.50-a-share bid as too low. Air Products is the second-
biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer behind Praxair Inc.  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc.,
649-2010, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  MGM Files for Bankruptcy, Rejecting Lions Gate, Icahn Bid  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. , distributor of the James Bond and
Rocky movies, filed for bankruptcy in Manhattan federal court
after rejecting a takeover bid by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. 
and billionaire  Carl Icahn .  The Los Angeles-based  studio , which foundered after piling
on debt to go private, filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court. It has creditor support for a so-called
pre-packaged plan to extinguish about $4 billion of debt and
install managers from  Spyglass Entertainment Group Inc. , the
producers of “The Sixth Sense.” Like  Tribune Co . and the
former Chrysler LLC, 86-year-old MGM filed for bankruptcy after
a leveraged buyout.  “By sharply reducing MGM’s debt load and providing access
to new capital, the proposed plan of reorganization achieves
these goals” of improving the company’s prospects, said Co-
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Cooper, who led Enron Corp.
through its bankruptcy.  Losers in the bankruptcy may include the 2005 buyout group,
which retains most of MGM’s existing stock. Tokyo-based  Sony
Corp.  has a 14 percent stake; the Texas-based private equity
firm TPG Capital, run by David Bonderman, has 23 percent;
Providence Equity Partners Inc. has 34 percent; Comcast Corp.
has 21 percent, and  Credit Suisse Group AG  affiliate DLJ
Merchant Banking Partners, has 8 percent, according to a court
filing.  In a competing bid, Lions Gate, based in Vancouver, offered
about $1.7 billion in stock and debt to MGM creditors,
representing a 55 percent stake in the combined company.  To win more MGM creditors, Icahn, who is Lions Gate’s
largest shareholder and owns about 10 percent of MGM’s debt,
offered 53 cents on the dollar for senior MGM loans, or about 18
percent more than the 45 cents the debt fetched in the market
before Lions Gate’s Oct. 12 bid.  Icahn, who separately mounted a hostile takeover of Lions
Gate, was sued by the company on Oct. 29 for allegedly
“plotting” a merger of Lions Gate with MGM that would boost
the value of his holdings in the two companies. He denied the
allegations.  Yesterday, Icahn said in an e-mailed statement he reached
an agreement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. and the lender
subcommittee to support MGM in its prepackaged bankruptcy. He
will have to right to elect a director to MGM’s board after the
bankruptcy, according to his statement.  “I am pleased that we were able to obtain an agreement to
make changes to the MGM prepackaged plan that allows me to
support it and enables the company to avoid a potentially costly
and disruptive bankruptcy process,” he said.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.,
10-15774, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Terra Firma, Citigroup Jury to Resume EMI Case Deliberations  Jurors in Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s $2.2 billion
fraud case against  Citigroup Inc.  are scheduled to begin their
first full day of deliberations this morning.  The eight New Yorkers on the federal court jury, at the end
of a 2 1/2-week trial yesterday, retired to a wood-paneled jury
room for about 20 minutes, elected a foreman and went home.  When they reassemble today, the jurors will decide whether
Terra Firma and its chairman, Guy Hands, were tricked in the
2007 purchase of  EMI Group Ltd. , as they claim, or made a bad
bargain, as Citigroup claims.  The jurors began deliberations after lawyers for both sides
made closing arguments in the case yesterday.  Terra Firma’s lead lawyer, David Boies, argued that
Citigroup’s David Wormsley lied to Hands in a series of phone
calls the weekend before the May 2007 auction of EMI.  Wormsley told Hands that Cerberus Capital Management LP
planned to submit a bid for EMI, Boies said. In reality,
Cerberus had decided to withdraw from the auction, leaving Terra
Firma without competition. As a result, Terra Firma claims, it
was tricked into overpaying for the 113-year-old music company.  “David Wormsley never lied to Guy Hands,” Ted Wells, the
lead lawyer for New York-based Citigroup, said in his closing
argument. “He never told Guy Hands that Cerberus was going to
bid 262. He never said it.”  Wells accused Hands of filing the  lawsuit  to shift the
blame for the failed acquisition to Citigroup, which has written
down  $2 billion  on the deal.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Mazda Seatbelt Case May Divide U.S. Supreme Court Justices  U.S. Supreme Court  justices signaled they may divide,
perhaps evenly, in a case involving  Mazda Motor Corp.  that could
open automakers to more consumer lawsuits over vehicle safety.  Hearing arguments yesterday in Washington, several justices
signaled they would vote to limit lawsuits against automakers
while others suggested they would allow more accident victims to
go to court.  Toyota Motor Corp. , facing more than 300 lawsuits over
alleged unintended acceleration, could have an especially big
stake in the outcome. The auto industry is asking the court to
reinforce a 2000 decision that said federal law shields
automakers from state law claims that manufacturers didn’t move
quickly enough to install air bags in the years before they
became mandatory in new cars.  The court might deadlock 4-4 because Elena Kagan, the
newest justice, has disqualified herself. As the Obama
administration’s solicitor general earlier this year, she urged
the court to take the case. A tie vote would leave intact a
lower court victory for the automakers without setting a
national precedent.  The case is Williamson v. Mazda Motor of America, 08-1314,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Judge Reserves Ruling on Kissel Retrial Halt Request  A Hong Kong judge yesterday reserved judgment on Nancy
Kissel’s request for a ruling that she can’t get a fair retrial
for the 2003 killing of her  Merrill Lynch & Co.  banker husband.  Judge Andrew Macrae said he hoped to issue his decision by
the end of this month on Kissel’s application for a permanent
stay of proceedings. He ordered the media not to report on the
details of the hearing on its first day on Nov. 1.  Michigan-born Kissel, 46, won a retrial when Hong Kong’s
top court overturned her 2005 conviction for murdering her
husband Robert. The mother of three is serving a life sentence
in prison and could be freed if her application for a stay is
successful.  Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal said in February that
Kissel’s conviction was flawed because the judge wrongly allowed
hearsay evidence and prosecutors improperly questioned her
during the trial. Jurors heard in the three-month trial that she
drugged her husband with a milkshake, bludgeoned him to death
and hid his body in a carpet.  The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, HCCC55/2010, Hong
Kong Court of First Instance.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Amway Unit to Pay $155 Million in Suit, Lawyers Say  Quixtar Inc., a former subsidiary of Amway Corp., and two
law firms representing three independent business owners who
sued the company, reached a settlement worth as much as $155
million, attorneys in the case said.  The settlement, filed yesterday in federal court in San
Francisco, resolves a lawsuit alleging that Quixtar ran a
fraudulent pyramid scheme inducing people to invest in products
to sell and making false promises that they could earn big
profits, according to court filings.  The settlement includes $55 million in cash, $21 million in
product refunds, price reductions and other compensation,
according to the filing.  Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP , a law firm for the business
owners, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that the
settlement is valued at $155 million.  Quixtar, which didn’t admit wrongdoing, has gone by the
name Amway since 2008, according to Amway’s website. Amway,
based in Ada, Michigan, distributes home-care products through
members who earn money from the sales and by recruiting other
sellers.  The case is Pokorny v. Quixtar, 07-00201, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Allied Irish Banker Wins Bonus Case; Lender Faces More Claims  Allied Irish Banks  Plc, which is facing majority state
control, will have to pay a 160,000-euro bonus ($224,000) to an
employee of its capital-markets unit after losing a court case.  The Dublin-based lender withheld the payment, due on John
Foy’s 2008 performance, since February 2009 after the bank
scrapped discretionary bonuses in the wake of the government
guarantee of the country’s financial system the previous
September. Edmund Holohan, master of the  High Court , ruled
against the bank in a summary judgment yesterday.  A lawyer for Foy told the court he is acting “for a number
of employees” with similar cases, after Holohan asked if this
was “the tip of the iceberg.” As many as 90 employees in
Allied Irish’s capital markets division have issued similar
legal proceedings against Allied Irish in the courts, according
to a person familiar with the situation.  An Allied Irish lawyer said the bank was not denying that
the bonus payment was due and owing. Allied Irish spokeswoman
Catherine Burke was not immediately available to comment.  The bank’s executive chairman David Hodgkinson said on Nov.
1 said that it’s “highly likely” that the government will own
a significant majority stake in AIB following a share sale
starting by the end of the month. The state controls an 18.7
percent stake in the bank.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Bernard Madoff’s Criminal Defense Lawyer Switching Firms  Ira Lee Sorkin , the head of Dickstein Shapiro LLP’s
securities litigation, regulatory, and compliance white-collar
criminal defense and investigation practices said yesterday that
he is leaving the firm along with five other lawyers to join
Roseland, NJ-based Lowenstein Sandler PC.  Sorkin, who represented convicted Ponzi fraudster Bernard
Madoff, said he will be accompanied by partner  Donald A. Corbett , and four associates: Nicole De Bello, Elliott Stein,
Daniel Roque and Bradley Brown.  “It was an opportunity we couldn’t pass up,” Sorkin said
of the reason for the move.  U.S. Sues Chicago Attorney to Halt Phony Tax Shelters  John E. Rogers, a Chicago attorney formerly affiliated with
the law firm Seyfarth Shaw LLP, was sued by the U.S. Justice
Department for allegedly promoting phony tax shelters.  Rogers, 69, designed distressed asset debt and distressed
asset trust tax shelters for his clients, allowing them to
claim, though not sustain, losses on Brazilian debt resulting in
more than $370 million in improper deductions, the Justice
Department said yesterday in a  statement .  Rogers was forced to resign from the firm in 2008,
according to the statement. The government’s complaint, filed
Nov. 2 in federal court in Chicago, seeks a court order barring
the promotion of tax schemes it called “abusive.”  “It is particularly disturbing when a lawyer, who is
supposed to help clients comply with the law, instead helps them
break it,” Acting Assistant Attorney General John A. DiCicco
said in the statement.  Rogers, now the principal of the Chicago firm of  Rogers &
Associates , didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. John E. Rogers, 10-cv-07068, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 