-- Alstom First-Half Profit Misses Estimates as Utilities Delay Plant Orders
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-11-04T08:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/alstom-first-half-profit-misses-estimates-as-utilities-delay-plant-orders.html
Alstom SA , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, reported a worse-than-expected 29 percent
drop in first-half profit after utilities delayed orders for
power plants.  Net income  fell to 401 million euros ($568 million) in the
six months through September from 562 million euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Analysts  estimated  503 million euros in a Bloomberg
survey. Profit was hurt by a 75 million-euro charge from the
acquisition of a power-grid business from Areva SA, lower income
from operations and higher financial and restructuring charges.  “Demand remained weak for new thermal power equipments in
mature markets, leading to a low level of order intake,” Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick Kron  said in the release. He
reiterated that the operating margin will narrow to about 7
percent to 8 percent this fiscal year and next, from last year’s
9.1 percent.  Alstom’s workforce dropped by 1,800 through attrition in
the first half, and Kron is cutting about 4,000 jobs at sites
that make coal-and gas-fired power equipment as utilities delay
investments. The CEO suffered another setback last month when
German rival Siemens AG was picked over Alstom by Eurostar Group
Ltd., which is controlled by French national railways, to supply
10 high-speed trains.  Purchase Lifts Sales  Alstom sales in the six months through September climbed 8
percent to 10.4 billion euros, helped by the  acquisition  of the
power-transmission unit from Areva in June. Excluding the
purchase, sales fell 8 percent. Operating profit fell 8 percent
to 763 million euros, representing 7.3 percent of sales.  New orders fell 21 percent to 5.64 billion euros, excluding
the grid unit. The grid unit registered 1.4 billion euros of new
contracts in the June-September period. The total backlog rose
3 percent from a year earlier to 45.3 billion euros, and was
down 9 percent excluding the grid unit.  The current quarter is helping replenish the  order  book.
Alstom and Russian rail-equipment maker Transmashholding won a
1.3 billion-euro contract to supply locomotives to the
Kazakhstan railway company. Alstom and Bombardier Inc. won an
864 million-euro contract to supply metro cars for Montreal.
Alstom also won two contracts to provide gas-fired combined
cycle plants in Singapore, and was pre-selected to supply power
equipments in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 