-- American Apparel, Motorola: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-11-04T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/american-apparel-motorola-s-f-giants-intellectual-property.html
American Apparel Inc. , the Los
Angeles-based clothing retailer, asked a federal court to
declare it’s not infringing a patent relating to website images.  The target of the complaint, filed Nov. 1 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware, is Webvention Holdings LLC of
Wilmington.  According to Bloomberg data, Webvention filed two patent
infringement cases since July 1, accusing a large number of
companies whose websites have rollover images of infringing its
patent 5,251,294. Among those Webvention sued are  Church &
Dwight Co. , Dell Inc., United Parcel Service Inc., Barnes &
Noble Inc., Coca-Cola Co.,  Deutsche Bank AG , LG Electronics Inc.
and Macy’s Inc.  The first Webvention case is Webvention LLC v. Abercrombie
& Fitch Co., 2:10-cv-00253, TJW-CE, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Marshall). The second is Webvention LLC v.
Adidas America Inc., 2:10-cv-00410-DF, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  The disputed patent was issued in October 1993, and in 2005
was assigned to a Las Vegas-based entity known as Ferarra
Ethereal LLC, according to the databases of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. The patent changed hands again in November
2009, this time to Webvention LLC of Marshall, Texas.  The Patently Obvious IP news blog  reported  Oct. 20 that the
actual seller to Webvention was  Intellectual Ventures  of
Bellevue, Washington. That company, founded by former  Microsoft
Corp.  Chief Technology Officer  Nathan Myhrvold , is known to have
registered a series of fanciful names for its IP-transfer
operations.  Patently Obvious also reports that Webvention, which is a
company that doesn’t make any products based on the patent,
claims to have licensed the patent to 144 companies.  Novartis Corp., which filed a suit similar to American
Apparel’s in September, appended to its court filing a demand
letter it received from Webvention in August 2010. In that
letter, Webvention demanded a license fee of $80,000 and claimed
that 86 companies, including  Hewlett-Packard Co. , Google Inc.,
 Nokia Oyj  and Kimberly-Clark Corp., had already done so.  The Novartis case is Novartis Corp. v. Webvention Holdings
LLC, 1:10-cv00793-GMS, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  In its case against Webvention, American Apparel asked for
both a declaration that it doesn’t infringe and that the patent
itself is invalid.  That case is American Apparel Inc., v. Webvention Holdings
LLC, 1:10-cv-00936, UNA, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Motorola Patent Claims Against Apple To Receive ITC Review  Motorola Inc. ’s patent-infringement claims against  Apple
Inc.  will be reviewed by the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington.  The ITC will determine if Apple is infringing six patents
and whether it should rule to block U.S. imports of the iPhone,
iPad music device, iPad tablet computer and Mac computer,
according to a  notice  on the trade agency’s website yesterday.
The complaint was filed Oct. 6 by Motorola Mobility Inc., a unit
that Motorola plans to spin off.  The investigation adds to the cases pending before the ITC
over the technology behind the burgeoning market for
smartphones, which can perform some of the same functions as
computers. The agency said yesterday it would investigate claims
that Motorola is infringing Microsoft Corp. patents. Cupertino,
California-based Apple filed patent claims against Motorola on
Oct. 29.  The quasi-judicial agency was set up to protect domestic
markets from unfair trade practices, and has the power to order
a ban on imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents.  The Motorola patents include technology that determines how
close the phone is to a person’s head so the touch screen
doesn’t turn off the phone, an antenna design, a way to keep
track of active applications, and a noise reduction feature.  The inventions are used in Motorola phones, including the
Droid and Droid 2 that run on the Android operating system
developed by Google Inc., according to the complaint. Three of
the patents were asserted by Schaumburg, Illinois-based  Motorola 
against BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. in a case that
settled in June.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville, Illinois, also
filed civil suits against Apple over the patents in federal
courts in Chicago and Miami.  Kirk Dailey, Motorola Mobility’s vice president of
intellectual property, said last month that the companies
engaged in “lengthy negotiations” over the patents “but Apple
refused to take a license.”  The case is In the Matter of Certain Wireless
Communications Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, 337-745, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  Lundbeck, Facing Lexapro Generics, Turns to Anti-Alcoholism Drug  H. Lundbeck A/S , whose best-selling antidepressant Lexapro
loses patent protection in the U.S. this year, is in talks with
potential marketing partners for an experimental alcoholism drug
that wouldn’t require patients to first give up drinking, Chief
Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg said.  The loss of the patent opens up Lundbeck, the Danish
developer of drugs for depression and neurological illnesses, to
generics competition.  The company has received has “many inquiries” into the
anti-alcoholism product, called nalmefene, Wiinberg said. The
Valby-based company aims to sell the medicine in Europe to
general practitioners, and its sales force now primarily deals
with specialists in central nervous system diseases.  “We’re not going to hire 2,000 people,” Wiinberg said
yesterday by phone.  Lundbeck has research under way in the last phase of
testing usually required to seek regulatory approval. The
company said it expects to apply for marketing permission in the
second half of next year.  Patients who want to reduce their alcohol consumption would
take the pill before they expect to begin drinking. The approach
contradicts decades of treatment that requires alcoholics to
abstain completely. Lundbeck will have to change both health-
care providers’ and consumers’ behavior, Wiinberg said.  “We will put significant resources into this,” he said.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  News Corp., Production Company Sued Over Proposed Reality Show  News Corp. ’s Twentieth Century-Fox Television unit was sued
for copyright infringement by a New York-based production
company.  The suit relates to a reality television show to be shown
on Fox television. According to the complaint filed Oct. 27 in
federal court in Los Angeles, the show “My Parents Are Gonna
Love You!” is an unauthorized copy of an Italian show,
“Indovina Chi Viene a Cena.”  New York’s Morabito Picture Company LLC holds the rights to
the original show, and is authorized to sell or license its
format to entities in other countries, according to court
papers.  The premise of the show is that a young man or woman brings
a celebrity home to meet the parents, claiming they have a
relationship with the famous person. The celebrity is supposed
to behave obnoxiously, and the prize money is based on how long
the parents can be deceived that a relationship exists.  Codefendant with Fox is the U.S. unit of France’s Banijay
Entertainment. According to court papers, Banijay is the
producer of the unauthorized French-language version of the
show, “Mes Parents Vont T’Adorer!”  In addition to the French program, Banijay is accused of
licensing an infringing version of the Italian show to
television companies in Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, Romania,
Ukraine, the Netherlands, the U.K., Germany, Belgium,
Scandinavia and the Middle East.  Morabito claims it has lost the opportunity to license the
authorized version of the show because of the defendants’
actions. It asked the court to order the defendants to halt
their infringement, and for awards of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  It’s also seeking recall and destruction of all
advertisements and promotional material for the unauthorized
version of the show.  Morabito is represented by  Jessie F. Beeber  and  Jeremy S.
Golden  of  Frankfurt Kurnit Klein & Selz PC  of New York, and
Joseph L. Golden of the Law Office of Joseph L. Golden of Los
Angeles.  The case is Morabito Picture Co. LLC v. Banijay
Entertainment Corp., 2:10-cv-08102-MMM-AJW, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Etsy Balances Fan Enthusiasm, Concerns of Trademark Owners  Etsy Inc., the operator of an online marketplace for
handmade items, walks a fine line at the intersection of
trademark law and fan art, CNET News  reported .  Counsel for one trademark holder told the Brooklyn, New
York-based company that while the client “loves” the fan art,
“if the licensor complaints, then we’re going to ask you to
take it down, and it if’s pornographic, we’ll ask you to take it
down,” according to CNET News.  CNET News said its search of Etsy listings turned up fan
art related to Harry Potter, the “Star Wars” films, pop singer
Justin Bieber, and “Jersey Shore” star DJ Pauly D.  Although Etsy declined to tell CNET News which trademark
owners had complained about fan art, the news service noted that
a number of postings in Etsy Web forums complained about the
removal of listings for  Summit Entertainment LLC ’s “Twilight”
series of vampire-themed films.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Pizzeria Sues Ex-Employee, Accusing Him of Stealing Recipes  Guido’s Pizza in Chester Township, Ohio, sued a former
employee for using its recipes to open his own restaurant,
WKYC.com news website  reported .  The suit, filed in Ohio state court, alleged that Albino
family recipes used at Guido’s were stolen and used at Tommy
Vlah’s Tommy V’s restaurant, according to WKYC.com.  Vlah has denied stealing the recipes, WKYC.com reported.  Rosa Albino of Guido’s told QKYC.com the allegedly
purloined recipes had been in the family for almost 50 years.  IP Moves  Townsend to Join Forces with Atlanta’s Kilpatrick Stockton  Townsend Townsend & Crew, a San Francisco-based IP
specialty firm, is merging with Atlanta’s  Kilpatrick Stockton
LLP , the two firms said in a joint  statement  yesterday.  The new firm of 650 lawyers will be known as Kilpatrick
Townsend & Stockton LLP, with 17 offices in the U.S., Dubai,
Stockholm and Tokyo.  This is the second California merger for the Kilpatrick
firm in a month. In October, Oakland’s Bell Rosenberg & Hughes
LLP merged into the firm.  Townsend and Kilpatrick lawyers are working together
representing Levi Strauss & Co. in a trademark infringement case
filed in federal court in Atlanta in July. Merger talks between
the two firms at that time came to naught because of client-
conflict issues,  according to  the Law360.com legal news website.  Neukom, Ex-Microsoft GC, Enjoys Plaudits as S.F. Giants Owner  William H. Neukom , former general counsel at  Microsoft
Corp. , helped lead his company to victory in the high-profile
copyright infringement case brought by  Apple Inc.  in 1990s.  Yesterday, wearing his trademark bow tie, he was feted --
and showered with orange confetti -- for a victory of another
kind. As majority owner of the  San Francisco Giants  baseball
team, he rode ahead of the team in a parade through the streets
of San Francisco celebrating its 2010 World Series victory, and
was awarded a key to the city by Mayor -- and California
Lieutenant Governor-elect -- Gavin Newsom.  Neukom, once a partner at the Seattle firm now part of
Pittsburgh-based  K&L Gates LLP , served as the Redmond,
Washington-based software company’s general counsel for 17
years. After his 2002 retirement from Microsoft, he returned to
the firm, and also served as president of the American Bar
Association from 2007 through 2008.  In May 2008, Neukom  was named the Giants’ managing general
partner , succeeding Peter Magowan, the grandson of Charles
Merrill, co-founder of  Merrill Lynch & Co .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 