-- Man Group Jumps in London After First-Half Profit Beats Firm's Forecast
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-04T16:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/man-group-reports-56-decline-in-first-half-net-income-to-147-million.html
Man Group Plc, the largest publicly
traded hedge-fund manager, posted its biggest gain in 18 months
in London trading after reporting a smaller-than-expected
decline in fiscal first-half profit.  Pretax profit before adjustments fell to $227 million in
the six months ended Sept. 30 from $292 million a year earlier,
the London-based firm said in a statement today. That’s 5.6
percent higher than the $215 million Man Group forecast on Sept.
28. Funds under management rose to $67 billion at the end of
October, the company estimated.  “We’ve been arguing for some time that Man’s earnings are
about to turn the corner, and it looks like others are starting
to realize that,” said  Steve Keeling , an analyst at Singer
Capital Markets Ltd. in London with a “buy” rating on Man
Group. “The planets are starting to align for Man Group.”  Man Group completed the purchase of New York-based GLG
Partners Inc. last month, broadening its range of funds. The
firm said the acquisition would create a company with about $63
billion in assets, easing dependence on Man AHL Diversified Plc,
an investment program that accounts for more than half of the
fund company’s holdings.  “We have made a fast start to the GLG integration,” Man
Group Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in the
statement. “Man is well positioned for asset growth.”  The shares gained more than 17 percent, closing 15 percent
higher at 290.8 pence. That’s the biggest one-day jump since
April 2 last year.  Man AHL Performance  Man AHL Diversified Futures Ltd., which uses computer
programs to identify trades in more than 150 futures markets
around the world, increased about 6.6 percent in the six months
through Sept. 30, Man Group said today. AHL slumped 16 percent
last year for its first loss, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The firm said about one-third of its AHL fund, which
accounts for $25 billion of the firm’s assets under management,
is above its so-called high-water mark, the level above which it
collects performance fees.  “The prospects for performance fees, should we continue to
perform from here, remain very encouraging,” Clarke said on a
call with reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  