-- Anadarko, Woodside May Be BHP Acquisition Targets, UBS Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-11-04T23:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/anadarko-woodside-may-be-bhp-targets-after-potash-bid-blocked-ubs-says.html
Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd . may be acquisition targets for  BHP Billiton Ltd. 
after its $40 billion offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
was blocked by Canada, UBS AG said.  Riversdale Mining Ltd. , closely held U.S.-based coal
company Drummond Co. and another large-scale potash producer may
be other potential targets, UBS analysts led by  Glyn Lawcock 
said yesterday in a report. BHP may also undertake a $10 billion
share buyback, he said.  Canada this week blocked BHP’s offer for the world’s
largest fertilizer company, saying the deal wouldn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country. Melbourne-based BHP has 30 days
to appeal the government’s decision.  “We believe key issues were the strategic nature of Potash
and the estimated C$2 billion ($1.9 billion) in lost royalties
to Saskatchewan,” UBS said. “According to press reports,
Saskatchewan has asked BHP for an upfront C$1 billion payment to
recoup the lost royalties, which BHP has failed to agree to.”  Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
is 34 percent-owned by Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which may be
willing to team up with BHP to take Woodside private, UBS said.  “BHP Billiton has clearly shown a preference to buy rather
than buyback,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Clarke Wilkins 
said yesterday in a report. “Market share issues constrain
options in iron ore and coking coal, industry fundamentals would
rule out aluminum and nickel, leaving oil and copper as the most
likely. Copper is the market’s darling base metal, but quality
world class M&A opportunities are limited, particularly for a
company of BHP Billiton’s size. This leaves oil.”  The risk in an oil acquisition is that it will skew BHP’s
production portfolio towards energy, Wilkins said. “This may
not be a problem in the Australian market, but where there is
choice in the U.K. for both pure mining and oil it becomes a
risk. The fallback accretion from a buyback is also highly
attractive - $15 billion would be about 10 percent accretive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  