-- Manhattan Residential Property Market May Pay Off for Long-Term Investors
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-11-04T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/manhattan-residential-property-market-may-pay-off-for-long-term-investors.html
The Manhattan residential market is a
good place to invest for those who don’t mind holding onto
property for a long time.  “The residential market right now is very strong,” New
York billionaire  John Catsimatidis , the chairman and chief
executive officer of New York-based Red Apple Group Inc., said
today at the Real Estate Briefing hosted by Bloomberg Link in
New York. “But the world of doubling your money in five years
has come to an end.”  Trading volume of Manhattan apartment properties totaled
$1.63 billion in the third quarter, up 231 percent from the
prior year, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New
York-based real estate research company. The average price per
unit in Manhattan was $273,833, a 9 percent increase from the
third quarter of 2009, the company said.  Manhattan apartment buildings sold at an average cap rate,
or yield, of 6 percent in the third quarter, an increase of 53
basis points from the same period last year, Real Capital said
in an Oct. 21 report. A basis point is equivalent to 0.01
percentage point. The cap rate is a property’s net operating
income divided by its purchase price; rising prices push cap
rates lower. The average U.S. apartment cap rate in the quarter
was 6.5 percent, a drop of 28 basis points from the prior year,
according to Real Capital.  Think Long-Term  “When you’re buying property in Manhattan, you should
really be thinking long term -- financing it intelligently and
planning on holding it as long as possible,”  David Levinson ,
the chairman and chief executive officer of L&L Holding Co., a
private real estate company that redevelops underperforming
office buildings, primarily in Manhattan, said at the briefing.  The high cost of entry into the New York residential market
translates into long-term rewards, developer  Richard LeFrak , the
chairman and chief executive officer of the LeFrak Organization
Inc., said. Limited building space and the cost of renovating
old structures ultimately work in investors’ favor, he said.  “Here we have these restrictions, so New York is unique,”
he said. “It’s a place people want to be. They want to spend
their money here, and they’re going to get price appreciation
over a long period of time.”  World Trade Center  In a city of primarily old, converted construction,
building new properties may be a good investment, Levinson said.
Buildings such as the World Trade Center complex under
construction have the potential to change the city’s landscape
and give developers more freedom, he said.  “Being around the New York City market for 35-plus years,
I’m really excited about what’s happening downtown for the first
time because of the World Trade Center,” he said. “I think
that a new residential rental building, not a converted one,
where you can actually lay it out properly, is a good bet.”  L&L Holding is in negotiations to build its first new
apartment structure, which will have about 400 units covering
about 300,000 square feet, Levinson said. He said the complex
would be downtown, without specifying the exact location.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at   dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 