-- New York Property Elusive Target for Distressed Investors Seeking Bargains
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-04T17:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/manhattan-buildings-become-elusive-target-for-distressed-property-seekers.html
Prices for Manhattan real estate may
never fall enough for vulture investors circling the island
looking for bargains on distressed buildings.  “Everybody is still hoping the bottom will fall out,” ,
 Peter Duncan , president and chief executive officer of George
Comfort & Sons Inc., said today at the Real Estate Briefing
hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York. “Here in Manhattan, that
may never happen.”  Demand for top-tier assets and record low interest rates
has pushed up prices rapidly on the best buildings in New York,
said  William Macklowe , chief executive officer of William
Macklowe Co. Private equity real-estate funds have raised $79.6
billion from the beginning of 2009 through last month, according
to Preqin Ltd., a London-based research firm.  It has been difficult even to acquire debt at a discount,
said Duncan, whose firm led a group that purchased Manhattan’s
Worldwide Plaza in July 2009. Developer Harry Macklowe, William
Macklowe’s father, lost the building to lender Deutsche Bank AG
after he was unable to refinance almost $7 billion in debt used
to finance acquisitions in 2007.  Mezzanine Loans  “We have been trying to buy the mezzanine at a good return
even if we don’t get to the asset,” Duncan said. “Because we
may not get there.”  With the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates low to spur
economic growth, distressed property owners have more room to
maneuver. This changes where value is to be found in debt
purchases and means some so-called mezzanine loans may be in the
money that were expected to be wiped out, said Macklowe.  Mezzanine loans are a form of higher-interest debt that’s
subordinate to a first mortgage. Unlike a mortgage, through
which the bank has a lien on the property itself, a mezzanine
loan is secured by a pledge of equity ownership in the borrowing
entity that bought the property.  U.S. commercial property prices tumbled for a third
straight month in August to the lowest level in eight years,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Values are down 45
percent from the October 2007 peak. More than 25 percent of
sales in August involved distressed real estate, Moody’s said
Oct. 19.  The willingness of lenders to provide financing is a
critical component of a recovery in real estate prices, said
 Stephen Meringoff , a managing partner at Himmel & Meringoff
Properties in New York.  “We’ve seen a resurgence of the willingness of lenders to
put money out,” said Meringoff, whose firm owns and operates
more than 2 million square feet of office and retail space.
“Without leverage real estate is just another mediocre asset
class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  