-- MannKind Falls After Lawsuit Alleges Study Misconduct
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mannkind-falls-after-lawsuit-alleges-study-misconduct-update2-.html
MannKind Corp.  fell the most in about
eight months after a former executive alleged in a lawsuit that
the company suppressed potential fraud in clinical trials of a
diabetes treatment now pending before U.S. regulators.  The lawsuit, filed in New Jersey state court by John
Arditi, MannKind’s former senior director for regulatory
affairs, said the company withheld from regulators information
about potential “scientific misconduct” at clinical trial
sites in Russia and Bulgaria. Arditi’s allegations are “without
merit” and MannKind intends to “defend against them
vigorously,” the company said in an Oct. 29 regulatory filing.  The allegations may further delay action by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration on Valencia, California-based MannKind’s
application to clear the drug, Afrezza, said  Simos Simeonidis ,
an analyst for Rodman & Renshaw in New York. The agency is
scheduled to rule on the application by Dec. 29.  “I assume the FDA will now dig through the data with a
fine-tooth comb and it could lead to a delay if they request
additional information about this specific data,” he said today
in a telephone interview. Simeonidis, who has a  buy rating  on
the stock, said the share price may get punished further,
presenting a “buy opportunity.”  John Newman , an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. in New York,
said in a note today to investors that he expects the FDA won’t
approve the drug and will request large new studies. Newman
rates the shares “underperform.”  Seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have buy ratings on
the stock and five recommend selling.  Shares Decline  MannKind, the biotechnology company founded by billionaire
 Alfred Mann , fell 68 cents, or 11 percent, to $5.51 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, for the biggest
single-day decline since March 15 when the FDA delayed approval
of Afrezza, an inhaled treatment for diabetes. The medicine is
the company’s most advanced product and would be its first to
reach the market.  In the lawsuit filed Sept. 16, Arditi said he uncovered
evidence of potential scientific misconduct at the Russian and
Bulgarian sites and brought them to the attention of MannKind
senior executives.  At a Russian site, patients enrolled in the study had the
same blood pressure readings at each visit for several months,
according to Arditi’s lawsuit. This is unlikely to be an
accurate finding and raised the chance of “fraudulent study
results, including the possibility of fictitious patients,” he
said.  Raising Concerns  Arditi said he was fired by MannKind after he presented his
concerns and asked that the information be reported to the FDA,
according to the lawsuit. The company’s “commercial interests
trumped integrity and transparency,” he said in the lawsuit.
Arditi said he was responsible for overseeing clinical trials
conducted overseas.  MannKind conducted an independent investigation of Arditi’s
allegations and concluded there was no substance to them,
 Matthew Pfeffer , the company’s chief financial officer, said
today in a telephone interview. He said MannKind’s termination
of Arditi wasn’t related to his allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 