-- Mantega Says U.S. Throwing Money Won't Force Brazil to Act on Currency
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-04T18:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mantega-says-u-s-throwing-money-won-t-force-brazil-to-act-on-currency.html
Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said he’s not considering additional currency measures
even as the U.S. throws “money from a helicopter” in a bid to
boost economic growth.  Mantega said the Federal Reserve’s decision yesterday to
inject $600 billion into the economy through debt purchases
won’t work and increases the risk of asset bubbles forming
around the globe. He said President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva
will urge the U.S. to change its policy next week when he
attends the Group of 20 nations summit in Seoul, South Korea.  “It doesn’t work to throw money from a helicopter because
this won’t make growth flourish,” Mantega told reporters in
Brasilia. “In Brazil, there is no risk of bubbles because we
took measures that block exaggerated inflows.”  While the U.S. debt-buying will weaken the dollar, Brazil
isn’t considering any new measures to control currency gains.  “In Brazil we are managing to control the appreciation of
the real,” Mantega said. “But this is a problem that may get
worse as the U.S. persists with its policy.”  Brazil tripled last month a tax foreigners must pay to
invest in Brazil’s fixed-income securities in a bid to ease
capital inflows that helped drive the currency to a two-year
high. The government also slapped a 6 percent tax on foreigners
entering the country’s derivatives market.  The real gained 0.62 percent to 1.6794 per U.S. dollar at
11:57 a.m. New York time. The currency has more than doubled in
value against the U.S. dollar since Lula took office in January
2003, making it the best performer among the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Mantega said a decision by Congress to boost the 2011
federal revenue forecast is “worrisome” because it will lead
to an increase of planned spending of about 20 billion reais
($11.9 billion) next year.  “We don’t have conditions for that,” Mantega said. “This
is a moment to cut spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  