-- Tanzania May Sell $500 Million of Eurobonds in 2011-12, Central Bank Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-11-04T11:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/tanzania-may-sell-500-million-of-eurobonds-in-2011-12-central-bank-says.html
Tanzania may revive plans to sell as
much as $500 million of Eurobonds next fiscal year to fund
infrastructure projects ranging from the installation of fiber-
optic cables to road building, Bank of Tanzania Governor  Benno Ndulu  said.  Transaction advisers are being selected and the East
African nation plans to seek a sovereign credit rating from
agencies including Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings before
the sale, Ndulu said in an interview yesterday in Dar es Salaam,
the commercial capital.  “I don’t think we’ll get to a point of issuance within the
fiscal year, but probably the following year,” he said. The
nation’s fiscal year ends on June 30.  Tanzania and neighboring Kenya and Uganda shelved plans to
sell $500 million of sovereign bonds over the past two years
after the global economic crisis squeezed credit markets and
raised the cost of borrowing. Tanzanian policy makers are
reviving the idea to finance programs that include the expansion
of Dar es Salaam’s main port and increasing power generation,
said Ndulu. Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, will sell
its planned $500 million Eurobond by the middle of December.  ‘Large’ Projects  In June, Finance Minister  Mustafa Mkulo  said Tanzania will
seek 2.1 trillion shillings ($1.4 billion) from domestic and
external lenders to help finance “large” infrastructure
projects. The country hopes to raise as much as $500 million in
commercial loans this fiscal year and will decide within the
next two months on the size of the request and which lenders to
seek out, Ndulu said.  “We may begin with looking at other foreign sources for
borrowing before we go for a Eurobond issuance,” Ndulu said. “We
are talking to various potential lenders on that and looking at
some sort of bridging arrangement between now and the time that
the issuance will be done.”  An  International Monetary Fund  assessment of Tanzania’s
economy shows the country has the “space” to borrow $1.5 billion
of “non-concessional” loans in the three years through June
2013, he said.  Tanzania’s economy is projected to grow 7.1 percent in
2011, compared with an estimated 7 percent this year and 6
percent in 2009, as all of the nation’s industries expand, Ndulu
said. That broad-based growth has helped reduce the impact of
the global financial crisis, he said.  Diversification Cushion  “The diversification of the economy has really been good
for cushioning against huge swings in growth,” Ndulu said. “My
belief is that the large swings in the past in terms of growth,
that’s an issue of the past. Even in a bad year, I would put a
cushion of five percent growth these days.”  The IMF expects Tanzania to grow 6.5 percent this year and
6.7 percent in 2011, compared with average growth rates in sub-
Saharan Africa of 5 percent and 5.5 percent over the same
periods. Gross domestic product in the country, which has a
population of 43.7 million, was $21.6 billion in 2009, according
to World Bank data.  The nation’s gross national income per capita of $500
compares with a sub-Saharan African average of $1,096. The size
of the economy ranks second to  Kenya ’s in the region.  Inflation in Tanzania is easing after improved rains eased
food-supply pressures following a drought last year, Ndulu said.  Tanzania’s inflation rate dropped to 4.5 percent in
September, the lowest since October 2005, after the country
produced a food surplus, the Dar es Salaam-based statistics
agency said on Oct. 15.  Gold Producer  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali and the world’s only source of
tanzanite, a precious stone. It is the continent’s fifth-biggest
producer of coffee, following Ethiopia, Uganda, Ivory Coast and
Cameroon.  Barrick Gold Corp. , the world’s largest gold miner,
operates four mines in Tanzania, while  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  of
South Africa and Australia’s Resolute Mining Ltd. also has gold
mines in the country.  The Tanzanian shilling has weakened 10 percent against the
dollar so far this year. It was trading at 1,493.50 shillings
per dollar at 12:04 p.m. in Dar es Salaam today.  The shilling is expected to track global markets rather
than the domestic economy over the next 12 months, Ndulu said.  “The primary driver for the next year for all of our
currencies in East Africa will be what happens to the global
movements of reserve currencies,” he said.  IMF Project  The government, in collaboration with the IMF, is preparing
to embark on the third phase of a  Financial Sector Assessment
Program  that will probably start in early 2012, Ndulu said. The
plan will propose to “fill a big gap in long-term financing”
with policies to help create an agricultural development bank,
establish venture-capital funds as well as gradually liberalize
the capital account, he said.  “It’s a small market, short-term funds move very quickly
and they can play havoc with the economy,” Ndulu said. “The
thing is how do you put up speed bumps to ensure while we
benefit from flows we don’t put the economy at total risk
because rapid movements in and out of those funds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 