-- Apache Profit Rises on Growing Demand for Oil
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-11-04T20:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/apache-reports-profit-rose-after-growing-demand-for-crude.html
Apache Corp. , the largest independent
U.S. oil company based on market value, said third-quarter
profit increased as demand helped boost oil prices. Its shares
gained the most in 15 months.  Net income rose to $765 million, or $2.12 a share, from
$440.6 million, or $1.30, a year earlier, Houston-based Apache
said in a statement today. Profit excluding foreign currency
fluctuation was $2.19 a share, 2 cents less than the average of
19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 29
percent to $3 billion.  Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the third quarter,
up 12 percent from a year earlier.  Apache’s exploration  and
production business last year was evenly split between oil and
natural gas.  “The Apache quarter was pretty much in line with
expectations,” said  Brian Lively , an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. in Houston, who rates the shares “accumulate” and
owns none. “They just have a lot on their plate right now as
they’re trying to close these acquisitions.”  Apache  rose $5.21, or 5.1 percent, to $107.79 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest increase
since July 2009. The shares, which have 17 buy  ratings  from
analysts, six holds and one sell, have risen 4.5 percent this
year.  Asset Sales  After spending $11 billion on purchases this year, Apache
expects to sell about $1 billion in assets in the first half of
2011 to reduce its debt,  Roger Plank , president of the company,
said on an investor conference call today. The company is still
determining which properties to sell, he said.  The company is looking to reduce its debt-to-capital ratio,
which is projected to be below 27 percent when the year ends,
Chief Executive Officer  Steven Farris  said on the call.  “If we sold $1 billion it would help us greatly to be down
in the same category we were at the beginning of the year,”
Farris said.  Production rose 10 percent to the equivalent of 667,460
barrels of oil per day. Earnings were helped by an increase in
output after Apache completed some of its  acquisitions  this
year.  Apache announced a deal in July with London-based  BP Plc  to
buy assets in Egypt, Canada and the Permian Basin of Texas and
New Mexico for $7 billion. The U.S. portion of the deal closed
on Aug. 11. Apache also completed its $1.05 billion purchase of
Devon Energy Corp.’s Gulf of Mexico shallow-water assets in
June.  Completed Deals  Apache said in April it would buy  Mariner Energy  Inc. in a
deal valued at the time at about $2.7 billion. Mariner is an
independent producer with operations both offshore and along the
coast of the Gulf of Mexico and in the Permian Basin of Texas.  The company said in a separate statement it completed its
purchase of BP’s Egypt assets today. Mariner shareholders are
expected to approve the merger with Apache during a special
meeting on Nov. 10. Once the votes have been counted, the
closing will be immediate, Farris said on the call.  Production is expected to grow to the equivalent of 775,000
barrels of oil a day in December after those acquisitions are
completed, Farris said.  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New York,
said he was expecting an average equivalent of about 720,000
barrels of oil per day in the fourth quarter.  Capital spending for next year is expected to grow to at
least $7 billion, Plank said. That would be a 17 percent
increase over this year’s forecast of about $6 billion.  Independent producers are those without refining and retail
businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 