-- Apollo Plunges After U.S. Launches Investigation of Financial Aid Process
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-11-04T16:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/apollo-plunges-after-u-s-launches-investigation-of-financial-aid-process.html
Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest
education company by enrollment, plunged to a four-year low in
stock trading after saying the U.S. Department of Education will
review financial-aid practices at its University of Phoenix.  Apollo  fell  $3.18, or 8.3 percent, to $35.29 at 11:59 a.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, after declining to as
low as $34.82, the lowest intraday price since November 2006.  The probe, scheduled to begin Dec. 6, will cover the
financial years 2009-2010 and 2010 to date, the Phoenix-based
company  said  in a regulatory filing today. Apollo said in June
that the university had been the subject of a similar
examination in February 2009 and had taken action to satisfy the
department’s requirements.  “The timing is bad,” Joe Janssen, an analyst at
Barrington Research in Chicago, said in an e-mail. “Investors
now have to grapple with another issue aside from regulatory
risk, media risk, slowing growth.”  For-profit education companies led by Apollo face federal
scrutiny because almost 90 percent of the companies’ revenues
derive from funds from the Title IV federal aid program, said
 Ariel Sokol , an analyst with UBS AG in New York. The Education
Department today started two days of hearings on a proposed
regulation that ties the colleges’ eligibility for student aid
to whether graduates pay back their loans.  Shares Falling  Eleven of 13 stocks on the U.S. For-Profit Education
Companies  Index  declined today, with Houston-based  Corinthian
Colleges Inc.  dropping 7.2 percent. Lincoln Educational Services
Corp., of West Orange, New Jersey, and Pittsburgh-based
Education Management Corp. rose after reporting quarterly profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  “As a participant in Title IV programs, we are subject to,
and we expect to experience, periodic program reviews of our
Title IV program administration,” Ryan Rauzon, a spokesman for
Apollo, said in an e-mail. “Collectively, University of Phoenix
students receive more Title IV aid than any other institution’s
student body and we disburse more Title IV student financial aid
than any other educational institution in the U.S.”  Apollo disclosed in October 2009 that the Securities and
Exchange Commission was asking about its revenue-recognition
practices. Last month, the company said the SEC was also looking
at its insider-trading policies.  Withdrawn Forecast  Apollo on Oct. 13 withdrew its  forecast  for fiscal 2011,
citing the regulatory scrutiny and declining numbers of new
students. The company said it expected a drop in enrollment for
its degree programs to accelerate in the first quarter of 2011,
resulting in a “significant year-over-year decline.”  Apollo expects to exceed legal limits on the share of funds
received from government financial aid, jeopardizing its biggest
source of revenue,  Brian Swartz , the company’s chief financial
officer, said Oct. 13 in a call with analysts and investors.  The University of Phoenix’s dependence on federal student
aid is “likely to exceed” 90 percent of  revenue  in fiscal
2012, violating a federal law known as the “90-10” rule,
Swartz said on the analysts’ call. If a for-profit college
doesn’t comply with the rule for two consecutive fiscal years,
it loses eligibility to receive student-aid funds for at least
two years.  The University of Phoenix derived 88 percent of revenue
from federal student aid in fiscal 2010, an increase from 86
percent a year earlier, Swartz said. Title IV of the Higher
Education Act provides federal student aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 