-- Apollo Says U.S. to Conduct Review of Financial Aid
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-11-04T13:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/apollo-says-u-s-to-conduct-review-of-company-s-student-aid-administration.html
Apollo Group Inc. , the biggest
education company by enrollment, said the U.S. Department of
Education will review the administration of federal financial
aid at the company’s University of Phoenix. The shares declined.  The probe, scheduled to begin Dec. 6, will cover the
financial years 2009-2010 and 2010 to date, the Phoenix-based
company  said  in a regulatory filing today. The company said in
June that the university had been the subject of a similar
examination in February 2009 and had taken action to satisfy the
department’s requirements.  For-profit education companies led by Apollo face close
federal scrutiny because almost 90 percent of the companies’
revenues derive from funds from the Title IV federal aid
program, said  Ariel Sokol , an analyst with UBS AG in New York.
The Education Department today starts two days of hearings on a
proposed regulation that ties the colleges’ eligibility for
student aid to whether graduates pay back their loans.  “This sort of announcement is pretty much par for the
course for a company and sector where the government is
increasing scrutiny,” Sokol said today in a telephone
interview. He has a “neutral” rating on Apollo shares. “Baked
in the stock is the understanding that there will be scrutiny.”  Shares Fall  Apollo fell $1.08, or 2.8 percent, to $37.39 at 9:33 a.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares fell 36
percent in 2010 before today. Ryan Rauzon, a spokesman for
Apollo, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Apollo disclosed in October 2009 that the Securities and
Exchange Commission was asking about the company’s revenue
recognition practices. Last month, the company said the SEC was
also looking at its insider trading policies.  Apollo on Oct. 13 withdrew its forecast for fiscal 2011,
citing the regulatory scrutiny and declining numbers of new
students. The company said it expected a drop in new enrollment
for its degree programs to accelerate in the first quarter of
2011, resulting in a “significant year-over-year decline.”  Apollo expects to exceed legal limits on the share of funds
received from government financial aid, jeopardizing its biggest
source of revenue,  Brian Swartz , the company’s chief financial
officer, said Oct. 13 in a call with analysts and investors.  The University of Phoenix’s dependence on federal student
aid is “likely to exceed” 90 percent of revenue in fiscal
2012, violating a federal law known as the “90-10” rule,
Swartz said in the analysts’ call. If a for-profit college
doesn’t comply with the rule for two consecutive fiscal years,
it loses eligibility to receive student-aid funds for at least
two years.  The University of Phoenix derived 88 percent of revenue
from federal student aid in fiscal 2010, an increase from 86
percent a year earlier, Swartz said. Title IV of the Higher
Education Act provides federal student aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 