-- Swaps Clearing Plan May Be Too Expensive, O’Malia Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-11-04T22:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/margin-settlement-plan-may-make-swaps-clearing-too-expensive-o-malia-says.html
A proposal to divvy up margin
payments of individual swaps users at clearinghouses rather than
allowing accounts to be treated as one pool by banks
representing multiple customers may make guaranteeing trades too
expensive, a U.S. commodity regulator said today.  Some swaps users favor the proposal because it would
prevent one customer’s margin from being used to offset a
deficit owed by another, Commodity Futures Trading Commissioner
 Scott O’Malia  wrote in a letter to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
It would also make operating the system more expensive for
everyone, he said.  “While this proposal has certain merit, it has been
suggested that it could lead to a substantial increase in the
cost of clearing by placing the individual interests of a single
client above those of the system and introduce a certain moral
hazard into the clearing system,” O’Malia said in the letter.  The CFTC is working on rules to implement the Dodd-Frank
Act passed by Congress in July. The law mandates that most swaps
be guaranteed by clearinghouses to lessen systemic risk.  The idea O’Malia wrote to the Chamber and other swaps users
about today would allow swaps clearinghouses to know which
margin payments belong to individual bank customers like hedge
funds or corporations. Existing futures markets allow banks to
pool all their customer accounts together when settling a day’s
margins. O’Malia is seeking feedback on how to handle swaps
margins.  Corporate Options  Corporations that are using swaps to hedge commercial risk
will be exempt from having to use clearinghouses, though many
may want to do so if the cost isn’t prohibitive, O’Malia said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  “We’re going from a system where we’re trying to fix ‘too-
big-to-fail’ to one where it’s too expensive to clear,” he
said. “I have a real concern about that.”  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  Clearinghouse owner  CME Group Inc.  said last month that it
may raise margin 50 percent to 100 percent to offset the
increased cost of creating individual accounts for thousands of
swaps users, O’Malia said.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  said
payments at its clearinghouses may rise 63 percent, he said.  Morgan Stanley’s O’Connor  Typically in the U.S. futures market, the clearinghouse
holds margin it requires on a bank-by-bank basis as opposed to
splitting out the margin belonging to the bank customers, said
Stephen O’Connor, head of Morgan Stanley’s counterparty
portfolio management group.  In contrast, the system used at  LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , the
world’s largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, allows the
clearinghouse to individually segregate margin by customer, he
said.  That system “is more expensive to run,” O’Connor said.  O’Malia said in the letter that market users have  raised
concerns  that individual segregation of margin could increase
the risk at a clearinghouse by shifting the burden of oversight
from the banks that are clearinghouse members to the
clearinghouse itself. It could also lead the bank members to
reduce the amount of capital they hold to the minimum required,
he said.  O’Connor said the decision on individual customer
segregation may ultimately be left to the swap users.  “I think the rules will be changed to allow that at the
client’s option,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 