-- Harper Rejection of BHP Bid for Potash May Hurt Canada's Pro-Trading Image
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/harper-s-pro-trade-stance-investment-may-suffer-from-bhp-ruling.html
The Canadian government’s rejection
of  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. may hurt the country’s pro-trade image, deter
foreign investors and penalize companies investing overseas.  Canada blocked the bid by BHP, the world’s largest mining
company, because the proposed takeover doesn’t provide a “net
benefit” to Canada, Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said in a
statement yesterday. BHP has 30 days to appeal, he said, without
giving more reasons for his ruling. The transaction would have
been the second-biggest acquisition in the country’s history.  “When companies look at Canada, there’ll be a bit of a
premium put on the cost of capital,” said  Jack Mintz , an
economist and public policy expert at the University of Calgary.
“There’ll be a chill on takeovers of Canadian companies.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has campaigned for Group of
20 countries to resist protectionism and earlier this year
abolished all tariffs on imported machinery and equipment.
Foreign direct investment in Canada has more than doubled in the
last 10 years, reaching C$549 billion in 2009, government
statistics show.  After the BHP rejection, Harper may find it more difficult
to convince lawmakers in the U.S., Canada’s  largest trading 
partner, or in emerging countries to give domestic companies
fair treatment.  The rejection “could be used down the road when a Canadian
company tries to buy a major acquisition in another country,”
Mintz said before the ruling. “You never know when the
consequences are going to come back at you.”  Acquisitions  Since Harper first became prime minister in 2006,
foreigners have spent $367 billion to acquire 2,391 Canadian
companies, while Canadian businesses have spent $310 billion to
buy 2,866 foreign firms, Bloomberg data shows.  Among Canadian acquisitions in the past decade, Thomson
Corp. bought Reuters Group Plc of the U.K. for $18.2 billion in
2007 and Manulife Financial Corp. acquired John Hancock
Financial Services Inc. of Boston for $10.9 billion in 2003.  “I am passionately patriotic,”  Chris Damas , a Barrie,
Ontario-based equities analyst with BCMI Research, said in an e-
mail. “But I don’t believe we should be running to the federal
government for protection when someone comes trying to buy our
biggest companies.”  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($291 million) or more
if it finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country,
based on factors such as output and employment levels.  “Canada has a long-standing reputation for welcoming
foreign investment,” Clement said yesterday. “The government
of Canada remains committed to maintaining an open climate for
investment.”  ‘A Second Look’  “I think it will cause companies to take a second look,”
said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall MacDougall
and MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion in
assets, including Potash shares. “If the commodities sector
continues to be in favor, I think they will come in. But in
terms of acquisitions of big companies, it’s very unlikely.
People will say, ‘Look what happened to BHP.’”  Opposition lawmakers  have said  that Canada risks suffering
a “hollowing out” when foreigners buy large corporations,
because head-office-related jobs vanish. Studies have shown that
concern to be baseless, said  Walid Hejazi , professor of
international competitiveness at Rotman School of Management in
Toronto.  “The idea that a foreign company is going to come into
Canada and gut it, it’s not true,” Hejazi said. “There’s no
evidence to support it. They’re going to continue to operate the
company in a way that maximizes its value.”  One Rejection  In the past 25 years, Canada has approved more than 1,600
bids while formally rejecting only one takeover offer until
yesterday. Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business was blocked in
2008.  “People are critical of Canada for being a boy scout when
it comes to those things,” said  Bill Robson , president of the
Toronto-based policy research group C.D. Howe Institute. “It’s
good to be a boy scout, because the way you treat investors
generally is going to affect the economic climate within the
country.”  If investors believe the decision was taken arbitrarily,
“it’s going to have a depressing effect on Canadian asset
prices,” Robson said before the decision was announced.  Provinces Opposed  Saskatchewan is home to the world’s largest reserves of
potash, a form of potassium farmers use to boost crop yields.
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the world’s largest maker of
potash by capacity. The province’s premier,  Brad Wall , said
Canada’s rejection of the bid from Melbourne-based BHP was
justified because potash is “a very strategic resource.” Wall,
an ally of Harper, also rallied support from other provinces
including Quebec and Alberta to oppose the sale.  “If you walk away from a proposition like this you are
starting to send a signal that you’re not open for business,”
 Andrew Mackenzie , BHP’s head of non-ferrous businesses, said in
an Oct. 22 interview. A rejection “will make it harder in the
future to attract capital both into Saskatchewan and Canada and
you will make it harder for Canadian companies to invest
overseas.”  Canadian firms that have invested in Australia include the
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board, which agreed in August to buy Intoll Group for
A$3.44 billion ($3 billion) to gain stakes in toll roads in
Toronto and Sydney.  Christopher Sands , a senior at the Hudson Institute in
Washington, said Canada may lose its credibility with emerging
countries.  “Canada will just be another commodity exporter that
intervenes when it sees some political advantage in doing so,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 