-- Asian Economies May Coordinate to Prevent Currency Speculation, Korn Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-11-04T10:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/asia-may-coordinate-to-prevent-currency-speculation-thailand-s-korn-says.html
Asian nations may undertake joint
measures to prevent excessive speculation in their currencies,
Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said after the U.S.
embarked on a second round of quantitative easing.  “The central bank told me that they are in close talks
with other regional central banks,” Korn told reporters in
Bangkok today. “If necessary, they may jointly issue measures
to prevent excessive speculation.”  Regional policy makers are willing to act jointly on
capital flows if needed to ensure stability, Malaysia’s central
bank Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in an emailed statement.  Asia-Pacific officials are preparing for stronger
currencies and asset-price inflation after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said yesterday it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June. Central banks from China to India and
Australia have raised interest rates to curb inflationary
pressures at a time when Japan and the U.S. are adding monetary
stimulus to boost growth.  Asian currencies rose today, led by Taiwan’s dollar and
South Korea’s won, on speculation additional U.S. monetary
stimulus will weaken the dollar and bolster demand for higher-
yielding, emerging-market assets.  Chinese central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said the Fed’s
quantitative easing amounts to “uncontrolled” money printing,
and Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  cited the U.S. pursuing a
“weak-dollar policy.”  Vigilant Banks  “Central banks in the region are vigilant and are in close
regular contact in the monitoring of capital flows in the
region,” Malaysia’s Zeti said. “We have a robust surveillance
mechanism in place and share our experiences in managing these
capital flows. The central banks in the region also have
sufficient range of instruments to manage this challenge and are
willing to act collectively if the need arises to ensure
stability in the region.”  The Fed yesterday left unchanged its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period.” The central
bank’s rate target for overnight interbank loans is zero to 0.25
percent, where it has been since December 2008.  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen ($62
billion) fund that will buy government and corporate debt, as
well as invest in real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board
start a two-day policy meeting today to discuss the purchases.  Guarding Rupiah  Currency policies by Asian central banks have differed this
year. While Thailand, Japan and South Korea have taken steps to
cool an appreciation in their currencies that is threatening
exports, Singapore has signaled it will allow faster exchange-
rate gains.  Bank Indonesia will “guard” the rupiah at its
“fundamental” level of 8,900 to 9,300 against the dollar and
buy foreign currencies to limit volatility, Governor  Darmin Nasution  said Oct. 27. Malaysia’s Zeti said last month she
favors a gradual strengthening of the ringgit, rather than
“sudden movements.”  China has limited the yuan’s advance to about 2 percent
since relaxing a two-year dollar peg in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  