-- Asia Girds for Stronger Currencies, Bubble Threat From Fed Move
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-04T10:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/asia-girds-for-stronger-currencies-asset-bubble-threat-from-fed-stimulus.html
Asia-Pacific officials are preparing
for stronger currencies and asset-price inflation as they blamed
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus for
threatening to escalate an inflow of capital into the region.  Chinese central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said Fed quantitative
easing is “uncontrolled” money printing, and Japan’s Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  cited the U.S. pursuing a “weak-dollar
policy.” The Hong Kong Monetary Authority warned the city’s
property prices could surge and Malaysia’s central bank chief
said nations are prepared to act jointly on capital flows.  “Extra liquidity due to quantitative easing will spill
into Asian markets,” said  Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. “It will put increased
pressure on all currencies to appreciate, the yuan in particular
has been appreciating at a slower rate than others.”  The International Monetary Fund last month urged Asia-
Pacific nations to withdraw policy stimulus to head off asset-
price pressures, as their world-leading economies draw capital
because of low interest rates in the U.S. and other advanced
countries. Today’s reactions of regional policy makers reflect
the international ramifications of the Fed’s decision yesterday
to inject $600 billion into the U.S. economy.  Stocks Climb  Most Asian currencies rose against the dollar after the
Fed’s move, led by a 0.5 percent climb in the Taiwanese dollar
and 0.2 percent gain in the South Korean won. New Zealand’s
currency reached a 29-month high, and Australia’s dollar touched
its strongest level since 1982. The MSCI Asia Pacific index of
stocks advanced to the  highest level  since July 2008.  People’s Bank of China adviser  Xia  said U.S. policy makers
have a conflict between making policy for the domestic economy
and accepting responsibilities that come with being the issuer
of the international reserve currency, writing in the Finance
News newspaper today.  China should counter the U.S. through regional currency
alliances, speeding international use of the yuan and seeking
stability in exchange rates through the Group of 20, which holds
a summit next week, Xia later told reporters in Beijing.  China Policy  “We may need to moderately tighten monetary policy and
should tighten controls on banks’ lending,”  He Fan , an
economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said in an
interview in Beijing. “We are worried about asset bubbles in
China and the Fed’s new quantitative easing measures will add to
the pressure on prices.”  China raised interest rates for the first time since 2007
last month, and has limited the yuan to less than a 2 percent
gain versus the dollar since June.  Asian currencies have climbed against the dollar this year
as the region’s growth outpaces the rest of the world. Regional
central banks from China to India and Australia have raised
interest rates to curb inflation pressure, while countries
including South Korea and Indonesia have adopted measures to
slow the flow of speculative money.  “Our country will actively consider implementing capital
control measures to improve the macro-economy,” Kim Ik Joo, a
director general of South Korea’s finance ministry, said in a
telephone interview today. “Now that the U.S. has announced its
plans on quantitative easing, don’t you think there will be an
influx of capital going into emerging markets?”  Goldman’s Call  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week raised its 12-month
target for Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index of equities, saying the
city has the most to gain from extra liquidity released by
quantitative easing programs and China’s growth.  The Fed’s move will “definitely add pressure to the asset
markets in emerging-market economies,” HKMA chief  Norman Chan 
said at a press briefing in Hong Kong today. The HKMA will
“take measures that are specific to the housing market if
necessary.”  In contrast, the Philippines central bank said global
financial markets will be calmer and the decline of the U.S.
dollar will ease after the Fed purchase plan came “in line”
with forecasts. Funds may continue to flow to emerging markets
because of low U.S. yields, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
 Amando Tetangco  said in a mobile phone text message.  Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said central banks
in the region are in touch and if needed may act jointly against
currency speculators, speaking to reporters in Bangkok. Bank
Negara Malaysia Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said in an e-mailed
statement that “central banks in the region also have sufficient
range of instruments to manage this challenge and are willing to
act collectively if the need arises to ensure stability.”  Currency Pool  The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, together with
Japan, China, and South Korea, last year signed an agreement to
create a $120 billion foreign-currency reserve pool. Member
nations are able to tap the pool, set up in a framework of
bilateral currency swaps, in times of turmoil to defend their
exchange rates.  Sri Lanka aims to keep rupee gains “controlled” as the
Fed’s action generates an “enormous” amount of credit, the
nation’s central bank Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  said in an
interview during an Asian Development Bank forum in Manila today.  Currency policies by Asian central banks have differed in
recent months. While Thailand, Japan and South Korea have taken
steps to cool an appreciation in their currencies that is
threatening exports, Singapore has signaled it will allow faster
exchange-rate gains.  ‘Two Giants’  New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said that U.S.
and Chinese policies are causing his nation’s currency to soar,
endangering export competitiveness.  “We’re caught between the policies of the two giants, both
of which puts some pressure on us, with the U.S. depreciating
their currency and China not allowing theirs to appreciate as
much as would suit us,” English said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Tokyo.  Meantime in Japan, whose currency has risen to the highest
level in 15 years versus the dollar, Prime Minister Kan said at
parliament today that the strong-yen trend is partly related to
“the U.S.’s weak-dollar policy, which prompted the rise of the
currencies of many emerging nations.”  U.S. dollar policy is set by the Treasury Department, and
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  last month reiterated the long-
standing American stance that his nation supports “a strong
dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  