-- Asian Clean-Energy Developers Seek Foreign Currency Loans, Raboank Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T08:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/asian-clean-energy-developers-seek-foreign-currency-loans-raboank-says.html
Rising interest rates in Asia are
prodding renewable-energy project developers to seek more
foreign currency loans, a development that may squeeze out
smaller local players from financing,  Rabobank Nederland NV 
said.  The borrowers are particularly sensitive to lending rates
because of the higher upfront costs of setting up low-emissions
plants relative to conventional power projects,  Jotdeep Singh ,
Rabobank’s head of Asia renewable energy and infrastructure
finance, said today in an interview.  “Rising interest rates in China,  India  and other countries
are affecting especially local currency financings,” Singh said
at the Clean Energy Expo Asia conference in Singapore. “We have
seen increased approaches from our clients inquiring about U.S.
dollar or euro financings, which are becoming more competitive
now that local currency financings are more expensive because of
the interest rate hikes.”  Central banks in India, China, Australia, South Korea,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand have all raised borrowing costs
this year to contain inflation, whereas the U.S. and Japan have
cut benchmark interest rates to near zero and printed money to
spur growth. That combination could flood emerging markets with
capital inflows, further exacerbating rising prices, India’s
 central bank said , after raising interest rates this week for
the sixth time in 2010 and the most in Asia this year.  Solar and Wind  Borrowing costs affect projects like solar and wind farms
whose set-up costs are expensive but have low running costs
because they don’t purchase fuel. In contrast, the costs of
natural gas, coal or oil-fired power plants tend to be
distributed over a longer period.  While international banks can offer financing in both local
and foreign currencies, they’ll only lend to projects of a
certain size and quality, Singh said.  “Not all developers can get international bank
financing,” Singh said. “Those who completely rely on local
bank financings have been affected.”  Rabobank has financed more than half of its renewable-
energy projects in India over the last eight years with foreign
currency borrowings, Singh said. Globally, the bank has provided
more than 1 billion euros ($1.41 billion) in finance to
renewable-energy projects, he said, declining to give a break
down of that figure.  China’s central bank raised interest rates for the first
time since 2007 on Oct. 19 after consumer price increases
accelerated to a 23-month high. Australia ended a five-month
pause in rate increases on Nov. 2 by unexpectedly hiking its
benchmark interest rate. Australia’s six quarter-point steps
from October 2009 to May this year was the most aggressive round
of rate increases among Group of 20 members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  