-- Assured Guaranty Net Climbs on Mortgage Buybacks
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/assured-guaranty-net-climbs-on-mortgage-buybacks-update1-.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. , the bond
insurer stripped of the industry’s last AAA ranking last month,
said net income rose to $180.9 million in the third quarter, in
part because it successfully forced mortgage bond sellers to buy
back soured home loans.  Net income climbed to 96 cents a share, from a net loss of
$35 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier, the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based company said today in a statement. Operating
income more than quadrupled to $222.8 million, or $1.19 per
share. The average  estimate  of seven analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was for operating income of 89 cents a share.  “Our strong operating earnings this quarter continued to
reflect the stable results of our credit portfolio and the
earnings power of our franchise,”  Dominic Frederico , chief
executive officer of Assured, said in the statement.  Assured, backed by billionaire  Wilbur Ross , is the only
company left offering municipal-bond insurance after market
leaders including  MBIA Inc.  and  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  had
their credit ratings slashed because of losses linked to home
mortgages.  Assured Guaranty climbed 63 cents, or 3.2 percent, to
$20.37 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading as of 4:11
p.m. The shares have lost 6.4 percent this year. The company
said in today’s statement it increased its market share in the
first three quarters of the year to 9.2 percent from 5.2 percent
at the end of 2009.  Buffett Backs Off  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which entered the municipal bond
insurance market in late 2007, backed off after Chairman  Warren Buffett  told investors in February 2009 that insuring municipal
bonds appeared to have become “a dangerous business.”
Macquarie Group Ltd. also plans to abandon efforts to start a
municipal bond insurer, Moody’s said in an Oct. 25 report.  “Such a limited field raises questions about the sector’s
long-term relevance,” Moody’s analysts led by Ranjini
Venkatesan wrote in the report.  S&P on Oct. 25 cut its financial strength and counterparty
credit rating on Assured Guaranty Corp. and Assured Guaranty
Municipal Corp. one level to AA+. The ratings firm cited the
state of the financial guarantee market, which it said was
“symptomatic of investors’ and issuers’ diminished demand for
bond insurance.”  Frederico called the downgrade an “unwarranted” action
disruptive for his industry.  “We continue to request the establishment of a
comprehensive regulator for the rating agencies to ensure a more
stable and transparent business model and market for issuers and
investors,” he said.  Ratings Downgrades  The AAA ratings previously held by Assured’s units were the
last for any bond insurer. MBIA Inc. and Ambac Financial Group
Inc. lost their top-level ratings in 2008 amid a housing crisis
that saddled insurers with losses on mortgage-related bets.  Assured is gaining from efforts to get mortgage-loan
originators to buy back loans it says were marketed for sale
using faulty information. Assured said last month that
originators have repurchased or agreed to buy back $412 million
of loans, $111 million in the third quarter.  The company also sued affiliates of Deutsche Bank AG over
$312 million of mortgage-backed securities the insurer
guaranteed and says were “plagued by rampant fraud and
misrepresentations.”  (The company will hold a conference call Nov. 5 at 8 a.m.
New York time to discuss third-quarter results.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  