-- Latvian Economy Probably Ended EU's Longest Decline on Increasing Exports
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-11-04T11:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/latvian-economy-probably-ended-eu-s-longest-decline-on-increasing-exports.html
Latvia’s  economy  probably expanded on
an annual basis in the third quarter, ending nine quarters of
contraction, the longest decline in the European Union.  Gross domestic product grew 0.7 percent from a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Industrial production  expanded 19.4
percent in the third quarter, the statistics office said
yesterday. Latvia releases GDP figures Nov. 9.  “Manufacturing is the major positive contributor for the
third quarter in a row,” said  Zigurds Vaikulis , chief economist
at Citadele Asset Management in Riga. “Retail and wholesale
sales are finally positively contributing.”  Increasing demand for Latvia’s wood and metal products in
western Europe is driving the recovery, with exports rising to
412 million lati ($819.4 million) in August, the most since
September 2008. Latvia’s economy shrank about 25 percent, the
deepest drop in the world according to the  International
Monetary Fund , after a real estate fueled boom turned bust in
2008 and the country’s second-biggest bank failed.  On a quarter-over-quarter basis, the economy expanded 0.8
percent in the second quarter and 0.3 percent in the first.  “Exports and household consumption continued to grow in
the third quarter,” said  Lija Strasuna , an economist at
Swedbank AB in Riga, who estimates GDP expanded an annual 1
percent in the third quarter. “All together the recovery
continues, but it might be slower.”  The recovery is boosting tax revenue as Latvia seeks an 400
million lati of spending cuts and additional income to meet its
goal of cutting the budget deficit to 6 percent of GDP next
year. The Baltic nation has already approved austerity measures
equal to about 14 percent of economic output after turning to a
group led by the European Commission and the IMF for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) loan during the recession.  Tax Revenue  The government will wait until third quarter figures are
available before making plans for the 2011 budget, Prime
Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  said yesterday. Tax revenue was 9
percent higher than planned in October, he said.  “The third quarter will be when we return to growth on an
annual basis,” Dombrovskis told  Latvijas Radio .  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, which cut Latvia’s
credit rating to junk last year, raised their outlooks to stable
this year. Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Latvia Baa3,
its lowest investment grade, also raised its outlook to stable.  The yield on Latvia’s 5.5 percent bond due March 2018 fell
6 basis points yesterday to a record-low 5.18 percent. That
compares with a high of 12 percent in March 2009. The cost of
insuring Latvia’s debt against default fell about 1 basis point
to 280 basis points yesterday, from 1,200 in March 2009.  The crisis pushed  unemployment  to 19.4 percent in the
second quarter from 5.3 percent in the final quarter of 2007,
according to figures from a labor force survey. Swedbank
estimates the rate will fall to 15 percent in 2012.  “To reach the level of employment we had during the boom
years will take many years if it happens at all,” Strasuna
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  