-- Australia Water Cuts Threaten Parched Farms, Gillard Coalition
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-04T16:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/australian-water-cutback-plan-threatens-parched-farmers-gillard-coalition.html
Rains that flooded eastern Australia
came too late for farmer Peter Flanagan, whose 900-hectare
property is up for sale after nine years of drought.  Lack of water has slashed Flanagan’s rice crops and cut his
sheep flock in Benerembah, New South Wales, leaving him A$1
million ($997,000) in debt. A plan to cut irrigation to farmers
in his region, home to almost half the nation’s crops and
ranches, spurred his decision to call it quits after 40 years.  “We haven’t had the rain or water to grow crops, and with
this hanging over our head we can’t continue,” Flanagan said as
he drove his truck through a barley field looking for locusts.
“Our bank is worried because of the water cuts.”  A government agency has told Prime Minister  Julia Gillard’s 
administration to supply as much as 37 percent less water to the
nation’s food bowl to boost river flows and protect the
environment in the world’s driest inhabited continent. That
would slash cotton, dairy and rice production and may raise
global cotton prices: Australia is the world’s fourth-largest
exporter of the commodity.  The proposal also may threaten the political stability of
Gillard’s minority government. Her coalition depends on the
Greens Party, which seeks bigger water reductions to protect the
river system and its endangered plants and animals, and on
independent lawmakers backed by farmers, who want fewer curbs.  “Water management could bring down this government if they
don’t get the balance right between farmers and environmental
interests,” said Daniel Connell, a water policy analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “The government is
determined to divert water from farmers, it’s just a matter of
how much.”  Eight Harbors  The Murray Darling Basin Authority was set up in 2008 to
create a plan to manage water in a district where some river
beds have run dry. Last month the agency recommended cutting
water allocations to farmers by 3 trillion to 4 trillion liters
-- the equivalent of eight Sydney Harbors -- in a district 1 1/2
times the size of  Texas .  The MDBA report said the proposed water curbs would reduce
irrigated cotton crops from the area by 25 percent. Cotton
futures have surged 84 percent this year to a record on concern
that global demand led by China will outstrip supplies.  “Production will fall with less water available,” said
 Peter Corish , executive chairman of  PrimeAg Australia Ltd. ,
which has 40,000 hectares (98,842 acres) of farms in the basin,
by phone from Goondiwindi. “It is logical that global food
prices will rise as a result.”  Poor Condition  Almost 40 percent of the nation’s food comes from the
Murray-Darling  Basin , which accounts for A$9 billion of crop and
livestock exports. Reducing water to farmers is critical because
of imminent “environmental failure” in the river system,
endangering plant and animal life, the draft report said.  The recommendations, which will be officially given to the
government after community consultation, have sparked protests
in farming areas. Residents of Griffith, New South Wales, set
fire to copies of the plan on Oct. 14. The Griffith region
produces 99 percent of the Australia’s rice and a quarter of its
wine grapes.  “This will be the mark of Gillard as leader, to do what is
right rather than doing what is convenient,” said  John Casella ,
managing director of Griffith-based  Casella Wines Ltd. , a
producer of the top-selling Australian wine in the U.S., Yellow
Tail. “These cuts will suck the lifeblood out of towns like
Griffith, which are the food basket of the nation.”  More Rain  The controversy comes as recent rain has eased immediate
water concerns. New South Wales, Australia’s most populous
state, last month declared an end to its nine-year drought.
Winter crop production may almost double to a record, the
government’s commodity forecaster said in September.  The rains don’t alter the long-term water situation and
won’t change the government’s reduction goals, Water Minister
 Tony Burke  said.  Gillard’s Labor Party lost its outright majority in August
and needs the support of four other legislators, independents or
from the Greens Party, to give it a majority of 76 seats in the
150-member lower house of parliament.  The demonstrations prompted Regional Development Minister
 Simon Crean  to establish a parliamentary inquiry on the issue,
chaired by independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor . Windsor, whose
support for Gillard enabled her to form a government, comes from
a  region  that is in the river basin and produces oats, maize,
vegetables and dairy products.  Balancing Act  “It’s about getting the balance right so that we’ve got
health in the river, we are supporting food production, we can
see viable regional communities,” Gillard, 49, said on Oct. 19
to the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “It’s a difficult issue
but we’ve got to work through it.”  Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young on Oct. 15 said Gillard
needs to commit to implement the report’s water-reduction
recommendations because they are “the bare minimum required”
to save the river.  The MDBA will release its final set of recommended water
cuts early next year for more consultations. The changes are to
take effect starting in 2012.  “Water will make or break this government,” said  Malcolm Jackman , chief executive officer at Adelaide-based  Elders Ltd. ,
Australia’s largest agricultural provider and the world’s
biggest wool broker, whose shares have fallen 59 percent this
year. “This plan will be disastrous for the basin and its
communities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  