-- Australia Retail Sales, Trade Surplus Trail Estimates on Dollar
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-11-04T06:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/australia-s-retail-sales-trade-surplus-trail-forecasts-on-rates-dollar.html
Australia’s retail sales and  trade
surplus  in September were weaker than economists forecast as
higher interest rates curbed consumer spending and a stronger
dollar weakened exports.  Sales  increased 0.3 percent from August, and the  trade 
surplus narrowed to A$1.76 billion ($1.77 billion), the Bureau
of Statistics said in Sydney today. That was less than the
median estimates for a 0.5 percent gain in sales and a A$2
billion surplus in Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  The reports come two days after the central bank resumed
raising interest rates after a five-month pause, increasing
borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent
and sending the local currency above parity with the U.S. dollar.
The central bank cited the need to counter inflation pressure as
a mining investment boom intensifies and employment strengthens.  “Today’s data highlights the fragility of Australian
households and will give the Reserve Bank plenty of food for
thought before deciding on future rate hikes,” said  Craig James ,
a senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.
“The big question going forward is what will the recent rate
hike do to confidence levels and activity?”  The currency fell after the reports, and traded at 1.0052
as of 5:24 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0062 yesterday in New York.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, rose 0.7
percent in the three months through Sept. 30 from the previous
quarter, today’s report showed. Economists forecast a gain of
1.1 percent.  Cafes, Restaurants  Spending at cafes and restaurants declined 0.4 percent, the
first drop since April, while spending on clothing and footwear
increased 2.5 percent, today’s report showed.  Household consumption accounts for about 54 percent of
Australia’s gross domestic product.  The government’s report on trade showed total exports fell
2 percent to A$24.2 billion in September, while imports
increased 1 percent to A$22.4 billion.  Exports generate about one-fifth of the nation’s GDP.  The Reserve Bank of Australia said after its Nov. 2 rate
decision that the economy is on the verge of a “a large
expansionary shock” as shipments of resources to China boost
trade and help lower unemployment. A period that saw a
“moderation” of inflation “is probably now close to ending,”
it said.  Rising Rates  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has raised the overnight cash
rate target seven times since October 2009, the most aggressive
monetary tightening of any developed economy in the Group of 20.  Retail groups have warned that consumer spending could be
hurt by the RBA’s rate increases.  “Sales growth has been very soft and the Christmas sales
season was always going to be make or break time for many
retailers,” Gary Black, executive director of the National
Retail Association, said after today’s report. “This data
confirms the RBA has pulled the handbrake on at precisely the
wrong time.”  Even so, rising employment is boosting sales at stores
including  Woolworths Ltd. , Australia’s biggest retailer. It said
last month revenue rose to A$13.9 billion in the three months
ended Oct. 3 from A$13.4 billion a year earlier.  RBA’s Corbett  Roger Corbett , a member of the RBA’s board and former chief
executive officer of Woolworths, said he expects a “pretty
good” Christmas period for the nation’s retailers, the
Australian newspaper reported, citing an interview.  The RBA’s rate increase earlier this week came before the
U.S. Federal Reserve decided to pump additional stimulus into
the world’s largest economy. The divergence in monetary policies
has stoked the Australian dollar.  Australia’s unemployment rate, at 5.1 percent in September,
is about half the level of joblessness in the U.S. and euro zone.
The International Monetary Fund predicts growth will accelerate
next year to 3.5 percent from 3 percent this year.  Traders are betting there is an 8 percent chance of a
quarter-point increase at the central bank’s meeting next month,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 5:27 p.m.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  