-- Austal Jumps Most in Two Years on U.S. Navy-Ship Order Plan; Stock Halted
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-04T02:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/austal-surges-most-in-two-years-after-u-s-navy-seeks-ship-tender-approval.html
Austal Ltd.  surged the most in two
years before being suspended in Sydney trading after the U.S.
Navy sought approval to buy 20 Littoral Combat Ships from groups
led by the company and  Lockheed Martin Corp.   The  stock  rose 18 percent to A$2.95 when trade was halted
pending a statement on the ships tender. The shares were set for
the biggest advance since Nov. 14, 2008.  The U.S. Navy is seeking approval from lawmakers to buy the
ships, which the Congressional Research Service  estimates  may
cost $480 million each. If approved and supported by the
companies, the proposal would reverse a plan announced in
September 2009 to pick only one of the two designs for the ships,
which are used in and near shallow waters.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, and Marinette Marine
Corp., based in Marinette, Wisconsin, make up one team. The
other is led by the U.S. unit of Perth-based Austal and includes
Falls Church, Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp .  Austal sought the trading halt until Nov. 8 or when it
releases a statement on the tender.  The Navy would award the two groups one ship apiece for
fiscal year 2010 and another for 2011, then two ships a year
each until 2015 for a total of 20 ships, Navy Commander Danny
Hernandez said in an interview. Congressional approval is needed
by mid-December to lock in the prices offered, he said.  Should Congress reject the Navy’s plan, the service will
revert to the previous strategy of awarding a 10-ship contract
to one team, Hernandez said.  The Navy ultimately plans to buy 55 vessels in the class
designed to run close to the coast for mine clearance, submarine
hunting and humanitarian relief.  If Austal USA gets a contract for the ships, it would
support 2,000 jobs in the state, Senator  Richard Shelby , a
Republican from Alabama, said in a statement yesterday. The
Australian company’s U.S. unit is based in Mobile, Alabama.  Keith Little, a spokesman for Lockheed, said the company is
aware of the Navy’s discussions with Congress and “will
carefully review the details when we receive them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  