-- BOE Declines to Follow Fed as Officials Keep Stimulus on Hold
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-04T12:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bank-of-england-declines-to-follow-fed-as-officials-keep-stimulus-on-hold.html
The Bank of England kept its
emergency stimulus program unchanged as the strength of the U.K.
recovery persuaded officials not to join the Federal Reserve in
buying more government bonds.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , held its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds
($324 billion), as forecast by 38 of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The others predicted an increase, and
economists in another poll anticipate more stimulus in 2011. The
bank also kept its interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Momentum in services and manufacturing after the economy’s
strongest two consecutive  quarters of growth  in a decade and a
bout of inflation have halted policy makers after a shift toward
adding stimulus. The U.K. faces a budget squeeze that will
inflict half a million job cuts at a time when U.S. growth
concerns prompted the Fed yesterday to pledge $600 billion in
aid for the economy.  “The U.K. is in a completely different space than the
U.S., with inflation relatively high and growth surprising on
the upside,” said  David Owen , chief European economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “Quantitative easing is
a story for 2011, as the fiscal squeeze bites. There’s a strong
case for saying that’s it” for bond purchases.  Stocks Gain  The pound rose more than 1 percent today and traded at
$1.6266 as of 12:50 p.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark
two-year U.K. government bond was up 11 basis points at 0.668
percent.  Stocks climbed today, pushing the  MSCI World Index  to a
more than two-year high after the Fed announcement. Combined
with about $300 billion in reinvestment of the Fed’s maturing
mortgage bonds, total purchases could run as high as $900
billion, or about $110 billion a month, the Fed said.  The Bank of England decision was the second in a 33-hour
global central bank marathon. The European Central Bank kept its
key rate at 1 percent today in Frankfurt, as predicted by all 55
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Bank of Japan has brought
forward its next decision to tomorrow.  U.K. gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, twice the pace forecast by economists. Surveys by
Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply showed manufacturing and services growth accelerated in
October. Former Bank of England official  Deanne Julius  said Nov.
2 the chance of another recession is “10 percent or less.”  “The recent data don’t support any more QE,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale in London and a
former central bank official. “They’re going to have to revise
up their inflation forecasts.”  BOE Forecasts  The bank’s decision today was based on new economic
predictions that King will publish on Nov. 10.  Inflation  was 3.1
percent in September and has exceeded the government’s 3 percent
limit for seven months. A planned increase in sales tax in
January, along with higher commodity prices, may feed price
gains next year. Power provider  Scottish & Southern Electricity
Plc  said Oct. 29 it will raise natural gas prices for consumers
by 9.4 percent in December.  The strength of inflation has prompted policy maker  Andrew Sentance  to argue for a quarter-point increase in the key rate
since June. A three-way split on the bank’s panel opened up last
month as  Adam Posen  said the bank should expand the bond plan by
50 billion pounds to counter the government’s spending cuts. The
minutes of today’s decision will be published Nov. 17.  ‘Material Drag’  Posen said last month that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
fiscal squeeze may create a “material drag-down” on growth.
The annual spending reductions will peak at 81 billion pounds in
2015, leading to the loss of 490,000 public-sector jobs.  The threat of a slowdown from the government’s plan may put
the burden of supporting the economy on King. Finance minister
 George Osborne  said Oct. 21, the day after he announced the
spending cuts, that “there is of course the freedom for the
Bank of England to deploy monetary-policy tools as well.”  Pressure from the spending squeeze is clouding the outlook
for some companies.  British Airways Plc  said on Oct. 29. that,
“while positive, the economic environment continues to be
subject to uncertainty.” The London-based carrier posted its
first profit in two years in the quarter ended Sept. 30 as sales
of business tickets surged, allowing it to raise fares.  Some data in September signaled a weakening economy.
 Jobless benefit claims  rose the most in eight months and retail
sales unexpectedly fell. Mortgage approvals were less than half
the level at the peak of the housing-market boom in 2007.  Housing Market  Housing-market data have been mixed. Nationwide Building
Society said  prices  dropped to an eight-month low in October.
Halifax, the mortgage-lending unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
said today that they rose 1.8 percent,  erasing  almost half of
the loss in September, and said “we do not believe that prices
are set to fall sharply over a sustained period.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc yesterday pushed back its
forecast for the bank to expand bond purchases by 50 billion
pounds from today to February. The median forecast of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey show the bank raising its plan
by 50 billion pounds next year.  “The economy is slowing, even though the evidence of rapid
slowing is less overpowering,” said  Richard Barwell , an
economist at RBS in London and a former central bank official.
“Tighter fiscal policy means other things equal you’ll need
looser monetary policy, so it’s another reason for the bank to
get off its hands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  