-- Bank of America Edges Closer to Tipping Point: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-11-04T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bank-of-america-edges-closer-to-tipping-point-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
It was only last April that  Bank of
America Corp . was making fools out of the doomsayers who had
called for its nationalization a year earlier. Taxpayers had
gotten their bailout cash back. Investors who bought its shares
at the bottom were making a killing. Government leaders lauded
the company’s rescues, both of them, as a  great success .  Now the bank may be on the verge of trouble again. Its
stock has fallen 41 percent since April 15. Mortgage-bond
investors are demanding untold billions of dollars in refunds.
The foreclosure fiasco is metastasizing. A member of the
Troubled Asset Relief Program’s oversight panel, AFL-CIO
attorney  Damon Silvers , openly worried at a hearing last week
about the risk that Bank of America might need another bailout.  A few more months like the last one, and we may be wishing
Bank of America had never returned its $45 billion of TARP
money.  You wouldn’t know there’s anything wrong with Bank of
America by an initial look at its balance sheet. The company
showed common shareholder equity, or book value, of $212.4
billion as of Sept. 30. And its regulatory  capital ratios  have
risen steadily throughout the year.  Tipping Point  Judging by its shrinking stock price, though, investors are
acting as if Bank of America is near a tipping point. Its market
capitalization stands at $115.6 billion, or 54 percent of book
value. That’s the second-lowest price-to-book ratio among the 24
companies in the  KBW Bank Index , and well below the 76 percent
ratio the company was at in October 2008 when it landed its
first round of TARP dough. Put another way, the market is saying
there’s a $96.8 billion hole in Bank of America’s balance sheet.  When I asked  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman,
about the disparity, he said: “I’m not going to comment on the
book value and the stock price.”  It may be the shares are a bargain at $11.52, if the
company’s books are right. Another plausible scenario is that
Bank of America’s management, led by Chief Executive Officer
Brian Moynihan, has lost so much credibility with investors that
the stock’s decline might start feeding on itself.  The problem for anyone trying to analyze Bank of America’s
$2.3 trillion balance sheet is that it’s largely impenetrable.
Some portions, though, are so delusional that they invite
laughter. Consider, for instance, the way the company continues
to account for its acquisition of Countrywide Financial, the
disastrous subprime lender at the center of the housing bust,
which it bought for $4.2 billion in July 2008.  Goodwill Purchase  Here’s how Bank of America allocated the purchase price for
that deal. First, it determined that the fair value of the
liabilities at Countrywide exceeded the mortgage lender’s assets
by $200 million. Then it recorded $4.4 billion of goodwill, a
ledger entry representing the difference between Countrywide’s
net asset value and the purchase price.  That’s right. Countrywide’s goodwill supposedly was worth
more than Countrywide itself. In other words, Bank of America
paid $4.2 billion for the company, even though it thought the
value there was less than zero.  Since completing that acquisition, Bank of America has
dropped the Countrywide brand. The company’s  home-loan  division
has reported $13.5 billion of pretax losses. Yet Bank of America
still hasn’t written off any of its Countrywide goodwill.  Dubrowski, the company spokesman, declined to comment when
I asked him why not. In its latest quarterly report with the
SEC, Bank of America said it had determined the asset wasn’t
impaired. It might as well be telling the public not to believe
any of the numbers on its financial statements.  No Surprise  Combine that with Bank of America’s reaction to the robo-
signer scandal. ( Working  on it! Wait, halt foreclosure sales!
No, restart them! Whoops, still checking records!) Add in the
$141.6 billion of home-equity loans on Bank of America’s books,
the real value of which is unknown. And it should be no surprise
that the company’s stock price has been plunging.  So, does Bank of America need to issue new common stock to
raise capital? Its executives say no. They point to the usual
regulatory benchmarks, as well as their own calculations of
tangible common equity. This is a bare-bones capital gauge,
showing a company’s ability to absorb future losses, which
excludes preferred stock and most intangible assets.  Using Bank of America’s $129.5 billion figure for tangible
common equity, though, that’s still about $14 billion more than
the company’s market cap. So the market isn’t just discounting
the intangibles, most of which don’t count in regulatory
capital. Investors are wary of the company’s other numbers, too.  Artifice of Strength  The tough part for Bank of America executives is that the
company’s future may be out of their hands. Writing off more
worthless assets or boosting reserves for future losses might
help their credibility. (The bank wrote off $10.4 billion of
goodwill unrelated to Countrywide last quarter.) Or, the market
might perceive such moves as a sign that the artifice of
strength is broken. It’s hard to tell.  As for the government’s too-big-to-fail guarantee, it’s
probably still there. But who knows? Republicans have won back
the House. The answer is up in the air.  The only certainty is there is none, aside from the
knowledge that Bank of America’s top executives have no idea
what goes on inside the bowels of their company. For all we know
the stock could double, or be a donut. The fate of the financial
system hangs in the balance. Once again, we’re all on the hook.    Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  