-- BofA Chief `Surprised' by New York Fed Loan Putback Demand
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-04T19:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bank-of-america-s-moynihan-surprised-by-new-york-fed-loan-buyback-demand.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said he was surprised when the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and investors sent a letter pushing the
firm to repurchase soured mortgages pooled into securities.  The bank expects to resolve the dispute, which could
pressure Bank of America to foreclose on borrowers more quickly,
Moynihan, 51, said today in Boston during a presentation to
banking analysts. “I don’t think we should be put in a position
where we aren’t trying to help homeowners through this strife
because people want us to foreclose faster,” he said.  Bank of America shares declined 4.4 percent on Oct. 19
after news of the letter signed by Pacific Investment Management
Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and others, alleging the bank’s Countrywide
Financial Inc. subsidiary didn’t service loans properly. The New
York Fed acquired mortgage debt through its 2008 rescues of Bear
Stearns Cos. and  American International Group Inc .  “The fact that they signed the letter from your standpoint
surprised you, it surprised me, and it is a surprise to a lot of
people,” Moynihan said, referring to the bondholders. “We have
disputes with them about other assets in those pools and we’ve
resolved them. So life will go on.”  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, has said it has
formal outstanding demands from mortgage investors seeking
repurchases of almost  $13 billion  of loans that may have failed
to accurately document key data such as income and home values.
The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank is also among lenders
being investigated by state attorneys general over its handling
of foreclosures.  Selling BlackRock  Moynihan said he called BlackRock Inc. CEO  Larry Fink  to
discuss the dispute. “We’ll work through it,” Moynihan said.  Bank of America yesterday said it would reduce its 34
percent stake in BlackRock, preferring to use the capital for
its own businesses. The bank will remain a strategic partner of
BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, for a long time,
Moynihan said.  The bank said last month it would start resubmitting
foreclosure affidavits in 102,000 cases in which judgment is
pending. Amid pressure from lawmakers and state officials,
bankers have delayed action in order to review filings that some
borrowers claim were marred by so-called robo-signing, in which
employees vouched for the accuracy of court statements without
personally checking loan records.  The company  acquired  Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008
and is the largest servicer of U.S. home loans and second-
biggest originator of loans after Wells Fargo & Co. Bank of
America is handling about 1.3 million loans in which payments
are at least 60 days late, using a customer-service staff of
20,000 employees that has tripled over the past two years,
according to the company.  ‘Got to Get It Done’  The mortgage-bond investor group including BlackRock thinks
Bank of America’s foreclosures take too long because of missing
documents, processing mistakes and insufficient staffing to
evaluate borrowers for loan modifications,  Kathy Patrick , their
lawyer at Gibbs & Bruns LLP, said in an Oct. 19 telephone
interview.  “None of the bondholders are opposed to modifications for
deserving borrowers, but you’ve got to get it done” in a timely
fashion, she said.  Moynihan responded today to a question on whether Bank of
America would consider a bankruptcy of Countrywide to limit
potential losses from distressed home loans.  “We don’t see any liability that would make us think
differently about working through this in the ways we are
working through this,” he said. The question came from  Mike Mayo , a CLSA Ltd. analyst who wrote a report dated Nov. 2
titled, “Is a Countrywide bankruptcy possible.”  Bank of America gained 37 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $11.89
at 1:10 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
declined 24 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 