-- BCE Quarterly Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates on Data Spending Increase
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-11-04T13:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bce-quarterly-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-data-spending-increase.html
BCE Inc ., Canada’s largest phone
company, said third-quarter profit dropped less than analysts
anticipated, as the company signed up more customers on
lucrative smartphone data plans amid growing competition.  Profit  excluding restructuring and other charges fell to 82
Canadian cents ($0.82) a share from 84 cents a year earlier, the
Montreal-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
predicted 75 cents, the  average  of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 1.3 percent to C$4.52 billion, compared
with the analysts’ consensus of C$4.5 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  George Cope  agreed in September to
buy the rest of broadcaster CTV that BCE didn’t already own for
C$1.3 billion to distinguish the company from new wireless
operators. With data revenue from BlackBerrys, iPhones and iPads
growing faster than any other source at BCE, the company plans
to accelerate that increase by broadcasting shows from CTV’s 27
TV stations and 30 specialty channels onto those devices.  BCE’s Bell phone-service brand “is clearly enjoying better
results under George Cope’s management,” said  Dvai Ghose , an
analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in Toronto, who has a “hold”
rating on BCE.  The company introduced a new network a year ago that let it
start selling Apple Inc.’s iPhone, which is popular with
carriers since iPhone users typically spend more time and money
surfing the Web on the device.  Attracting Customers  “We’re starting to attract the kind of customers we want
after our new network launch,” Cope said on a conference call.  Bell added 159,465 mobile-phone subscribers on contracts,
the most ever for the third quarter, in an “increasingly
competitive” marketplace, and generated C$53.54 in average
revenue per customer, the company said. That compared with an
estimate of 125,000 new customers and sales of C$53.42 per
subscriber from Ghose, who rates BCE a “buy.”  Cope said the company would have added as many as 15,000
extra new subscribers on contracts last quarter if it hadn’t run
out of supplies of the iPhone and  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s
Galaxy phone.  Demand for these devices helped insulate Bell from the
arrival of  Quebecor Inc. ’s Videotron cable unit, which began
offering customers mobile-phone service last quarter across
Quebec, home to Bell.  Rogers Communications Inc ., Canada’s
largest wireless operator, said “modest” subscriber gains last
quarter were affected by the growing competition from new
entrants Wind Mobile, Public Mobile and Mobilicity, which are
all looking to take business from Rogers and BCE’s Bell wireless
business by offering no-frills, unlimited talk and text
packages.  Stock Performance  BCE, Canada’s second-largest wireless carrier after Rogers,
climbed 43 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $34.19 at 9:37 a.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares had jumped 16 percent
this year before today.  Net income fell to C$528 million, or 70 cents a share, from
C$558 million, or 72 cents, a year earlier when the company had
lower tax charges.  Data revenue growth climbed 39 percent, lifting sales from
the wireless division by 8.1 percent to C$1.27 billion. That
helped offset the fixed-line business’s 0.9 percent revenue
decline to C$2.64 billion as more customers dumped their
residential phone lines.  BCE confirmed its August  forecast  for Bell revenue to climb
by 1 percent to 2 percent this year and profit per share
excluding some charges to be C$2.75 to C$2.80.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  