-- Beiersdorf Lowers Forecast as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-04T12:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/beiersdorf-profit-misses-estimates-company-lowers-2010-earnings-forecast.html
Beiersdorf AG , the German maker of
Nivea skin creams, cut its full-year margin forecast as third-
quarter profit missed estimates because of falling volumes in
Europe. The manufacturer’s shares fell the most in three months.  Net income rose 3.1 percent from a year earlier to 101
million euros ($144 million), short of the 115.5 million-euro
average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings
before interest and taxes will exceed 10 percent of sales this
year, Hamburg-based Beiersdorf said today in a statement. The
company had been predicting a margin of more than 11 percent.  “Third-quarter performance was, once again,
disappointing,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, wrote in a report to investors. “Consumer growth
continued to be very lackluster, below expectations as
Beiersdorf continues to struggle in Europe.”  Beiersdorf, which introduced Nivea almost a century ago, is
betting on earnings growth from faster-expanding economies such
as China, where an increasingly affluent population is buying
more personal-care products. In  Europe , Beiersdorf’s consumer-
products unit posted a 1.5 percent nine-month sales drop,
excluding acquisitions and currency effects, outpacing a 0.8
percent decline in the region at competitor Unilever.  Share Performance  Beiersdorf  fell  as much as 3.2 percent to 44.32 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the biggest intraday drop since Aug. 5, and
was down 1.7 percent at 1:51 p.m.  The decline extended the stock’s drop this year to 2
percent, giving the company a market value of 11.3 billion
euros.  L’Oreal SA  has gained 11 percent in Paris trading this
year.  Unilever  shares jumped 5.3 percent in Amsterdam, paring
the drop in 2010 to 1.3 percent.  “Europe is certainly the toughest environment in which all
companies in our industry and markets find themselves,”
Beiersdorf Chief Executive Officer Thomas-Bernd Quaas said on a
reporters’ conference call today. “A lot of things are being
tried out: from extreme pricing promotions to shared marketing
initiatives. That applies in particular to western Europe.”  Unilever , the world’s second-biggest consumer-products
maker, reported third-quarter sales-volume growth today that
beat estimates. The owner of Dove soap and Axe deodorants agreed
in September to  buy  Alberto Culver Co. for $3.7 billion in cash
to add VO5, Nexxus and TRESemme hair-care products. Unilever CEO
 Paul Polman  is expanding in household and personal-care products
as part of a plan to double total sales.  P&G Compliment  Robert McDonald , chief executive officer of Procter &
Gamble Co., called Nivea a “terrific global brand” in a
Bloomberg interview in September. An acquisition of Beiersdorf
by P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products company, would
create a “formidable player,” Credit Suisse analysts said in a
report last month.  Beiersdorf has had no contact with Cincinnati-based  P&G ,
Quaas said today.  The German company’s third-quarter sales climbed 8.7
percent to 1.53 billion euros. Ebit increased 16 percent to
167 million euros.  Beiersdorf, in which closely held coffee retailer
Maxingvest owns a majority stake, has  roots  going back to an
1882 bandage patent. The company has used the blue-and-white
packaging for which the Nivea brand is known since 1925.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net ;
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  