-- Berlusconi Defends Policies, Says Baseless Attacks Won't Shorten His Term
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-11-04T13:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/berlusconi-defends-policies-says-baseless-attacks-won-t-shorten-his-term.html
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said
his government has done more for Italy than any other and called
press reports saying he abused his power to help a 17-year-old
girl “baseless attacks” that won’t prevent him from completing
his term.  “In the history of Italian Republic, ours is the
government that has done more than anyone else, and we did it
despite the international economic crisis,” he said in a speech
to party officials in Rome today.  Opposition leaders have stepped up calls for Berlusconi to
resign after newspapers including Corriere della Sera reported
that he helped secure the release of the girl from police
custody in Milan. Berlusconi, 74, knew the girl because she
attended a party at his house with other young women and was
given cash and gifts by the premier for attending, she said in
an interview in Oggi magazine published yesterday.  “There have been media campaigns against me based on
lies,” he said. “Baseless attacks will not stop me.”  The report has deepened the rift within his ruling
coalition that risks causing his government to fall.  Gianfranco Fini , a former ally who split from Berlusconi’s party in July
and whose support the premier needs to stay in power, said
Berlusconi should quit if it’s proved he intervened to secure
the girl’s release.  Borrowing Costs  Berlusconi said yesterday that early elections would be a
grave risk for Italy as it emerges from the worst recession in
60 years. Political instability could also further boost the
country’s borrowing costs after Greece’s near default drove up
deficit-financing expenses for Europe’s most-indebted nations.
The yield premium investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year bonds
over comparable German bunds rose 2.5 basis points to 154.9
today, the highest in a month.  Berlusconi’s approval ratings are hovering near a record
low since his May 2008 election, though his People of Liberty
party remains the country’s most popular. The party would win
29.5 percent of the vote if elections were held now, compared
with 24 percent for the largest opposition bloc, the Democratic
Party, according to an Ipsos Srl poll published yesterday in Il
Sole 24 Ore and conducted before the story of the girl’s release
hit newspapers.  Still, 45 percent of people questioned in a separate survey
for state-owned RAI television this week said the premier should
resign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  