-- Bernanke Experiments With Crisis Tools to Boost Growing Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bernanke-experiments-with-crisis-tools-to-boost-an-expanding-u-s-economy.html
  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  embarked on a historic test of unconventional monetary
policy by using tools devised during the financial crisis to add
fuel to an economy that’s been expanding for 15 months.  Bernanke’s Fed, constrained by a key interest rate near
zero and bound by a Congressional mandate to reduce
unemployment, yesterday said it would buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities  through next June in a bid to further reduce
long-term borrowing costs and keep prices from falling.  The dollar weakened and stocks rose as the quantity of
purchases exceeded the expectations of some investors. Bernanke
is gambling he can push down a jobless rate that has been stuck
above 9 percent since the recession ended in June 2009 and
encourage investors to take more risk without igniting an
inflationary surge or fueling asset-price bubbles.  “The Federal Reserve is under-performing on all of its
objectives -- by law it has to do something,” said  Allen Sinai ,
chief global economist at Decision Economics Inc. in  New York .
“I don’t think we pay them to sit on their hands and wait for
good times. I will take any mistakes they make in return for the
effort.”  Central bankers aim to accelerate U.S. economic growth
above a 2.5 percent annual rate to push unemployment lower. The
purchases, which come on top of $1.7 trillion of securities the
Fed bought through last March to fight the financial crisis,
equal roughly a 0.75 percentage-point cut in the federal funds
rate, according to the Fed’s internal estimates.  ‘Disappointingly Slow’  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in its statement
yesterday that it was compelled to act because “progress”
toward their objectives of full employment and stable prices
“has been disappointingly slow.”  “The Fed’s statement is historic in its emphasis on the
dual mandate, and doing quantitative easing in a non-financial
crisis situation is historic,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “They are clearly pretty
serious about delivering” on jobs and growth.  Combined with about $300 billion in reinvestment of the
Fed’s maturing mortgage bonds, total purchases could run as high
as $900 billion, or about $110 billion a month, the Fed said.
Some economists doubted whether the purchases would have much of
an impact.  “I am hesitant to say it is going to yield the kind of
impact we need to see to return the economy to trend growth,”
said Timothy Duy, a University of  Oregon  economist who formerly
worked at the U.S. Treasury Department. “I am not impressed by
the magnitude.”  Economists’ Forecasts  Fifty-three of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
last week predicted the central bank would announce asset
purchases yesterday, with 29 forecasting a pledge to buy $500
billion or more. Estimates ranged as high at $1.25 trillion.  New York Fed President  William Dudley  set expectations at
$500 billion in purchases when he said in an Oct. 1 speech that
purchases totaling about that amount would add as much stimulus
as lowering the Fed’s benchmark rate by 0.5 percentage point to
0.75 percentage point.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to
1,197.96 in trading in New York. The Dollar Index, which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the dollar versus
the currencies of six major trading partners, lost 0.5 percent,
and oil reached a six-month high of $84.69 a barrel.  Yields on U.S. 30-year bonds rose 0.11 percentage point to
4.04 percent after the Fed said it will buy fewer of the
securities than investors anticipated.  Unemployment Outlook  Economists forecast the  unemployment rate  will remain at 9
percent or above until the first quarter of 2012, and hold at
9.6 percent when the Labor Department releases the October jobs
report tomorrow, according to the median estimates in Bloomberg
News surveys.  Among companies reducing staff is Norwalk, Connecticut-
based Xerox Corp. The printer and business-services provider
said Oct. 21 it would cut 2,500 jobs in the next 12 months.  “I’m still cautious on the economy, particularly in the
large enterprise portion of the economy,” Xerox Chief Executive
Officer Ursula Burns said on a conference call.  Yesterday’s Fed statement didn’t hold out any numeric
benchmarks to measure success, nor did it discuss what would
trigger more or perhaps fewer purchases. Instead, it referred to
the central bank’s “statutory mandate.”  “The shift in rhetoric changes the debate from one of
policy preferences and economic models to one of missed goals
and binding obligations,” Feroli wrote in a note to clients.
“The door for further action is clearly open if the committee
doesn’t see sufficient progress in the economic outlook.”  Inflation Gauge  A measure of inflation watched by the Fed, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, minus food and energy,
rose 1.2 percent in September from a year earlier, down from a
1.3 percent increase the previous month. Fed policy makers have
a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation they see
as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for maximum
employment and stable prices.  Policy makers are concerned that a falling inflation rate
increases the risk of deflation, or a general fall in prices
that can strain consumers and businesses alike. Debt costs would
rise in real, or inflation-adjusted terms, and because companies
have many fixed costs, profits would erode, possibly leading to
a cycle of job cuts, further declines in prices and collapsing
demand.  “In the most extreme case, very low inflation can morph
into deflation,” Bernanke said in an article published last
night by the Washington Post. That can “contribute to long
periods of economic stagnation.”  The Fed is already having an impact on expected inflation.  Breakeven Rate  Inflation expectations, as measured by the so-called
breakeven rate between yields on five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and comparable conventional notes,
increased to 1.47 percent yesterday from 1.19 percent on Aug.
27, the day before Bernanke said the Fed “will do all that it
can” to keep the recovery going.  “They don’t want inflation to fall anymore,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.
“They are happy that inflation expectations have backed up over
the last couple months.”  Bernanke’s renewal of asset purchases completes a policy U-
turn this year. In February, the Fed raised the discount rate,
charged on direct loans to commercial banks, to 0.75 percent
from 0.50 percent. In March, it ended purchases of mortgage-
backed debt begun during the crisis. Bernanke testified before
Congress in March and July on how the Fed would pare back record
stimulus.  Door Open  Then, with the recovery slowing, the Fed in August decided
to halt the shrinking of its balance sheet by reinvesting
maturing mortgages into new Treasuries, setting a $2 trillion
floor on asset holdings. Bernanke kept the door open for further
action in a speech to central bankers at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , on Aug. 27.  Returning from the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 6, U.S.
central bankers also began to realize that another round of
fiscal stimulus was a dead issue before the U.S. mid-term
elections. Republicans captured a majority in the  House of
Representatives  and narrowed the Democratic majority in the
Senate on Nov. 2, capitalizing on voter concerns about  government spending .  “The Federal Reserve cannot solve all the economy’s
problems on its own,” Bernanke wrote in the Washington Post
article. “That will take time and the combined efforts of many
parties, including the central bank, Congress, the
administration, regulators and the private sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washingtont ; or Scott Lanman
in Washington at   slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  