-- Bernanke Unleashes Cascade of Bond Offerings: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-11-05T21:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bernanke-unleashes-bond-sales-as-yields-drop-to-record-low-credit-markets.html
Corporate bond sales surged to $15.9
billion yesterday, the busiest day in almost two months, as the
 Federal Reserve ’s move to stimulate the economy ignited a rush
of issuers tapping credit markets at record-low interest rates.  Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, raised
$4.5 billion in its biggest offering, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Borrowers including BNP Paribas SA and MetroPCS
Communications Inc. sold $2.67 billion more in debt today.  Dow Chemical Co.  and Harvard University also took advantage
of investment-grade borrowing costs at unprecedented lows after
an election divided Congress and the Fed announced a second
round of quantitative easing, a plan to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries in an effort to slash unemployment and avert
deflation. Companies are competing to issue at the cheapest
rates, said  Didi Weinblatt  of USAA Investment Management.  “If I were a corporate treasurer, I’d be issuing
everything I need in the next ‘God knows how many years,’” said
Weinblatt, vice president of mutual fund portfolios, who helps
oversee about $45 billion at USAA in San Antonio. “Companies
may think rates are going to get even lower.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s bond-buying program
reinforced optimism that the economy won’t deteriorate and
corporate profits will improve. The program may raise U.S. gross
domestic product growth by 0.25 percent to 0.5 percent next year
and by 0.75 percent in 2012, Deutsche Bank AG senior economist
 Torsten Slok  in New York wrote yesterday in a report.  Record Low Coupon  Coca-Cola’s offering included $1.25 billion of three-year
notes at a coupon of 0.75 percent, tying the Atlanta-based
company with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  for the lowest rate for that
maturity, Bloomberg data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 165 basis points, or 1.65
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201 basis
points on June 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged 3.393
percent, from 3.451 percent Nov. 3.  The cost of protecting bonds from default in the U.S. fell
for a fifth day, reaching the lowest in more than six months.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.9 basis point to a mid-
price of 85.4 as of 5:12 p.m. in New York, the lowest since
April 15, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Mortgage Bonds  The index falls as investor confidence improves and rises
as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The federal agency that regulates credit unions and insures
more than 90 million U.S. accounts plans to sell $5.48 billion
of bonds tied to residential mortgage-backed securities.  The debt, which is being sold by Barclays Capital, will
have guarantees from the National Credit Union Administration,
according to a person familiar with the offering who declined to
be identified because the sale isn’t public.  The regulator is disposing of $50 billion in assets
including mortgage-related securities from failed institutions,
the National Association of Federal Credit Unions said in
September.  Borrowing Costs Fall  Average borrowing costs for investment-grade companies fell
to 3.53 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index, the lowest yield since the
index began in October 1986.  Coca-Cola led the most U.S. corporate bond offerings since
Sept. 8, when sales reached $19.8 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Issuance this week of $24.7 billion of bonds compares with $23.9
billion in the five days ended Oct. 29. Average weekly volume
this year is $22.6 billion, the data show.  “Business sentiment, the outlook for 2011, the willingness
to spend, invest and hire new people have all gotten a marginal
push in the right direction over the last couple of days,” said
 Justin D’Ercole , head of the Americas investment-grade syndicate
at Barclays Capital in New York. “Those are all a catalyst for
supply, no question.”  Coca-Cola’s 3-year notes yield 32 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The company
also sold $1 billion of 1.5 percent, 5-year notes that paid a
spread of 52 basis points; $1 billion of 3.15 percent, 10-year
securities at 72 basis points; and $1.25 billion of 18-month
floating-rate notes at a spread of 5 basis points over the
London interbank offered rate.  Coca-Cola Debt  The company last issued bonds in March 2009, selling $1.35
billion of 4.875 percent, 10-year notes at a 205 basis-point
spread, and $900 million of 3.625 percent, 5-year debt at 185
basis points more than benchmarks, Bloomberg data show.  “Today the market tone is better than it’s probably been
since March,” D’Ercole said. “Companies are seizing on the
opportunity. They’re thinking about how many actionable days are
in November.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, issued $5 billion
of debt on Oct. 18, including three- and five-year notes with
the lowest interest rates on record. The Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company’s $750 million of 0.75 percent notes due October
2013 have climbed 0.5 cent since issue to 100.17 cents on the
dollar to yield 0.69 percent, Trace data show.  President  Barack Obama , accepting blame for the
“shellacking” Democrats took in midterm elections, said Nov. 3
that one of the keys to spurring economic growth will be
encouraging corporate expansion and hiring.  U.S. Elections  The elections were “more important” than the Fed decision
“from the standpoint of companies deciding if they want to hire
and grow their businesses,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager
who helps oversee more than $22 billion of investment-grade
credit at Columbia Management in Minneapolis.  Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard, the oldest and
richest college in the U.S., sold $300 million of 4.875 percent,
30-year bonds in its first offering of taxable debentures since
December 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Dow issued $2.5 billion of debt in a two-part sale. The
world’s second-biggest chemical maker after BASF SE may use
proceeds for debt repayment, pension contributions, capital
expenditures, working capital and acquisitions, the Midland,
Michigan-based company said in a regulatory filing.  ‘Positive’ Investment  Today, MetroPCS issued $1 billion of 10-year notes and BNP
Paribas sold $650 million of debt due March 2015 in a reopening
of an earlier offering, Bloomberg data show.  The Fed announcement confirmed that corporate bonds are a
“positive” investment, said  Leslie Barbi , a managing director
at Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America in New York, who helps
oversee $23 billion in fixed-income assets.  “If you were already overweight corporates, you want to
be, and if you weren’t, then you certainly want to be now,”
Barbi said. “The market action right now is generic. People are
not selectively buying this or that.”  Columbia Management’s Murphy said investors are
anticipating $75 billion to $100 billion of investment-grade
issuance in November.  “Between getting the election and the FOMC out of the way
and if we can get past payroll, I definitely think people are
going to get as much issuance done as they can between now and
Thanksgiving,” he said. “It will be a relatively busy
November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  