-- Fed's Bernanke `Doesn't Understand' Economics, Jim Rogers Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-05T10:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bernanke-doesn-t-understand-economics-investor-jim-rogers-tells-oxford.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke’s  decision to pump a further $600 billion into the
economy shows his grasp of economics is weak, said investor  Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings.  “Dr. Bernanke unfortunately does not understand economics,
he does not understand currencies, he does not understand
finance,” Rogers, 68, said in a lecture at Oxford University’s
 Balliol College  yesterday. “All he understands is printing
money.”  “His whole intellectual career has been based on the study
of printing money,” said Rogers, who predicted the start of the
global commodities rally in 1999. “Give the guy a printing
press, he’s going to run it as fast as he can.”  The Fed said on Nov. 3 it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, in a bid to reduce
unemployment and avert deflation. While Bernanke’s near-zero
rates and $1.7 trillion in asset purchases helped end the
recession, the Fed said progress has been “disappointingly
slow” in bringing down joblessness that is close to a 26-year
high.  “Debasing your currency has never worked,” Rogers said.  David W. Skidmore , a spokesman for the central bank in
Washington, didn’t respond to a message seeking comment.  Bernanke’s View  Bernanke, 56, a former Princeton University economics
professor who was appointed as Fed chairman by President  George Bush  in 2005, is a long-term scholar of the Great Depression. He
has argued that the central bank’s blunders helped worsen the
financial crisis that began in 1929.  He has responded with the most-aggressive expansion of the
Fed’s power in its history, cutting interest rates, making
Federal Reserve loans available to investment firms for the
first time since the 1930s and lowering the rates at which banks
can borrow from the Fed.  Rogers said the Fed was “throwing petrol on the fire” of
surging commodity prices, which rose to a two-year high today.
He urged students to scrap career plans for Wall Street or the
City, London’s financial district, and to study agriculture and
mining instead.  “The power is shifting again from the financial centers to
the producers of real goods,” he said. “The place to be is in
commodities, raw materials, natural resources.”  “Don’t go to Harvard Business School,” he said. “If you
want to make fortunes and come back and donate large sums of
money to Balliol you’re not going to do it if you get an MBA.”  ‘Horrible Disaster’  He declined to comment on the performance of his own
investments in commodities.  Rogers, who described the U.S. as the most indebted country
in history, said quantitative easing had been a “horrible
disaster.”  “It didn’t work the first time, it’s not going to work the
second time,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg News.
“It’s adding up staggering amounts of debt, staggering amounts
of debased currencies. It’s going to cause more distortions, and
we’re going to have more currency turmoil.”  The U.S. and U.K. governments’ taxpayer-sponsored bailouts
of troubled banks were “unbelievable economics” and “terrible
morality,” he said.  Rogers studied at Balliol in the 1960s and coxed Oxford to
victory in the 1966 boat race against Cambridge University.
Balliol, founded 747 years ago, educated British prime ministers
including  Harold Macmillan  and writers such as Graham Greene.  “I’m here to sell books,” said Rogers, who lives in
Singapore. “My little girls need royalties,” he added,
referring to his two daughters, who are both younger than eight
and were in the audience.  Rogers traveled the world by motorcycle and car in the
1990s researching investment ideas for his books, which include
“Adventure Capitalist” (Random House/Wiley) and “Investment
Biker.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 