-- Bernanke Breathes New Life Into Junk Bond Rally With QE2: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-11-04T15:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bernanke-breathes-new-life-into-junk-bond-rally-with-qe2-credit-markets.html
The  Federal Reserve  sent the cost of
protecting high-yield, high-risk debt from default to the lowest
since November 2007 by bolstering demand for the investments
with its program to buy $600 billion more of Treasuries.  The price of the benchmark credit-default swaps index on
junk debt, which rises as investor confidence improves, jumped
the most since July, according to Markit Group Ltd. The extra
yield investors demand to own the bonds rather than Treasuries
fell 2 basis points yesterday to 592 basis points, or 5.92
percentage points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show.  While longer-dated government bonds tumbled, the Fed’s move
breathed new life into the five-month junk rally that stalled in
the past two weeks. The central bank’s effort to reduce
unemployment and avert deflation by keeping interest rates at
record lows is driving yield-starved investors to the least
creditworthy borrowers.  “This is a continuation of lower for longer,” said  Tom Murphy , a money manager who helps oversee more than $22 billion
of investment-grade credit at Columbia Management in
Minneapolis. “The response to that from most people is pushing
out the risk spectrum.”  Bonds of companies from  First Data Corp.  to the junk-rated
power generation unit of Edison International rose after the Fed
said new purchases will be about $75 billion a month. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to boost growth after near-zero
interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases helped
pull the economy out of recession without bringing down
joblessness close to a 26-year high.  Extended Stay  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index increased
0.99 percentage point to 102.1 percent of face value as of 11:23
a.m. in New York, Markit data show. That means the annual cost
to protect against a default by the 100 companies in the index
dropped 23 basis points to 452 basis points, the lowest since
November 2007 according to prices from Markit and London-based
data provider CMA.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 165 basis points, down
from this year’s high of 201 on June 11, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.451 percent, from 3.45 percent Nov. 2.  Coca-Cola, Dow  The Standard & Poor’s/ LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index 
gained 0.12 cent to 91.65 cents on the dollar, the highest since
May 6. The index tracking the 100 largest dollar-denominated
first-lien leveraged loans has climbed every day since falling
to 91.03 cents on Oct. 20. That’s the longest streak since it
rose for 11 straight trading days ended Sept. 22.  Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest soft-drink maker, may
raise at least $4 billion in a bond offering as it seeks to buy
back debt it took on from acquiring operations from bottler
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.  The company plans to issue 18-month floating-rate notes and
3-, 5- and 10-year fixed-rate securities, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The debt will be senior unsecured
obligations, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said today in a regulatory
filing that didn’t specify the sale’s maturities or timing.  Dow Chemical Co. plans to sell debt in a two-part offering,
according to a regulatory filing. Proceeds may be used for
general corporate purposes, including debt repayment, pension
contributions, capital expenditures, working capital and
acquisitions, Dow Chemical said in the filing, which didn’t
specify the maturity of the notes or the size or timing of the
offering.  Rally Revives  Relative yields on speculative-grade bonds, rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P,
declined to as low as 573 basis points on Oct. 27 from this
year’s high of 727 basis points on June 11, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads climbed to 596 basis
points as of Nov. 1 as the high-yield rally stalled.  After the U.S. central bank announced its bond purchase
plan, relative yields declined. The Fed’s Open Market Committee
said it “will adjust the program as needed to best foster
maximum employment and price stability.” Policy makers also
retained a pledge to keep interest rates low for an “extended
period.”  At 9.6 percent, the unemployment rate “is elevated, and
measures of underlying inflation are somewhat low, relative to
levels that the committee judges to be consistent, over the
longer run, with its dual mandate,” the Fed said. “Progress
toward its objectives has been disappointingly slow.”  ‘Underlying Problems’  While the Fed’s stimulus measures may contain the risk of
deflation and trim interest costs, they won’t meaningfully
reduce the challenge facing U.S. companies of excessive debt,
said  Marvin Barth , chief investment strategist at Santa Monica,
California-based Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC.  “This doesn’t address the underlying problems,” Barth
said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview in New York
before the Fed announcement. “You still have the fact that top-
line growth is going to be poor because the economic outlook is
going to be poor because we’re recovering from a significant
overleveraging of our society.”  U.S. real gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation,
grew at a 2 percent annual pace in the third quarter, faster
than the 1.7 percent rate between April and June yet below what
central bank officials say is needed to reduce unemployment.  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey last month forecast
the unemployment rate will average 9.3 percent next year.  Retail Sales Rise  The economy has shown some signs of strength. Retail sales
increased more than forecast in September, and manufacturing
expanded in October at the fastest pace in five months. The ISM
non-manufacturing employment gauge rose to 50.9 in October,
matching the July level that was the highest since the recession
started in December 2007. The measure of new orders increased to
a three-month high.  First Data’s $3.7 billion of 10.55 percent notes due in
September 2015 rose 1.8 cents yesterday to 87.06 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The bonds from the
Atlanta-based credit-card processor traded at 87.75 cents as of
11:24 a.m. today in New York, the highest since May.  Edison Mission Energy’s $700 million of 7.625 percent bonds
due in May 2027 climbed 4.75 cents today to 74.25 cents on the
dollar, Trace data show. The bonds from the New York-based
commercial real estate lender have risen from 67.5 cents on Oct.
29.  Europe Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on European high-yield
corporate bonds fell to the lowest level since May 3, with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies dropping 21.4 basis points to 435.5, according to
Markit.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
swaps tied to U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds decreased
2.8 basis points to a mid-price of 88.6, Markit prices show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  While corporate debt rallied,  30-year  U.S. Treasury bonds
declined for a second day, sending the yield to a three-month
high. The yield climbed 4 basis points to 4.08 percent, after
increasing 11 basis points yesterday when the Fed announced its
asset-purchase plan.  The Fed program “helps mitigate the downside risk to
economic growth and it also keep rates low, and both those
things help push investors down the quality spectrum,” said
 Adam  Richmond, a strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  