-- BHP Unlikely to Sway Canada Government on Potash Bid, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-04T11:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bhp-unlikely-to-sway-canada-on-potash-bid-morgan-stanley-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, is unlikely to sway Canada after the
government yesterday blocked the producer’s $40 billion bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., Morgan Stanley said.  “The probability of this being in BHP’s favor is very low
as it would be an abrupt about-face for Canada’s ruling party,”
Morgan Stanley analysts led by Melbourne-based  Craig Campbell 
said in a report today.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government said yesterday a
sale of the world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide
a “net benefit” to the country. BHP said it was disappointed
with the decision and would review the company’s options within
the 30 days it has to lodge an appeal.  “BHP will use the next 30 days to try and change the view
in favor of the acquisition given the management time already
invested in the deal,” Morgan Stanley said in a report today.
“This is likely to be very difficult given the government has
made a public announcement on the proposed deal.”  BHP  rose  to a record in London trading, jumping as much as
5.8 percent, on expectation the company won’t spend $40 billion
on buying  Potash Corp.  and may now turn to a buyback. The stock
gained 5.2 percent to 2,398 pence by 11:06 a.m. in London.  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  obtained $45
billion of loans in September to fund the proposed $130-a-share
acquisition, which met opposition from politicians and
investors. Industry Minister  Tony Clement  declined to give
additional reasons for his ruling, which marks only the second
formal rejection of a takeover in Canada in the past 25 years.  ‘Larger Concessions’  “BHP may look to make larger concessions to appease these
concerns,” London-based UBS AG analyst  Olivia Ker  wrote in a
Nov. 3 report. “However, our concern is that this is highly
politicized and there may be limited recourse for BHP.”  The company may seek a $10 billion buyback of its London
shares, UBS said. That could provide earnings per share
accretion of 4 percent next year, UBS said.  Canada’s government came under pressure from the province
of Saskatchewan, which argued the Potash Corp. sale would have
cut jobs and tax revenue and surrendered control of an important
resource. Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal
government can block any transaction valued at C$299 million
($298 million) or more if it finds the deal doesn’t provide a
“net benefit” to the country.  The initial rejection from Canada is likely to increase
pressure on Melbourne-based BHP to return excess cash to
shareholders, Morgan Stanley said in the report. BHP could
return as much as $4.54 a share in addition to Morgan Stanley’s
2011 dividend forecast of 90 cents a share, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ; 