-- BHP May Resort to Buybacks After Potash Bid Blocked
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-04T17:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bhp-may-turn-to-buybacks-after-kloppers-offer-for-potash-corp-blocked.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  may resort to share
buybacks for the first time in three years after Canada blocked
its bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., leaving BHP
facing a tally of $100 billion in abortive deals since 2008.  BHP  rose  to a record in London trading today on investor
expectation Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  now won’t
spend $40 billion buying Potash Corp. and may turn to a buyback.
Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, has 30
days to appeal and said today it will review its options.  “The market saw the long-term benefits of this deal, but
its failure creates opportunities for BHP’s surplus cash,” said
 James Holt , who helps manage about A$40 billion ($41 billion) at
BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Ltd. “A massive
purchase in a recovering commodity market would have gone from
being a long-term strategic thing to a short-term risky thing”
if there was a weakening in China or the economy, he said.  Kloppers, who said in August he’s looking to takeovers
beyond Potash Corp., may spend as much as $25 billion buying
back shares in the next two years in place of an acquisition of
the Canadian company, according to a Morgan Stanley note last
week. BHP, which held $12.5 billion of cash on June 30, is
considering takeovers in the energy industry,  J. Michael Yeager ,
CEO of the company’s oil and gas unit, said in September.  BHP halted its last share buyback in 2007 before making a
$66 billion bid for Rio Tinto Group.  Special Dividend?  “If the deal eventually does get blocked and there’s no
other avenue, that would increase the likelihood of some sort of
capital management program, be it a capital return or special
dividend,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1
billion, including BHP shares, at Pengana Capital Ltd. in
Melbourne. “I wouldn’t be surprised if they up the acquisition
strategy in the petroleum division.”  BHP rose 6.6 percent to 2,430 pence in London, the highest
since the stock began trading in the city in 1997. BHP gained
2.6 percent to A$43.72 in Sydney, the highest since April 15.  “A buyback in the U.K. is most likely” as BHP’s London
shares trade at a discount to the Australian stock, Liberum
Capital Ltd. analysts wrote today in a note. “A $10 billion
buyback on current prices would provide 5 percent earnings per
share accretion.”  Political Opposition  The discount has shrunk  this year  with BHP’s London shares
gaining 22 percent and its Sydney stock up 1.4 percent, compared
with a 20 percent jump for the 100-member  Bloomberg World Mining
Index . Potash Corp. slid 2.7 percent to $141.5299 by 1 p.m. in
New York, higher than the $130-a-share offer from BHP.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government said yesterday a
sale of the world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide
a “net benefit” to Canada. Kloppers obtained $45 billion of
loans in September to fund the proposed acquisition, which has
met opposition from politicians and investors.  “The market believes there is some likelihood BHP will
return with a revised offer,” credit research analysts led by
 Michael Bush  at National Australia Bank Ltd. wrote today in a
note. “There is always this chance, though in our view, BHP has
twice demonstrated a relatively rapid willingness to walk away
from deals facing regulatory opposition.”  Walk Away  The cost of protecting BHP bonds from default fell the most
in almost six months. Credit-default swaps on BHP fell 15.585
basis points to 77.43 basis points by 5 p.m. in London, prices
from data provider CMA show, the biggest slide since May 10.  Should BHP drop the bid, it would be the third time
Kloppers, 48, has failed to consummate a deal in the past two
years after scrapping the hostile bid for Rio Tinto Group in
2008 and a joint venture with the same company last month. He
spent $450 million on the Rio takeover, according to the
company. He also outlaid $75 million on the venture with Rio,
the Australian Financial Review reported.  “I still have complete faith in Marius Kloppers -- he’s
coming up with ideas,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
dealer at IG Markets in Melbourne. “He’s aiming big and not
buying these small bolt-on acquisitions. I don’t expect them to
go back for another bid.”  ‘Complete Faith’  BHP has nothing to show in terms of “sizeable M&A despite
once-in-a-lifetime value” on offer during the financial crisis
of the past two years, Liberum analysts said last month after
the company abandoned the Rio iron ore joint venture following
regulatory opposition.  In bidding for Potash Corp., the world’s biggest producer
of the crop nutrient, Kloppers, who took on the top job in 2007,
is seeking to benefit from surging demand for fertilizer as food
needs grow and the list of possible mineral company targets
shrinks. The acquisition would be BHP’s biggest since buying WMC
Resources Ltd. in 2005 and the largest takeover this year.  “It means a large-scale acquisition that BHP needs to make
to move the dial for itself looks very tough going forward,”
said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8 billion at
Platypus Asset Management in Sydney, including BHP shares.  BHP’s most recent completed purchase was Athabasca Potash
Inc. for about C$341 million ($339 million) in January. It paid
A$204 million for  United Minerals Corp.  in October 2009.  Move the Dial  A buyback would provide 11-times greater returns for
shareholders in 2011 than taking over Potash Corp., Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in September. A bid of $130 would add 2
percent to earnings per share in 2011, while a buyback of equal
value would add 22 percent, Nomura estimated.  “It is quite a big blow -- clearly Potash would have been,
and still could be, a big acquisition, a strategic acquisition
for the company,”  Peter Chilton , an investment analyst at
Constellation Capital Management Ltd. in Sydney, which owns
shares in BHP and Rio Tinto Group, told Linzie Janis on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia” program. “The real
issue is that BHP is a very large company and to grow it needs
to make big bets, big decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  