-- BHP Must Lead Appeal of Potash Bid Rejection, Saskatchewan Lawmaker Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-11-04T20:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bhp-must-lead-appeal-of-potash-rejection-canada-lawmaker-says.html
It’s up to  BHP Billiton Ltd.  to make
the next move if it wants to reverse Canada’s rejection of its
$40 billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , a
Conservative lawmaker from the Canadian province said.  The governing Conservative Party’s 13 Saskatchewan Members
of Parliament met several times with Industry Minister  Tony Clement  in the days before the decision was announced and
relayed voter concern about the transaction, said lawmaker Tom
Lukiwski.  Canada blocked the bid by Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s
largest mining company, because the proposed takeover doesn’t
provide a “net benefit” to Canada, Clement said yesterday,
without giving more reasons for his ruling. Under Canadian law,
the company has 30 days to appeal the ruling.  “It’s quite frankly up to BHP,” Lukiwski said today in a
telephone interview from Ottawa. “If they want to in these 30
days make further representations to the government, they can
certainly do so.”  “The large majority of my constituents were asking us to
reject the bid from BHP and I passed that directly along to the
minister,” Lukiwski said, adding he isn’t anticipating further
meetings with Clement.  The rejection of BHP’s bid for Potash Corp. wasn’t
politically motivated, Clement said in a parliamentary debate
today, adding that he took “a principled decision completely
within the four corners of the  Investment Canada Act .” That law
allows the government to block any investment valued at C$299
million ($298 million) or more if it finds the transaction
doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.  Review Options  Clement, 49, said he is “forbidden” by the law to give
the detailed reasons for the rejection until the appeal period
is over. “Believe me, I will do so with alacrity at that
moment,” he said.  “As we said yesterday, BHP will continue to engage with
the minister and the investment review division of Investment
Canada and will review its options,” Ruban Yogarajah, a London-
based spokesman for BHP, said today by telephone.  U.S. District Judge  David H. Coar  said today in Chicago he
will hear evidence in the effort by Saskatoon-based Potash Corp.
to block BHP’s proposed $130-a-share takeover. Potash, the
world’s largest maker of its namesake crop nutrient, has
rejected BHP’s offer, saying it was too low. BHP’s lawyers told
Coar their client intended to continue its pursuit of Potash
Corp. and seek to resolve its issues with the Canadian
government.  Potash Corp.  dropped $3.53, or 2.4 percent, to $141.97 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have  gained  31 percent this year.  “We certainly support the government’s decision,”
Lukiwski said, adding he was “confident” Clement took the
lawmakers’ opinions into account when he made the decision.
Voters “felt that by allowing BHP to take over the operations
of our potash mines in Saskatchewan, somehow that would be an
infringement upon our jurisdictional rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 