-- Big State-Level Gains Give Republicans Redistricting Dominance
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t ,   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n ,   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/big-state-level-gains-give-republicans-redistricting-dominance-next-year.html
The fun for Republicans doesn’t end
with their Election Day blowout. Beyond impressive gains in
Washington, historic victories at the state level -- in
legislative and governors’ races -- ensure that the party will
dominate the redrawing of congressional districts that begins
next year.  After each census, politicians in most states engage in a
baldly partisan ritual of adjusting district lines in hopes of
sending more of their allies to Washington for elections to
come. And as bad a time as they had at the national level, the
Democrats suffered equal, if not more devastating, setbacks in
state races.  Republicans will have control of about 190 congressional
districts as a result of the Nov. 2 election, according to  Tim Storey , an analyst with the nonpartisan  National Conference of
State Legislatures  in Denver. “Republicans won a commanding
advantage in the redistricting process,” he told Bloomberg
Businessweek for its Nov. 8 edition.  Over the next several years, 15 to 25 seats in the  U.S.
House of Representatives  are more likely to remain Republican or
switch from Democratic after redistricting as a result of the
party’s state victories, says  Ed Gillespie , chairman of the
Republican State Leadership Committee. “We’re going to end up
protecting a lot as opposed to carving new ones,” he predicted
in a conference call with reporters.  25 State Legislatures  Republicans will control 25 legislatures, including  Ohio ,
North Carolina, and  Minnesota , boosting its power in statehouses
by the most since 1928, the National Conference of State
Legislatures says. The Republican State Leadership Committee,
based in Alexandria, Virginia, calculates that its side enjoyed
a net gain of 19 state legislative bodies in the course of
taking away more than 500 state legislative seats from Democrats
nationwide. The results “exceeded our expectations,” says
Gillespie, one of his party’s most prominent strategists.  Republicans plan to press their advantage. “By controlling
a majority or more of reapportionment states, we can make sure
that the Democrats don’t take from us tomorrow what we fought so
hard for today,” Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , who leads
the  Republican Governors Association , said in a news release.  Congressional seats will be reapportioned as a result of
the recently completed census. States with shrinking populations
will lose seats, and those with growing ones will gain. Eighteen
states are projected to be affected, according to  Election Data
Services Inc. , a consulting firm.  Gubernatorial Victories  In most states, governors play an important role in
redistricting, and Republicans had success in these races as
well. Democrats lost governors’ seats to Republicans in Iowa,
 Kansas , Michigan, and at least eight other states. In Ohio and
Pennsylvania, Republicans took from Democrats the lower house of
the Legislature as well as the governor’s office. In Wisconsin,
Republicans swept both houses and the governor’s chair.
Republicans won both houses of the state Legislature in Alabama
for the first time since the end of the Civil War.  With these Election Day gains also comes more
responsibility for dealing with widespread fiscal problems.
Deficits are forcing many states to raise taxes, fire public
employees, and cut spending on schools. Thirty-nine states
project a collective $112 billion of deficits for the 2012
fiscal year, a figure that is likely to swell as the federal
stimulus package expires, according to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities , a Washington research group.  The bottom line: Big Republican gains in state-level races
give them a huge advantage over Democrats in redrawing
congressional districts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Barrett  in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brian Bremner at 
 bbremner@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 