-- BNP Paribas Says It Doesn’t Need Too-Big-to-Fail Capital Buffer
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2010-11-04T11:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bnp-paribas-says-it-doesn-t-need-too-big-to-fail-capital-surcharge-imposed.html
  BNP Paribas  SA, the world’s biggest
bank by assets, shouldn’t be subject to any so-called too-big-
to-fail capital surcharge as size isn’t the key indicator for
systemic risk, Chief Executive Officer Baudouin Prot said.  “I see absolutely no reason whatsoever that we should be
asked for any capital surcharge,” Prot, 59, said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “You should ask for a
capital surcharge from the banks whose business model, whose
track record has been between bad and horrendous. And there have
been a number of them, but not for BNP Paribas.”  The bank, based in Paris, today reported a 46 percent
increase in third-quarter profit, helped by its consumer-banking
networks in France, Belgium and the U.S.  BNP Paribas said today it had “a very limited amount of
subprime mortgages” at its U.S. consumer-banking unit. “We
have no foreclosure issues” with U.S. mortgages, Prot said.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which sets
capital standards for banks worldwide, agreed in September to
increase the minimum common equity requirement to 7 percent of
assets, weighted according to their risks, from 2 percent
previously. Individual countries may enforce higher  capital
requirements  for their biggest lenders.  BNP Paribas’s Tier 1 ratio, a key indicator of financial
strength, will be “clearly” above the 7 percent minimum set by
the new Basel rules, Prot told reporters on a conference call.
The CEO declined to provide a forecast for the bank’s Tier 1
ratio at the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  