-- BNP Paribas Third-Quarter Net Climbs 46% on French, U.S. Retail Banking
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-11-04T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bnp-paribas-third-quarter-net-climbs-46-on-french-u-s-retail-banking.html
BNP Paribas SA , the world’s biggest
bank by assets, reported a 46 percent increase in third-quarter
 profit , helped by its consumer-banking networks in France,
Belgium and the U.S.  Net income  rose to 1.91 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from
1.31 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
in a statement today, beating the 1.75 billion-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A jump in retail
earnings more than offset lower corporate- and investment-
banking profit.  BNP Paribas, like New York-based JPMorgan & Chase Co., took
advantage of competitors’ woes to make takeovers during the
financial crisis, swelling its assets by 34 percent in the three
years through June 30. The Paris-based bank, led by Chief
Executive Officer  Baudouin Prot , became the biggest lender by
deposits in the euro region with the purchase of Fortis’s assets
in Belgium and Luxembourg last year.  Prot credited a “rebound in retail banking” with the
company’s “very good performance,” in remarks in the
statement.  BNP Paribas has  fallen  6.2 percent in Paris trading this
year, compared with a 4.9 percent  slump  in the 53-company
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. Eighty-four
percent of  analysts  recommended buying the shares in the past
three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Societe Generale SA , France’s third-largest bank by assets,
reported yesterday a more than doubling in third-quarter
earnings to 896 million euros, beating analysts’ estimates,
after setting aside less money for bad loans.  Consumer Banking  At BNP Paribas, total consumer-banking pretax earnings more
than doubled to 1.2 billion euros as the U.S. branch network had
a profit, compared with a year-earlier loss. The bank joined
competitors including Societe Generale and Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse Group AG  in reporting lower investment-banking earnings
after a slump in client trading activity.  Provisions for doubtful loans fell to 1.22 billion euros in
the third quarter, a 47 percent decline from a year earlier.
That compares with analysts’ estimates for 1.25 billion euros.  BancWest, the U.S. consumer-banking unit, had a 168
million-euro pretax profit, compared with a 60 million-euro loss
a year earlier. The Europe-Mediterranean unit, which includes
retail networks in countries such as Turkey and Ukraine, had a
27 million-euro pretax profit compared with a 111 million-euro
year-earlier loss.  Pretax profit at the corporate and investment bank declined
7.3 percent from a year earlier to 1.26 billion euros, as equity
and advisory revenue fell 17 percent “in a market still marked
by risk aversion.” Fixed-income sales dropped 38 percent from a
year earlier, the bank said.  New Basel III capital requirements will have a
“significant but manageable impact” on its risk-weighted
assets, the bank said. BNP Paris has said it will meet new
capital requirements set in September by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision without selling stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  