-- ‘Spider-Man’ Delays Broadway Debut After Two Injuries
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-05T16:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bono-taymor-spider-man-delays-broadway-opening-after-two-fall-flying.html
“ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ,”
which at $60 million and counting is the most expensive Broadway
musical ever and one of the most delayed, will put off its first
preview by two weeks and its opening night by three.  Previews at the Foxwoods Theatre are now scheduled to begin
on Nov. 28, with opening night on Jan. 11, 2011, the producers
said in a statement. It was to have begun previews on Nov. 14.  Ticketholders -- who are being offered the option of
refunds or exchanges -- may be further inconvenienced. Some
previews in December may be canceled to create additional time
for rehearsals, a person briefed on the production said. A
spokesman declined to comment.  As costs spiraled and the show’s conception by Tony Award-
winning director  Julie Taymor  (“The Lion King”) became more
elaborate, its arrival date has been a moving target.  Production was halted in 2009 when its lead producer ran
out of cash. Actors including  Alan Cumming  (“Cabaret”) dropped
out of the cast to take other work. The show has been in various
stages of delay since last January.  “Shows like ours, that embrace the challenge of opening on
Broadway without an out-of-town tryout, often need to adjust
their schedules along the way,” said the lead producer,  Michael Cohl , in a statement.  Sony Pictures Entertainment , which produces the “Spider-
Man” films, is a co-producer.  With music by U2’s  Bono  and  The Edge  and wild aerial
stunts, “Spider-Man” will break new ground in theater, Taymor
has said.  Ouch  So far, the show has made its greatest impact on its
actors. A performer broke his wrists during an event for sales
agents. Another broke a toe.  The  New York State Department of Labor  and the federal
 Occupational Safety and Health Administration  are investigating
“the facts surrounding the accident when two performers
suffered injuries,” said Labor Department spokesman Joe
Morrissey.  State inspectors visited the Foxwoods Wednesday to view the
stunts. They plan to return because many of them were not ready.  “There are 35 aerial flights in the production,”
Morrissey said. “To date we’ve seen seven. We expected the
sequence where two performers fly over the audience yesterday.
This sequence was not ready.”  Theater insiders say the pall the delays and accidents cast
on the show could be short-lived.  “When you push the boundaries of what we do, things often
take longer,” said Ken Davenport, a producer who writes a  blog 
about Broadway. “I don’t believe the delays will bring ‘Spider-
Man’ down, if it goes down.”  The New York Times reported that advance sales for the show
total about $8 million, excluding group sales that haven’t been
paid for.  “An $8 million advance is decent for a brand new
musical,” Davenport said. “But everything looks small when
your budget is $60 million.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 