-- Bovis Homes Wins Appeal in U.K. Case Forcing Persimmon to Repurchase Land
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T15:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bovis-homes-wins-appeal-in-u-k-case-forcing-persimmon-to-repurchase-land.html
Bovis Homes Group Ltd.  won a U.K.
appeal forcing developer  Persimmon Plc  to repurchase land it
sold to Bovis for 9 million pounds ($14.6 million) because it
missed a deadline for building a road to the property.  Bovis is entitled to exercise a “put” option in the sale
contract because Persimmon didn’t finish a street to the
development in  Peterborough, England , by Oct. 31, 2009, a three-
judge panel ruled today at the Court of Appeal in London. The
ruling affirmed a lower-court decision in favor of Kent,
England-based Bovis.  “The bypass was not open to the public,” Judge  Terence Etherton  said in the judgment. York, England-based Persimmon
must repurchase the land at the full sale price, even though the
property suffered a “dramatic fall in market value,” he said.  The court ruled that, while the road built by York,
England-based Persimmon was being used by cars when the deadline
passed, the street had only one lane open and several missing
lights. The developers “candidly admitted” in court that the
falling value of the land was the underlying reason for the
dispute, according to the judgment.  “While that explains the economic reality underlying the
dispute, it cannot affect the legal merits of each side’s
case,” Etherton said in the judgment.  A spokeswoman for Persimmon, the U.K.’s third-largest
homebuilder by volume, declined to comment on the ruling.  U.K. house prices climbed in October, erasing almost half
of the record drop posted the previous month. The average cost
of a home increased 1.8 percent to 164,919 pounds ($268,000)
from September, when it declined 3.7 percent, Halifax said in an
e-mailed statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 