-- BP Plans to Halt North Sea Rhum Gas Field Following New EU Sanctions
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2010-11-04T12:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bp-to-halt-rhum-north-sea-gas-venture-on-iran-sanctions.html
BP Plc said  production  at its North
Sea Rhum natural-gas field will halt next week to ensure
compliance with European Union sanctions against Iran.  “Pending clarification from the government and to ensure
we comply with the required notification period in the
regulations, preparations to suspend production are underway,”
Matt Taylor, a spokesman for BP based in Aberdeen, Scotland,
said in an e-mailed statement. “From the middle of next week
there will be no production from Rhum.”  The  Rhum field , 240 miles (370 kilometers) off Scotland’s
northern coast, is a 50:50 venture with  Iranian Oil Co. U.K.
Ltd ., a unit of Tehran-based Naftiran Intertrade Co.  The EU published regulations on Oct. 27 intended to
restrict Iranian business activities and prevent European
technology from helping its nuclear program. BP will review the
closure when it’s received government clarification on the
rules, Taylor said.  “Any reduction in gas supply is bad news,”  Graham Freedman , a senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. in
London, said today by telephone. “It will tighten the market.”  Freedman said Rhum meets about 2 percent of gas demand on
an average U.K. winter’s day. A current gas glut means the
impact of Rhum’s closure will be “limited,” he said.  Iran’s Stake  Iranian Oil will discuss the sale of its stake in Rhum at a
board meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland, next week or the week
after, Hojat Heidari, the company’s executive director, said by
telephone from Aberdeen today.  “I don’t think the board is interested in selling to BP,”
he said.  U.K. North Sea gas production is declining at a rate of
about 10 percent a year,  data  from the Department of Energy and
Climate Change show. Britain, Europe’s biggest gas user, is
increasingly turning to tanker-borne imports of liquefied gas to
meet demand.  Rhum was discovered in 1977 and production from the high-
pressure-high-temperature field began in 2005. The unmanned
deposit pumps as much as 6 million cubic meters of gas a day,
along with some liquids, and cost 350 million pounds ($566
million) to develop, according to BP’s website.  Gas from the field passes through the Bruce platform, about
30 miles away, and is transported via Total SA’s Frigg pipeline
on to the St. Fergus terminal in Northern Scotland. Output from
Bruce wouldn’t be affected by the closure of Rhum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  