-- Brazil's Credit Rating May Rise on Rousseff's Fiscal Policy, Fitch Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-04T13:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/brazil-s-credit-rating-may-rise-on-rousseff-s-fiscal-policy-fitch-says.html
Brazil’s credit rating may rise from
the lowest investment-grade level if President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  exercises “fiscal restraint” after she takes office
Jan. 1, Fitch Ratings said.  Rousseff needs to slow spending growth and reduce debt as
she continues the policies of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva, Fitch said in a statement, echoing comments by Standard &
Poor’s yesterday. Changes to tax and labor laws are needed to
increase investment enough to keep pace with economic growth,
which may exceed 7 percent this year, Fitch said.  “Rousseff is inheriting a healthy economy in which fiscal
revenue should continue to grow at handsome rates,” Fitch said.
“The challenge for her administration is to use this
opportunity to restrain current spending growth. Brazil’s
relatively low savings and investment rates constrain its
potential output growth.”  Fitch in June raised its outlook on Brazil’s BBB- rating to
positive, citing the potential for growth and prudent policies.  Efforts to reduce outstanding debt may bring a “faster
rating upgrade,” and fiscal adjustments are “very important,”
 Sebastian Briozzo , a Latin America director at Standard &
Poor’s, said yesterday. Latin America’s biggest economy received
an investment grade from Fitch and S&P in 2008 and from Moody’s
Investors Service last year after foreign reserves surged.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 169 at 9:19 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index.  ‘Credibility’  The government’s “credibility” may be threatened by
swelling debt stemming from a surge in lending by the national
development bank, known as BNDES, Fitch said. Government-
controlled banks account for more than 40 percent of lending by
financial institutions, according to the statement.  Congress may hamstring efforts by Rousseff, who served as
Lula’s cabinet chief, to carry out needed reforms to make it
cheaper to hire and fire workers and streamline the
“intricate” tax system, Fitch said. Rousseff said yesterday
she aims to cut net public debt to 38 percent from 41 percent of
gross domestic product by 2014, after having pledged in her
campaign to reduce the ratio to 30 percent.  “It remains to be seen whether President-elect Rousseff
would spend her political capital early in her term to pass
meaningful economic reforms,” Fitch said. “She would need to
manage a large but cumbersome coalition effectively in order to
gain support for her agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  