-- Brazil Industry Output Unexpectedly Shrank in September on Strong Currency
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-11-04T12:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/brazil-industry-output-unexpectedly-shrank-in-september-on-strong-currency.html
Brazil’s industrial  output 
unexpectedly fell in September as the real strengthened close to
a two-year high, reducing pressure on the central bank to raise
 interest rates  next year.  Industrial production contracted 0.2 percent in September,
the fifth monthly decline since April, the national statistics
agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. Economists had expected
output to expand 0.1 percent, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 26 analysts. Output rose 6.3 percent
from a year ago, the slowest annual pace this year and below
analysts’ median forecast for a 7.1 percent increase.  The weakness in industry makes it less likely that policy
maker will raise the benchmark rate next year, said  Zeina Latif ,
a senior economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo. Output
by Brazil’s industry is shrinking because of the strong currency
and a slowdown in world trade growth, she said.  “This is good for the central bank,” Latif said in a
telephone interview. “The assumption that currency appreciation
is impacting industrial production has been confirmed.”  Brazilian manufacturers are being hurt by a rally in the
nation’s currency, which touched a two-year high of 1.6530 per
U.S. dollar on Oct. 13, even as credit growth and record low
unemployment fuel domestic demand. The real’s 37 percent rally
since the start of 2009 is the third best performance among
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the Australian
dollar and South African rand.  The real strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.6834 per U.S. dollar
at 8:33 a.m. New York time. In the overnight interest-rate
futures market, the yield on the contract due in January 2012
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 11.35
percent.  Capital Goods  Capital goods production, a barometer of future investment,
fell 2.6 percent from August, the statistics agency said. The
only sectors that registered growth were production of consumer
goods, which rose 0.9 percent, and semi and non-durable goods,
which rose 1.3 percent.  Brazil’s manufacturers unexpectedly reduced the use of
installed capacity to 81.9 percent in September, from a revised
82.2 percent in August, the National Industrial Confederation
said in a report distributed today in Brasilia. The figures
surprised all five economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose
median forecast was 82.4 percent.  Domestic Demand  The slowdown in production comes as domestic demand remains
heated.  In August,  retail sales  expanded 2 percent from the
previous month, their fastest growth since March.  Unemployment 
fell to a record low 6.2 percent in September, as outstanding
credit increased 19.7 percent from the same month a year ago to
a record of 1.61 trillion reais ($950 billion).  Strong domestic demand and the need for companies to
restock inventories could lead production to recover in the
fourth quarter, said Jankiel Santos, chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento in Sao Paulo.  “We have come to an end of this adjustment in inventory
stocks in September,” Santos said in a telephone interview. “I
doubt this downward trend will continue for the remainder of the
year.”  Fed Decision  Still, the Federal Reserve’s decision yesterday to inject
$600 billion into the U.S. economy through the purchase of debt
will add pressure on Brazil’s currency, said  Eduardo Galasini ,
head of proprietary trading at Banco Banif Primus in Sao Paulo.  “The Fed’s decision increases the global trend of
continued dollar weakening,” Galasaini said in a telephone
interview.  Brazil’s 12-month current account gap widened to a record
high of $47.3 billion in September as domestic demand and the
real’s rally boosted spending on imports.  The world’s eighth-largest economy will expand 7.3 percent
this year, the  fastest pace  in more than two decades, according
to a Sept. 30 central bank forecast.  Policy makers held the benchmark Selic rate at 10.75
percent last month, after raising borrowing costs 2 percentage
points from a record low 8.75 percent earlier in the year  Analysts expect the central bank to raise the benchmark
interest rate to 11.25 percent in April, and to 11.75 percent in
June, according to the median forecast in an Oct. 29 central
bank survey of about 100 economists.  Consumer inflation  as measured by the IPCA-15 index
accelerated to 5.03 percent in the year through mid-October. The
central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  