-- Brazil May Buy Back Foreign Real Bonds, Add New Maturities to Curb Inflows
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-11-04T13:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/brazil-may-buy-back-foreign-real-bonds-add-new-maturities-to-curb-inflows.html
Brazil may buy back some of its
international real-denominated bonds and sell new securities
with longer maturities in a bid to temper capital inflows that
helped drive the currency to a two-year high last month.  Brazil may sell 10- and 30-year real-linked bonds abroad to
discourage foreign investors from buying government debt in the
domestic market, which drives up real, deputy Treasury secretary
 Paulo Valle  said yesterday in an interview. The government is
also considering including older real bonds issued abroad in an
existing buyback program, he said.  Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said Oct. 21 that the
government was likely to sell more real bonds overseas this
year, a day after it issued its real-linked securities due in
2028 for the first time in three years. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has said the world is engaged in a “currency war” as
countries look for ways to discourage capital inflows while
investors hunt for higher yielding assets amid near-zero
interest rates in the U.S., Japan and other developed markets.  “In the foreign market, as the minister and the secretary
said, we will continue with a strategy of building a curve in
reais by creating new maturities,” Valle said. The government
plans to “build a very liquid curve for bonds up to 30 years.”  Brazil sold 1 billion reais ($591 million) of bonds due in
2028 to yield 8.85 percent on Oct. 20. The yield on the security
rose 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 9.22 percent
until yesterday, according to data compiled by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Yields today fell 5.5 basis points to 9.17 percent at 8:39
a.m. New York time.  The sale came two days after the Finance Ministry tripled a
tax on foreigners’ purchases of local fixed-income assets in
October in a bid to curb gains in the currency.  Rating Outlook  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  said yesterday she plans to
reduce the country’s net debt to 38 percent of gross domestic
product by the end of her four-year term in 2014 from 41 percent
in September. During her campaign, she pledged to reduce the net
debt to about 30 percent of GDP.  Brazil’s efforts to reduce the amount of outstanding debt
could result in a “faster rating upgrade,” said  Sebastian Briozzo , a Latin America director at Standard & Poor’s.  Rousseff Team  An improvement in Brazil’s fiscal situation is “very
important” to the country’s rating, Briozzo said in telephone
interview yesterday from Buenos Aires. S&P rates Brazil’s
foreign currency debt BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  “We need to wait a bit to see first the team she will
actually put together and then learn her key plans and
policies,” Briozzo said.  The real gained 0.34 percent to 1.6840 per U.S. dollar at
8:40 a.m. New York time. It has more than doubled since
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva took office in January 2003
and is the biggest gainer among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The fastest growth in two decades coupled with the highest
real interest rate among the Group of 20 nations has helped
Latin America’s biggest economy attract a surge of foreign
investment in 2010. In the first eight months of 2010, Brazil
has attracted a net $34.6 billion into its bond and stock
markets, more than double last year’s total and the most since
the central bank began collecting the data in 1995.  A stronger currency puts exporters at a disadvantage by
making their goods more expensive in dollar terms, potentially
cutting into company profits.  Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 1.2 percent in the
three months ending in June from the previous quarter, cooling
from a 2.7 percent expansion in the first quarter.  GDP jumped 8.8 percent from a year ago compared with a 9
percent expansion in the first quarter that was the fastest pace
in 15 years. The central bank estimates Latin America’s biggest
economy will grow by 7.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  