-- Brazil, Poland Stocks Upgraded by Citigroup on Emerging Markets Outlook
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-05T08:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/brazil-poland-stocks-upgraded-by-citigroup-on-emerging-markets-outlook.html
Emerging-market  stocks will gain 35
percent in dollar terms by the end of next year, supported by
the Federal Reserve’s bond purchasing plan and a “super-
Goldilocks” economic environment, according to Citigroup Inc.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  may rise to 1,500 by end-
2011, said  Geoffrey Dennis  and  Jason Press , New York-based
equity strategists, boosting their estimate from 1,132
previously. The brokerage raised its rating on Brazil and Poland
to “overweight,” lowered Taiwan and the Czech Republic to
“neutral” and cut Turkey to “underweight.”  “The weak, but not recessionary, macro situation in
developed countries is a ‘super-Goldilocks’ environment,” the
analysts said. “The sub-par recovery in developed economies,
with the very low interest rates that go with it, represents an
ideal cocktail for emerging market asset prices.”  The  index  for emerging markets has surged 17 percent this
year, twice the 8.4 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
shares in developed markets. Investors poured money into
developing nations at a record pace in search of higher yields
amid near-zero benchmark interest rates in the U.S.  At 1,500, the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  will have
multiples of 13 to 13.5 times estimated earnings and 2.8 times
book value, “well below the valuation peaks of 1993 and 2007,”
Dennis and Press said.  Inflows into emerging-market stock funds have surpassed $60
billion and exceeded $46 billion in bond funds, both poised for
their best year since Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global
started tracking them in 1995.  Strong Inflows  “An expansionary Fed and a weak dollar, combined with the
much stronger outlook for economic growth in the emerging
markets, are a recipe for a continuation of strong inflows into
emerging market assets,” Dennis and Press said.  While central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan step up
efforts to boost their flagging economies, developing nations
are poised to expand at a 7.1 pace percent this year, the
fastest since 2007, International Monetary Fund forecasts show.  Investors should favor  domestic industries  in developing
nations as these will benefit from strong emerging market growth
and low interest rates while central banks in developing nations
stave off currency appreciation, Dennis and Jason said.  The analysts raised their rating for financial-related
stocks to “overweight,” joining information technology,
consumer discretionary and healthcare-related shares. They are
“neutral” on materials and “underweight” on energy stocks.  “Ample liquidity created by extremely accommodating
developed country central banks, a weak dollar, strong emerging
market growth, solid corporate earnings growth and, at least for
now, reasonable equity valuations should drive emerging markets
considerably higher over the next 12 months,” the analysts said.  Developing economies will grow an average of 6 percent a
year between 2010 to 2013, compared with the four-year average
of 5.1 percent in emerging markets coming out from previous
recessions, the Citigroup analysts said.  “If there is a bubble, it may be in emerging market debt,
not equities,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  