-- Plame’s Spy Career Ruined by Leak; ‘Colored Girls’
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-04T22:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/bush-cronies-sabotage-u-s-spy-plame-pale-colored-girls-rick-warner.html
“ Fair Game ” tells the implausible
true story of  Valerie Plame , the U.S. spy whose cover was blown
by a newspaper columnist. Her name was leaked by a Bush
administration official after her husband, former U.S.
ambassador  Joseph Wilson , scolded the White House for
exaggerating Iraq’s military threat in the lead-up to the 2003
invasion.  Starring  Naomi Watts  as Plame and  Sean Penn  as Wilson, the
film is a straightforward, effective dramatization of the affair
that ended Plame’s CIA career and led to the perjury conviction
of Lewis “Scooter” Libby, who was Vice President  Dick Cheney ’s
chief of staff. (Libby’s 30-month prison sentence was
conveniently commuted by Bush.)  While it’s entertaining, “Fair Game” doesn’t offer any
surprises unless you were marooned on a remote island during
Plamegate.  Director  Doug Liman , who honed his thriller touch in “ The
Bourne Identity ” and “Mr. & Mrs. Smith,” knows how to build
suspense and exploit the film’s exotic locations in Baghdad,
Cairo, Amman and Kuala Lumpur. His biggest challenge, though,
was streamlining an extremely complicated story and giving all
the political and military machinations a human dimension.  News Clips  With help from screenwriting brothers Jez and John-Henry
Butterworth, Liman achieves this by focusing on how Plame’s
“outing” created turmoil in her marriage to Wilson, whose
outspoken criticism of the Bush administration kept his wife
reluctantly in the spotlight.  Watts and Penn are in ultra-serious mode here, so forget
about any romance or banter. Liman mixes in news clips of Bush,
Cheney and  Condoleezza Rice , along with CNN footage of the
shock-and-awe bombing of Baghdad, to emphasize the point that
this is grim business.  “Fair Game,” from Summit Entertainment, opens tomorrow in
major U.S. cities. Rating: ***  ‘For Colored Girls’  It started out as a “choreopoem” before being turned into
a Tony Award-winning Broadway play. Now it’s a star-studded
movie made by the world’s most successful black director.  Tyler Perry ’s “ For Colored Girls ” is a tepid, chaotic
adaptation of Ntozake Shange’s story about what it’s like to be
black and female in the U.S. The melodrama is rendered limp and
colorless by Perry, who’s best known for cranking out low-brow
comedy hits aimed at black audiences.  Originally titled “For Colored Girls Who Have Considered
Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf,” it tells the intersecting
stories of nine black women of all shapes, ages and economic
levels.  They include a gentle dance teacher (Anika Noni Rose), a
nosy widow ( Phylicia Rashad ), a promiscuous bartender ( Thandie Newton ), a high-powered businesswoman (Janet  Jackson ), a
superstitious Bible thumper ( Whoopi Goldberg ) and an abused
woman ( Kimberly Elise ) married to a disturbed Vietnam vet
(Michael Ealy). Their lives cross in ways that are sometimes
logical but frequently not.  Like a musical where the characters stop to sing a song,
these women pause to recite Shange’s poems. Though the words may
be fitting, the florid language and long monologues usually
bring the dramatic momentum to a halt.  I’m not sure anyone could have made a coherent movie out of
this material. Perry obviously couldn’t.  “For Colored Girls,” from Lions Gate, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 