-- Cablevision Profit Rises 13% on Demand for Video Recorders, High-Speed Web
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cablevision-profit-rises-13-on-demand-for-video-recorders-high-speed-web.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. , the New
York-area cable-television provider, reported third-quarter
profit increased 13 percent as more customers elected premium
services such as digital video recorders.  Net income  rose to $112.1 million, or 37 cents a share,
Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision said today in a statement.
Sales gained 5.6 percent to $1.81 billion, beating the average
estimate of $1.79 billion by analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  Through promotions and system upgrades, Chief Executive
Officer  Jim Dolan  has signed up customers willing to pay more
for advanced products, such as high-speed Internet and digital
video recorders. Sales also rose at the company’s Rainbow unit,
which consists of cable channels AMC, Sundance and IFC.  “Cablevision’s third quarter was good and in line with
forecasts,” said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays
Capital in New York, with an “overweight” rating on the stock.
Earnings excluding interest, taxes and some other items were
“somewhat better than expected on strong Rainbow performance,”
he said.  Rainbow’s revenue climbed 12 percent to $291.4 million,
bolstered by advertising sales.  The company bought back 5 million shares in the quarter for
a total of $130 million,  Gregg Seibert , an executive vice
president, said on a conference call. Year-to-date Cablevision
has bought 6.1 million shares for $157 million, he said.  Cablevision rose 72 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $28.36 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has
gained 33 percent this year.  Subscriber Losses  The company added 9,600 high-speed Web users in the quarter
and boosted its average monthly revenue per basic-video
customer, or ARPU, by 5.7 percent from a year earlier to
$149.04. The average for larger peer Comcast Corp. is $129.75.  “The results are similar to Comcast’s with strong business
services and advertising revenues driving ARPU and margin
growth,” said  Chris Marangi , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in
Rye, New York. He recommends buying the stock.  Cablevision is touting the premium services to wring more
out of existing customers as competition for new users
intensifies. The company’s total number of customers fell by
9,800, compared with Marangi’s estimate for a gain of 10,000. In
the second quarter, Cablevision added 75,900 customers.  New York-based  Verizon Communications Inc. , which competes
against Cablevision for TV, phone and Internet  subscribers ,
gained 204,000 customers in the third quarter for its high-
definition FiOS TV service.  Fox Dispute ‘Rational’  The  third quarter  is typically weak for Cablevision because
of seasonal disconnects as people leave summer vacation spots
such as the Hamptons on Long Island, Marangi said.  The year-earlier net income was $98.9 million, or 33 cents
a share. Last year, the company had a favorable adjustment of
$25.7 million related to legal matters at the cable unit.  Last week, Cablevision settled a dispute with News Corp.’s
Fox that resulted in the longest-lasting blackout of a major
broadcast network for a million or more people in the last
decade. The agreement restored access to the World Series and
NFL Games, as well as other programming, for Cablevision’s 3
million customers in the New York area.  “It’s an unpleasant way of doing business having a major
conflict like that, but we are trying to save our customers
costs,” Chief Operating Officer  Tom Rutledge  said on a
conference call. “Our behavior was not uneconomic. We think we
did the rational thing.”  Whatever subscribers the company lost because of the fee
dispute will be reflected in the fourth quarter. Rutledge
declined to give a subscriber forecast for that quarter. He said
the action was “rational,” meaning whatever customers were
lost because of the two-week blackout were worth the reduction
in the price that Cablevision achieved.  (Cablevision held a conference call at 10 a.m. New York
time. For a replay, go to  http://www.cablevision.com .)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@Bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  