-- Canada Takeovers Dispel `Hollowing Out' Claim: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/canada-takeovers-dispel-hollowing-out-claim-chart-of-the-day.html
Canadian companies have been more
active buyers than sellers in global mergers over the past
decade, countering claims of a “hollowing out” of corporate
Canada after the federal government rejected BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
$40 billion bid for Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Canadian companies have
completed 6,406 takeovers outside the country worth at least
$541.4 billion since 2000. Foreign firms have bought 4,953
Canadian companies over the same period in transactions worth at
least $604.3 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Canadian companies have been expanding at a much faster
rate abroad than foreign companies are investing in Canada,”
said  Walid Hejazi , professor of international competitiveness
with the Rotman School of Management at the University of
Toronto. “That’s one piece of evidence that says there isn’t a
hollowing out.”  Canadian companies are also paying less than foreign firms
for their acquisitions. The average disclosed deal size for
Canadian firms buying abroad is $144.6 million, with an average
premium of 24 percent. Foreign acquirers are paying a 34 percent
premium to buy Canadian companies, with an average disclosed
size of $232.2 million.  The takeovers include some deals in which terms weren’t
disclosed and excludes Canadian companies buying other Canadian
firms.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said yesterday that BHP’s
bid for Potash Corp. doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the
country, marking only the second time Canada has blocked a
foreign takeover since 1985.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;  Ilan Kolet  in Ottawa at 
4806 or  ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  