-- Canadian Currency Declines Against Most Major Peers on Blocked Potash Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-04T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/canada-s-dollar-advance-versus-greenback-capped-by-blocked-deal-for-potash.html
Canada’s dollar dropped against most
of its major counterparts after the government blocked a foreign
takeover of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., tempering
optimism related to gains in stocks and raw materials.  The loonie traded within a cent of parity with the U.S.
dollar a day after the Federal Reserve encouraged speculation
that the greenback will fall further when it said it will buy
$600 billion more in Treasuries to bolster the economy.  “There’s a bit of an overhang from the government decision
that is causing the Canadian dollar to underperform,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Capital unit, said via e-mail.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated
0.3 percent to C$1.0022 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
from C$1.0052 yesterday. It touched C$1.0010, the strongest
level since Oct. 14. One Canadian dollar buys 99.78 U.S. cents.  The loonie declined 0.2 percent to C$1.4240 versus the
euro, from C$1.4213 yesterday. It tumbled 1.8 percent to 79.64
cents against the New Zealand dollar. It has climbed in six
straight sessions versus the greenback in the longest stretch of
gains since March 17.  Canada blocked Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40
billion bid for Potash, the world’s largest fertilizer company,
because the proposed takeover, which would have been the
country’s second-largest, doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to
Canada, Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said in  a statement
yesterday. BHP has 30 days to appeal, he said, without giving
more reasons for his ruling.  Stocks Climb  The  MSCI World Index  of equities climbed as much as 2.4
percent in the biggest intraday jump in two months. Futures on
crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 2.4 percent to $86.72 a
barrel in New York.  The Canadian currency tends to rise and fall with stocks
and commodity prices, as do the currencies of New Zealand,
Australia, Sweden and Norway, which all rose more than Canada’s
loonie today versus the greenback.  Canada’s five-year bond rose, pushing the yield down five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.98 percent. The
price of the 3 percent security maturing in December 2015
climbed 25 cents to C$104.93.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Canadian five-year
debt over comparable U.S. securities increased to 94 basis
points, the widest since 2003.  U.S. Yield  The American five-year note yield slid to a  record low 
today after the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee said it will
focus its asset purchases through June on medium-maturity debt
in an effort to support the U.S. economic recovery. Progress in
bringing down joblessness has been “disappointingly slow,” the
Fed said. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trading partner.  “Most of our trade is with the U.S., so the bleak outlook
presented after yesterday’s FOMC will have some potential
negative repercussions for Canadian economic performance as
well,” RBC’s Davis wrote.  Canadian government bonds have lost 0.1 percent this
quarter, paring this year’s gain to 7.2 percent.  Employers probably added 15,000 jobs to payrolls in
October, according to the median forecast of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The report from Statistics Canada is due
at 7 a.m. Ottawa time tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  