-- Carlyle Seeks 241% Paper Profit on Booz Allen's IPO
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-11-04T20:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/carlyle-seeks-241-paper-profit-with-booz-allen-ipo-to-raise-266-million.html
Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. ,
the consulting firm taken private by Carlyle Group in 2008, is
seeking an initial public offering that may hand the buyout firm
a 241 percent paper profit on its investment.  Booz Allen, 79 percent owned by Washington-based Carlyle,
plans to raise $266 million selling Class A shares at $17 to $19
each, excluding an overallotment option, its  filing  today with
the Securities and Exchange Commission shows. The midpoint price
is more than three times the average per-share price of $5.28
paid by existing owners such as Carlyle, the filing showed.  Carlyle , the world’s second-largest private equity firm, is
selling Booz Allen after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 13
percent in the past  two months . While more companies completed
U.S. IPOs in October than any month in the past three years, 44
percent of the private equity backed deals this year left buyers
with losses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re seeing more IPOs, people trying to raise money,”
said  Giri Cherukuri , a manager at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
Illinois, which oversees $2.2 billion. “The market environment
is getting a little bit better, and there is more confidence in
the stock market.”  The Class A shares will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker  BAH . Morgan Stanley in New York and
Barclays Plc of London are leading the sale.  Debt Reduction  Booz Allen, which gets 98 percent of sales from contracts
with the U.S. government, will use the money to repay debt that
totaled  $1.54 billion  as of June 30, its filing showed. The
McLean, Virginia-based company is scheduled to price its shares
on Nov. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue increased 18 percent to  $5.12 billion  in its fiscal
year ended March 31, the filing showed. Booz Allen reported a
$25.4 million profit, versus a loss in the year-earlier period.
In the three months ended Sept. 30, the consulting firm
estimates sales may have risen as much as 7.5 percent, while net
income increased 39 percent to $15 million, the filing showed.  At the middle of the offer range, Booz Allen would be
valued at about 37 times earnings, according to IPOdesktop.com
of Marina del Rey, California. That’s more than double the
median 16 times estimated profit for 20 U.S.-traded providers of
consulting services, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IPO Rebound  The offering comes after 21 companies sold shares last
month, excluding closed-end funds and investment companies, the
most since 22 deals in December 2007. This week, seven companies
scheduled initial sales and at least eight are planning IPOs
next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Carlyle, which has more than $90.9 billion in assets,
doesn’t plan to unload its holdings of Booz Allen in the
offering. The buyout fund will retain control of  71 percent  of
the consulting firm after the sale.  Booz Allen  was founded in 1914 by Edwin Booz. It provides
management and technology consulting services to the U.S.
government in areas from defense to intelligence to health care,
according to its prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 