-- CBOE Profit Beats Estimates After Higher Access Fees Offset Lower Volume
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-04T16:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cboe-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-as-access-fees-offset-slower-trading.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. , operator of the
largest U.S. options exchange that went public in June, reported
third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as higher
access fees offset lower volume.  Net income rose 6.8 percent to $20.5 million, or 20 cents a
share, the Chicago-based owner of the Chicago Board Options
Exchange said today in a statement. Earnings excluding some
items were 26 cents a share, topping the 22-cent  average 
forecast from 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CBOE, the exclusive venue for options based on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and the VIX gauge of volatility, became the
last major U.S. exchange to shift to a shareholder ownership
structure in June. CBOE faces increased competition from NYSE
Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and the International Securities
Exchange in options as policy makers overhaul the $615 trillion
derivatives market and examine rules that govern trading.  “The CBOE results were quite impressive given the investor
malaise that took over” after the stock-market crash on May 6,
 Jon Najarian , the co-founder of OptionMonster.com, who owned
CBOE seats before they were converted to shares in June, wrote
today in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “They’ve been regularly
expanding the number of classes with weeklies, and that will
drive volumes for the entire industry.”  Weekly Options  The exchange operator introduced weekly options in 2005,
including contracts on the S&P 500. CBOE asked regulators in
September for permission to become the nation’s first to list
contracts that expire in as little as one day.  The shares slipped 0.4 percent to $23.90 at 12 p.m. New
York time. Before today, they had dropped 17 percent since the
June 14 stock offering,  compared  with the 17 percent gain in the
 FTSE/Mondo Visione Exchanges Index  that tracks 18 companies.  CBOE started charging customers a monthly fee to trade on
July 1 after the company demutualized, shifting from a
seatholder structure to shareholder ownership. Those access fees
added $13.5 million to revenue, according to today’s statement.
Total operating  revenue  rose 7.9 percent to $106 million, while
adjusted operating expenses declined 7.8 percent to $60.1
million.  The company received an average of 30 cents per trade, up
from 27 cents a year earlier. That helped offset a drop in
transactions. The exchange’s average daily volume for all
products fell 17 percent to 3.73 million contracts from 4.49
million in the third quarter 2010.  Encouraging Volumes  “I’m pleased with our performance, particularly given an
economic backdrop that dampened trading volume industrywide
during the period,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 William Brodsky  said in today’s statement. “We are encouraged
by recent signs that volume is returning to stronger levels, and
continue to take actions to drive future growth such as the
recent launch of C2, our new all-electronic exchange.”  Third-quarter net income included a $6.5 million charge, or
6 cents a share, for accelerating the recognition of stock-based
compensation for Brodsky and Chief Operating Officer  Ed Joyce .
The company will take a $2 million charge this quarter on stock
compensation for  Richard Dufour , an executive vice president,
Chief Financial Officer  Alan Dean  said on a conference call
today. The three have no plans to retire, Brodsky added.  Outlook  The accelerated compensation will lower those expenses
starting in 2011 by about $3.5 million annually for the vesting
period of about four years, Dean said. The fourth quarter will
also include a cost of $8.3 million to $8.6 million related to
the depreciation of the new C2 Options Exchange assets. Capital
expenses will be $25 million to $30 million this year, lower
than average, Dean said on the call.  “Financial guidance for the fourth quarter was net neutral
to our estimates,”  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based analyst with
Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a note today. “We continue to
see CBOE as especially attractive in the short-term, due to a
high number of potential catalysts over the next few quarters --
share-count reduction, launch of new market, potential
resolution of regulatory overhangs.”  NYSE ,  Nasdaq  and ISE increased their total options market
share to 69 percent collectively in October from 66.5 a year
earlier, while CBOE shrank 4.2 percentage points to 27 percent,
according to Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. The C2
exchange, CBOE’s new all-electronic platform that offers users a
different methodology for handling orders, opened for trading on
Oct. 29. It will start trading options on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF
today, Brodsky said on the call.  C2 Plans  C2 should add volume by bringing back some of the order
flow that is routed out of the original CBOE exchange, as well
as by attracting users interested in the fee and rebate
structure that charges less to take liquidity, he said.  “It is too early to assess the exact impact of C2, but we
are very encouraged by its performance in the first few days of
trading,” he said, adding that more than 40 “leading”
liquidity providers are customers.  NYSE, which runs the New York Stock Exchange, reported
profit on Nov. 2 that beat analysts’ estimates as operating
costs declined. Nasdaq posted earnings Oct. 29 that topped
forecasts after it gained market share in options, offsetting
slower equity trading. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse AG ,
Europe’s largest exchange operator by market value, said Oct. 28
that profit and sales rose and cut its full-year cost forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 