-- Cellulosic Biofuel Output Will Lag 2011 Requirements, EIA Forecast Shows
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2010-11-04T13:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cellulosic-biofuel-output-will-lag-2011-requirements-eia-forecast-shows.html
Oil companies won’t be able to get as
much cellulosic biofuel as they might need next year, according
to the  U.S. Energy Information Administration .  EIA, a unit of the Energy Department that compiles industry
data, expects cellulosic biofuel production in 2011 to be 3.94
million gallons, according to a letter written by an EIA
official. That’s less than 2 percent of the 250-million-gallon
mandate for 2011. The government already slashed this year’s
target by more than 90 percent to 6.5 million gallons.  The shortfall for renewable fuels blended into gasoline and
diesel comes as ethanol is trading at its highest price in more
than two years. The disparity between the amount required by law
and current capabilities reflects the lack of government backing
for cellulosic biofuel projects, said  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman
Renewable Fuel Association.  “Many producers have been struggling with accessing the
capital needed to build commercial-scale production
facilities,” Hartwig, whose industry group is based in
Washington, wrote in an e-mail. “There are technologies that
are ready to go if they could access federal loan guarantees to
assist with building the first commercial-scale facilities.”  Ethanol futures on the Chicago Board of Trade have surged
59 percent June 29, trading at $2.32 a gallon yesterday, the
most since August 2008.  Legal Target  The target for using ethanol was set by Congress in 2007
and is due to be revised by the Environmental Protection Agency
this month. EPA officials didn’t reply to requests for comment.
The agency is required to consider EIA’s letter and other public
comments before issuing its final 2011 cellulosic biofuel
requirement.  An EIA spokesman confirmed that Newell sent the letter. He
wouldn’t comment further.  There are currently 57 cellulosic biofuel projects in
various stages of development in the U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance. No biofuel projects
have received loan guarantees from the DOE.  EIA’s estimate is based on four plants that convert wood,
agricultural waste, and other non-food biomass sources into
fuel. The facilities, owned by  KL Energy Corp. ,  Fiberight LLC ,
 Dupont Danisco Cellulosic Ethanol LLC  and  Range Fuels , have a
combined production capacity of almost 12 million gallons a
year, according to a letter sent by EIA administrator  Richard Newell  to EPA administrator  Lisa Jackson  on Oct. 20.  Capacity Lagging  None of them are at full capacity. The largest, Fiberight’s
Blairstown, Iowa facility, has total capacity of 6 million
gallons a year, and “has communicated its intention to run at a
46 percent utilization rate” next year,  Newell  wrote. EIA based
its estimates on public information.  Under the federal  Renewable Fuel Standard , gasoline and
diesel producers are required to blend 36 billion gallons of
biofuel into their products by 2022. The EPA set annual targets
for biofuel usage when the law was enacted in 2007.  The agency also must publish by Nov. 30 each year a revised
requirement. It can lower the mandate for cellulosic fuel if it
expects industry capacity to be insufficient to meet the target.  In November 2009, EPA  reduced  its initial 2010 cellulosic
biofuel requirement, from 100 million gallons to 6.5 million
ethanol-equivalent gallons. That is, enough biofuel to produce
the same amount of energy as 6.5 million gallons of gasoline.
The 2011 target currently is 250 million gallons.  EPA is aware that current capacity cannot meet the earlier
target. In July, the agency estimated industry potential for
2011 at 5 million gallons to 17.1 million gallons.  Limits of Analysis  The EIA analysis excludes some plants from its analysis and
assumed lower production rates from others. It presumed a 25
percent utilization rate at Range’s plant in Soperton, Georgia,
due to “repeated inability to meet stated production goals,”
according to the letter.  That facility, which is supported by an $80 million loan
guarantee from the Department of Agriculture and a $76 million
grant from the Energy Department, will produce 1 million gallons
of fuel derived from woody biomass and grasses in 2011, the EIA
estimates.  Range began building the facility in 2007 and at the time
said the site was permitted to produce up to 100 million gallons
per year, assuming completion of several planned expansion
phases.  EIA also excluded a 20 million-gallon-a-year facility owned
by closely-held Cello Energy LLC, which has received funding
from Khosla Ventures.  EPA’s July forecast included a “maximum potentially
available volume” of 8.5 million ethanol-equivalent gallons
from Cello’s plant, in Bay Minette, Alabama.  Bankruptcy Court  Cello filed for Chapter 11 protection in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Alabama on Oct.
19, according to court documents compiled by Bloomberg Law. The
company said it had assets of less than $50,000, and estimated
liabilities between $10 million and $50 million.  The company “faces important financial, legal, and
technological issues that have yet to be resolved, and that cast
significant doubt on its ability to sell or introduce any
cellulosic biofuel into commerce in 2011,” Newell wrote.  In its July capacity forecast, EPA acknowledged the
problems at Cello. “While having a structurally complete
facility puts Cello ahead of many other potential biofuel
producers they have yet to be able to produce biofuel at
anywhere near the production capacity,” it wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Herndon  in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 