-- Chi-X Europe Said to Send Potential Buyers Information, No Price Guidance
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-04T14:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/chi-x-europe-said-to-send-potential-buyers-information-no-price-guidance.html
Chi-X Europe Ltd., which received a
takeover approach in August, has sent out a memorandum with
information to potential suitors, according to people familiar
with the situation.  The information pack, which doesn’t contain a valuation,
was dispatched last week, according to three people familiar
with the situation who declined to be identified as talks are
private. The memorandum contains information about London-based
Chi-X Europe’s market share, profitability, pricing and strategy
including its interest in expanding into other asset classes
besides equities, the people said.  Sending out the information pack is the next step of a
process that started Aug. 24 when Chi-X Europe, the trading
platform started in 2007 to compete with London Stock Exchange
Group Plc and Deutsche Boerse AG, said it received an
“enquiry” from an unidentified suitor which might lead to an
offer for the whole firm or a partial sale. The approach was
from  Bats Global Markets , which operates the third-largest U.S.
equity market and Europe’s second-largest alternative trading
system, people familiar with the situation said that day.  Belinda Keheyan , a spokeswoman for Chi-X Europe, declined
to comment.  Chi-X Europe was the first multilateral trading facility to
challenge traditional European bourses by offering lower fees
and faster trading. It competes with Bats Europe, offering
stocks listed by  LSE ,  Deutsche Boerse , NYSE Euronext and SIX
Swiss Exchange AG.  Purchase Price  In September, Chi-X Europe hired investment bank Lexicon
Partners Ltd. to advise it over the approach, two people with
knowledge of the situation said at the time.  Last month,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Greifeld  said the exchange, which runs seven Nordic and
Baltic bourses and the second-largest U.S. equity exchange, is
prepared to consider a  takeover  of Chi-X Europe though the
“purchase price and support of existing equity holders would be
fundamental.”  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-
based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and by investment banks and
traders including Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco
LLC, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  Bourses such as NYSE Euronext, LSE, Deutsche Boerse and
 Nasdaq  are seeking ways to win back market share lost to new
rivals after European regulators opened the market to
competition in 2007. LSE in February completed the purchase of a
majority stake in Turquoise, another electronic platform owned
by a group of banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 