-- Chicago's $487 Million Water Bond Offering Follows Rating Cut: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/chicago-s-487-million-water-bond-offering-follows-rating-cut-muni-credit.html
Chicago, whose credit ranking has
been cut by Fitch Ratings twice in less than three months, is
borrowing $487 million, including $423 million in taxable Build
America Bonds, to improve and expand the city’s water system.  The third most-populous U.S. city had its general-
obligation debt downgraded one level to AA-, Fitch’s fourth-
highest, last week. It was cut to AA on Aug. 5, when the rating
company cited declining tax revenue and the use of reserves to
balance the city’s budget. Fitch initially gave this week’s
offering, backed by a subordinate lien on revenue from water
charges, an AA+ grade, its second-highest, then cut it to AA on
Oct. 7. Standard & Poor’s rates it AA-.  The state’s fiscal problems also may force the city to set
the yields on its water bonds aggressively to boost investor
interest, said  Richard Ciccarone , managing director of McDonnell
Investment Management LLC in Oak Brook, Illinois, which holds
more than $7 billion of municipal bonds.  “The issue might require more yield based on the cloud of
Illinois,” Ciccarone said. “It’s guilt by association, and
it’s going to have to distinguish itself.”  Standard & Poor’s puts  Illinois  general-obligation debt at
A+, its fifth-highest investment grade and above only A- rated
California. Both states are ranked fifth-highest by Moody’s
Investors Service, at A1.  Deficit Projection  The state’s estimated fiscal 2012 deficit may be $15
billion or more by January, while this year’s budget calls for
$26 billion in spending, Comptroller  Dan Hynes  said last month.
He said the state’s financial condition “continues to
deteriorate,” citing a 36 percent surge in fiscal 2010 bills to
be paid from current-year revenue.  Pete Scales, a spokesman for the city, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  The offering includes $34 million in tax-exempts for
refinancing, and about $30 million in Qualified Energy
Conservation Bonds for the conversion of steam-powered pumping
stations to electric operations, offering documents show. So-
called QECBs can be used to fund projects that reduce energy
consumption in publicly owned buildings by at least 20 percent.  Chicago’s water system,  whose source is Lake Michigan,
serves about 5.3 million city residents and people in about 125
suburbs through more than 4,300 miles (6,900 kilometers) of
mains in an area of more than 800 square miles (2,072 square
kilometers), according to bond documents. Service fees are
reviewed annually, and are set by the Chicago City Council.  Cabrera Underwriting  This is the second-largest deal ever for underwriter
Cabrera Capital Markets LLC, according to  Mitch Kapnick ,
managing director of municipal securities at the Chicago-based
company. Cabrera marketed a $498 million Illinois deal in June,
which was cut to $455 million during pricing.  Chicago last week sold $250 million in Build America
securities backed by second-lien wastewater revenue, rated AA by
Fitch and A+ by S&P. Bonds due in 30 years were priced to yield
6.9 percent. On Oct. 25,  30-year Treasuries  traded at 3.91
percent. Chicago’s wastewater debt traded yesterday at an
average yield of 6.58 percent, or 2.54 percentage points above
the benchmark governments.  Treasury 30-year bond prices, which move inversely to
yields, fell the most in two months following a Federal Reserve
announcement yesterday that it will buy fewer of the securities
than anticipated by investors in its $600 billion program of
purchasing government debt to boost the economy.  The Build America Bond program, which provides issuers with
a 35 percent federal subsidy on interest costs, is set to end on
Dec. 31. Legislation from U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, would extend the subsidy,
created as part of last year’s economic-stimulus package, until
December 2011 while reducing it to 32 percent.  Previous extension plans passed by the House of
Representatives stalled in the Senate. Congress has recessed
until later this month, leaving scant time to act.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  ATLANTA, home to the world’s busiest airport with 88
million passengers a year, plans to sell about $590 million in
tax-exempts today to help finance a new terminal at  Hartsfield-
Jackson Atlanta International Airport . About $176 million of the
bonds will be backed by a senior lien on general airport
revenue, rated A1 by Moody’s and A+ by Fitch, both fifth-
highest, with about $414 million secured by a “passenger
facility” charge and a subordinate lien on airport revenue,
rated A by Fitch, sixth-highest. Underwriters led by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. will market the issue to investors. (Updated Nov. 4)  HARVARD, the oldest and richest U.S. university, plans to
sell $741 million in tax-exempt bonds as early as next week
through the Massachusetts Development Finance Agency, bond
documents show. Harvard will use the funds to refinance long-
term debt and for construction costs related to the Fogg Art
Museum, according to a Moody’s report. The revenue-backed bonds
are top rated by Moody’s. (Updated Nov. 4)  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY, which
funds the capital needs of the water and sewer system in the
most-populous U.S. city, plans to sell $500 million of Build
America Bonds as soon as next week. The securities are rated
second-highest by S&P and Fitch, AA+, and third-highest by
Moody’s, Aa2. They will be marketed by a group led by Samuel A.
Ramirez & Co. (Added Nov. 2)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 