-- Chile Peso Posts Biggest Gain in a Year as Fed Stimulus Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-11-04T17:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/chile-peso-posts-biggest-gain-in-a-year-as-fed-stimulus-exceeds-estimates.html
The Chilean peso rose the most in
more than a year after a bigger-than-forecast U.S. Federal
Reserve stimulus package boosted demand for higher-yielding
assets.  Chile’s currency climbed 1.9 percent to 479.95 per U.S.
dollar from 489.25 yesterday, the biggest one-day gain since May
2009. It pushed through 480 per dollar for the first time since
Oct. 15.  The dollar fell to the lowest level of the year against its
major trading counterparts after the Federal Open Market
Committee announced plans yesterday to buy $600 billion of
Treasuries to reduce unemployment and avert deflation. The
dollar index dropped as much as 1.1 percent to 75.631, the
lowest since December; the euro reached 1.4282 per dollar, the
highest since Jan. 20 and the price of copper, Chile’s biggest
export, climbed as much as 3.5 percent in New York.  “It’s a huge injection of liquidity,” said  Cristian Donoso , a currency trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in
Santiago. “Stocks and commodities have risen, as have emerging-
market and higher-yielding currencies. There’s appetite for risk
and everything’s appreciating versus the U.S. dollar.”  Of 56 economists in a Bloomberg survey, 29 had expected the
Fed to buy $500 billion or more of government bonds.  The peso, which closed yesterday before the Fed’s
announcement, rose more than other Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg today.  The Chilean peso has appreciated 14 percent against the
U.S. dollar this half as foreign traders in the forwards market
have bet on the currency beating the dollar.  Pension Rules  Chile’s central bank today agreed to raise the foreign
investment limit for the country’s private pension funds to 80
percent from 60 percent.  The changes will take place in four quarterly increments of
5 percentage points each, reaching 80 percent in September of
next year, it said today on its  website .  “You can read it as a sign of concern from the
authorities,” said  Juan Pablo Castro , an economist at Banco
Santander SA in Santiago. “It won’t have an effect as the
pension funds have more than enough space to invest abroad and
aren’t doing it.”  President  Sebastian Pinera  promised to increase Chilean
investment overseas in an Oct. 18 speech and Finance Minister
 Felipe Larrain , who sat in on the bank’s meeting today, has
expressed concern about the strength of the currency. Chile’s
pension funds had $138 billion under management at the end of
September, of which 46 percent was invested outside Chile, most
of it in variable-income mutual funds.  Capital Flows  “We don’t expect an immediate impact,” Larrain told
reporters today in Santiago, “But we do expect an impact in
time in balancing out capital flows. That’s important and does
have a medium-term impact on the dollar.”  A change to the rules on hedging of foreign-currency
exposure would move the peso more, said  Jorge Selaive , chief
economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago.  Barclays Capital economist  Jimena Zuniga  reiterated her
target for the peso to rise to 450 per dollar in six months
following the bank’s announcement today.  Chilean interest-rate swap rates fell today. The one-year
swap rate in pesos dropped 3 basis points to 3.58 percent, the
lowest since August. The two-year swap rate in pesos reached
4.09 percent, the lowest since Oct. 18.  Swap rates  are falling  as traders price in the likelihood
that the rising peso will push the central bank to suspend
interest-rate rises.  -- With assistance from  Eduardo Thomson  and  Randall Woods  in
Santiago. Editor:  James Attwood ,  Brendan Walsh .  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  