-- China Should Focus on Steel, Chemicals to Improve Efficiency, IEA Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T10:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-should-focus-on-steel-chemicals-to-improve-efficiency-iea-says.html
China, the world’s largest
greenhouse-gas emitter, should focus on steel, chemicals and
cement industries to improve energy efficiency, an official with
the International Energy Agency said.  “China made a lot of improvements in the past 15 to 20
years in energy efficiency,”  Richard H. Jones , deputy executive
director of IEA, said in an interview today in Shanghai. “Even
given the economy structure, which is heavily weighted toward
manufacturing, the country is still not as efficient as an OECD
country, so there is definitely room to continue improvement.”  China, the world’s fast-growing major economy, has been
shutting factories to help meet Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s goal of
cutting energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product by
20 percent in the five years ending 2010. The country faces a
“very arduous” task over the rest of the year to meet the
target,  Xin Guobin , the head of an industry ministry bureau,
said in September.  The Paris-based agency has started cooperating with China
to develop electric vehicles and is also working on clean coal
and carbon capture and storage, Jones said.  China’s surplus crude oil reached a record in September
stoking speculation that the world’s biggest energy user may be
stockpiling commercial or strategic reserves.  “I certainly wouldn’t be surprised if China is starting
stockpiling for one reason or another,” Jones said, “Actually
it won’t be bad for them to stock when the market is well
supplied.”  If China is building crude inventories, OPEC countries will
probably accommodate this by expanding production, meaning the
stockpiling is unlikely to drive prices, he added.  “The global oil market is well supplied and stocks at
countries are very high, so we don’t see any particular pressure
on price one way or the other,” he said.  Oil rose to a six-month high in New York after the Federal
Reserve said it will expand record measures to spur the economy
in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude consumer. Crude for
December delivery rose as much as $1.36, or 1.6 percent, to
$86.05 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That’s the highest intraday price since May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  