-- China Stocks Rise to 7-Month High on Prospect Fed Plan Will Boost Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T07:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-s-stocks-rise-after-fed-says-it-will-buy-treasuries-to-boost-economy.html
China’s stocks  rose to the highest in
almost seven months, led by raw-material companies, after the
U.S. Federal Reserve said it will buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries to bolster economic growth.  Coal producer  China Shenhua Energy Co.  and Zhongjin Gold
Corp. led gains for metal and energy companies as the Fed’s debt
purchases may spur demand for commodities as a hedge against
inflation. Retailer  Shanghai Friendship Group Inc.  jumped by the
10 percent daily limit after agreeing to acquire an affiliate.
Tsinghua Tongfang Co., a computer company, paced advances for
technology companies as Robeco Group highlighted the group as a
beneficiary from the government’s five-year economic plan.  “The Fed didn’t disappoint investors with an amount
meeting market expectations,” said  Wang Zheng , chief investment
officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co. in Shanghai.
“Sentiment is strong as the markets around the world are flush
with liquidity.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 55.95, or 1.9 percent, to
3,086.94 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since April 16. The
 CSI 300 Index  rose 1.8 percent to 3,480.50.  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 31 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. It remains down 5.8 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to avert asset bubbles.  China joined a rally for global markets after the Fed said
new debt purchases will be about $75 billion a month through
June. Policy makers said they will “adjust the program as
needed to best foster maximum employment and price stability.”
The majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the
Fed would add at least $500 billion to the financial system.  QE  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to boost growth
after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities
purchases helped pull the economy out of recession without
bringing down unemployment from close to a 26-year high.  “The current quantitative easing amount is almost in line
with expectations and there’s speculation that the Fed will buy
more in the foreseeable future to bring down the unemployment
rate,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Holdings Co. in Shanghai.  A measure of energy stocks jumped 2.8 percent today, the
third-most among the 10 industry groups of the CSI 300. It slid
3 percent yesterday.  Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer, gained 1.8
percent to 28.76 yuan. China Coal Energy Co., the second largest,
advanced 1 percent to 12.77 yuan.  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s
biggest oil company, rose 3.7 percent to 11.89 yuan.  Short Sales  Zhongjin Gold, the country’s second-largest bullion
producer by market value, advanced 2.1 percent to 45.22 yuan.
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal and also called Chalco,
added 1.4 percent to 12.56 yuan.  Bears on Chinese equities are in retreat even as bets
against the country’s companies exceed those of any of the
world’s biggest markets, a buy signal for some of the nation’s
most accurate stock forecasters.  Morgan Stanley and China International Capital Corp.
strategists who predicted the rally say it will continue through
yearend and may lead more investors to buy back stocks.  Short sales of  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  shares
dropped to an average 16 percent of equity available for lending
from 21 percent at the end of August, the largest decline among
indexes in the 10 largest markets, according to data compiled by
Data Explorers and Bloomberg. The Hang Seng China index, known
as H shares, rose to the highest since June 2008 today.  Retailers  Shanghai Friendship paced gains for retailers in Shanghai,
surging by the 10 percent daily limit to 18.57 yuan. The company
will offer 0.86 of its shares for each share of affiliate
Shanghai Bailian Group Co., according to separate statements
from both companies to the exchange today.  Shanghai Bailian surged 9.1 percent to 15.05 yuan. Both
stocks resumed trading today after four-month suspensions.  A gauge of technology stocks rose 5.1 percent for the
steepest gain in the CSI 300. Tsinghua Tongfang, a computer
company, surged 9.1 percent to 28.92 yuan, the highest since
March 2008.  Robeco has an “overweight” allocation for technology
companies, saying they will be among the industries to benefit
from the government’s five-year plan.  Investor sentiment towards China’s stocks has “improved
significantly” and valuations are “reasonable,”  Victoria Mio ,
a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Robeco, which oversees about
$186 billion, said in e-mailed comments.  QDII Funds  China will boost the number of mutual funds that can invest
overseas next year, spurring inflows into other emerging markets
and slowing the yuan’s appreciation, according to fund research
companies Z-Ben Advisors and Howbuy.  The number of funds investing in global stocks and bonds
under the qualified domestic institutional investor, or QDII,
program, may reach 60 by the end of next year, compared with as
many as 26 this year and nine in 2009, according to Z-Ben, a
Shanghai-based consulting firm that provides research to fund
management companies.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  