-- China Steel Plans to Buy Iron, Coal Mines to Reduce Reliance on Suppliers
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-11-04T02:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-steel-plans-to-buy-iron-coal-mines-to-cut-dependency-on-suppliers.html
China Steel Corp. , Taiwan’s biggest
maker of the metal, is in talks with five groups to buy stakes
in iron ore and coal mines to reduce its reliance on raw
material suppliers as it increases production.  Australia is the main target for the investments, while
Brazil and Africa are among prospective locations, Chairman  Tsou Jo-chi , 58, said in an interview in his Kaohsiung office
yesterday, without elaborating.  “This is a way to maximize profits as it’s under pressure
from mining companies,” said  Peter Tzeng , a Taipei-based
analyst at Polaris Securities Co., who has an “equalweight”
rating on the stock. “The company is looking in the right
direction, though it has to choose good investment targets.”  China Steel joins ArcleorMittal, the world’s largest
producer, in seeking to boost self-sufficiency in raw materials
after prices of iron ore and coking coal surged this year on
demand from China, the world’s largest producer of the metal.
The Taiwanese company is planning to increase steel production
35 percent by 2014.  “We hope to control sources of raw materials to some
extent,” Tsou said. “Dividends from the investment can also
increase our earnings.”  China Steel, which supplies more than half Taiwan’s steel,
dropped five cents to NT$31.50 at 10:30 a.m. Taipei  trading .
That took its decline for the year to 1.4 percent, compared with
a 2 percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  Volatile Prices  The company aims to get 30 percent of its iron ore and coal
needs from mines it has investments in within five years, up
from about 2 percent currently, Tsou said. Raw materials account
for 70 percent of the mill’s costs, he said.  China Steel  uses about 10 million metric tons of coal and
20 million tons of iron ore a year. Steelmakers faced volatile
prices this year as they bought iron ore and coal for immediate
delivery or in quarterly supply accords after Vale SA, Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest suppliers of
iron ore, ended 40-year-old annual pricing system. BHP and
Mitsubishi Corp.’s joint venture is the biggest exporter of
steelmaking coal.  Prices for iron ore almost doubled in the April quarter and
gained more than 20 percent from June to September.  China Steel owns a 5 percent stake in the Sonoma coal mine
in Australia, according to its website. Consumption of the raw
materials is set to rise as the company is relining a blast
furnace and its Dragon Steel Corp. unit is building a new plant
to boost capacity.  Full Production  The mill and units expect to produce 14.8 million tons of
crude steel this year, aiming to boost annual capacity to 20
million by 2014, Tsou said. The company will return to full
production this quarter. Taiwan’s steel consumption is about 23
million tons a year, China Steel said, with the domestic market
taking 75 percent of the company’s production. China is the
company’s biggest overseas market.  Taiwan’s demand for steel is “OK,” as the economy
recovers, he said. The mill plans to set prices for January and
February this month, he said, declining to give details.  China Steel said Oct. 12 prices will rise for three types
of products for December, the mill’s first increase in five
months.  The announcement follows a trend of steelmakers planning to
buy control of raw materials. ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg,
in September said it plans to spend $4 billion to increase iron-
ore production to 100 million metric tons by 2015 and plans to
develop coal assets in joint ventures.  Economic Growth  JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, plans
to spend as much as 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) investing in
iron ore and coal mines in Australia and Brazil to double its
raw material self-sufficiency,  Eiji Hayashida , the president of
the company’s steel unit, said in a May 7 interview.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product will probably grow 8.24
percent this year, compared with a contraction of 1.91 percent
in 2009, the statistics bureau said in August.  Still, Tsou said he doesn’t have “strong confidence about
the future,” as the gains of the Taiwan dollar can hurt exports.  The Taiwan dollar’s strength reduces earnings from overseas
after converting into the local currency, which has appreciated
4.5 percent against its U.S. counterpart this year.  China Steel’s third-quarter  net income  fell to NT$9.24
billion ($305 million) from NT$10.4 billion a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on nine-month results
released by the company Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Yu-huay Sun  in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net .
Andrew Hobbs at 
 Ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  