-- China Will Boost Funds Investing Overseas to Curb Yuan Gains, Z-Ben Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T00:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-will-boost-funds-investing-overseas-to-curb-yuan-gains-reduce-risks.html
China will boost the number of mutual
funds that can invest overseas next year, spurring inflows into
other emerging markets and slowing the yuan’s appreciation,
according to fund research companies Z-Ben Advisors and Howbuy.  The number of funds investing in global stocks and bonds
under the qualified domestic institutional investor, or QDII,
program, may reach 60 by the end of next year, compared with as
many as 26 this year and nine in 2009, according to Z-Ben, a
Shanghai-based consulting firm that provides research to fund
management companies.  “We should be expecting to see more QDIIs,” said  Andy Mantel , Hong Kong-based managing director of hedge fund Pacific
Sun Investment Management Ltd. “They have huge potential and
are building quality the right way.”  The increase represents a turnaround for QDII, which was
started in 2006 to help domestic money managers diversify their
risks by investing abroad. Investors lost as much as half their
money when the funds plunged during the global financial crisis,
forcing the government to slow approvals, said  Francois Guilloux ,
regional sales director at Z-Ben.  “The regulators are opening the doors to allow more QDIIs
to alleviate pressure on RMB liquidity and develop local fund
management talent to avoid a repeat of 2007, when funds crashed
during the financial crisis,” said Guilloux. Z-Ben compiles
data based on public disclosures from fund management companies
and regulators.  A call made to Xia Lihua, a spokeswoman for the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, went unanswered.  China’s regulators had approved domestic fund management
firms, brokerages and banks to sell a combined $64 billion QDII
funds as of July. That’s a tiny proportion of China’s foreign-
exchange reserves, which reached a record $2.65 trillion in
September and has constantly prompted criticism from the U.S.
for artificially undervaluing its currency.  Emerging Markets  Guilloux said QDII funds are diversifying to other  emerging
markets  and Asian countries from mainly Hong Kong. The nation’s
mutual funds had a combined loss of 351.4 billion yuan ($51.8
billion) in the second quarter, the third-biggest quarterly loss,
as the nation’s stock market slumped the most in Asia, TX
Investment Consulting Co. said in July.  Investment strategists at Bank of America Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Societe Generale SA have all said in the
past two weeks that emerging-market stocks may climb above
levels justified by companies’ assets and earnings because of
surging economic growth and U.S. government efforts to reduce
yields on debt securities.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 15 percent this
year, while China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has
fallen 7.5 percent even after a 28 percent rebound from this
year’s low on July 5.  ‘Growing Demand’  China International Priority Equity Fund has a return of
14 percent this year, the most among China’s QDII funds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund is managed by
a local venture with JPMorgan Asset Management.  “There’s a growing demand from China’s households to
diversify their asset allocations and QDII funds have filled the
niche as channels for domestic investment are still limited,”
said Yuan Fang, an analyst at Shanghai-based Howbuy, a data
compiler for China’s mutual fund industry. “It also helps to
remove some pressure on the yuan.”  The yuan has climbed 1.8 percent since China’s central bank
ended a two-year dollar peg on June 19 as investors bet an
economic recovery and trade disputes with the U.S. will force
the government to allow for faster appreciation.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Reinie Booysen   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  