-- China's Economic Growth Isn't Matched by Social Gains, UN Says in Report
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-04T14:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-s-economic-growth-isn-t-matched-by-social-gains-un-says-in-report.html
China’s unprecedented economic growth
over the past 40 years hasn’t produced comparable improvements
in the health and education of its people, a  United Nations 
report on global development said.  China, while first in economic expansion since 1970, ranks
79th out of 135 nations in increasing life expectancy and adding
years of schooling in that period, according to the UN’s Human
Development  Report  2010 released today in New York.  “The economy grew at a phenomenal 8 percent a year for
three decades, and monetary poverty measures fell more than 80
percent between 1981 and 2005,” the report said. “Yet this
success was not matched by performance in other dimensions of
human development.”  The gap, according to the UN analysis, stems from China’s
“single minded pursuit of economic growth,” often at the
expense of delivery of social services.  “Slow progress was associated with decentralizing the
financing of basic services without providing adequate national
support or increasing the fees levied on families,” the report
said. “Public social services deteriorated and in some places
even collapsed.”  The 227-page report ranks nations using a “Human
Development Index” that combines figures on income per capita,
life expectancy and years of schooling. Norway is first,
followed by Australia, New Zealand, the U.S. and Ireland. China
ranked 89th.  Casting Doubt  The 20th Human Development Report, which focused on trends
over the past four decades, says the “evidence does cast doubt
on whether economy-wide income growth is instrumental in
furthering health and education at low and medium levels of
human development.”  Examples in addition to China of countries whose rapid
economic growth hasn’t translated into similar gains in
education and health include India, Malaysia and Vietnam.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , in remarks accompanying
the release of the report, said it makes the case that
governments should focus on social goals in addition to economic
targets.  Improving People’s Lives  The report says “governments should not pursue growth for
its own sake, but for improving people’s lives,” Ban said.
“Economic growth matters, but what matters more is giving each
individual a better chance at a long, healthy and productive
life.”  “We have to do more than generate resources, we have to
distribute them better, so that education, medical care, clean
water, decent jobs and human rights protections reach the
millions of people who struggle without these fundamental
necessities,” Ban said.  China is one of only 10 countries to have lower school
enrollment than they did in 1970, with China at 68 percent
currently, compared with 69 percent in 1970, according to the
report.  “In 1970, a baby born in Tunisia could expect to live 54
years; one born in China, 62 years,” the report said. “Life
expectancy in Tunisia has risen to 74 years, a year longer than
that of China. So while China’s per capita income grew almost
three times as fast as Tunisia’s, Tunisia’s life expectancy grew
twice as fast as China’s. It also significantly outperformed
China on the education front.”  Communist Orthodoxy  China couldn’t match social development to its income
growth as Communist orthodoxy gave way to a more market-based
economy in the past 20 years, according to Rohinton Medhora,
vice president of the Ottawa,  Canada-based International
Development Resource Center .  “Their income growth has been so spectacular it is not
surprising that education and health services are lagging,”
Medhora said in an interview. “Access to health and education
is not as automatic as it used to be. Everyone used to get the
same low level. Now some individuals can get really good levels
of education and health and others are destitute.”  China’s mission to the UN didn’t respond to a request for a
comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  