-- China's Ability to Censor The Internet Will Ebb, Google CEO Schmidt Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-11-04T20:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-s-ability-to-censor-web-will-ebb-google-says-update1-.html
China’s ability to censor Internet
users may diminish as more of its people get online through
mobile phones and other devices,  Google Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Eric Schmidt  said.  “A billion phones that are trying to express themselves”
will be difficult for government censors and content-blocking
computers to overcome, Schmidt said yesterday during a panel
discussion at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York.  Google, which operates the world’s largest Internet search
engine, vowed to stop censoring Chinese search results in
January after it determined that an attack on its servers
originated from the country. In March, the company began routing
users in mainland China through its site in Hong Kong. While
critical of the approach, Chinese authorities renewed Google’s
license to operate an Internet service in July.  “It’s always better for us to operate on behalf of the
citizens in a country, rather than ‘Google versus the
government,’” Schmidt said during a panel discussion on the use
of technology by foreign governments and activists. Schmidt
appeared with Jared Cohen, director of Google Ideas, the
company’s public policy research arm.  “We don’t want to be seen as threatening the supremacy of
government,” Schmidt said. “It’s just a bad deal.”  In addition to the so-called Great Firewall -- a group of
Internet routers used by the Chinese government to block access
to certain political information or other content deemed
objectionable -- China also employs an estimated 30,000 to
50,000 government censors to expunge blogs and other Web
postings, Schmidt said.  Google , based in Mountain View, California, rose $4.09 to
$624.27 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The  shares  are little changed in value this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  