-- China Stocks Advance, for Sixth Weekly Gain, as Commodity Producers Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T07:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-southern-airlines-vanke-citic-securities-chinese-equities-preview.html
China stocks  rose, with the benchmark
index completing a sixth weekly advance, as commodity prices
increased on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will succeed
in stoking growth in the world’s biggest economy.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and Zijin Mining Group Co., the nation’s
biggest producers of the metals, advanced at least 4 percent.
 Citic Securities Co. , China’s largest listed brokerage, and
Everbright Securities Co. paced gains among brokerages after
reporting monthly profit.  “Commodity stocks are and will be the market’s favorite
investment for the moment on the backdrop of ample liquidity
around the world,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager
at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The
rally will carry on until we see a reversal of liquidity.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 42.56, or 1.4 percent, to
3,129.50 at the 3 p.m. close. The measure rose 5.1 percent this
week while its six-week winning streak is the longest since July
2009. The  CSI 300 Index  advanced 1.2 percent to 3,520.80.  The Shanghai gauge has rebounded 32 percent since reaching
this year’s low on July 5 on expectations central banks around
the world will inject more cash into their economies to boost
growth. It remains down 4.5 percent this year after the
government raised bank reserve requirements and curbed lending
growth to cool the economy.  Commodity Boost  Prices of oil and metals jumped yesterday after the U.S.
Federal Reserve said it will buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries to boost growth, spurring inflation concerns.  Crude oil for December delivery rose 2.1 percent in New
York yesterday to $86.49 a barrel, the highest settlement price
since April 6. Copper futures advanced 3.3 percent to a 28-month
high. Gold futures surged to a record of $1,393.40. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum rallied 3.1 percent yesterday, the
most since May.  An  index  tracking Chinese materials stocks climbed 1.7
percent, the second most among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups
and capping a 26 percent advance this quarter.  Jiangxi Copper rallied 4.2 percent to 45.32 yuan. Zijin
Mining added 4.5 percent to 10.31 yuan.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. ,
China’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker, rose 0.3 percent to
7.34 yuan.  Investors should reduce their weighting of commodity stocks
in mid-November to avoid the risk of government policy
tightening, Essence Securities Co. said. Tighter credit may
happen at any time when inflation accelerates to more than 4
percent, analyst Fan Yan wrote in a report today.  Templeton’s Mobius  The Fed’s bond purchase plan will further drive the rally
for global stocks and push commodity prices “higher and
higher,” said Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  “We could have an optimistic scenario for quite some
time,” Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion, said in a
telephone interview from Beijing yesterday. “Commodities are
the big area for us. We are great believers in higher commodity
prices and therefore are investing in commodity companies.”  Mobius said he’s “very bullish” on China as the country
has “no big problems.” Even though  stock valuations  are not as
attractive as last year they are “not out of sight” and
Templeton funds are buying companies that are expanding in the
nation’s less developed regions, particularly consumer companies.  “It’s not as easy as it was but we’re still buying and
finding opportunities,” he said.  Demand is so strong in China that Mobius is now looking at
airline stocks, an industry that he said he normally “wouldn’t
touch” because of low profit margins.  Interest Rates  The central bank unexpectedly raised benchmark lending and
deposit  rates  on Oct. 19, two days before official data showed
inflation had accelerated to the fastest pace in 23 months.  China should return to a “normalized” monetary policy as
quantitative easing in the U.S. pumps cash into the world’s
fastest-growing major economy and fuels price risks, the central
bank’s research head said.  The stance adopted to counter the financial crisis has
completed its “mission,”  Zhang Jianhua  said at a forum in
Beijing today. The nation faces inflation risks and “huge
pressure” on asset prices, Zhang said.  Citic Securities led gains for brokerages, rising 0.9
percent to 16.26 yuan. Citic said October net income was 517
million yuan ($77.7 million) on revenue of 1.02 billion yuan,
without giving comparative figures. Everbright Securities, the
nation’s fifth-largest brokerage, gained 2.1 percent to 18.67
yuan. The company said October net income was 279.9 million yuan
on revenue of 539.8 million yuan.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  