-- China Must `Normalize' to Cut Risk as U.S. Prints Cash, PBOC Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T11:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-central-bank-signals-a-shift-in-monetary-stance-credit-suisse-says.html
China should return to a
“normalized” monetary policy as quantitative easing in the U.S.
pumps cash into the world’s fastest-growing major economy and
fuels price risks, the central bank’s research head said.  The stance adopted to counter the financial crisis has
completed its “mission,”  Zhang Jianhua  said at a forum in
Beijing today. The nation faces inflation risks and “huge
pressure” on asset prices, Zhang said.  Two Chinese central bank advisers at the same event warned
of fund inflows and the potential for asset bubbles after the
Federal Reserve yesterday announced a new round of stimulus. The
People’s Bank of China said Nov. 2 that it will guide monetary
conditions back to “normal” after a credit boom drove the
nation’s economic rebound.  The central bank has a “new commitment” to normalizing
monetary conditions, said  Tao Dong , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  While monetary policy is still officially “moderately”
loose, the government has wound back stimulus this year by
raising bank reserve requirements, setting a limit on new loans
and last month increasing interest rates for the first time
since 2007.  Xia Bin , an academic adviser to the central bank, said that
he was worried about the risk of a Chinese asset bubble as the
U.S. engaged in “uncontrolled” money printing.  No Panic  A second adviser,  Li Daokui , said a “considerable”
amount of money will flow into China, adding pressure for the
yuan to gain. The size of the nation’s economy, which is a lake
not a swimming pool, means there’s no need to panic, he added.  The PBOC’s Zhang didn’t say what a “normalized” stance
would consist of. The benchmark one-year lending rate of 5.56
percent compares with 7.47 percent before cuts in 2008.  The central bank unexpectedly raised benchmark lending and
deposit  rates  on Oct. 19, two days before official data showed
inflation had accelerated to the fastest pace in 23 months.
Zhang said it’s a “misunderstanding” that China is now in a
rate-raising cycle, as policy makers need to assess the effect
of last month’s move.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Zhang Dingmin  in Beijing. Editors:
 Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  