-- China Rejects `Naked Swimming' With Default Swaps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T09:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/china-rejects-naked-swimming-as-credit-default-swaps-begin-china-credit.html
The first yuan-denominated credit-
default swaps insuring bonds and loans were signed today as
China experiments with derivatives blamed by some European and
U.S. officials for exacerbating the global financial crisis.  Nine financial institutions, including Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Deutsche Bank AG as well as
state-backed China Bond Insurance Co., traded 20 contracts
covering 1.84 billion yuan of debt, China’s  National Association
of Financial Market Institutional Investors , or NAFMII, said.  China’s central bank will regulate the contracts, called
“credit risk mitigation” tools, to limit leverage and
speculation, and help shift risk in the nation’s 3.3 trillion
yuan ($495 billion) interbank bond market, officials said.
European and U.S. officials met this week to discuss limits on
the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.  “European and American markets show the main problem is
blind innovation and lack of regulation,” Shi Wenchao,
secretary-general of NAFMII said in comments posted on the
association’s website this week. “Market participants have been
swimming naked in a huge bond market and we can imagine their
desire for a well-fitting life jacket.”  Yuan swaps will be traded through the Shanghai interbank
clearing system, may only be sold to investors holding the
underlying assets and can’t be used to insure high-risk
securities, according to NAFMII, which published  guidelines  on
Oct. 29. The value of the swaps cannot exceed five times that of
the underlying debt, the guidelines show. Most of the contracts
traded today insure debt for one year, NAFMII said.  Banks  Units of the U.K.’s Barclays Plc, France’s BNP Paribas SA
and the U.S.’s Citigroup Inc. are among 17 banks that will be
allowed to trade the swaps, NAFMII said in a statement posted on
its website yesterday. China Development Bank Corp., Industrial
& Commercial Bank of China, HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank AG
and 10 other banks are authorized to write the contracts, the
statement shows.  The People’s Bank of China formed NAFMII in 2007 to help
develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets, which
span bonds, loans, foreign exchange, commercial paper and gold.  China’s rules may accomplish what regulators in the U.S.
and Europe are trying to achieve. The biggest overhaul of Wall
Street rules since the Great Depression enshrined in the Dodd-
Frank reform act will make it mandatory for most investors to
settle derivatives trading through clearinghouses by next year.
In Europe the deadline is 2012.  Central Clearing  “Even though central clearing has been a major priority of
the likes of the Bank for International Settlements and the
Federal Reserve, there’s not been much progress in the last two
years,” said  Jeremy Amias , co-founder of fixed-income brokerage
and advisory firm Amias Berman & Co. in Hong Kong. “China has
the luxury, to some extent, of being able to organize and
control the process as it is a purely domestic instrument.”  Dealers cleared $13.4 trillion of contracts in North
America and Europe via Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
clearinghouses through Oct. 29, according to the company’s
website. About $27.3 trillion in contracts are outstanding
globally, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central registry for the market.  The U.S. legislation, named after Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and House
Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat, became law in July. Congress took aim at the financial
services industry after soured trades on mortgage securities and
derivatives tied to the debt tipped the U.S. economy into the
deepest recession since the 1930s.  CDS in India  India also plans to trade credit-default swaps on local-
currency bonds, with the first contracts slated for the first
week of 2011,  Shyamala Gopinath , deputy governor of the Reserve
Bank of India, said on Oct. 14.  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, an
industry trade group known as ISDA, said in a draft report to
the  Reserve Bank of India  on Oct. 4 that there should be no
restrictions on the swaps because “speculators are necessary
for markets to be more liquid, efficient and complete.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  About 29 U.S. companies and five European firms failed to
meet their debt obligations this year out of a global total of
40, according to Moody’s September Default Report. No company
has defaulted on publicly traded debt in China since the PBOC
started regulating the market in 1997, according to Ivan Chung,
a senior analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in Hong Kong.  China’s Economy  China’s economy, which grew at a 9.6 percent rate in the
third quarter, will probably expand 10.5 percent this year and
India’s gross domestic product will rise 9.7 percent in 2010,
the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6. The U.S. economy
will grow 2.7 percent this year, down from a 3.4 percent
estimate four months ago, the Washington-based fund said.  China’s bond market is headed for its busiest year since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999. Companies have issued
a record 771 new notes totaling 1.6 trillion yuan.  Credit-default swaps may eventually “create more appetite
for issuance from lower-rated companies as investors will have
tools to hedge the risk,”  Manoj Kulkarni , head of credit
research at brokerage SJS Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a
telephone interview.  Five-year swaps on China’s dollar bonds fell 4 basis points
to 56 basis points this week after dropping 7 basis points in
October and 19 in September, according to data compiled by CMA
in New York. Prices typically decline as investor perceptions of
creditworthiness improve. A basis point, 0.01 percentage point,
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Government Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the yield on the 3.28 percent
government bond due August 2020 down 1 basis point today to 3.84
percent, according to data from the National Interbank Funding
Center.  China ’s debt has returned 9 percent this year, compared
with 16 percent in  Brazil  and 13 percent in  Russia , JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes show.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , fell two basis
points to 2.49 percent as of 5:07 p.m. in Shanghai. Five-year
swaps were little changed at 3.77 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan gained 0.2 percent to 6.6514 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It has appreciated 2.6 percent versus the dollar since a two-
year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable forwards show
traders are betting on a 3.2 percent increase in the coming 12
months.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Chinese corporate
bonds rather than government debt shrank to the lowest level
since October 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
China Corporate Index. Spreads narrowed to a low of 1.22
percentage points this week, the index shows.  -- Henry Sanderson ,  Shelley Smith . With assistance by
 Shannon Harrington  in New York,  Abigail Moses  in London and  Judy Chen  in Shanghai. Editors:  Will McSheehy ,  Hugh Chow   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  