-- Citigroup Wins Trial Against Terra Firma Over EMI Deal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/citigroup-wins-trial-against-terra-firma-over-2007-auction-of-emi-group.html
Citigroup Inc.  prevailed at trial
against a multibillion dollar lawsuit by Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. and its Chairman  Guy Hands , who claimed he was
tricked by the bank into overpaying for  EMI Group Ltd.  in 2007.  A federal jury in Manhattan federal court reached its 8-0
verdict yesterday after less than a day of deliberations and a 2
1/2 week trial. U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff , who had narrowed
the range of possible real damages to $2.2 billion from $8.3
billion and ruled out punitive damages, called the suit “a
catfight between two rich companies” on Nov. 1.  Some analysts described the lawsuit as a last-ditch move by
Hands to hold on to EMI and said the verdict probably means he
will lose control and that Citigroup may break the company into
pieces and sell it off. Citigroup provided $4.8 billion in loans
to finance the EMI acquisition.  “It’s just a question of time before there’s a covenant
breach,” said  Claire Enders , chief executive officer of Enders
Analysis Ltd., an entertainment industry research firm based in
London. “I find it hard to believe that the Terra Firma
partners are really going to face with equanimity the prospect
of injecting capital into EMI, basically forever.”  Enders, who called the suit a “desperate” attempt to gain
leverage in negotiations with Citigroup to restructure EMI’s
finances, said Citigroup is now less likely to consider talking
with Hands about EMI.  Hands Testimony  In the trial, Hands, who testified for parts of four days,
claimed that Citigroup banker  David Wormsley  lied to him during
phone calls made the weekend before the auction, leading the
private equity firm to overbid in a deal that lost money for all
involved. Citigroup denied the claims.  Ted Wells , a lawyer for the bank, hailed the verdict,
saying Wormsley had been put through a “terrible ordeal” and
that the case was “a travesty.”  In his testimony, Hands said Wormsley told him on the
weekend before the Monday, May 21, 2007, auction, that Cerberus
Capital Management LP planned to submit a bid for EMI. Cerberus
had in fact decided to withdraw from the auction, leaving Terra
Firma without competition.  Citigroup claimed that Wormsley never misled Hands. The New
York-based bank alleged the suit was an attempt by Hands to
shift responsibility for striking a bad bargain for EMI, the
113-year-old music company based in London.  ‘Disappointed’  “We are disappointed,” Terra Firma said in a statement
after the verdict. “We believe that this was an important
action to bring and that we had a responsibility to our
investors to bring it.” The firm said it reserves the right to
appeal, according to the statement.  EMI hasn’t performed as well as many of its competitors and
has been particularly vulnerable to the trends taking sales away
from the music industry generally, including Internet music
downloading, said  Mark Mulligan , a music industry analyst at
Forrester Research Inc. in London.  Cost-cutting efforts by Hands helped accelerate the
departure of some of EMI’s top artists, Mulligan said. Queen,
 Paul McCartney  and the Rolling Stones have left EMI since Hands
bought the company. Other artists with EMI have included  Frank Sinatra , Thelonious Monk, Snoop Dogg, Coldplay,  Lily Allen  and
Depeche Mode.  EMI, which had a profit of 86 million pounds in 2006,
reported a loss of 512 million pounds for the year ended March
31.  “It’s hard to see anybody coming in and turning EMI
around,” Mulligan said.  More likely, Citigroup would break off and sell EMI’s more
successful publishing unit while selling the recording unit
separately, he said.  EMI’s Debt  Hands has been seeking to reduce EMI’s debt. Last year,
Terra Firma offered to inject 1 billion pounds in the music
label in exchange for a similar reduction in the debt. Citigroup
rejected the proposal because it didn’t want to write off 40
percent of its loan without getting a significant stake in the
music company, according to people familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified.  In June, Terra Firma raised 105 million pounds from
investors to help EMI meet debt covenants through March 2011.
The firm also sought guidance from investors whether they would
be willing to invest an additional 255 million pounds to ensure
EMI stays compliant through 2015, when its loans end, according
to a presentation sent to investors in April.  The “principal uncertainty” is whether EMI will be able
to raise more funds to comply with loan covenants, Maltby
Capital, EMI’s holding company, said on Aug. 18. EMI will
require more funds next year to meet obligations with Citigroup,
it said.  Hands Versus Wormsley  In federal court, Hands and Wormsley sat with their lawyers
throughout the trial, in a case that required jurors to
determine whether they believed Hands’s version of events or
Wormsley’s. Both declined to comment on the verdict.  During the trial, the men, who were friends and business
associates before Terra Firma filed the suit in 2009, told
sharply different stories about the weekend telephone
conversations.  Hands claimed Wormsley told him that the auction would be
competitive, that Cerberus would submit a bid of 2.62 pounds a
share, that Terra Firma would have to bid 2.65 pounds a share
and that the date of the auction was moved up two days by EMI
and another bidder.  Alone in Auction  Hands claimed that if he had known that Terra Firma was
alone in the bidding, he wouldn’t have submitted a bid. Instead,
he told jurors, he would have tried to negotiate with EMI for a
lower price and for more time to evaluate the company.  Wormsley, who testified that he didn’t remember the
specifics of any of the conversations, told jurors he never lied
to Hands about the auction. He said that his role was limited to
helping arrange the financing of the EMI acquisition and that he
wasn’t part of another Citigroup team that acted as advisers to
EMI in the bidding.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net  and;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 