-- Clearwire Drops After Disclosing `Going Concern' Risk
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-05T20:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/clearwire-cuts-jobs-amid-cash-shortfall-that-threatens-business.html
Clearwire Corp. , the company building
out a high-speed WiMax wireless network, fell in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading after disclosing that it may not have enough
funding to keep operating its business.  “Our expected continued losses from operations and the
uncertainty about our ability to obtain sufficient additional
capital raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue
as a going concern,” Clearwire said yesterday in a  filing .  Clearwire is cutting 15 percent of its workforce, reducing
sales and marketing spending and delaying its Clear-branded
smartphone as part of a plan to save between $100 million and
$200 million this year. The Kirkland, Washington-based  company 
has 4,200 employees, putting the cuts at about 630 jobs.  Clearwire  fell  24 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $6.93 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The stock has risen 2.5 percent this year.  Sprint
Nextel Corp. , which owns 54 percent of the company, lost 10
cents, or 2.4 percent, to $3.99 on the New York Stock Exchange.
The shares have gained 9 percent this year.  Clearwire said it may run out of cash as early as mid-2011.
The plan should save $100 million to $200 million more in the
first half, the unprofitable company said. That still won’t be
enough to cover the shortfall, according to the filing.  The company isn’t disclosing how much money it will need,
said  Mike DiGioia , a spokesman.  Exploring Options  Clearwire said in the filing it formed a special committee
of its board to explore strategic options, including a possible
sale or other shift in ownership. Sprint said it doesn’t intend
to sell its stake in the near future, according to the filing.  Sprint said in a separate filing there could be a
“material adverse effect” from Clearwire’s financial
situation, if Clearwire is considered to be its subsidiary and
defaults. Sprint said it could take actions to ensure Clearwire
isn’t considered a subsidiary, without giving specifics.  “We expect Clearwire to continue to generate significant
net losses in the near term,” Sprint said. Cristi Allen, a
Sprint spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the filing.  Sprint may be forced to fund Clearwire to keep it from
defaulting, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. He said Sprint may need to invest
$1 billion to $2 billion in Clearwire in the next three to four
years.  “They may have no choice but to be the financier of last
resort,” said Moffett, who rates Sprint shares
“underperform.”  Last Year’s Financing  Clearwire  will consider selling debt, equity or assets,
including a portion of its wireless spectrum that isn’t crucial
to the business, Chief Executive Officer  Bill Morrow  said on a
conference call. Clearwire also is talking to its major
shareholders, the company said.  Clearwire is taking bids for its excess spectrum, though
the process is at an early stage, Sprint disclosed in a filing.
The company is seeking to raise $2.5 billion to $5 billion in
the auction and has attracted interest from carriers including
AT&T Inc. and Deutsche Telekom AG, people with direct knowledge
of the plan said last month.  Clearwire got $1.56 billion from Sprint and other investors
last year to help it expand its high-speed mobile Internet
network to cover 120 million people.  The company may need to raise $1 billion next year and a
total of $4 billion by 2014, according to  Michael Nelson , an
 analyst  at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York who rates the
shares a “buy.” That amount would let the company reach 270
million people with its network by 2018, he said.  Third-Quarter Loss  The third-quarter  net loss  widened to $139.4 million, or 58
cents a share, from $82.4 million, or 43 cents, a year earlier,
while  revenue  more than doubled to $147 million, Clearwire said.
Analysts had estimated $158.3 million in revenue, the average of
12 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  Clearwire said it expects to have more than 4 million
customers by the end of the year, an increase from 2.84 million
at the end of the third quarter.  Clearwire  reshaped itself into a WiMax company in 2008 with
a $3.2 billion investment from Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, along with Intel Corp., Google Inc., Comcast Corp., Time
Warner Cable Inc. and Brighthouse Networks.  The company was remade as service provider using the WiMax
technology by wireless pioneer  Craig McCaw , who sold his
cellular-communications company for more than $11 billion to
AT&T in 1994 and helped build Nextel, now part of Sprint.  McCaw, who still serves as Clearwire’s chairman, and his
team cobbled together spectrum from schools and nonprofits, as
well as contributions from Sprint, to create the network, which
is advertised as four times faster than the so-called 3G
networks used by the largest U.S. wireless carriers.  Inferior Technology?  The technology is being threatened as carriers including
Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone operator,
prepare to roll out fourth-generation services. Verizon will
begin selling 4G on rival long-term evolution technology later
this year.  Clearwire’s product may have trouble competing for
technology reasons, Moffett said. The type of spectrum it has
does a poor job of penetrating buildings and windows, so it
needs to have a denser network buildout, he said.  “In order to have a viable product they would have to have
a very, very dense network, and in order to have a very dense
network they would have to spend an enormous amount of
capital,” he said. “That may be technically possible, but it
may not be financially feasible.”  Some of Clearwire’s partners, including Sprint, sell the
wireless service under their own brand names. This year, Sprint
introduced a smartphone, the Evo, which uses the high-speed
technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  