-- Clement Says He Anticipates BHP Will Want to Discuss Potash Bid Rejection
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-11-04T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/clement-says-he-anticipates-bhp-will-want-to-discuss-potash-bid-rejection.html
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said today he hasn’t heard from  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and
anticipates the company will want to meet his officials to learn
why its $40 billion bid for  Potash Corp.  of Saskatchewan Inc.
was rejected.  “Should BHP wish this to happen, we would schedule a
meeting between them and my officials to actually discuss what
particular aspects of the net benefit to Canada test were not
successful,” Clement said today in a Bloomberg interview in
Ottawa. He added BHP wouldn’t know from the notice he sent the
company why the bid was blocked.  Clement yesterday rejected the bid by Melbourne-based BHP,
the world’s largest mining company, saying the proposed takeover
doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. BHP has 30 days to
convince Clement to change his position. Clement, 49, said he is
legally constrained from explaining the rejection publicly,
adding he is “anxious” to provide his reasons once the appeal
period is over.  “We anticipate that they will want to sit down with the
officials,” Clement said of BHP, so the company can
“understand the basis for the decision, which is, I can assure
you, a very detailed examination of their bid and how it fits
into our legislation.”  Clement also said he made a “principled” ruling based on
the law, rather than a “political” one.  Review Options  “As we said yesterday, BHP will continue to engage with
the minister and the investment review division of Investment
Canada and will review its options,” Ruban Yogarajah, a London-
based spokesman for BHP, said today in a telephone interview.  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($298 million) or more
if it finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country,
based on factors such as output and jobs.  Saskatchewan is home to the world’s largest reserves of
potash, a form of potassium farmers use to boost crop yields.
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp. is the world’s largest maker of
potash by capacity and produces nitrogen- and phosphate-based
crop nutrients.  Potash Corp . slid 2.4 percent today to $141.97 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Clement issued his
decision after markets closed yesterday.  “I would say to any investor, you make an investment and
you make certain calculations,” Clement said. “Sometimes those
calculations come true; sometimes they don’t come true. The
government of Canada doesn’t owe them anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 