-- Clinton Signs Accord Ending 25-Year U.S. Nuclear Dispute With New Zealand
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-04T05:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/clinton-signs-agreement-ending-25-year-u-s-nuclear-spat-with-new-zealand.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  signed an accord with New Zealand in Wellington today
marking the rebuilding of relations derailed 25 years ago by a
nuclear feud.  Clinton signed the “Wellington Declaration” after
attending a formal Maori welcome and meeting with senior members
of New Zealand’s government including Prime Minister  John Key .
Her visit is part of a two-week trip meant to bolster alliances
in the Asia-Pacific region.  The U.S. is seeking to renew its relationship with New
Zealand after the South Pacific country introduced legislation
in 1984 that banned nuclear-powered and armed ships from
entering its ports. The law, passed by then Prime Minister  David Lange , damaged military and political ties and ended New
Zealand’s involvement in the ANZUS defense treaty that included
Australia.  “The Wellington Declaration recognizes New Zealand as a
leader in the Pacific and a key contributor on the global
stage,” Clinton said. “It commits us to working together more
closely to confront those challenges we share as Pacific
nations.”  Relations are the “strongest and most productive” they
have been in 25 years, Clinton said. They stretch back to 1839
when the U.S. sent consular officials to the country to protect
its shipping and whaling interests. The nations fought alongside
each other in both World Wars and in the Korean and Vietnam Wars.  Closer Ties  The countries intend to develop closer ties on renewable
energy and natural disaster projects in the Pacific region,
according to a statement by  Murray McCully , New Zealand’s
minister of foreign affairs. The accord commits the nations to
regular “high level” political and military talks and says
they will work together to address trade, security and
development issues through the United Nations and regional
forums.  New Zealand and the U.S. said in the declaration they will
develop commercial and trade ties and “further our two nations’
joint cooperation in addressing broader regional and global
challenges, such as climate change, nuclear proliferation, and
extremism.”  New Zealand was an “important partner” this April at the
Nuclear Security Summit in Washington where President  Barack Obama  led a series of discussions on limiting the spread of
nuclear weapons, Clinton said.  Asia-Oriented  A key Obama administration objective in New Zealand is to
expand mutual understanding and public diplomacy,  David Huebner ,
the U.S. ambassador posted in Wellington, said in an appearance
at Washington’s Asia Society in October.  “The New Zealand population is increasingly seeing itself
as Asia-oriented instead of Europe-oriented,” Huebner said.
“And, at times, the United States is mistakenly lumped into the
European category instead of the Asian category.”  That trend impacts the view of the U.S., Huebner said. “We
are working to deal with what could be an unproductive drift in
that sense,” he said.  Clinton said her visit is part of “a committed, concerted
effort to restore America’s rightful place as an engaged Pacific
nation” and reaffirmed the strong ties between her country and
New Zealand. The declaration sets the stage for “a deeper and
more regular dialogue” on a wide range of issues, Clinton said.  Those include reducing climate-warming greenhouse gas
emissions, Huebner said. New Zealand and the U.S. have created a
green alliance of 29 countries working to develop and
disseminate science-based methods to reduce greenhouse gases
produced by the agricultural industry while increasing food
output.  The two countries are “actively partnering” on port
security, counter-terrorism and non-proliferation issues related
to North Korea, Huebner said. New Zealand’s reconstruction teams
in Afghanistan are one of the most successful there, Huebner
added.  Clinton’s two-day trip to New Zealand will also include
Christchurch, the South Island city recovering from the nation’s
largest earthquake in more than 80 years on Sept. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Bourke  at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  