-- Coal of Africa Says Mine Closing May Cost 500 Jobs
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-11-04T16:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/coal-of-africa-s-wallington-says-closing-of-mooiplats-may-cost-500-jobs.html
Coal of Africa Ltd.  may lose 500 jobs
at its Mooiplaats mine in South Africa if the company is forced
to close down the operations because of environmental rules,
Chief Executive Officer  John Wallington  said.  The Australian miner will be able to comply with the South
African regulations “in time,” he said in an interview today,
adding government communication on the issue is inconsistent.  “You don’t know where you are day-to-day,” Wallington
said by phone. “We’ve been in constant talks with government
since 2008 and that interaction is ongoing.”  Coal of Africa fell the most in more than two years in
Johannesburg yesterday after saying it was given until Nov. 11
to comply with environmental regulations in South Africa or face
the closing of Mooiplaats. An earlier article published by the
Business Report newspaper had said the provincial government
already ordered the temporary shuttering of the operation.  Mooiplaats “will in time meet all the requirements,”
Wallington said, adding that Coal of Africa has invested about 1
billion rand ($147 million) into the project since 2008.  The Mooiplaats mine, in South Africa’s Mpumalanga province,
began production in 2008 and is ramping up to produce 2 million
metric tons a year, the company said on Oct. 28.  Coal of Africa, based in Perth, Australia, is also seeking
to secure government approval to resume development of its Vele
project in Limpopo province.  Vele Struggle  While South Africa’s Ministry of Mines has awarded the
company a mining license for Vele, Coal of Africa has yet to
receive a water-use permit. The Ministry of Environment and
Water Affairs said in February it opposed the project because it
was too close to a  United Nations World Heritage site  that was
once southern Africa’s biggest settlement.  “The Vele issue has put Coal of Africa into the
spotlight,” Wallington said. “We tend to get targeted more.”  The United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization “is visiting the site this month and after that we
expect a decision,” he said.  In August, Coal of Africa ordered all workers to leave the
coking coal construction site after the government declined to
lift a suspension on development.  The company  advanced  25 cents, or 3.1 percent, to 8.25 rand
by the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg. Coal of Africa fell as much
as 21 percent yesterday.  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, owns about
14 percent of the company, according to Bloomberg  data .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  