-- Coca-Cola May Sell $4 Billion of Bonds for Tenders
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-11-04T19:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/coca-cola-files-prospectus-for-4-part-offering-no-amounts.html
Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, plans to sell $4.5 billion of bonds in its
biggest offering to cut interest costs from debt it took on
acquiring operations from bottler Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.  The company is selling 3-year notes that may be priced near
the record-low rate of 0.75 percent that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. 
got in an Oct. 18 sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It also plans to issue 18-month notes, and 5- and 10-year debt,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  Coca-Cola joins  Dow Chemical Co. , Harvard University and
 General Electric Capital Corp.  in  marketing bonds  today with
investment-grade company borrowing costs near record lows. Coca-
Cola assumed $8 billion of debt when it closed Oct. 3 on its
acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises’ North American operations,
of which it already owned 34 percent. The purchase followed
 PepsiCo Inc.  bringing its bottling in-house, as both companies
try to cut costs and turn around the U.S. market, where annual
soft-drink sales by volume have declined since 2005.  “Rates are so low that companies are having a contest of
who’s going to issue at the lowest,” said  Didi Weinblatt , vice
president of mutual fund portfolios at USAA Investment
Management in San Antonio, where she helps oversee about $45
billion. “First we had Johnson & Johnson, then Microsoft, maybe
now Coca-Cola’s going to issue even lower.”  The debt will be senior unsecured obligations, Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola said today in a regulatory filing that didn’t
specify the sale’s maturities or timing.  ‘Market Conditions’  “We are refinancing part of our debt given the current
market conditions,”  Kenth Kaerhoeg , a Coca-Cola spokesman, said
today in a telephone interview. “We expect a lower average
interest rate on the debt of the company.”  Kaerhoeg said Coca-Cola’s debt will increase by about $500
million with the refinancing to cover premiums to bondholders, a
cost the company expects to be offset by savings on interest
expenses. Coca-Cola last issued securities in March 2009,
selling $2.25 billion of debt in what previously was its biggest
bond offering, Bloomberg data show.  Dow Chemical, the world’s second-biggest chemical maker
after BASF SE, is marketing $2.5 billion of 5- and 10-year
notes; Harvard, the oldest and richest U.S. college, plans to
sell $300 million of 30-year bonds; and General Electric Capital
plans to sell $2 billion of 5-year debt, according to people
familiar with the transactions, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  Tender Offer  Coca-Cola’s $1.25 billion of 18-month floating-rate notes
may yield 5 basis points more than the three-month London
interbank offered rate, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The $1.25 billion of 3-year
notes may yield 32 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, the $1 billion of 5-year debt may pay a spread of 52
basis points and the $1 billion of 10-year notes may offer 72
basis points more than benchmarks, according to the person.  Three-month  Libor , a lending benchmark, was set at 0.286
percent today.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The company is conducting a tender offer for $4.39 billion
of 100-year parent company bonds and Coca-Cola Enterprises debt,
including zero-coupon notes and 8.5 percent securities,
according to today’s filing. Coca-Cola may also purchase as much
as $3.45 billion of 4.875 percent notes and 5.35 percent parent
company notes, depending on the repurchases of the other debt,
it said.  Coca-Cola is trying to buy back 7.375 percent, 100-year
bonds that it sold in 1993, according to the filing. The
completion of the tender offers is contingent on raising “at
least” $4 billion in the debt sale, the filing said.  Tender Offer ‘Attractive’  “Generally speaking, we believe the tender offer prices
are attractive, with the possible exception of some of the bonds
due in the mid 2020s, and should result in strong acceptance,”
 Craig Hutson , a senior investment grade analyst at independent
corporate bond research firm Gimme Credit, wrote in a note
today. Still, some investors may want to hold on to the debt,
much of which has high coupons, according to Hutson.  Weinblatt, who doesn’t own Coca-Cola bonds, said she’s
never turned down so many tender offers in the past as she has
recently.  “We’re not taking the tenders because I’ve got such great
coupons I’d rather keep them for another eight years and be able
to pay that out than take a capital gain today and invest in
what,” she said.  Coca-Cola’s new notes are expected to be priced as soon as
today, the person familiar with the sale said.  “Given the strength and stability of our cash flow, we
believe we should be able to shorten the maturity profile of the
debt,” Kaerhoeg said.  The average borrowing cost for investment-grade companies
was 3.63 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master index. That’s near the 3.56
percent on Oct. 8, the lowest yield since the index was made
available in October 1986.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  