-- Coffee Harvesting in Vietnam Delayed by Heavy Rain, Traders, Officials Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T09:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/coffee-harvesting-in-vietnam-delayed-by-heavy-rain-traders-officials-say.html
Coffee harvesting in Vietnam, the
world’s second-biggest producer, has been delayed by rains,
according to officials and executives in Dak Lak, the biggest
growing region. Robusta futures in London advanced.  The gathering, “which should have already started by now,
was held back since farmers are waiting for the rains to stop,”
 Nguyen Van Sinh , deputy head of the agricultural department in
Dak Lak, said by phone yesterday. “If they pick coffee now,
they won’t be able to dry and store the beans.”  Vietnam is the world’s biggest grower of robusta, used in
instant drinks and espressos, and the harvest delay may boost
prices that have rallied 40 percent over the past year amid bad
weather and global supply problems. Rains may last until about
Nov. 10, the Dak Lak Hydrology and Meteorology Office said.  “Rains have delayed the crop’s harvesting for about a week
already, causing beans to hit the market later than in previous
years,” said Bui Hung Manh, head of the business department at
Tay Nguyen Coffee Investment, Import and Export Co., the
country’s biggest coffee exporter.  Robusta futures on NYSE Liffe in London touched $2,010 a
metric ton on Nov. 1, the highest price since Oct. 3, 2008,
according to Bloomberg data. The January-delivery contract
rallied as much as 2 percent to $1,971 a ton today. Arabica has
also surged, touching $2.046 a pound last month on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the highest level since August 1997.  Harvest Forecasts  Coffee output from Vietnam’s current harvest may drop by as
much as 3 percent to 1.1 million tons, according to an Oct. 29
forecast from Nguyen Van An, a board member of the Vietnam
Coffee and Cocoa Association.  A Bloomberg News survey of 10 growers, analysts and traders
last month predicted an increase in the nation’s harvest to 1.2
million tons. Separately, officials in Dak Lak, Lam Dong and Gia
Lai have all forecast gains in their regions.  The Dak Lak harvest may climb 5.3 percent to 400,000 tons
this year, the agricultural department’s Sinh said last month.
The province has about 180,000 hectares (444,780 acres) of
coffee out of Vietnam’s total of 500,000 hectares.  Rainfall in Dak Lak in the first 10 days of this month will
beat the average for same period in previous years, according to
a Nov. 1 report from the Dak Lak Hydrology and Meteorology
Office. “There’s no way farmers can pick coffee now,”  Nguyen Dai Nguong , head of the weather office, said by phone yesterday.
“There’s no flood in coffee areas though,” he said.  Rainfall in Buon Ma Thuot, the capital of Dak Lak, totaled
254.8 millimeters last month, compared with 215.7 millimeters in
October last year, according to weather office data.  “We don’t want to sign any export contracts now, since
there is almost no coffee to buy in the local market,” said  Le Duc Thong , general director of Dak Lak-based Sept 2nd Import-
Export Co., Vietnam’s third-biggest coffee exporter. “We’ll
wait a while to see how the weather and the harvest will be,”
Thong said by phone yesterday.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen . Editor:  Jake Lloyd-Smith   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  