-- Colombian Peso Jumps Most in Four Months on Federal Reserve Bond Purchases
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-11-04T19:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/colombian-peso-jumps-most-in-10-weeks-on-federal-reserve-bond-purchases.html
Colombia’s peso rose the most in four
months as the Federal Reserve’s plan to pump more money into the
world’s biggest economy fueled demand for higher-yielding,
emerging-market assets.  The Fed said yesterday it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June as part of its record
stimulus to reduce unemployment and avert deflation. The debt
buying is known as quantitative easing because it aims to
increase the quantity of money. Yesterday’s action has been
dubbed “QE2” by analysts and investors because it’s the second
round of quantitative easing.  The Colombian peso climbed 1 percent to 1,818.15 per U.S.
dollar at 2:51 p.m. New York time, from 1,836.95 yesterday. It
was the biggest jump since July 8. Today’s gain pushed the peso
up 12.4 percent this year, the third-best performance after the
Iceland krona and Thai baht among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The trend for inflows to continue pressuring gains in
Latin American currencies will remain because of QE2,” said
 Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York. “Investors are seeking growth and
yield.”  Measures announced last week by Colombian officials to ease
the peso’s rally will help temper some of the local currency’s
gains, according to Alvarez.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said Oct. 29 the
government will eliminate most tax exemptions on overseas
borrowing and keep $1.5 billion abroad “at least for the first
months of 2011” to reduce the inflow of dollars. The government
will also buy as much as $3.7 billion through the currency
forwards market to hedge foreign debt payments, he said.  Ecopetrol Dollar Sales  The same day, central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said the
institution will keep buying a minimum of $20 million a day
through auctions until at least March 15, two months longer than
previously planned. He also left open the possibility of
additional purchases, saying the bank can buy dollars in the
market through a local clearing house “at any time.”  “Colombian markets are just digesting the new set of
measures,” said Alvarez. He forecasts the peso will end this
year at 1,830 per dollar.  State oil company Ecopetrol SA will avoid bringing in about
$2.5 billion from abroad in a bid to ease the local currency’s
rally, Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said in an
 interview  with La Republica newspaper.  Besides the $1.4 billion in dividends the company will pay
the government in an overseas account, Ecopetrol is paying
contractors and providers in dollars and will sell bonds locally
instead of abroad, he said, according to the Bogota-based daily.  So far this year, Ecopetrol has sold about $2.9 billion in
the local currency market, Gutierrez said, according to the
daily.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.02
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price rose 0.604 centavo to 127.276 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  