-- Commonfund Ends Property Investing as Fund Almost Wiped Out
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/commonfund-ends-property-investing-as-1-billion-fund-is-almost-wiped-out.html
Commonfund, the money manager for
endowments and foundations, is stopping direct real estate
investments as it seeks to restructure a $1 billion fund that
lost most of its value.  Timothy Shine, who joined the firm in 2000 and ran the real
estate group, left effective Oct. 31, according to an Oct. 11
letter to clients. The unit’s Commonfund Realty Investors fund
is working with lenders to restructure its debt.  Shine’s unit had bought assets such as San Francisco office
buildings, the St. Regis hotel project in Dallas and California
vineyards, using debt to help finance the deals. Commonfund
wrote down the fund’s holdings to close to zero as capital
markets tumbled in the aftermath of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. ’s 2008 bankruptcy, said two people briefed on the results.  The property unit is “actively working with the fund’s
lenders with the goal to recover as much investor capital as
possible,”  Verne Sedlacek , chief executive officer of
Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut, said in the letter, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Shine is the latest executive to leave Commonfund, a 39-
year-old firm that manages $25.5 billion for nonprofits. Hugh
Scott, co-head of the real estate fund, left in January.  Separately,  Lyn Hutton  resigned as chief investment officer
in  October  after seven years in the job and almost three decades
at the firm. In 2008, Commonfund restricted withdrawals from $10
billion of cash-management funds when clients were being
squeezed by the financial crisis.  Westport, Anglo Irish  The real estate group recently signed leases on more than
300,000 square feet of space and refinanced an existing
property, signs that the market is slowly picking up, said Keith
Luke, a spokesman for Commonfund. The firm doesn’t have a
deadline for the fund’s restructuring, which may include sales
of “selective” properties, Luke said.  Hutton’s departure wasn’t related to the real estate
losses, he said. Shine didn’t return phone calls seeking
comment.  Commonfund hired Westport Capital Partners LLC in
Connecticut to advise on refinancing its debt after violating
loan covenants, according to the two people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Commonfund will
continue to invest in real estate through its “more traditional
fund-of-funds approach,” Sedlacek said in the investor letter.  Westport and Commonfund are negotiating loan terms with
lenders including Dublin-based  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , said one
of the people. The fund lost 87 percent in the fourth quarter of
2009 and first three months of this year. Commonfund didn’t
release a June 30 valuation of the fund to clients, the person
said.  Tumbling prices  Luke, who wouldn’t comment on the fund’s returns, said the
portfolio has been written down “significantly.” The group
sold some assets “at nicely appreciated rates” in 2007 and
started investing in properties it could sell to developers.
Those yielded less cash, which presented a “cash flow
challenge” when property values fell and banks weren’t
financing deals, Luke said.  U.S. commercial property prices tumbled for a third
straight month in August to the lowest level in eight years,
pulled down by declining values for distressed real estate,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The Moody’s/REAL
Commercial Property Price Index fell 3.3 percent from the prior
month to surpass the post-crash low in October 2009, the company
said in an Oct. 19 statement.  300 clients  As of June 2008, Commonfund’s real estate group had
produced a 16 percent average annual return since its September
1999 inception, beating its long-term target of 11 percent to 15
percent, according to a 2008 marketing document. At that point,
the fund had gained 9.7 percent annually in the previous three
years.  Commonfund Realty made investments in Boston, Washington,
Miami, Chicago, Dallas and California, and clients included more
than 300 not-for-profit investors, according to the marketing
materials.  The fund made its first investment in 1999. It paid $37.2
million for 799 Market Street, a 142,900-square-foot mixed-use,
fully leased building in San Francisco, with the potential to
increase rents, the marketing document shows.  In 2007, Commonfund put $20 million into the St. Regis
hotel project in Dallas, according to the marketing document.
Partnering with  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. , the
firm projected an 18 percent to 20 percent return on the
investment. The development was delayed because of the credit
crunch, the Dallas Business Journal reported in August 2009.  In 2007 and 2008, the firm also acquired land for vineyard
development it valued at more than $47 million, accumulating
property in towns including Mendocino, California, Salem,
Oregon, and Wahluke Slope, Washington.  Assets Fall  Commonfund’s assets have dropped 39 percent in the past two
years. In July, the firm promoted  Nicholas De Monico  to serve as
Hutton’s deputy, and named three managing directors as it
announced efforts to expand its asset-management group for
school funds and to court public pensions.  A week later, Commonfund told its real estate investors
that it was working with “outside advisers and the fund’s
lenders in an attempt to restructure the debt,” according to a
July 19 memo from Sedlacek.  ‘Historic’ Collapse Blamed  “While CRI followed what we believed to be a sound value-
add strategy with low to moderate leverage compared to many
funds, the fall in property values and lack of buyers in the
market has led to a significant writedown of investor equity,”
Sedlacek said in the memo. “Clearly, few anticipated the extent
of this historic market collapse and we are sincerely regretful
for the position in which this has put our real estate
investors,” he wrote.  About $60 million remains to be called from the real estate
fund, and it’s not clear whether investors will get any of their
money back from the fund, said one of the people.  Hutton, also the former treasurer of Dartmouth College in
Hanover, New Hampshire, will join Prager, Sealy & Co. as its
chief operating officer in December. Scott, the co-head of the
real estate fund, had left Commonfund after 14 years at the firm
to “pursue a new business venture and spend long overdue time
with his family,” according to a Jan. 27 investor memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 