-- Commodities to Jump, Standard Chartered’s Murthy Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-11-04T08:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/commodities-to-surge-on-demand-dollar-standard-chartered-s-murthy-says.html
Commodity prices are set to surge,
driven by a weaker dollar and increased demand, according to
 Standard Chartered Plc , which plans to boost hiring in metals,
agriculture and coal by 10 percent next year as revenue climbs.  “We’re still in a leg up,”  Arun Murthy , global head of
commodities, said in an interview. “You may have 10 percent, 15
percent retracement in prices, but that would offer a buying
opportunity,” said Murthy, who spent 11 years at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ’s commodities team in Singapore and worked at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. before joining Standard Chartered.  Commodities as measured by the  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index  have increased 18 percent in the second half as a
China-led recovery boosted demand for raw materials. Over the
next five years, Asian exchanges will start to set, not follow,
commodity prices, Murthy said.  “The level of activity in Asia, Africa and the Middle East
is increasing,” said Murthy, who joined the bank in October
2008 as global head of energy trading and later took on his
current role. “The trend is set to continue, especially as
economic power shifts from West to East.”  London-based Standard Chartered, which generates more than
90 percent of profit from Asia, Africa and the Middle East,
reported record first-half  net income  of $2.15 billion. Revenue
from energy, metals and agriculture, up 15 percent in the first
10 months, may gain 20 percent on year by the end of 2010, said
Murthy, declining to say how much the commodities unit made.  Coal, Rubber  “We see opportunities in coal, palm oil, the platinum-
group metals and rubber, and iron ore,” primarily in
derivatives, Murthy said yesterday. The unit may increase
headcount by about 10 percent next year from the current 80, he
said. The team numbered 35 when Murthy started at the bank.  Among recent hires are  Alan Koh , who spent 15 years at
Morgan Stanley, and Guy Williams, previously with Citigroup Inc.
Koh became global head of energy sales in Singapore, while
Williams leads the agriculture-trading business in London.  Copper, which traded as high as $8,499 a metric ton today,
has surged 29 percent over the past year on rising demand and a
weaker U.S. currency. Cotton climbed to a record $1.3920 a pound
this week; gold traded an all-time high of $1,387.35 an ounce
last month; and New York crude has risen 7.9 percent this year.  Copper will extend a bull run as “mammoth demand” from
China and supply constraints drive the market into a deficit
from next year to 2014,  Michael Haigh , Standard Chartered’s head
of commodity research, said today at a seminar in Seoul.  ‘Very Bullish’  The  dollar’s weakness , inflationary pressure in the U.S.
over the next 12 to 18 months, and stronger emerging-market
demand, all “imply that commodities are going to be very
bullish,” Murthy said.  Murthy’s forecast echoes that from APG Asset Management,
which oversees investments for the world’s third-largest pension
fund.  Olav Houben , senior portfolio manager commodities at the
Amsterdam-based company, said last month that commodities will
extend gains on increased demand from emerging markets.  The  Dollar Index  has dropped 14 percent from this year’s
high in June to yesterday’s close, boosting investment demand
for metals and grains. The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday
that it would buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries in a
bid to stimulate growth and cut unemployment.  Revenue Boost  Standard Chartered’s commodities revenue has been boosted
by financing inventories of aluminum, fuel and agricultural
products, Murthy said. The bank may also in future take delivery
of metals from the mines that it finances and sell the product
to consumers in China, he said.  China’s raw-material needs have increased over the past
five years, accounting for about 41 percent of global copper
demand and 39 percent of cotton sales, according to Morgan
Stanley estimates. Manufacturing in the country expanded at the
fastest in six months in October even after policy makers raised
interest rates and boosted reserve requirements at banks.  Exchanges and banks are expanding into iron ore as China,
the largest buyer of the key ingredient for steel, increased
demand to a record last year.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. , operator
of the city-state’s securities and derivatives markets, became
the first bourse to clear swaps of the raw material last year,
followed by LCH Clearnet Ltd. and Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  As China’s demand continues to expand, trade volumes on the
Shanghai and Dalian commodity exchanges will increase,
influencing prices on Western bourses, including the London
Metal Exchange, he said.  “We can expect that in the next five years, Asia will set
the benchmark,” subject to deregulation in China, including
allowing overseas companies to trade on commodity exchanges,
Murthy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  