-- Commercial-Mortgage Index Soars as BlackRock Loss Estimates Add Confidence
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-04T15:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/commercial-mortgage-index-soars-as-blackrock-loss-estimates-add-confidence.html
An index tied to commercial property
debt soared to the highest level in more than two years after
BlackRock Inc. projected losses on the securities won’t be as
severe as investors expected.  The price of a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index linked to
junior AAA commercial-mortgage bonds, many of which have had
ratings cuts, increased as much as 1.75 percentage points to
77.46 yesterday. Credit-default swap contracts on the index,
which rises as investor confidence improves, are trading at
the highest level since September 2008, the data show.  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
published loss expectations on Nov. 1 for the securities,
calculated by the New York-based asset manager. The regulator
group hired BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, to
assess more than 7,000 commercial-mortgage backed securities and
determine how much cash insurers must hold to cushion against
price declines.  “There was some concern that loss estimates would be
substantially higher,” said  Howard Chin , a money manager at
Guardian Life Insurance Company of America in New York. “This
sets the tone for what sort of capital insurance companies have
to hold.”  Higher loss estimates may have forced insurance companies
to sell commercial-mortgage bonds because of capital
requirements, Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts said in a
report yesterday.  “The announcement of loss estimates in this range reduces
the probability that insurance companies will be pushed to
sell,” the mortgage debt, the analysts led by Roger Lehman in
New York said.  Pimco, BlackRock  BlackRock doesn’t comment on client activity, said
spokeswoman  Lauren Trengrove .  Prices on swap contracts linked to deals sold from 2006 to
2008, when underwriting standards slipped posing the biggest
risk of loss to investors, increased the most, according to
 Brian Lancaster , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Stamford, Connecticut.  The Markit CMBX index has risen 37.8 percent this year, the
data show.  The NAIC chose Pacific Investment Management Co., manager
of the world’s largest bond fund, to evaluate home-loan
securities. Analysis from BlackRock and Pimco is being used in
place of ratings from Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &
Poor’s to determine capital requirements. Life insurance
companies asked for relief last year from the regulator group
after the capital required to protect against losses on mortgage
investments soared.  Loss Estimates  The loss estimates are lower than those forecast by some
Wall Street banks, according to a report yesterday from RBS.  Average losses range from between 9.9 percent to 12
percent, according to the NAIC release, compared with estimates
that had generally been between 12 percent and 15 percent, the
RBS analysts said.  Also, assumptions on how much real estate values will fall
are not as severe as those being reported by other indexes, such
as from Moody’s, the RBS analysts said. In the most likely
scenario, assigned a 55 percent probability, prices will fall 32
percent from peaks before reaching a bottom, according to the
model distributed by the NAIC.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index shows that
U.S. commercial property prices tumbled for a third straight
month in August to the lowest level in eight years, and are down
45 percent from October 2007 peaks.  Late payments on commercial mortgages bundled and sold as
bonds are at a record 8.24 percent, compared with 3.64 percent a
year ago, according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.netmsg  