-- High-Yield Debt Risk Index Drops to Six-Month Low on Stimulus
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-11-04T15:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on high-yield corporate bonds fell to the lowest level in six
months in Europe after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it will
expand record measures to bolster economic recovery.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly junk credit ratings decreased 17
basis points to 439, the lowest level since May 3, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 3 p.m. in London  The Fed said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries and keep interest rates low for an “extended
period,” after near-zero rates and $1.7 trillion in asset
purchases failed to bring down unemployment. The move breathed
new life into a five-month rally in high-yield debt that stalled
in the past two weeks.  “There is substantial uncertainty whether this will
work,”  Christian Weber , a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit
SpA, wrote in a note to investors. “The move comes as a
desperate one and yet again reveals that the Fed has nothing but
hope and rhetoric left.”  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 3 basis points to 96.25,
JPMorgan prices show.  The Fed’s second round of so-called quantitative easing
failed to boost confidence in Europe’s peripheral governments
and banks. Credit-default swaps on Ireland surged 30 basis
points to a record 590, and contracts on Allied Irish Banks
Plc’s senior debt jumped 62 to an all-time high 816, according
to data provider CMA.  SovX Europe  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments from Greece to Germany rose 2.5 basis points to
167.5, near to the June 4 record 168.5. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index linked to the senior debt of 25 banks and
insurers held near a one-month high at 129.  “Even though QE2 is lifting the outlook for most assets
the outlook still appears fairly bleak for the peripherals and
European financials are most sensitive to this,”  Jim Reid , head
of fundamental strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in
a note to investors.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($14 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  