-- Cotton Soars to Record as China Mill Buying May Further Erode Tight Supply
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cotton-soars-to-record-as-china-mill-buying-may-further-erode-tight-supply.html
Cotton soared to a record $1.4052 a
pound in New York on concern that global demand led by China
will outstrip production and erode inventories.  Prices have rallied 86 percent this year on concern that
damage to China’s crop may force domestic mills to import more
cotton than estimated, reducing global stockpiles already
forecast to drop to a 14-year low. The fiber has been the best-
performing commodity on the  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index 
over the past 12 months.  “Even at $1.35, demand has not cooled off,” said  Rogers Varner , the president of brokerage Varner Bros. in Cleveland,
Mississippi. “It’s a bull feast.”  Cotton for December delivery rose 4.93 cents, or 3.6
percent, to settle at $1.4045 a pound at 2:48 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. Earlier, prices reached $1.4052, the highest level
since the fiber began trading 140 years ago. The commodity has
more than doubled in the past 12 months.  In China, cotton futures for May delivery reached a record
of 29,980 yuan a metric ton yesterday on the Zhengzhou Commodity
Exchange.  The U.S., the world’s biggest exporter, shipped 560,798
bales of upland cotton for the week ended Oct. 28, up 20 percent
from the average of the previous four weeks, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said today. China, the largest user of the fiber,
 purchased  59 percent of the exports.  Government Price Control  China’s government is increasing its control on the price
of cotton and will pay attention to challenges faced by textile
companies, said Wen Zhongliang, the commercial counselor at the
Ministry of Commerce’s foreign trade department. Wen attributed
rising prices to an expected production deficit this year and
speculative buying.  “Small, family-owned mills are forced to close due to raw-
cotton prices being too high,”  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst
at First Capitol Group LLC in Atlanta, said in a report
yesterday. China is “especially hard hit,” she said.  Boraas Waefveri AB said it filed for bankruptcy as the
rising cost of cotton and a lack of sales at the Krenholm
Valduse division in Estonia prevented the Swedish textile maker
from returning to profit.  Surging cotton prices may mean more expensive clothes,
sheets and towels as textile mills including India’s  Arvind Ltd. 
and retailers such as Next Plc pass along higher costs to their
customers.  Next, a Leicester, England-based clothing retailer, said
yesterday it will raise prices as much as 8 percent in the first
quarter because of the jump in costs. Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based
Arvind, the world’s largest denim maker and a supplier to jeans
maker Levi Strauss & Co. and Gap Inc., has raised prices by as
much as 15 percent, Citigroup Inc. economists  Rohini Malkani  and
 Anushka Shah  wrote in an Oct. 11 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  