-- Cotton Record Price Lifts Costs for Gap Denim Supplier, Fun-Tees
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cotton-s-record-surge-boosts-costs-for-levi-gap-denim-supplier-fun-tees.html
A doubling of cotton prices since
Feb. 1 may mean more expensive clothes, sheets and towels as
textile mills including India’s  Arvind Ltd.  and retailers such
as Next Plc pass along higher costs to their customers.  Next, a Leicester, England-based clothing retailer, said
yesterday it will raise prices as much as 8 percent in the first
quarter because of the jump in costs. Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based
Arvind, the world’s largest denim maker and a supplier to jeans
maker Levi Strauss & Co. and Gap Inc., have raised prices by as
much as 15 percent, Citigroup Inc. economists  Rohini Malkani  and
 Anushka Shah  wrote in an Oct. 11 report.  “We will have to wait and see if further price increases
to reflect future cotton prices ultimately cause demand
destruction,”  Delta Apparel Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Humphreys  told analysts on an earnings conference call on Oct.
28. The Greenville, South Carolina-based owner of Fun-Tees Inc.
and sportswear maker MJ Soffe Co., plans to charge more for
catalog and private-label clothing, he said.  Cotton futures surged to $1.392 a pound yesterday in New
York, the highest price in 140 years of trading, on signs that
dwindling global supplies won’t meet mounting demand from  China ,
the biggest user. Cotton’s 79 percent gain this year was the
biggest on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities.  “Retailers are going to be forced to up their prices,”
said  Andy Ryan , a senior-risk management consultant at FCStone
Fibers & Textiles in Nashville, Tennessee. Consumers probably
won’t see the increases until after the holidays, he said.  Consumers may pay as much as 2 percent more for cotton
apparel including denim in 2011, said Kim Kitchings, a senior
director at Cotton Inc., a research and promotional organization
for the industry in New York.  Low-End Buyers  Buyers of low-end products, where profit margins for
retailers are thinnest, will be the hardest hit, said Armelle
Gruere, a statistician at the  International Cotton Advisory
Committee  in Washington.  The increased cost of cotton may boost the retail price of
an average pair of jeans by about 40 cents, Gruere said. “For
$10 or $15 jeans, you’ll notice the difference,” she said.  World  cotton demand  is forecast to rise to 120.77 million
bales for the season that ends July 31, up 2.6 percent from last
year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said Oct. 8. Global use
will outpace production by 4.09 million bales, the agency said.
A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  Bowling Green, Kentucky-based Fruit of the Loom, a closely
held underwear maker, estimates it uses about 425 million pounds
of yarn each year, of which about 65 percent is cotton.  Retail ‘Nightmare’  “It’s a worst nightmare for a retailer to have to up their
prices,” FCStone consultant Ryan said.  Retail stores in the U.S. are reluctant to raise prices
because consumers have cut back on spending, according to Judith
Russell, executive editor of the  Apparel Strategist , a monthly
newsletter on the textile industry.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  fell to an 11-month low of 67.7 in October.  “We’re in a rationing mode, so something has to give,”
said  Rogers Varner , the president of cotton brokerage Varner
Bros. in Cleveland, Mississippi.  To protect profit margins and limit price increases, some
manufacturers will increase the amount of cheaper polyester
fibers in clothing, rugs and car upholstery.  Mill use of the synthetic fiber, a common substitute for
cotton, surged to 22.4 million pounds (10,160 metric tons) in
September, up 21 percent from the month before and 22 percent
higher than a year earlier, the U.S. Census Bureau said on Oct.
28.  Cotton-Poly Blends  “Given surging cotton prices, we have already seen more
cotton-poly blends” from manufacturers, said  Andreas Engelhardt , a senior manager at Oerlikon Saurer Arbon, a unit of
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based  OC Oerlikon Corp. , that makes
machinery for cotton, wool and man-made fiber spinners.  Polyester in China climbed to 83.43 cents a pound in the
week ended Oct. 28, up 40 percent from a year earlier, the
National Cotton Council said in its weekly cotton  report . Cotton
rose to $1.8075 a pound in China, an increase of 90 percent from
12 months earlier, it said.  “We’ll see prices ease over time,” said  Sharon Johnson , a
senior analyst at First Capitol Group LLC. “How quickly that
happens, that’s the hard part.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  