-- Cotton Nears Record Prices on Concern Worldwide Demand May Exceed Supplies
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-11-04T07:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/cotton-in-new-york-china-gains-to-near-records-on-supply-shortage-concern.html
Cotton advanced for a fifth day in
New York to trade near a record and prices in Zhengzhou advanced
to near an all-time high on concern that global demand led by
China will outstrip supplies.  Cotton for December delivery rose as much as 1.6 percent to
$1.377 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. and traded at $1.375 at 4:04
p.m. Tokyo time. The price reached $1.392 yesterday, the highest
level since the fiber started trading 140 years ago.  “There’s been an increase in purchases by commercial
hedgers who are concerned about tightening supplies, especially
in China,” said  Han Sung Min , a broker at Korea Exchange Bank
Futures Co. in Seoul.  Cotton has surged 80 percent this year, the best-performing
commodity on the  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index . Prices are
rallying on concern that a production deficit in China may be
wider than estimated, forcing mills to import more from global
stockpiles that already are forecast to drop to a 14-year low.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter, while China is
the biggest consumer. A doubling of cotton prices since Feb. 1
may mean more expensive clothes, sheets and towels as textile
mills including India’s  Arvind Ltd.  and retailers such as Next
Plc pass along higher costs to their customers.  Futures for May delivery rose as much as 0.9 percent from
the previous settlement to 29,920 yuan a metric ton ($4,481) on
the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange. They settled at 29,745 yuan
after reaching a record 29,980 yuan yesterday.  Raw-Material Shortage  China’s government is increasing its control on the price
of cotton and will pay attention to challenges faced by textile
companies, Wen Zhongliang, commercial counselor at the Ministry
of Commerce’s foreign trade department, said today. Wen
attributed rising prices to an expected deficit this year and
speculative buying.  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, publisher
of the official Purchasing Manager’s Index, said yesterday that
the textile market has “a shortage of raw material.” China’s
2011 cotton output will fall for a third year as mill use
increases, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Global production is forecast to lag behind demand for a
fifth straight year, draining stockpiles to the lowest level in
14 years, according to an Oct. 8 estimate by the USDA. An 18.5
million-bale production deficit in China this year may push the
nation’s inventories to a 16-year low, according to USDA data.  The USDA estimates were released before a hailstorm hit
Texas, the largest U.S. growing state, on Oct. 21. The China
Meteorological Center said on Oct. 25 that a cold front moving
across the nation might hamper cotton harvesting and reduce
fiber quality, adding to global supply concerns. The USDA will
update its crop  forecast  on Nov. 9.  Next, a Leicester, England-based clothing retailer, said
yesterday it will raise prices as much as 8 percent in the first
quarter because of the jump in costs. Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based
Arvind, the world’s largest denim maker and a supplier to jeans
maker Levi Strauss & Co. and Gap Inc., has raised prices by as
much as 15 percent, Citigroup Inc. economists  Rohini Malkani  and
 Anushka Shah  wrote in an Oct. 11 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  