-- Currency, Unemployment Tensions Risk Protectionism, WTO, OECD Tell G-20
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-11-04T16:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/currency-unemployment-tensions-risk-protectionism-wto-oecd-tell-g-20.html
Tensions over exchange rates and high
unemployment threaten to stoke protectionism, the World Trade
Organization and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development told the Group of 20 major global economies.  There has been a “dangerous increase” in pressure on
governments to shield their domestic industries from foreign
competition by applying barriers to commerce, the two
organizations and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development said today in a report commissioned by the G-20 for
its summit in Seoul next week.  The report comes two weeks after WTO Director General
 Pascal Lamy  said disagreements about exchange-rate policies may
threaten economic stability and trade while putting the recovery
from the worst recession in 60 years in “serious jeopardy.”
The Paris-based OECD, which advises members on policy, cautioned
G-20 leaders yesterday that unilateral intervention in foreign-
exchange markets risks fueling protectionism and harming the
global economy.  “Higher risks for the world economy are being generated by
turbulence in currency markets” and by behavior by certain
governments that “some may perceive as a deliberate pursuit of
an exchange rate-induced comparative advantage,” the three
organizations said in today’s  report .  The G-20 summit, which brings together leaders from
industrialized nations such as the U.S., Germany and Japan and
major emerging economies like China, Brazil and India that
together account for 85 percent of the world economy, aims to
agree a plan to avoid another global financial crisis. The  Seoul
G-20 summit  will be held Nov. 11-12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 