-- Czech Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate at Record Low for Fourth Meeting
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-11-04T12:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/czech-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-record-low-for-fourth-meeting.html
Czech monetary policy makers kept the
benchmark interest rate at a record low for a fourth meeting
with inflation in line with the central bank’s target.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the two-week repurchase rate
at 0.75 percent, matching the forecasts of 13 out of 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One expected a quarter-point
increase. The bank will comment on the decision at a news
conference scheduled for 2:30 p.m. in Prague, during which it
will also release an update of its economic forecasts.  “We expect a more optimistic forecast and more hawkish
commentary,” CSOB Bank AS wrote in a report before the rate
decision. The central bank forecast in August economic growth of
1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2011 and signaled
interest rates would remain stable until mid-2011.  The Czech  economy , where exports including cars made by
Volkswagen AG’s Skoda Auto account for about 70 percent of gross
domestic product, is recovering from its worst recession since
the end of communism as demand picks up in western  Europe . GDP
expanded an annual 2.4 percent in the three months through June,
the fastest pace in eight quarters.  Since a Sept. 23 rate meeting, data showed that industrial
 output  grew an annual 12.9 percent in August, the second fastest
in 2010.  Inflation  accelerated to an 18-month high of 2 percent
in September, matching the central bank’s target, on rising
prices for food, tobacco and housing. The current central bank
outlook  forecasts  the inflation rate will below the target in
the third and fourth quarters of next year.  Policy makers debated the timing of monetary tightening at
the September meeting, when board member  Eva Zamrazilova  cast
the first vote for a rate increase after two years of cuts.  “We don’t believe that there is a majority on the central
bank board in favor of a hike, even though we would not rule
out that as many as three board members could vote in favor of
one,” Danske Bank A/S said in a note to client today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  