-- DBS Group's Third-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates on Loan Growth
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-04T03:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dbs-group-s-third-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-loan-growth.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as loan growth outweighed narrowing interest
margins.  Net income climbed 28 percent to a record S$722 million
($562 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, from S$563
million a year earlier, the Singapore-based company said in a
statement today. That beat the S$655.3 million  average  of nine
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  DBS, led by Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta , is
benefiting from a revival in credit growth as Asia’s economic
expansion outpaces the rest of the world. That has spurred
profit even as income from lending is crimped by low borrowing
costs in Singapore and Hong Kong.  “The increase in loan volumes has helped banks to maintain
their net interest income even though margins have been
declining,” said  Magdalene Choong , an analyst at Singapore-
based Phillip Securities Pte. “Going forward, growth may come
from non-interest income as net interest margins are likely to
fall further.”  DBS rose 0.7 percent to S$14.20 at 11:01 a.m. on the
Singapore stock exchange. The stock has fallen 7.8 percent this
year, while rival United Overseas Bank Ltd. has lost 6.3 percent
and  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.  has climbed 3.2 percent.  Interest Income  Net interest income, or the difference between what DBS
makes from lending and pays on deposits, rose 1 percent from the
previous quarter to S$1.1 billion. Loans climbed 1 percent,
spurred by corporate borrowing across Asia as well as home loans
in Singapore. The net interest margin, a measure of loan
profitability, declined four basis points to 1.8 percent.  Singapore’s three-month interbank lending rate, or  Sibor ,
has averaged 0.58 percent this year. The equivalent rate in Hong
Kong, Hibor, has averaged 0.25 percent.  Total loans in Singapore rose 12.1 percent from a year
earlier to S$309.4 billion in September,  data  from the Monetary
Authority of Singapore show.  Non-interest income fell 2 percent from the previous
quarter to S$730 million as loan-related fees dropped and
trading income weakened, DBS said. Investment banking revenue
rose, the statement said. Expenses increased 1 percent, while
non-performing assets declined 6 percent.  “Our core revenue drivers are gaining greater traction,”
CEO Gupta said in the statement. Loan expansion is “mitigating
the effect of headwinds in a low-rate market,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  