-- Dell Aims to Stay Ahead of HP in China Computer Sales
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-11-04T10:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dell-aims-to-stay-ahead-of-hp-in-personal-computers-in-china-.html
Dell Inc. , which overtook bigger
rival  Hewlett-Packard Co.  in China’s personal-computer market
this year, said it aims to remain ahead on demand from corporate
clients.  “We aspire to continue to grow successfully here,”  Steve Schuckenbrock , president of the company’s large enterprise
division, told reporters at a briefing in Hong Kong today.  The Round Rock, Texas-based company beat Hewlett-Packard,
the world’s biggest PC maker, to take second position in China,
behind only  Lenovo Group Ltd. , in the second quarter, according
to research company IDC. Dell is winning sales at clients
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s China division, and expanding
its distribution network in smaller cities.  In addition to sales of PCs, Dell aims to increase revenue
from computer services, said  Alex Yung , a vice-president in the
China division. Dell last year bought Perot Systems Corp.,
acquiring assets including  BearingPoint Inc. ’s consulting
practice in China, to challenge  International Business Machines
Corp.  and Hewlett-Packard in the computer-services market.  Liana Teo, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Hewlett-
Packard, didn’t immediately reply to messages left on her e-
mail, office and mobile phones seeking comment.  Dell plans to build two data centers in China, and expand
its production and operations center in the western city of
Chengdu, Schuckenbrock said. Spending in China, Dell’s second-
biggest market, will exceed $100 billion over the next 10 years,
the company said in September.  Hewlett-Packard accounted for 8.2 percent of China’s PC
shipments in the second quarter, compared with Dell’s 9 percent,
according to IDC. Lenovo, China’s biggest PC maker, increased
its market share to 28.7 percent, IDC said.  Globally, Dell ranks third in PC shipments behind Hewlett-
Packard and Taiwan’s Acer Inc., according to IDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  