-- Democrat Quinn Wins Race for Governor of Illinois, AP Reports
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-04T22:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/democrat-quinn-wins-race-for-governor-of-illinois-ap-reports.html
Illinois  Democrat  Pat Quinn , who
became governor when  Rod Blagojevich  was impeached and ousted in
2009, will remain the state’s chief executive, the Associated
Press says.  Republican  Bill Brady , a state senator, won’t be able to
overcome Quinn’s 19,400-vote lead from the Nov. 2 election, the
news service reported after analyzing the results. Quinn led by
46.6 percent to 46.1 percent with all precincts counted,
according to AP. Almost 3.7 million votes were cast.  Brady, who had said he wouldn’t concede until all votes
were counted, was in Springfield, where the Senate was scheduled
to consider a measure authorizing the state to borrow money to
pay the state’s pension contribution.  Brady said yesterday that he would “wait for the results
from local election officials.”  The state has not made an official statement on the tally.
Quinn made no immediate comment.  Illinois faces a projected $13 billion deficit in the
current fiscal year, according to Comptroller  Daniel Hynes . By
January, the estimated 2012 gap may be $15 billion, Hynes has
said. Quinn, 61, a former lieutenant governor, has proposed
boosting the state’s 3 percent income tax to 4 percent.  As Illinois faces its worst-ever fiscal crisis, the state’s
unfunded pension liability is projected to reach at least $79
billion. Moody’s Investors Service gives Illinois general-
obligation debt an A1 grade, ranking it with California as the
nation’s lowest.  Holding On  Quinn survived as other Democratic governors were swept out
of office in the Nov. 2 election, as voters expressed
dissatisfaction with the economy and many incumbents.  States have curbed spending, cut jobs and raised taxes to
deal with what the National Conference of State Legislatures
says is almost  $84 billion  in budget deficits this fiscal year,
following the longest recession since the Great Depression. In
Illinois, an  unemployment rate  that reached 11.5 percent in
March helped make the economy and its effects on state finances
major issues.  On Oct. 4, Hynes warned of “chaotic fiscal conditions”
and projected that the pile of unpaid state bills would reach $8
billion by June 30, when the budget year ends. Illinois is “in
the worst fiscal position in its history,” Hynes said in a July
 report .  Quinn proposed increasing the income-tax increase in
January, which would add about $3 billion in revenue a year.
Lawmakers declined to act on it. His budget director told
Bloomberg News in July that the General Assembly would raise the
rate to 5 percent after the election.  Out of Work  The road to economic recovery is partly blocked by
unemployment. The state’s jobless rate hasn’t been less than 9
percent since February 2009, the month after Quinn took office.
Individual income-tax revenue fell 7.7 percent to $8.51 billion
in fiscal 2010, after dropping 11 percent in the previous year,
according to figures posted on the comptroller’s website.  Balancing the budget and restoring the state’s pension
funds to fiscal health will likely take more than a decade,
according to Tom Johnson, president of the nonpartisan
 Taxpayers’ Federation of Illinois .  Illinois borrowed to cover its retirement plan
contributions last year and hasn’t paid them this year. The
Illinois State Board of Investments, which manages about 20
percent of funds held by the pension plans, is selling $80
million of assets a month to pay current benefits, according to
 William R. Atwood , its executive director.  Business leaders warned that because the state hasn’t
funded its pension plans, it will run out of money to pay
promised benefits before the end of the decade.  The state had $64 billion of assets to pay estimated
liabilities of $126.4 billion, or less than half the amount
needed for almost 723,000 workers, retirees and other
beneficiaries, according to bond documents in June.  Quinn sought to borrow $3.7 billion by selling bonds to pay
for the state’s current contribution, a plan that failed to pass
the state Legislature. While Brady has criticized Quinn for his
borrowing plans, he said on Oct. 5 that he would consider
issuing $50 billion of bonds to cover the pension deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 