-- Deutsche Telekom Operating Profit Drops on U.S. Costs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-04T08:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/deutsche-telekom-third-quarter-net-income-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s largest
telecommunications company, said third-quarter operating profit
dropped as the company had higher costs to win U.S. clients.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to 5.02 billion euros ($7.1 billion) from 5.53
billion euros a year earlier, the Bonn-based company said in a
statement today. Analysts had estimated operating profit of 5.09
billion euros. Sales slid to 6.32 billion euros from 6.47
billion euros. The company confirmed its full-year targets.  Deutsche Telekom has increased subsidies for mobile phones
in the U.S. to lure customers from rival networks. T-Mobile USA
was late in offering smartphones and in rolling out a faster-
speed network, losing customers to Verizon Wireless and AT&T
Inc., which offers Apple’s iPhone.  Operating profit was below analyst estimates “mainly due
to a slight miss in the U.S.,”  Saeed Baradar , Societe Generale
SA’s telecommunications sales specialist, said in an e-mail.  Shares dropped as much as 2.1 percent to 10.235 euros in
Frankfurt trading and were down 1.6 percent at 10.28 euros as of
9:13 a.m.  In the U.S., T-Mobile USA’s operating income before
depreciation and amortization fell to $1.32 billion from $1.56
billion. The unit accounts for about a quarter of Deutsche
Telekom’s revenue.  Mobile Broadband  Deutsche Telekom has said it aims to grow faster than
rivals in the U.S. by 2012 and is increasing the speed of its
current third-generation network in the country while choosing
not to invest in fourth-generation long-term evolution
technology.  In Germany, Deutsche Telekom has offered Apple Inc.’s
iPhone to attract customers and said in May it planned to change
its sales mix “significantly” to increase the share of revenue
from mobile data to counter declining sales from traditional
fixed-line services. The company was the sole operator for  Apple
Inc.’s  iPhone in Germany until Vodafone Group Plc started
selling the device last month.  Average iPhone use and take-up is lower in Germany than in
the U.K., giving Deutsche Telekom room to gain more customers
for the devices even as it loses exclusivity, according to  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein.  Everything Everywhere, its U.K. mobile-phone joint venture
with  France Telecom SA’s  Orange, reported third-quarter sales
rose 0.1 percent to 1.77 billion pounds. The venture, which
retained both the T-Mobile and Orange brands, created the U.K.’s
largest wireless operator and will save more than 4 billion
euros in costs, the companies said in September 2009.  Third-quarter net income rose to 1.04 billion euros ($1.47
billion) from 959 million euros. Analysts had expected profit of
948.5 million euros.  “We are delivering what we promised,” Chief Executive
Officer  Rene Obermann  said in the statement. “We have made our
mark and posted good results in an environment that was not
always favourable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 