-- DirecTV Profit Rises 31% on Subscriber Additions
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-04T20:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/directv-net-income-advances-31-on-demand-for-dvr-services-premium-shows.html
DirecTV , the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, posted third-quarter profit that rose 31
percent, helped by subscriber gains and demand for digital-
video-recording services and premium shows.  Net income increased to $479 million, or 55 cents a share,
from $366 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, the El Segundo,
California-based company said in a statement today. Analysts
predicted 55 cents, the average of 17  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  DirecTV kept and attracted customers to its exclusive
programming and premium products, including “ NFL  Sunday
Ticket,” high definition and DVR services. DirecTV has
tightened its credit requirements to screen customers who may
not be able to pay monthly bills and are more likely to cancel
or downgrade their service.  Subscriber acquisition costs, or SAC, increased to $805 in
the quarter from $697 a year ago, more than the $729 anticipated
by  Tom Eagan , an analyst at Collins Stewart LLC in New York. The
higher costs likely hurt earnings before interest, taxes,
amortization and depreciation growth, Eagan said. DirecTV’s
EBITDA rose 1 percent to $1.19 billion, compared with $1.32
billion projected by Eagan.  Higher Costs  The higher SAC costs mainly reflect more customers taking
high-end services like HD-DVRs and DirecTV’s whole-room DVR,
which generate higher sales per subscriber in the long-run even
though they cost more to install, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael White  said. The services cost more to install and the
equipment is more expensive, he said.  “It’s the best investment we can make,” White said in an
interview. “If you take a look at the picture holistically,
we’re attracting higher quality subscribers that are taking more
of our advanced services. These subscribers generate more than
two times the ROI than what a basic subscriber generates,”
White said.  Some 75 percent of DirecTV’s gross subscriber additions in
the U.S. elected to take an advanced service, he said.  DirecTV  declined  $1.59, or 3.6 percent, to $42.59 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have
gained 28 percent this year.  Third-quarter sales rose 10 percent to $6.03 billion,
topping the $5.98 billion predicted by analysts.  New Subscribers  The company added 380,000 net new subscribers. Cable rivals
 Comcast Corp. , Time Warner Cable Inc. and  Cablevision Systems
Corp.  all lost basic video subscribers in the quarter.  “DirecTV crushed concerns about pay-TV subscribers
slowing,” said Eagan. “The company added a whopping 174,000
U.S. subscribers in the third quarter, significantly more than
we and consensus had expected.”  Eagan, who recommends investors buy the shares, anticipated
that the company would gain 77,000 U.S. subscribers and
consensus called for 116,000.  Average monthly revenue per subscriber increased 4.3
percent to $88.98. The company’s Latin American unit also posted
strong gains, adding 206,000 net new customers.  “Latin America is a big growth opportunity,” said  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in New York
in an e-mail. “It is not unreasonable for pay-TV subscribers to
double within the next five years.”  DirecTV’s free cash flow increased 3.4 percent to $665
million, fueled by customer spending and lower costs. In the
first nine months of the year, cash flow increased 26 percent to
more than $2 billion. The company used some of that cash to buy
back $1.37 billion in shares, with a total share repurchase of
$3.6 billion this year.  (DirecTV held a conference call at 11 a.m. New York time.
To listen, visit  http://www.directv.com/investor .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ; 