-- Yen, Dollar Head for Weekly Drop on Global Recovery Signs; Won Strengthens
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-05T01:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dollar-trades-near-nine-month-low-versus-euro-on-signs-of-global-recovery.html
The yen and dollar headed for weekly
declines against major counterparts as speculation the global
recovery is gaining traction damped demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency fell for a fourth day versus the euro
before reports forecast to show European  retail sales  rose while
U.S. payrolls increased for the first time since May. New
Zealand’s dollar was near the strongest since April 2008 as
traders added to bets policy makers will raise interest rates.
South Korea’s won was set for its first five-day gain in three
weeks as the Federal Reserve’s plan to increase bond purchases
spurred demand for higher-yielding assets.  “Recoveries of economies in the U.S., Europe and most
other countries look like they’re picking up, fueling risk-on
sentiment,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at
Okasan Securities Co. Ltd. in Tokyo. “The bias is for the
dollar, and to a lesser extent the yen, to be sold.”  The yen fell to 114.94 per euro as of 10:47 a.m. in Tokyo
from 114.71 in New York yesterday, when it touched 115.42, the
lowest level since Oct. 7. The currency was at 80.87 per dollar
from 80.75. The dollar was at $1.4213 per euro from $1.4207
yesterday, when it fell to $1.4282, the weakest since Jan. 20.  New Zealand’s dollar was at 79.38 U.S. cents from 79.45
cents yesterday, when it climbed to 79.76 cents, the highest
since April 2008. South Korea’s won rose 0.2 percent to 1,105.51
per dollar, after earlier reaching 1,102.97, the strongest level
since April 26.  Asian Stocks Rise  The yen slipped against 15 of 16 major counterparts as the
 MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of regional shares rose 1.2 percent. The
 VIX Index , a measure of market volatility known as Wall Street’s
“fear gauge,” slid 5.3 percent to 18.52 yesterday, indicating
traders are becoming more confident about stock-market advances.  Retail sales in the 16-nation euro area advanced 0.1
percent in September from the prior month, when they fell 0.2
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists before
today’s report. U.S. payrolls climbed 60,000 last month after
declining 95,000 in September, a separate survey showed before
the Labor Department’s data today.  The Federal Open Market Committee said on Nov. 3 it will
purchase about $75 billion of Treasuries each month through June
in a strategy called quantitative easing that pumps money into
the economy and debases the dollar. The Fed has kept  interest
rates  near zero since December 2008 to stimulate growth.  ‘Broad-Based Falls’  “There were more broad-based falls in the dollar in the
wake of the Fed restarting quantitative easing,”  John Kyriakopoulos , Sydney-based head of currency strategy at
National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a note today. “Whether
the downward momentum in the dollar is sustained near-term will
be heavily influenced by tonight’s U.S. payrolls report as a
snapshot on the health of the U.S. economy.”  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the dollar against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was little
changed at 75.886 today.  The Fed’s move to add stimulus has made carry trades more
attractive, International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Olivier
Blanchard said yesterday.  “It makes the risk associated with carry trades much
smaller,” Blanchard said at an event at the London School of
Economics. “I think that risk has largely gone and therefore
this makes carry trade more attractive. The implication for this
implies more capital flows outside the U.S. and presumably some
dollar depreciation.”  In carry trades, investors get funds in one currency with
relatively low borrowing costs to invest at higher yields in
another. The benchmark interest rate of as low as zero in the
U.S. makes the dollar popular for funding such transactions.  New Zealand  New Zealand’s dollar was poised for a second weekly gain as
investors bet the nation will raise interest rates.  “In the current environment where volatility is high and
risk taking is going to rise, there is some upward pressure on
the Aussie and the kiwi against the major currencies like the
yen and U.S. dollar,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency
strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s
largest lender.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand will increase its benchmark
rate by 92 basis points over the next year, according to a
Credit Suisse AG  index . The prediction was 77 basis points at
the start of the week.  South Korea’s won gained for a fifth day as the  Kospi  stock
index climbed to a three-year high after overseas investors
bought $536 million more shares than they sold this week.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, an adviser to
President Barack Obama, said in Seoul today that China and South
Korea have bounced back from the financial crisis faster, while
the recovery in developed economies has been unsatisfactory.  “With the Fed’s plans moving money into countries with
higher-yielding assets, a lot of that increased global liquidity
will come to South Korea,” said Seo Jeong Hun, chief economist
at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “It has one of the fastest
growth recoveries in the region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  