-- Dollar Tumbles on Prospects for ECB to End Stimulus as Fed Sets Purchases
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-04T21:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dollar-declines-on-fed-purchases-euro-jumps-after-ecb-holds-lending-rate.html
The dollar fell against all of its
major peers as the European Central Bank signaled it will likely
stick with its stimulus-exit strategy even as the Federal
Reserve buys $600 billion of bonds to boost the U.S. economy.  The greenback reached a nine-month low versus the euro as
the ECB said it will decide on further exit steps next month.
The pound rose as the Bank of England refrained from adding to
its asset purchases. The New Zealand dollar climbed against all
of its counterparts as commodities surged.  “The lack of policy adjustment from the ECB, from the Bank
of England and the aggressive action by the Fed gives traders no
reason that there’s not going to be a steady depreciation of the
dollar,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based analyst at the
futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd.  The dollar weakened 0.5 percent to $1.4207 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.4139 yesterday. It earlier reached
$1.4282, the weakest since Jan. 20. Against the yen, the dollar
lost 0.4 percent to 80.75. The U.S. currency was 1.8 percent
weaker at 79.45 cents per New Zealand dollar. The yen was little
changed at 114.68 against the euro.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro, dropped for a third day, losing 0.8 percent
to 75.895 and reaching 75.631, the lowest since December.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said
yesterday it will buy about $75 billion a month through June in
Treasuries in a strategy called quantitative easing that pumps
money into the U.S. economy and debases the dollar. The Fed has
kept  interest rates  near zero since December 2008 to try to
stimulate growth following the worst slump since the Depression.  Temporary ‘by Definition’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled today the bank
intends to pursue its strategy to end emergency stimulus.  “The non-standard measures are by definition temporary in
nature,” Trichet said at a press conference in Frankfurt today
after the ECB left its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent.  Policy makers will decide on possible further exit steps
next month, he said.  “The nervousness about what the quantitative easing
package looks like, it’s done and that chip is off the table,”
said  Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com, a unit of the
online currency trading company Gain Capital in Bedminster, New
Jersey. “If you look at the playing field with dollar rates,
U.K. rates and European rates all around a half percent, people
are asking where to find yield.”  Aussie, Kiwi Climb  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, surged to its
highest level in more than two years. The Australian dollar
touch a record against the greenback as investors bet the Fed’s
bond purchases would weaken the dollar, making commodities
priced in the currency cheaper in terms of other currencies and
fueling demand for raw materials as an alternative investment.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index  of 24 commodities gained
as much as 2.4 percent to the highest level since October 2008.
Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets.  The kiwi gained as much as 2.3 percent to 79.76 U.S. cents,
the highest level since April 2008. Australia’s currency touched
$1.0177, the highest level since exchange controls were lifted
in 1983.  Sterling climbed 1.2 percent to $1.6268 and touched
$1.6299, its strongest level since January. The Bank of England
kept its  main interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent and
maintained the size of its bond stimulus plan at 200 billion
pounds ($325 billion), as forecast by economists in Bloomberg
News surveys.  Strongest This Year  The pound may climb to its strongest level this year
against the dollar should it end the week above $1.6320,
according to CMC Markets. The currency hasn’t traded above
$1.6460 since December, when it reached $1.6722.  The Fed’s decision to leave its asset-purchase plan open-
ended and based on price stability and employment is a “policy
error” that will keep the dollar under pressure, according to
Commerzbank AG.  The program “might become a bottomless pit,”  Lutz Karpowitz  and  Ulrich Leuchtmann , foreign-exchange strategists in
Frankfurt, wrote today in a note to clients. “It is far from
certain that its purchases of Treasury-notes will ignite a
quicker recovery.”  The analysts said investors should consider buying the
Australian dollar against the U.S. currency.  Swiss Franc Gains  The franc was the second-best performer versus the
greenback among the 16 most-traded currencies even as Swiss
National Bank Governing Board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said
the bank is ready to act if a stronger currency threatens to
spark deflation risks. It gained 1.2 percent to 95.92 per dollar
and 0.8 percent to 1.3618 per euro.  While the franc has depreciated against the euro over the
past two months, it’s still up 8.5 percent this year,
threatening to undermine the country’s  export-led recovery  and
pushing down costs of imported goods.  Payrolls in the U.S. probably added 60,000 jobs in October,
the first monthly gain since May, according to economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before a Labor Department report tomorrow.
That may stem the dollar’s declines, after the Fed indicated
yesterday its bond buys will depend on how the economy performs,
Standard Bank Plc said.  “The risks to payrolls tomorrow lie to the upside,”  Steve Barrow , head of research for Group-of-10 currencies in London,
said in a note. “If we are right, this could put at least a
temporary block on dollar weakness and bond-market strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  