-- Dollar Weakens, Euro Rises as Fed Purchases Boost Higher-Yielding Assets
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-11-04T12:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dollar-weakens-euro-rises-as-fed-purchases-boost-higher-yielding-assets.html
The dollar fell against its higher-
yielding peers after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost the U.S. economy.  The Dollar Index  slumped to its weakest level since
December as stocks in Asia and Europe advanced. The 16-nation
euro jumped to a nine-month high against the dollar amid
speculation the European Central Bank will keep withdrawing its
stimulus measures. The pound advanced after the Bank of England
refrained from adding to its asset purchases.  “The initial reaction is that risky assets are being
bought,” said  Kathleen Brooks , research director in London at
Forex.com, a unit of the online currency trading firm Gain
Capital, wrote in a client note. The Fed remains “ultra dovish
and have left the door open to more. That’s not an environment
where the dollar can rally.”  The dollar weakened 0.6 percent to $1.4221 per euro at
12:06 p.m. in London, from $1.4139 in New York yesterday. It
earlier depreciated to $1.4244, the weakest since Jan. 20.
Against the yen, the dollar depreciated 0.1 percent to 80.96.
The greenback was 1.7 percent weaker at 79.32 cents per New
Zealand dollar and depreciated 1 percent to 6.522 Swedish krona.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro, dropped for a third day, losing 0.8 percent
to 75.932 after touching 75.961.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index jumped 1.4 percent after sliding
0.4 percent yesterday. U.S. stock-index futures also climbed.  ‘Disappointingly Slow’  The Federal Open Market Committee said in its statement
yesterday that it was compelled to act because “progress”
toward the objectives of full employment and stable prices “has
been disappointingly slow.” The Fed has kept U.S. interest
rates near zero since December 2008 to try to stimulate growth
following the worst recession since the Depression.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and
3 percent in New Zealand, attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades
is that currency market moves will erase profits.  The British pound jumped 1 percent to $1.6237, its
strongest level since January. The Bank of England kept its  main
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent and maintained the
size of its bond stimulus plan at 200 billion pounds, as
forecast by economists in Bloomberg News surveys.  Sterling was also supported as a report showed  house prices 
erased almost half of the record drop posted the previous month.
The average cost of a home increased 1.8 percent from September,
when it declined 3.7 percent, mortgage-lender Halifax said in an
e-mailed statement today. Property values were unchanged from
the same month a year earlier.  ECB Hold-Off  The ECB will leave its  refinancing rate  at 1 percent today,
according to all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in Frankfurt and ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  will hold a press conference 45 minutes
later. The central bank has said it intends to continue
withdrawing its emergency measures.  “While the ECB policy announcement today will pass without
event, there are a lot of questions in the market with respect
to the normalization in ECB policy, particularly in view of the
deficit issues, which are presently playing out in Ireland and
in Portugal,”  Jane Foley , a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at Rabobank International in London, wrote in a note today.  The euro’s gains are likely to stall as investors focus on
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, BNP Paribas SA said.  Ireland is preparing next year’s budget and will announce
plans for 2011 budget cuts and tax-raising measures by tomorrow.
The country last month said it needs 15 billion euros ($21
billion) of savings over the next four years.  There are “specific issues which are likely to weigh on
the euro, including the outline of the Irish budget,” BNP
analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker , global head of currency
strategy in London, wrote in a client note today. “While euro-
dollar is still likely to push higher in the next few days we
would suggest that upside potential is now becoming more limited
and we would recommend caution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  