-- Doux Plans 400 Million Euros of High-Yield Bonds in Its First Note Issue
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-11-04T15:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/doux-plans-400-million-euros-of-junk-bonds-in-first-note-sale.html
Doux SA, Europe’s largest chicken
producer, is raising 400 million euros ($570 million) from its
first bond issue as investors pile into riskier securities.  The seven-year high-yield notes will refinance Doux’s debt
facilities, according to a statement on the company’s  website .
This is the first time the privately-owned Chateaulin, France-
based company has tapped the bond markets for financing,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for higher-yield securities is prompting a surge of
offerings in Europe, with Belgium cable operator  Telenet Group
Holding NV  and Learjet marker  Bombardier Inc . leading a record
$13 billion of junk-rated sales last month, Bloomberg data show.
Junk bonds in euros returned an average 17 percent this year,
compared with 6.4 percent for investment-grade corporate debt,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “European companies are taking advantage of the corporate
credit market to refinance current obligations and push back the
debt maturity wall,” said  Steven Mitra , partner at LNG Capital
LLP, which is raising as much as $100 million for a new European
credit fund. “Investor appetite for risk premiums is keeping
spreads tight.”  Junk-rated companies in Europe have $316 billion of debt
coming due through 2014, a “wall of maturities” that may
overwhelm the market’s capacity for refinancing, Moody’s
Investors Service said last month.  Spreads Narrow  Average yields on euro-denominated junk bonds fell to 542
basis points more than government debt on Oct. 27, the lowest
since January 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Euro High Yield Constrained Index. Spreads widened to 567 basis
points as of yesterday, down from 868 basis points a year
earlier.  Investor appetite for risky debt has pushed borrowing costs
for junk-rated companies to the lowest in three years. The yield
investors demand to hold high-yield debt fell to 7.49 percent
this week, the lowest level since July 2007, according to Bank
of America data. Rates rose to 7.68 percent as of yesterday,
down from 11.29 percent a year earlier.  Doux’s notes are being marketed to high-yield investors
even though the company isn’t rated by firms including Moody’s
and Standard & Poor’s, according to two people with knowledge of
the sale, who declined to be identified before the deal is
priced.  Barclays Capital, HSBC Holdings Plc and  Societe Generale SA 
are coordinating Doux’s sale, with Credit Agricole CIB and
 Natixis  acting as joint bookrunners, the people said. The
company will meet investors starting Nov. 5 in Paris.  High-yield, or junk, bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
and BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  