-- Dubai Needs 20 Months to Eliminate Oversupply, Emaar Chief Alabbar Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-11-04T21:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dubai-needs-20-months-to-eliminate-oversupply-emaar-chief-alabbar-says.html
Dubai real-estate prices will
continue to drop as the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest
sheikhdom absorbs an oversupply of homes and offices, said
 Mohamed Alabbar , chairman of  Emaar Properties PJSC .  “We need 20 months or so to go over the excess supply,”
he said during a panel discussion at the Bloomberg Link Real
Estate Briefing today in New York. “Rates in Dubai about a year
and half ago were a little higher than New York, which is
abnormal.”  Property prices have dropped by more than half in Dubai and
by 30 percent in neighboring Abu Dhabi as banks tightened
mortgage lending and speculators fled the market. Emaar along
with state-owned developer Nakheel PJSC spearheaded Dubai’s
building boom.  Emaar plans to generate 50 percent of its income outside
its home market in the next few years, Alabbar said. Syria,
Lebanon, Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Egypt are the best countries
for the company, he said. Currently, more than 80 percent of the
developer’s revenue is generated in Dubai.  Financial pressure is building on developers in Abu Dhabi,
the largest of the United Arab Emirates, after the government
aided some by purchasing stakes in projects. Aldar Properties
PJSC, the emirate’s largest developer, will need 9.8 billion
dirhams ($2.7 billion) by 2011 to “survive,” Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said.  Financial Discipline  “We are seeing demand for greater financial discipline from
Abu Dhabi developers,” said  John T. Livingston , president of
Tishman Construction Corporation, said at today’s conference.
Tishman advises on projects such as the Abu Dhabi Golf Resort.  Abu Dhabi has benefited from more thorough development
planning than Dubai, where there was greater speculation,
according to  Jeff T. Blau , president of Related Companies.  “If you look at the plans, Abu Dhabi really had a vision.
They laid it out for 25 years,” Blau said at the real estate
briefing. “It was smart, it was concise and it was slow.”  Dubai first allowed foreigners to own property in 2002.
Real estate prices quadrupled in the following six years, helped
by a growing expatriate workforce and speculation fueled by
borrowing.  “We have a unique combination of what we call first-class
economics and wealth with third-world demographics and growth
rates,” said Karim El Solh, chief executive officer of Gulf
Capital, a U.A.E-based private-equity firm that’s in partnership
with Related on a regional development venture. “When combined
those two together are very potent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 