-- Blackstone Takeover of Dynegy Opposed by Glass Lewis
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/dynegy-takeover-by-blackstone-opposed-by-proxy-firm-glass-lewis.html
Dynegy Inc.  shareholders should
reject the proposed $540 million takeover by  Blackstone Group LP 
in favor of alternatives such as refinancing or buying back debt
to lower costs, proxy research company Glass Lewis & Co. LLC
said.  The power producer’s arguments on behalf of the $4.50-a-
share deal are “insufficient” and based on a financial
analysis that is “too narrow,” San Francisco-based  Glass Lewis 
said in an e-mailed recommendation to clients today. A
shareholder vote is scheduled Nov. 17 at Dynegy’s headquarters
in Houston.  The takeover is opposed by Dynegy’s largest reported
shareholders, Seneca Capital LP, which held a 9.3 percent stake
on Nov. 2, and billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , whose Icahn
Capital LP had 8 percent as of Oct. 8.  Dynegy, the owner of power plants in seven U.S. states,
agreed to the Blackstone takeover on Aug. 13. The company
searched strategic alternatives for two years before accepting
the offer,  David Byford , a Dynegy spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement today. Natural-gas prices, the basis for most power
prices, have fallen since the takeover agreement, he said.  “The Glass Lewis analysis is flawed in several respects,”
Byford said.  Shareholders should reject the analysis done for the Dynegy
board by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Greenhill & Co. LLC that
determined the offer was fair because it’s based on
“unreasonable” analysis including failed transactions, Glass
Lewis said in its recommendation.  ‘Overwhelmingly Trailed’  Based on its own analysis of recent power-sector
transactions, the offer is “below average to mediocre,” made
after Dynegy shares “overwhelmingly trailed peers” including
Calpine Corp., RRI Energy Inc. and NRG Energy Inc., Glass Lewis
said.  “All of the points raised by Dynegy are explicitly
addressed in our report,” Glass Lewis Managing Director  Warren Chen  said in an e-mailed message.  Dynegy  fell  6 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $4.49 a share at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It’s
risen 62 percent since the announcement of the Blackstone offer,
valued at $4.7 billion including debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 