-- Travelers Buys $371 Million Stake in Parana Insurance Unit; Shares Advance
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-11-04T20:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/the-travelers-to-pay-370-million-for-stake-in-j-malucelli-in-brazil.html
Travelers Cos. , the insurer added to
the Dow Jones Industrial Average last year, agreed to buy a 43.4
percent stake in the insurance unit of Brazil’s  Parana Banco SA ,
sending shares of both companies to records.  Travelers will pay 625 million reais ($371 million) for the
stake in J. Malucelli Participacoes em Seguros e Resseguros SA
to tap growth in Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy.
Travelers, based in New York, has the option to raise its stake
in J. Malucelli to as much as 49.9 percent by buying new voting
shares within 18 months, the companies said in statements today.  Brazil’s gross domestic product may expand 7.6 percent this
year, according to a Nov. 1 central bank survey, almost triple
the median estimate for U.S. growth among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, said in April it expects Brazil to be a “high-
growth” market, outpacing the U.S. and other developed nations.  The acquisition “gives Travelers an expanded presence in
Brazil and a platform for future growth,”  Cathy Seifert , an
analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York, wrote in a note.  Travelers said that it’s seeking to expand its surety-
insurance business and that it expects the deal to add to
earnings in the first year.  Parana Banco jumped 16 percent, the biggest gain since its
initial public offering in June 2007, to 14.44 reais as of the
close in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time. Travelers advanced
2.4 percent to $57.24 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, the largest rise since Sept. 15.  Sidestepping Losses  Travelers, which sells property coverage to corporations
and homeowners, remained  profitable  during the credit crisis and
sidestepped the losses on mortgage securities that hobbled
rivals including  American International Group Inc.   The insurer boosted its full-year earnings target last
month after third-quarter profit rose as sales increased and
investment gains climbed. Full-year operating profit will be
$5.75 to $5.95 a share, compared with the previous  forecast  of
$5.20 to $5.45, Travelers said.  Industry sales increased for the first time in 13 quarters
in the period ended June 30 as carriers raised rates for
homeowners to counter the slowdown in demand that began in 2007,
according to the Property Casualty Insurers  Association  of
America.  Travelers said the transaction is expected to close in the
first half of next year. The company hired Greenhill & Co. as
its financial adviser on the deal, while Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP and Barbosa, Mussnich & Aragao were legal
advisers.  J. Malucelli will pay a 110 million-real dividend to Parana
Banco as part of the transaction, Parana Banco said. J.
Malucelli is the holding company of J. Malucelli Seguradora SA,
J. Malucelli Resseguradora SA and J. Malucelli Seguradora de
Credito SA, according to Parana Banco’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  