-- Tea Party Wins House for Republicans, Wants Rewards in Congress
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/tea-party-wins-house-for-republicans-wants-rewards-in-congress.html
While losses by Tea Party-backed
candidates may have helped cost Republicans control of the U.S.
Senate, the movement furnished the intensity and enthusiasm that
enabled the party to seize a majority in the House.  Republicans gained at least 60 House seats in the Nov. 2
election, and Tea Party-endorsed candidates accounted for 28 of
those pickups, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 
party needed a gain of 39 seats to wrest House control from 
Democrats.  “Members of the Tea Party movement provided the energy to
allow Republicans to take back the House,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor for the nonpartisan Rothenberg
Political Report in Washington. “It wasn’t the particular
candidates, but the overall movement.”  The large number of incoming Tea Party-backed candidates
has empowered Republicans aligned with the grass-roots activists
to try to expand their power in Congress. Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota Republican and a favorite of the movement
that seeks limited government, announced yesterday on Facebook
that she will seek a leadership post in the party’s House
caucus.  The wins by the Tea Party-supported candidates also will
likely present House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, the
speaker-in-waiting, with a chamber that is more polarized -- in
part because as the new Tea Party-affiliated members take their
seats, a like number of self-described fiscally conservative
Blue Dog Democrats are leaving the House, through either
retirements or election defeats.  DeMint Article  Also, a commentary published yesterday in the Wall Street
Journal by Republican Senator  Jim DeMint  of South Carolina urged
Tea Party-backed candidates entering office to “put on their
boxing gloves” and not get “co-opted” by congressional leaders.
DeMint has enlarged his political profile through the aid he’s
given various Tea Party-supported candidates.  Tea Party backers hope that their congressional ranks will
grow even larger in 2012. The activists are planning primary
challenges to some Senate Republicans they deem not conservative
enough, said former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey , a Texas
Republican who now heads  FreedomWorks , a group that helped elect
Tea Party-backed candidates.  Frequently cited targets include Senators  Orrin Hatch  of
Utah,  Olympia Snowe  of Maine and  Kay Bailey Hutchinson  of Texas.  Activists are “talking about what we are going to be doing
two years from now, and even four years from now,” Armey said.  Senate Picture  Republicans -- needing a gain of 10 seats to win Senate
control -- picked up at least six, with the race for a
Democratic-controlled seat in Washington state remaining too
close to call. The party lost three Senate races -- in Delaware,
Colorado and Nevada -- that featured Tea Party-backed candidates
who had won primaries over candidates whom most Republican
officials considered more electable.  The most painful Nov. 2 Senate loss for Republican leaders
occurred in Nevada, where Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
fended off a challenge from  Sharron Angle , a Tea Party darling.  Still, the fragmented band of fiscally conservative
activists set much of the political agenda in the campaign
season. Four out of 10 voters surveyed in exit polls said they
support the movement. And Tea Party favorites  Rand Paul  in
Kentucky and  Marco Rubio  in Florida scored Senate victories for
Republicans.  “There’s a Tea Party tidal wave, and we’re sending a
message,” Paul said in his victory speech.  Blue Dog Defeats  At the same time the 28 Republican candidates endorsed by
FreedomWorks, the Tea Party Express or former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin  -- a prominent spokeswoman for Tea Party causes --
were winning House races across the country, 22 Blue Dog
Democrats were going down to defeat. Six of the group’s 53
members had previously said they would not seek re-election.  At least 10 of the seats held by Blue Dog Democrats were
won by Tea Party Republicans. In Colorado, for example, Tea
Party-backed businessman  Scott Tipton  beat three-term Blue Dog
Democrat  John Salazar . In Florida,  Steve Southerland , a
Republican who co-founded a local Tea Party group, defeated
seven-term Democrat  Allen Boyd , also a member of the Blue Dog
Coalition.  Businessman  Jim Renacci , who was endorsed by FreedomWorks,
the Tea Party Express and Palin, defeated Representative  John Boccieri , an Ohio Democrat who was part of the freshman class
that rode into office as part of President  Barack Obama ’s 2008
victory.  “What I tell Tea Party activists is what  Ronald Reagan 
said,” Renacci said in an interview in Canton, Ohio, referring
to the former Republican president. “You may not agree with me
100 percent of the time, but if we can agree 80 percent of the
time, we’ll get a lot accomplished.”  Bachmann’s Caucus  Bachmann, who in July started a Tea Party caucus in the
House, could see its membership more than double. She will be
counting on that support in challenging Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas to become chairman of the House Republican
Conference, the fourth-ranking post in the party’s House
leadership.  “The congresswoman believes a strong constitutional
conservative voice should be represented within the GOP
leadership,” said her spokesman, Sergio Gor.  Hensarling sent a letter to lawmakers yesterday, announcing
his intention to run and highlighting his commitment to
reclaiming “economic freedom, fiscal accountability, and
limited government.”  Those backing Hensarling include Representative  Eric Cantor 
of Virginia, the House’s No. 2 Republican. Boehner turned to
Hensarling to be one of the party’s members on the Troubled
Asset Relief Program oversight panel and the deficit reduction
commission created by Obama.  Representative  Steve King , an Iowa Republican who is
supporting Bachmann, said party leaders want to pack the
leadership team with their picks.  “That means there’s not someone on the inside circle who’s
going to be the voice of constitutional conservatives,” he
said. “That would be a shame, since they are the ones who gave
us this majority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Fitzgerald  in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 