-- ECB Keeps Rates at Record Low as Fed Embarks on Further Easing
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-11-04T12:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ecb-keeps-interest-rates-at-a-record-low-as-fed-embarks-on-further-easing.html
The European Central Bank kept
interest rates at a record low after the Federal Reserve
embarked on a new round of quantitative easing and tensions
increased on Europe’s sovereign-debt markets.  The ECB’s Governing Council in Frankfurt set the  benchmark
lending rate  at 1 percent for a 19th month, as predicted by all
55 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . Economists said last
night’s decision by the Fed to buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries may drive the euro higher, undermining Europe’s
recovery and forcing the ECB to delay the withdrawal of its own
stimulus measures. President  Jean-Claude Trichet  holds a press
conference at 2:30 p.m.  The ECB has said it intends to continue withdrawing its
emergency measures, with some policy makers warning of the risks
of leaving them in place too long. At the same time, concerns
about the finances of debt-strapped nations such as Ireland,
Portugal and Greece have sparked a renewed sell-off of their
bonds, making them more vulnerable to any tightening of ECB
policy. The Fed’s move, which pushed the euro to a nine-month
high against the dollar, may have added another headwind.  “It’s very hard to imagine the ECB sticking to its course
in a situation where quantitative easing from the Fed is
complicating its job and Europe’s periphery is deteriorating,”
said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “I don’t exclude that they may
have to postpone their exit.”  Euro Gains  The euro has risen 19 percent against the dollar since
early June, threatening to damp European exports. The single
currency climbed more than two cents, to as high as $1.4263, in
the wake of the Fed’s announcement, which kick-started a 33-hour
central banking marathon.  The Bank of England today left its key rate at 0.5 percent
and maintained its asset-purchase program at 200 billion pounds
($325 billion). The Bank of Japan makes its policy announcement
at about noon in Tokyo tomorrow.  The ECB meets after Executive Board member  Juergen Stark 
said on Oct. 27 that the bank’s emergency policy settings “will
absolutely not be kept longer than necessary.”  While the ECB’s tightening bias sets it apart from the
world’s other major central banks, it is still more cautious
than those in India and Australia, which this week raised
interest rates to stem inflation pressures.  Weaker Economy  The euro-area economy is showing signs of weakening after
expanding at the fastest pace in four years in the second
quarter. Expansion in the manufacturing industry has slowed from
a peak in April and unemployment climbed to a 12-year high of
10.1 percent in September. Exports from Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, declined for a second month in August.  A “persistently strong” euro is hurting manufacturers’
price competitiveness,  Thomas Lindner , president of Germany’s
VDMA machine makers’ association, said this week.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts euro-area growth
will slow from 1.7 percent this year to 1.5 percent in 2011,
while U.S. expansion will cool from 2.6 percent to 2.3 percent.  “The economies are not performing too differently and
still the Fed and the ECB are going in almost exactly opposite
directions,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “That reflects a deep-seated
difference in central bank philosophies. The ECB is happy with
moderate growth and moderate inflation; the Fed finds it totally
unacceptable.”  Eyeing the Exit  ECB policy makers from Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium,
Austria, Italy and the Netherlands have warned against keeping
interest rates too low for too long and some said further exit
steps may be taken in the first quarter of next year.  Up for discussion is when the ECB will return to a bidding
process in its lending procedures. It has committed to provide
banks with unlimited liquidity in its weekly, monthly and three-
month refinancing operations until the end of the year after
abandoning its six- and 12-month loans.  Money markets are normalizing, with the rate banks charge
each other for three-month loans, or Euribor, rising to 1.049
percent from 0.63 percent in March.  That’s a good reason for the ECB to stop offering banks
three-month cash at its benchmark rate of 1 percent because it
discourages interbank lending, said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.  Widening Spreads  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  has also called for an end
to the ECB’s bond-purchase program, arguing its risks outweigh
any benefits.  Investors have continued to dump Irish, Portuguese and
Greek government debt after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
stepped up her push to make bondholders share the burden of any
future bailout of a euro nation. The  premium  on Irish 10-year
bonds over German bunds rose to a record 519 basis points today,
Portugal’s  spread  widened to 409 basis points and  Greece’s 
reached 856 basis points.  “Governments opened the door to sovereign-debt
restructuring,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at
BNP Paribas in London. “That’s destabilizing for sovereign-debt
markets that are already in distress. We can assume that the ECB
is uncomfortable with it.”  It’s too early for the ECB to embark on an official
tightening policy, said  Karsten Junius , senior economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “If the euro gains considerably and
tensions on bond markets persist, the ECB may have to extend its
support for the banking system well into 2011 and keep rates at
a record low into 2012,” he said.  Inflation Pressure  Still, a stronger euro may not fully shield Europe from
rising inflation pressures. The Fed’s monetary easing may spur
investors to seek higher-yielding assets such as commodities,
boosting prices that are already rising due to stronger demand
in emerging economies.  Crude oil prices denominated in dollars have jumped 19
percent since Aug. 31 and are up 6.3 percent in euro terms. That
pushed euro-area  inflation  to 1.9 percent in October, the
highest level in almost two years. The ECB aims to keep the rate
just below 2 percent.  “The ECB will continue to withdraw liquidity and be back to
completely normal by September,” said  James Nixon , co-chief
European economist at Societe Generale in London. “That will
leave them ready to pull the interest-rate trigger. The battle
lines are drawn. The ECB won’t jeopardize price stability over
weak European peripherals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  