-- ECB Indicates Concern That EU Debt Plan May Drive Borrowing Costs Higher
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-11-04T16:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ecb-indicates-concern-that-eu-debt-plan-may-drive-borrowing-costs-higher.html
European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  signaled concern that euro-area leaders’ plans
to make bondholders help pay for future debt crises risk
driving up the borrowing costs of high-deficit nations.  Trichet contrasted German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
approach to force bondholders to share bailout costs with the
International Monetary Fund’s assumption that aid recipients
will respect debts to private creditors.  “The IMF does not make the ex-ante working assumption that
the normal refinancing by markets -- by investors and savers --
is interrupted,” Trichet said at a briefing today in Frankfurt
after the ECB kept interest rates at a record low. “It can be,
but it is not the ex-ante normal assumption.”  The bonds of Ireland, Portugal and Greece have slumped
since Merkel emerged from a European Union summit in Brussels in
the early hours of Oct. 29 announcing leaders had agreed that,
in the future, “private investors can’t earn too much or
speculate against the euro.” Irish bonds fell for an eighth day
today, the longest streak in two years.  Trichet today declined to refute news reports that he told
government chiefs last week that their plan would hurt the bonds
of peripheral euro nations by scaring off investors.  “A communication took place which was quite heavy,” he
said today when asked about the summit disagreement. “And I
don’t deny, of course, what has been said.”  The European leaders agreed to create a permanent debt-
crisis mechanism as of 2013 after being forced six months ago to
come up with 860 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) in emergency
support. Those taxpayer-financed measures include a 110 billion-
euro loan package for Greece and a temporary 750 billion-euro
backstop for the euro area as a whole.  Deficit Clash  Trichet’s objections mark the second time in the past month
the central banker has clashed with political leaders, including
Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The ECB chief
criticized a Franco-German compromise diluting a plan to punish
countries that break EU deficit rules.  Merkel has led calls in the EU for bondholders to help foot
the bill for future sovereign-debt crises in the euro area. She
persuaded fellow EU government heads last week to seek a fast-
track amendment of the bloc’s governing treaty to anchor the
planned permanent debt-crisis mechanism.  Merkel said on Oct. 29 that she and Trichet had “differing
approaches” to the risk a rescue mechanism posed for
recipients’ bonds. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and the
European Commission -- the 27-nation bloc’s executive arm -- are
preparing proposals for December.  ‘Precise Proposal’  “We will clarify our message to Herman Van Rompuy and to
the commission,” Trichet said today. “I have a great deal of
confidence in President Van Rompuy and in the commission to take
into account absolutely all elements that are necessary to make
a precise proposal.”  Trichet called the Washington-based IMF “the global
mechanism” for helping countries in financial difficulty. He
said that, by his own calculation, over the past two decades the
proportion of “interventions of the IMF with interruption of
the normal functioning of the financing of the economy through
haircuts, restructuring and so forth” might be 25 percent.  “It’s not the assumption that is made,” Trichet said. “I
would say the assumption is exactly the contrary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  