-- ECB Buys Irish 10-Year Debt as Bonds Tumble for an Eighth Day, Traders Say
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-04T12:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ecb-buys-irish-10-year-debt-as-bonds-tumble-for-an-eighth-day-traders-say.html
The European Central Bank bought
Irish government bonds today, according to three traders with
knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB purchased 10-year bonds, the traders said under
condition of anonymity because the deals are confidential. A
central bank spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  Irish 10-year bonds slid for an eighth day, the longest run
of declines since January 2009. The yield on the securities
jumped 23 basis points to 7.79 percent as of 11:52 a.m. in
London. The extra  yield  investors demand to hold the debt
instead of German bunds rose to a record 520 basis points.  Ireland faces a “messy” four weeks as the government
prepares its 2011 budget and tries to reassure investors,  Erik Nielsen , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief European economist, said
in a report.  There is a “real risk” that the government won’t be able
to get the budget on Dec. 7 passed, Nielsen said in the note,
dated yesterday. Still, Ireland is “fully funded through mid-
2011, so we are not talking about an imminent liquidity
crisis.”  Credit-default swaps on Irish sovereign debt climbed 10.5
basis points to a record 570.5, according to data provider CMA.  The ECB’s bond-buying program differs from so-called
quantitative easing policies pursued by the Federal Reserve and
the Bank of England because the central bank mops up the
liquidity created by the purchases, meaning the net effect on
the money supply is neutral.  The ECB began the program on May 10 to stabilize markets
rocked by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The purchases were
part of a European Union-led push to rescue the euro, which fell
to a four-year low on June 7 after Greece’s near default raised
concern that some nations in the region would struggle to
finance their budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  