-- Hedge Funds Rally to Two-Year High With 1.5% October Gain as Stocks Rise
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-11-04T19:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/hedge-funds-rally-to-two-year-high-with-1-5-october-gain-as-stocks-rise.html
Hedge funds returned 1.5 percent in
October, reaching the highest level in more than two years as
global equity markets rallied, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg aggregate hedge fund  index  increased to
117.13 last month, the highest level since August 2008. The
index peaked at 130.38 in July 2007. Long-short equity  funds ,
whose managers buy stocks likely to rise and sell short those
they expect to fall, gained 2.1 percent last month and 6.8
percent this year.  “October was a good month because the equity markets did
well,” said  Don Steinbrugge , managing partner of Agecroft
Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based consulting firm that
advises hedge funds and investors. “The average hedge fund is
going to have some correlation to how long-only benchmarks do.”  The October gains bring returns this year to 4.2 percent on
average, helped by a 7.9 percent rally in global stocks. U.S.
stocks today rose briefly above their highest close in more than
two years, as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will
succeed in stoking growth and corporate earnings improved.  The Bloomberg hedge fund  index  is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,588 funds, 1,158 of which have so
far reported returns for last month.  The  BAIF CTA/Managed Futures Index , comprising funds that
invest mainly in commodities, options and futures, had the
biggest October gain of any strategy, rising 2.9 percent to lift
its return in 2010 to 3.7 percent.  ‘Driven by Trends’  “CTAs are driven by trends, and when there are strong
trends across multiple markets they tend to do well,”
Steinbrugge said. “It was a number of commodities tied to food,
such as corn, soy, wheat and coffee, a falling  dollar , falling
natural gas, gold was up, fixed income was up on both the long
and short ends.”  Macro funds , whose managers seek to profit from global
themes or trends, rose 0.8 percent in October and 2.4 percent
this year.  Multistrategy  hedge funds returned 1.1 percent last
month to bring gains for the year to 2.7 percent.  Mortgage-backed arbitrage hedge  funds , which aim to profit
from inefficiencies in the pricing of mortgage-backed
securities, rose 1 percent to bring gains for the year to 15
percent, the most of any strategy. Funds that aim to capitalize
on  mergers  increased 1.1 percent in October and this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  