-- Egypt Central Bank Maintains Key Interest Rate at 8.25% as Inflation Slows
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-11-04T16:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/egypt-central-bank-maintains-key-interest-rate-at-8-25-as-inflation-slows.html
The Egyptian  central bank  kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a four-year low as non-food
inflation slows and economic growth accelerates.  The Monetary Policy Committee left the overnight  deposit
rate  at 8.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at 9.75
percent, the Cairo-based central bank said in a statement on its
website today. All eight economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
had expected the decision.  Rates haven’t changed in more than a year as  inflation 
slowed to 11 percent in September from 13.6 percent in January.
Core inflation, which excludes food costs, eased to 7.6 percent
from 8.2 percent a month earlier. At the same time the economy’s
recovery from the global crisis is accelerating, with output
expanding an annual 5.6 percent in the third quarter.  “There are no major non-food inflationary pressures driven
by demand-pull or cost-push factors,”  Reham El Desoki , senior
economist at Egyptian investment bank Beltone Financial in
Cairo, said by e-mail before the announcement. “The worst is
over for the monthly change in inflation at least until the end
of the year.”  The central bank last changed interest rates in September
2009, lowering them by a quarter percentage point to support the
economy in the face of the global financial crisis.  Growth accelerated from 5.4 percent in the second quarter,
and the government expects an expansion of more than 6 percent
in the fiscal year through June, compared with 5.1 percent in
the previous 12 months.  Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock  index  has gained about 9
percent this year, driven by companies including investment bank
 EFG-Hermes Holding SAE  and builder  Orascom Construction
Industries . The central bank released its interest rate decision
after the end of today’s trading session, in which the index
added 0.8 percent to 6,764.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Beirut via Cairo newsroom at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 