-- Telecom Italia Shares Decline on Domestic Mobile Phone Business `Weakness'
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-11-04T15:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/telecom-italia-shares-decline-on-domestic-mobile-phone-business-weakness-.html
Telecom Italia SpA , Italy’s biggest
phone company, fell the most in three months after the company
said nine-month domestic sales fell 7.4 percent to 15 billion
euros and Italian mobile revenue dropped more than 10 percent.  “Domestic mobile business is experiencing ongoing
weaknesses,”  Saeed Baradar , Societe Generale SA’s
telecommunications sales specialist, said by e-mail. There are
“lots of questions now on the outlook.”  The stock decline came even after the company reported
profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Third-quarter net income
rose to 608 million euros ($866 million) from a restated 198
million euros a year earlier, the Milan-based company said in a
stock-exchange statement today. Analysts had predicted net
income of 541 million euros, according to the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telecom Italia, like other phone operators across Europe,
has been struggling to boost revenue amid lower spending on
traditional services such as voice and text messages. Deutsche
Telekom AG, Europe’s largest telecommunications company, today
said its third-quarter sales slid to 6.32 billion euros from
6.47 billion euros.  Telecom Italia dropped as much as 4.5 percent, its biggest
decline since Aug. 5, and traded at 1.06 euros, down 3.9
percent, at 3:48 p.m. in Milan.  ‘In Line’  The company’s performance is “in line with full-year
profitability and debt reduction targets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Franco Bernabe  said in the release.  Adjusted net debt fell to 32.9 billion euros at the end of
September compared with 33.6 billion euros at the end of June.  Telecom Italia has been seeking to expand overseas to make
up for dropping revenue at home.  Last month, it completed an agreement to raise its stake in
Sofora Telecomunicaciones SA, the holding company that controls
Telecom Argentina SA, to 58 percent from 50 percent. The accord
will have a “positive one-off effect on the bottom line” of
Telecom Italia’s fourth-quarter results of about 250 million
euros, it said.  On Oct. 20, Bernabe said the company will “radically
upgrade” its mobile broadband network to handle increased data.
It plans to start offering 21-megabit mobile broadband service
in Milan and Rome in December, and the initial rollout of the
42-megabit service is slated for the end of 2011, the CEO said.  Telecom Italia, which is also upgrading its fixed-line grid
to high-speed fiber, predicted its ultrafast broadband network
will reach 50 percent of Italy’s population by 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 