-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Two-Year High After Federal Boosts Stimulus
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T21:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-two-year-high-after-federal-boosts-stimulus.html
Emerging- market  stocks rose the most
in three weeks, currencies strengthened and borrowing costs fell
to the lowest level since April after the U.S. Federal Reserve
boosted its asset-purchase plan by $600 billion to spur growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 1.7 percent to
1,151.08 at 5 p.m. in New York, the highest closing level since
June 9, 2008.  Chile’s peso led gains in developing-nation currencies,
appreciating 2 percent against the dollar. The Brazilian real,
the Russian ruble and South Africa’s rand all strengthened more
than 0.8 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 4 basis points, or 0.04
percent, to 2.33 percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index showed.  The MSCI stock index climbed for a sixth straight day after
the Fed said yesterday it will purchase $600 billion more of
Treasuries, $75 billion a month, because of “disappointingly
slow” progress in boosting economic growth. Fifty-three of 56
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the central bank
would announce asset purchases, with 29 forecasting a pledge to
buy $500 billion or more.  Slow economic growth and easy monetary policies in the
developed world will keep “financial markets awash with
liquidity,”  Philip Poole , the global head of macro and
investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management in London,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “This combination is likely to
prove positive for risk assets.”  Faster Growth  The MSCI stock index has surged 16 percent this year and
JPMorgan’s index of returns on developing-nation debt jumped 17
percent as investors poured money into emerging-market equity
and debt funds at a record pace, according to EPFR Global data.  While central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan step up
efforts to boost their flagging economies, developing nations
are poised to expand at a 7.1 pace percent this year, the
fastest since 2007, International Monetary Fund forecasts show.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 2.1
percent today to a record close as foreign buying of the
equities surged to an all-time high on the expectation consumer
spending will boost corporate earnings. Coal India Ltd. rallied
40 percent in its trading debut after selling $3.4 billion of
shares in the nation’s largest initial public offering last
month.  Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index rose for a fourth day as
commodities surged on speculation the Federal Reserve’s steps to
boost the world’s largest economy will bolster demand for raw-
materials exports. Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore
producer, and Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-controlled
oil company, rose as metals and oil prices increased.  The Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 1.9 percent, the
highest in almost seven months, led by raw-material companies.
Coal producer China Shenhua Energy Co. and Zhongjin Gold Corp.
led gains for metal and energy companies.  Benchmark equity gauges in Thailand, Turkey, Poland and
 Hungary  increased more than 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 