-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Federal Reserve Boosts Stimulus Measures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T14:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/emerging-market-stocks-advance-as-federal-reserve-boosts-stimulus-measures.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in three weeks, currencies strengthened and borrowing costs fell
to the lowest level since April after the U.S. Federal Reserve
boosted its asset-purchase plan by $600 billion to spur growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 1.7 percent to
1,151.26 at 9:55 a.m. in New York, heading for the highest
closing level since June 9, 2008. South Africa’s rand led gains
in developing-nation currencies, appreciating 2 percent against
the dollar. The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-
market bonds over U.S. Treasuries dropped 4 basis points to 2.32
percentage points, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index showed.  The MSCI stock index climbed for a sixth straight day after
the Fed said it will purchase about $75 billion of Treasuries a
month because of “disappointingly slow” progress in boosting
economic growth, according to a statement yesterday. Fifty-three
of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the
central bank would announce asset purchases, with 29 forecasting
a pledge to buy $500 billion or more.  Slow economic growth and easy monetary policies in the
developed world will keep “financial markets awash with
liquidity,”  Philip Poole , the global head of macro and
investment strategy at HSBC Global Asset Management in London,
wrote in an e-mailed note today. “This combination is likely to
prove positive for risk assets.”  Faster Growth  The MSCI stock index has surged 16 percent this year and
JPMorgan’s index of returns on developing-nation debt jumped 17
percent as investors poured money into emerging-market equity
and debt funds at a record pace, according to EPFR Global data.  While central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan step up
efforts to boost their flagging economies, developing nations
are poised to expand at a 7.1 pace percent this year, the
fastest since 2007, International Monetary Fund forecasts show.  India’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped 2.1
percent today to a record close. Coal India Ltd. rallied 40
percent in its trading debut after selling $3.4 billion of
shares in the nation’s largest initial public offering last
month. Benchmark equity gauges in China, Thailand, Turkey,
Poland and  Hungary , South Africa, Mexico and Brazil increased
more than 1 percent.  The rand strengthened to an almost three-week high versus
the dollar. The currency has rallied 39 percent since the start
of 2009 as near-zero interest rates in developed nations
encouraged investors to borrow cheaply to invest in South
Africa, which has a 6 percent benchmark rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 