-- En-Bloc Millionaires Reap Singapore Real-Estate Gains as Forced Sales Jump
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2010-11-04T00:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/en-bloc-millionaires-reap-singapore-real-estate-gains-as-forced-sales-jump.html
Kong-Thean Wong sold his Singapore
apartment in June for S$800,000 ($620,000) more than its market
value. So did all his neighbors.  Hoi Hup Realty Pte. offered the premium to Wong and other
owners in a private Singapore condominium called Pender Court,
according to government data. Known as an en-bloc sale, such a
deal allows the developer to buy the whole building, knock it
down and build a new one that would command higher prices.  “It’s a good retirement program,” said Wong, 55, a former
banker who owns other flats and will get his S$2 million payout
by the year end, 67 percent more than a similar unit fetched in
November 2009. “Everyone’s looking forward to the money.”  En-bloc sales are a barometer of the private residential
property market in land-scarce Singapore, where most apartment
buildings are replaced before they are 30 years old. They give
builders like  CapitaLand Ltd.  and Ho Hup the chance to redevelop
prime locations and they fuel price gains in the private and
rental markets as ejected families seek new accommodation.  At the peak of the real-estate boom in 2007 there were 86
such sales, netting more than S$11 billion, according to data
from  Credo Real Estate . Last year, amid the global recession,
there was one for about S$100 million.  Now en-bloc sales are making a recovery, with 21 deals so
far this year worth a total of almost S$1.09 billion, including
five since the government announced measures to cool the market
in August, according to real-estate agent  CB Richard Ellis .  In the past six months, a 38-member gauge of the nation’s
real estate stocks has risen 13 percent compared with an 11
percent gain in the benchmark Straits Times index.  Small Island  Under Singapore law, all owners in a building can be forced
to accept a developer’s offer if a residents en-bloc committee
gets the requisite 80 percent agreement. Pender Court, a 6-story,
48-unit complex built in 1985, sold at the third attempt.  “Singapore is a very small island with a natural growth
boundary,” said  Chua Yang Liang , head of Southeast Asia
Research at  Jones Lang LaSalle . “There is a need to maximize
land parcels.”  Hoi Hup Realty declined to comment on its plans for the
Pender Court site. Among its developments is  Residences@Killiney ,
a 68-unit condo two blocks from the main shopping street of
Orchard Road that replaces Killiney Apartments, which Hoi Hup
 purchased  in a collective sale in 2007.  The premiums generated by en-bloc sales can skew the rest
of the market, particularly rental prices, according to  Chua Chor Hoon , head of Southeast Asia Research at DTZ Group. “When
people give up their own home, they have to find somewhere else
to stay,” she said.  Meng Garden  The unprecedented wave of collective sales in 2007 helped
lift  rental rates  by a record 41 percent and  condominium prices 
by the most in almost eleven years.  En-bloc committees to negotiate a sale have been formed by
at least 46 properties in 2010, according to data from CB
Richard Ellis. The list includes Meng Garden, a 25-year-old
complex near  Orchard Road  that sold for S$137 million -- the
most expensive this year.  “We’re beginning to see a pickup in activity in the mid-
to-high-end market,” said  Donald Han , managing director for
Cushman & Wakefield. “When that happens, I think we’ll see a
snowball effect of some of the larger developers coming in.”  Rising property prices prompted the government on Aug. 30
to increase down-payments for second mortgages and impose a
stamp duty on property held less than three years. The market
jumped 23 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to data from the  Urban Redevelopment Authority.   New Deals  Analysts said the measures would have a bigger effect on
the  Housing & Development Board ’s public apartment projects that
house 80 percent of locals than private condos, which typically
include facilities like swimming pools and tennis courts.  Two days after the cooling measures were announced, a
condominium in the Balestier area sold collectively for S$44
million with homeowners expecting up to S$2.26 million each. The
same day, a building in nearby Newton was offered en-bloc for
S$48 million, Channel NewsAsia  reported .  The government’s measures “will certainly have some
cooling effect,” said  Irvin Seah , economist at  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd.  “Sellers will be holding back.”  Collective sales divide communities between those tempted
by the premium and those who don’t want to lose their home.  Susan Ye’s neighbors failed this year in their second
attempt to persuade her and other holdouts to sell the 489-unit
Clementi Park, a sprawling estate of 11 blocks built in 1985 on
a hill in the west of the island.  Heated Exchanges  “The situation was very unfriendly and un-neighborly,”
said Ye, who started website  saveclementipark.com  with neighbors
who wanted to block the sale. “It’s created a kind of a
pressure-cooker situation. Many of us face an attempt to sell
every two years, which is really exhausting.”  The hotter the market, the more heated become the exchanges
between would-be “en-bloc millionaires” and those trying to
keep their home. At the 2007 peak, residents reported scratched
cars, anonymous hate letters and verbal abuse from neighbors.  Owners at Farrer Court in 2007 received letters warning
them to sign a sale agreement or face “bad fengshui” that
would bring illness or death, the Straits Times  reported .  Farrer Court sold June 2007, becoming the first en-bloc
deal in Singapore to top S$1 billion. Owners received as much as
S$2.2 million, almost four times the price two years earlier.  ‘En Bloc’  The next billion dollar en-bloc “could happen as early as
next year,” said Karamjit Singh, managing director at property
consultant  Credo Real Estate Pte Ltd. , which brokered the S$1.3
billion Farrer Court sale to a group led by  CapitaLand.   Singapore’s collective sales have even spurred an eight-
episode television series. “En Bloc,” from state-owned
broadcaster  MediaCorp Pte.,  “explored how the en-bloc sale
potentially threatened the breakup of multigeneration families
living under one roof,” said Executive Producer and Director
Emida Natalaray in an e-mail.  For Ye at Clementi Park, the victory in keeping her home
may be temporary as prices rise, increasing pressure for owners
to accept a developer’s offer.  “The property market is cyclical,” she said. “There will
always be people trying to sell your home from under you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristine Aquino  at Singapore at 
 kaquino@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  