-- Enel Green Power Declines As Much as 3.7% in First Day of Milan Trading
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-04T09:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/enel-green-power-falls-as-much-as-4-4-in-milan-debut-after-initial-offer.html
Enel Green Power SpA , the renewable
energy unit of Italy’s biggest utility, declined on its first
day of trading after Europe’s largest initial public offering
since 2007.  Green Power declined as much as 7 cents, or 4.4 percent, to
1.53 euros in Milan, It traded at 1.544 euros at 10:29 a.m.
local time. The company sold 2.26 billion euros of shares at 1.6
euros each in the IPO.  “A cool reception is not the correct term to define the
debut,” Enel Chief Executive Officer Fulvio Conti told
journalists during a press conference in Milan today. ‘Investors
need to consider the important growth prospects.’’  Parent  Enel  raised less than expected from the IPO after
being forced to cut the minimum price offered to investors. The
Rome-based company said demand was only 365 million shares
higher than the 1.415 billion shares offered.  Conti said today the offering’s global coordinators will
exercise a so-called greenshoe option of 210 million shares
worth an additional 336 million euros.  Green Power is poised to have the worst debut among western
European utility companies since March 2008 when ErgyCapital SpA
dropped 12.9 percent on its first day of trading, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors were cautious after losing money on share sales
by Spain’s  Iberdrola Renovables SA  in December 2007 and
Portugal’s  EDP Renovaveis SA  in June 2008. Iberdrola Renovables
has dropped about 52 percent since its debut, while EDP has
declined 46 percent since its first day of trading.  Lure Investors  Conti had said he hoped to make at least 3 billion euros
from the IPO to help cut Enel's debt. The company tried to 
lure investors by offering a 30 percent dividend payout and
highlighting a business mix that unlike competitors doesn’t
largely depend on state subsidies due to a strong reliance on
hydro power.  Enel will be able to meet its debt-reduction targets of 45
billion euros by year-end and 39 billion euros by 2014, despite
making less than planned on the initial public offering, Conti
said.  Cash to repay debt will come from asset sales which Conti
says are on schedule. Enel is selling its Spanish gas-
distribution assets and is in the process of selling a coal-
fired power plant in Bulgaria.  “I think the market negativity toward the stock today is
unjustified given the price was lowered to a level that now
reflects fundamentals,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , fund manager
at RMJ Sgr in Milan who bought shares in the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 