-- `Two Giants' Squeeze New Zealand as Kiwi Rise Hurts Exports, English Says
-- B y   M i k e   F i r n   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-04T06:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/english-says-giants-squeeze-new-zealand-as-kiwi-s-rise-hurts-exports.html
New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said that U.S. and Chinese policies are causing his
nation’s currency to soar, endangering export competitiveness.  “We’re caught between the policies of the two giants, both
of which puts some pressure on us, with the U.S. depreciating
their currency and China not allowing theirs to appreciate as
much as would suit us,” English said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Tokyo. “We’re concerned that the current pressures
are going to continue to build.”  English’s comments reflect the international ramifications
of the Federal Reserve’s decision yesterday to inject $600
billion into the U.S. economy and China’s policy of restraining
gains in the yuan. New Zealand’s so-called kiwi is the best
performer of 16 major currencies against the U.S. dollar in the
past month, reaching a 29-month high today after a report showed
the unemployment rate fell more than forecast last quarter.  The New Zealand finance chief, in Japan for a Kyoto meeting
of counterparts from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum
starting tomorrow, said the kiwi’s strength creates a
“headwind” for  exports , which make up 30 percent of the
economy. He added that the jobless rate, which dropped to 6.4
percent from 6.9 percent in April to June, is “still too
high.”  While New Zealand’s exporters “are in pretty good shape,”
English said that “we’re going to have to keep working at it if
we’re going to have an export-led recovery.”  Currency’s Rise  The kiwi rose as high as 78.86 U.S. cents after the jobs
report, the highest level since June 3, 2008. It bought 78.58
cents at 7:04 p.m. in Wellington trading from 78.02 cents
immediately before the data was released.  “There’s a risk that there will be continued depreciation
of the U.S. dollar, and continued buildup of pressures around
the Chinese currency with domestic inflation rising,” said
English, who is visiting investors and policy makers in Tokyo
ahead of the Nov. 5-6 APEC meeting.  China has limited the yuan’s appreciation versus the dollar
to less than 2 percent since adopting a policy of greater
flexibility in the exchange rate in June. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last month that China’s
policy has prompted other countries to take steps to counter
resultant gains in their own currencies.  New Zealand has observed Brazil’s move to impose capital
controls, along with Japan’s intervention in September to sell
yen in the market, and it’s not clear whether those measures
were successful, English said. Since those larger economies
haven’t had much success, New Zealand has “limited” ability to
influence its exchange rate, he said.  Job Report  New Zealand’s  jobless rate  dropped from a revised 6.9
percent in the second quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today. The rate was lower than the 6.7 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 14 economists. English
said “the trend is clear,” and the jobless rate is likely to
continue to fall.  Rising employment and wages add to signs that consumer
spending will pick up, buoying an economic recovery that slowed
earlier this year. The currency gained as traders increased bets
that central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  will need to raise the
benchmark interest rate next year as domestic demand improves
and inflation picks up.  “The labor market has turned,” said  Philip Borkin , an
economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New Zealand Ltd. in
Auckland. “We expect an ongoing gradual improvement into 2011,
which should eventually assist in a better backdrop for the
household sector over the coming 12 months.”  Interest Rates  Bollard kept the official  cash rate  unchanged at 3 percent
for a second month on Oct. 28 after gross domestic product rose
just 0.2 percent in the second quarter, saying demand remained
subdued. A magnitude 7 earthquake on Sept. 4 in Canterbury
province hobbled consumer confidence.  All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last week said
Bollard will keep the cash rate unchanged until March.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is unlikely to raise
borrowing costs any earlier because of a weak housing market and
sluggish retail spending, Borkin said.  By November 2011, the central bank’s cash rate would most
likely be 4 percent, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based on
swaps trading. Yesterday, the index indicated a rate of 3.79
percent.  Employment rose by 1 percent from the second quarter as
employers added 22,000 workers, today’s report showed.
Economists expected a 0.5 percent increase. Wage inflation
accelerated for the second straight quarter in the three months
through September, according to a government report on Nov. 2.  The labor force  participation rate , which measures the
proportion of New Zealand’s 3.4 million working-age population
who are working or looking for work, rose to 68.3 percent from a
revised 68.1 percent three months earlier.  More people were looking for work and most of them found
jobs, the statistics agency said. The number of people
unemployed fell 10,000 to 150,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  