-- Entergy Explores Potential Sale of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/entergy-explores-potential-sale-of-vermont-yankee-nuclear-power-plant.html
Entergy Corp. , the second-largest
owner of U.S. nuclear reactors, may sell its  Vermont Yankee 
reactor after Vermont voters elected a governor who has opposed
extending the plant’s operating life beyond 2012.  The company, which agreed to buy the plant in 2001 for $180
million, expects “interest from multiple parties,” according
to a statement today. The 620-megawatt reactor is located in
Vernon, Vermont, about 140 miles (225 kilometers) northwest of
Boston, and provides a third of the electricity consumed in the
state, according to New Orleans-based Entergy.  The Vermont Senate voted on Feb. 24 against extending the
plant’s license after it expires in March 2012 because of leaks
of tritium-laced water at the site. Vermont Senate President and
Governor-Elect  Peter Shumlin , a Democrat, has called for the
state to  reject  a 20-year extension to the plant’s operating
license.  “They would appear to not have a very good relationship
with some of the authorities in Vermont,” said  Kit Konolige , an
analyst with Soleil Securities Corp. in New York who has a
“buy” rating on Entergy and doesn’t own any shares. “Another
owner might do better.”  Vermont Yankee should fetch at least $620 million to $800
million,  Daniele Seitz , a New York-based analyst for Dudack
Research Group, said in an interview.  Potential buyers include NextEra Energy Inc., which already
operates nuclear plants in New England, and  Exelon Corp. , the
largest U.S. nuclear operator, she said.  Trying for ‘Months’  Entergy is selling the plant because a sale is in the
“best interest of stakeholders” and not because of Shumlin’s
election, said  Michael Burns , a spokesman for the New Orleans-
based company.  “Entergy’s been trying to sell the plant for months,”
Shumlin said in an  interview  today on Radio Vermont’s Mark
Johnson Show. “The plant is old and tired. It’s been my
judgment that it should be retired in 2012.”  The reactor came under scrutiny from the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission and state regulators after leaks of water
laced with tritium were identified in January. Tritium is a
radioactive form of hydrogen and a byproduct of nuclear power
generation that in large doses can increase the risk of cancer.  The company is in the process of cleaning the areas
affected by the tritium leak and would “substantially
complete” the effort before any sale, Burns said.  Veto Power  Entergy submitted an application to renew the license for
Vermont Yankee in January 2006, said  Diane Screnci , a
spokeswoman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The current
license expires on March 21, 2012.  When it purchased the plant, Entergy agreed to give the
state legislature veto power over extending the license, said
Konolige. Vermont is the only state where that is the case and a
new owner will have to have license-renewal discussions with the
state, he said.  Entergy  rose  74 cents, or 1 percent, to $75.40 at 4:04 p.m.
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
have fallen 7.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 