-- Metro Targets 10% Share of China's Consumer-Electronics Market, CEO Says
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-04T09:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/metro-targets-realistic-10-share-of-china-s-consumer-electronics-market.html
Metro AG , the world’s third-largest
retailer, aims to win a 10 percent share of China’s consumer-
electronics market, which is forecast to double to 180 billion
euros ($256 billion) in a decade.  “Ten percent is a realistic target for us,” Chief
Executive Officer  Eckhard Cordes  said in an interview in
Shanghai today, without specifying when the goal will be
reached. Metro, which is set to open its first Media Markt
consumer-electronics store in Shanghai on Nov. 17, plans to
invest $200 million in the new business by 2012 and add a total
of more than 100 such outlets in China by 2015.  China is among the emerging markets being targeted by Metro
as the retailer seeks to cut its reliance on Germany, where
 retail sales  have stagnated for the past decade. Consumer-
electronics sales in China are growing by about 8 percent
annually, according to Metro.  “Chinese consumers’ purchasing power is soaring, making
this the ideal time to enter the market,”  Roland Weise , head of
Metro’s Media Markt/Saturn unit, said at a press conference in
Shanghai today. Consumer-electronics sales in Shanghai total
about 5.5 billion euros annually, similar in size to Switzerland
or Austria, he added.  Metro last year entered a joint venture with Foxconn
Technology Group to operate the consumer-electronics stores in
China. The Dusseldorf-based company, which holds 75 percent in
the venture, plans to open 10 Media Markt outlets in Shanghai by
2012 to benefit from rising demand for TV sets and laptops in
the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Competitors in China include domestic chains  Gome
Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd.  and Suning Appliance Co. as
well as Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, which has a local partnership with China’s Jiangsu
Five Star Appliance Co.  Price Guarantee  Metro said it aims to extend its “lowest-price guarantee”
on 45,000 different products to China. Customers who find a
product at a cheaper price within 15 days after the purchase
will get the difference refunded by  Media Markt .  The German retailer also aims to speed up growth at its
Cash & Carry wholesale  business  in China to match the pace of
the nation’s economic expansion by boosting the number of such
outlets to 50 by year-end, Cordes said. China is sustaining its
rebound from the financial crisis with analysts projecting 10
percent growth for 2010, up from 9.1 percent last year.  “We have made mistakes in the past,” Cordes said, adding
that resulted in the wholesale operation’s growth being slower
than the economy’s expansion since entering China in 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 