-- Metro Plans to Open More Than 100 Media Markt Outlets in China by 2015
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-04T03:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/metro-plans-to-open-more-than-100-media-markt-outlets-in-china-by-2015.html
Metro AG,  the world’s third-largest
retailer, will open more than 10 consumer-electronics stores in
Shanghai by the end of 2012 and add a total of more than 100
stores in China by 2015 to benefit from rising demand for TV
sets and laptops in the world’s most populous country.  Metro’s first Media Markt, or Wan De Cheng, store will open
Nov. 17,  Roland Weise , the Media Markt/Saturn unit’s chief said
at a press conference in Shanghai today. With a size of 13,500
square meters it will be the second largest of the company’s 602
outlets under the Media Markt brand.  China is among the emerging markets being targeted by Metro
as the retailer seeks to cut its reliance on Germany, where
 retail sales  have stagnated for the past decade. Consumer
electronics sales in China are growing by about 8 percent
annually and will double to an annual 180 billion euros ($254
billion) within the next 10 years, according to Metro.  “Chinese consumers’ purchasing power is soaring, making
this the ideal time to enter the market,” Weise said. Consumer
electronics market sales in Shanghai total about 5.5 billion
euros, similar in size to Switzerland or Austria, he said.  The Media Markt/Saturn consumer electronics division’s
earnings before interest and tax fell 1.3 percent in the first
nine months on costs to enter the Chinese market and introduce
new private-label products. Revenue excluding currency shifts
rose 6.4 percent, boosted by this year’s soccer World Cup.  Metro last year entered a joint venture with Foxconn
Technology Group to operate the consumer electronics stores in
China. The German retailer holds 75 percent in the venture.  Competitors in China include domestic chains  Gome
Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd.  and Suning Appliance Co. as
well as Best Buy Co., the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, which has a local partnership with China’s Jiangsu
Five Star Appliance Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 