-- Euro Retreats From Near Nine-Month High on Ireland's Budget, ECB Outlook
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-04T06:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/euro-retreats-from-nine-month-high-on-fiscal-concerns-ecb-policy-outlook.html
The euro retreated from near a nine-
month high against the dollar as lingering concern about
European nations’ fiscal problems damped demand for assets in
the region.  The single currency fell versus 13 of 16 major counterparts
on speculation the European Central Bank will delay withdrawing
stimulus at today’s meeting and that Ireland’s government will
struggle to pass the 2011 budget. The yen rose on speculation
Japanese exporters bought the currency after it touched a one-
week low versus the dollar. Taiwan’s dollar jumped the most in
18 months after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries.  “Worries over Ireland’s budget situation still seem to be
persisting,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “This is likely a negative factor for the euro.”  The euro declined to $1.4125 at 6:45 a.m. in London from
$1.4139 in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.4179, the
highest since Jan. 26. The currency fell to 114.20 yen from
114.64 yen. The yen advanced to 80.85 per dollar from 81.07
yesterday, when it reached 81.58, the weakest since Oct. 28.  Taiwan’s dollar surged 1.2 percent to NT$30.283 against its
U.S. counterpart, the biggest advance since April 2009 and the
strongest since June 2008. New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.8
percent to 78.60 U.S. cents. It reached 78.86 cents, the most
since June 2008. The kiwi rose 0.5 percent to 63.55 yen.  Ireland  Ireland last month said it needs 15 billion euros ($21
billion) of savings over the next four years to reduce the
nation’s deficit. The government, which is preparing next year’s
budget, will announce plans for 2011 budget cuts and tax-raising
measures by tomorrow.  The yield difference, or  spread , between Irish bonds and
German bunds widened yesterday to more than 500 basis points,
the most since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1991.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the euro’s
stability depends on making investors pay for future debt crises.  Europe’s currency also weakened as the Federal Reserve’s
decision to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through
June may force the ECB to postpone the removal of its stimulus
steps, economists said.  “It’s complicating the ECB’s exit and council members
really need to think hard about their strategy,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London.
“They may have to reconsider their plans.”  ECB Meeting  The ECB will leave its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 1 percent today, according to all 55 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . The decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet holds a press
conference 45 minutes later. The Bank of England will release
its policy decision at noon in London and the Bank of Japan
makes its announcement at about noon in Tokyo tomorrow.  Japan’s currency strengthened against the dollar and the
euro on speculation the nation’s exporters took advantage of the
currency’s weakness yesterday.  “It seems that exporters are selling foreign currencies
for yen,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior currency analyst at
Ueda Harlow Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s good timing after a holiday”
in Japan, he said.  The yen remains stronger than the 89.44 per dollar average
that large manufactures predicted for the six months to March
2011, according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released in
September.  Taiwan‘s Dollar  Taiwan’s dollar rose to a two-year high after overseas
investors yesterday added to their holdings of the island’s
shares for a 10th day. Global funds have bought $1.4 billion
more of the island’s shares than they sold in the last three
days, about the same amount as was pumped in during October,
exchange data show.  “The Taiwan dollar will continue to rise as the Fed’s
easing means growing optimism of more inflows into Asia,” said
 Tarsicio Tong , a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. “The appreciation pressure is unprecedented. The
central bank may need to try harder to slow the pace of the
currency’s gains.”  Today’s currency advance in part reflects a market
correction after Taiwan’s central bank intervened yesterday to
curb gains, according to traders who declined to be identified.  New Zealand’s dollar gained for a sixth day against the yen
and dollar after Statistics New Zealand said the  jobless rate 
dropped to a seasonally adjusted 6.4 percent in the third
quarter, compared with the median estimate of 6.7 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “The jobs number was strong across all measures and the
market will probably start pricing in a hike in March,” said
 Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Wellington with Westpac
Banking Corp. “The kiwi dollar will likely target 80 cents in
the next week or two and the Aussie should hold above parity now
with the dollar under pressure after the Fed’s announcement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  