-- Europe Services, Manufacturing Industries Expand at Faster Pace
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-04T09:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/europe-october-services-manufacturing-industries-slow-less-than-estimated.html
Europe’s  services and manufacturing 
 industries  expanded at a faster pace than initially estimated in
October, led by surging output in Germany.  A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries slipped to 53.8 from 54.1 in the
previous month, London-based Markit Economics said today. It had
initially reported a drop to 53.4. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion. A services gauge for the euro region fell to 53.3
from 54.1.  The data suggest Europe’s economy is maintaining some
momentum as it recovers from the recession. While the European
Central Bank will today keep its benchmark interest rate
unchanged, according to a survey of economists by Bloomberg
News, government spending cuts and an easing global recovery may
hamper Europe’s economic growth into 2011.  “The composite PMI is indicative of much weaker growth
than we saw in the first half of the year,” said Ken Wattret,
an economist at BNP Paribas in London. “National divergence
remains a key theme within the data, with core countries
continuing to do much better than the periphery -- a theme which
is likely to persist for a long while yet.”  The euro extended its gain against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.4251 as of 9:51 a.m. in London, up 0.8
percent from yesterday.  ‘Weak Increases’  Markit said “strong growth” in Germany “contrasted with
weak increases in Italy and Ireland and contraction in Spain.”  In Germany, the services index rose to 56 in October from
54.9 in September, a separate report today showed. That’s below
an initial estimate of 56.6 for last month. In France, the gauge
dropped to 54.8, a seven-month low, from 58.2. Ireland’s index
rose to 50.9 from 48.8, while Spain’s services slump
accelerated, with the index falling to 46.5 from 47.9.  The euro-area measure of  manufacturing  rose to 54.6 from
53.7 in the previous month, Markit said on Nov. 2.  “While manufacturing showed a welcome upturn in the rate
of expansion, service sector growth continued to weaken, which
raises concerns that domestic demand in the region remains
disappointingly lackluster,” said Markit Chief Economist  Chris Williamson . “The region’s near-term fortunes therefore seem to
be increasingly reliant upon growth of global demand.”  European Companies  The euro-area economy grew 1 percent in the second quarter,
the fastest pace in four years.  Daimler AG  and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  are among European companies that have raised full-
year forecasts in recent weeks. Lufthansa Chief Financial
Officer  Stephan Gemkow  said on Oct. 28 that earnings will
continue to develop “positively.” Daimler, the world’s No. 2
maker of luxury vehicles, raised its full-year profit forecast
that day.  Still, with the global recovery easing and the euro’s 8
percent gain against the dollar in the past three months making
euro-area exports less competitive, Europe may suffer. Domestic
demand may also be hampered as governments cut spending and
raise taxes to rein in budget deficits.  The Federal Reserve said late yesterday that it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost the U.S. economy.
The ECB will announce its interest-rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt, and President Jean-Claude Trichet will hold a press
conference 45 minutes later.  The European Commission said on Sept. 13 that euro-area
 growth  probably weakened to 0.5 percent in the third quarter
from 1 percent in the previous three months. The European
Union’s statistics office will release gross-domestic-product
data for those three months on Nov. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  