-- Ex-Societe Generale Programmer Trial Won’t Be Closed
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-11-04T22:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ex-societe-generale-programmer-s-trial-will-be-in-open-court-judge-says.html
The trial of  Samarth Agrawal , the
former  Societe Generale SA  trader accused of stealing the bank’s
computer code for high-frequency trading, will remain open to
the public after a judge rejected prosecutors’ bid to seal it.  Prosecutors in New York asked U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  to close portions of the trial to the public when high-
frequency trading is discussed to protect the bank’s trade
secrets. The U.S. also asked that some of the transcript be
sealed when such testimony was discussed.  Agrawal was charged by federal prosecutors in April with
theft of trade secrets. The government said Agrawal, hired by
Societe Generale in New York in March 2007 to work as a
quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading group, made
copies of one part of the code he had been given access to and
another part he wasn’t allowed to have.  “My recollection of the constitutional protections include
an open court,” Rakoff said at a hearing today. “That
protection cannot be overcome because it makes it more difficult
for the government to prove its case.”  Renew Request  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Daniel Levy  told Rakoff
the government sought to seal the courtroom during parts of the
trial to prevent the public disclosure of proprietary Societe
Generale computer codes.  Ensuring that no secrets were accidentally disclosed,
“could cause some logistical headaches,” Levy said. “This
very much hamstrings the government’s ability to prove their
case.”  Levy told the judge that Agrawal was believed to have
printed out between 500 to 1,000 pages from Societe Generale’s
computers. Rakoff interrupted, saying, “The jury, I am sure,
has no interest in seeing 500 pages of a logarithm code.”  The judge said prosecutors can renew their request to close
the courtroom if they determine potential trade secrets might be
disclosed. He told lawyers to prepare to deliver opening
statements to the jury as early as Nov. 8.  ‘Tongue Lashing’  Agrawal’s lawyer, Ivan Fisher, told the judge that the
defense had no intention of revealing details of any codes that
are part of the government’s case. “They are not in any part of
our defense strategy” Fisher said.  Rakoff said that if Fisher did disclose any trade secrets,
“he would run the risk of some unfortunate consequence, like
jail, like disbarment, or even worse, getting a tongue-lashing
from me.”  Agrawal, who faces as long as 10 years in prison if
convicted, pleaded not guilty to the charges. Agrawal was
promoted to trader in April 2009, according to the government.
Before he resigned last November, he deleted a computer folder
on his personal network drive that contained the code,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors have said the code Agrawal is accused of
stealing cost millions of dollars to develop and generated
millions of dollars in revenue for Paris-based Societe Generale.  ‘Very Pleased’  “We’re very pleased with the court’s decision to enforce
the constitutional protections involving an open court and a
public trial,” Fisher said after court today.  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for Societe Generale, declined
comment.  This is the second case in the past month in which
prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  have asked a judge to seal portions of a federal
criminal trial to protect a company’s trade secrets.  The government asked another federal judge on Oct. 26 to
seal portions of the trial of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov , who is accused of stealing
trade secrets from the securities firm.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-CR-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 