-- Extract Says Itochu Interested in Buying Uranium Output From Namibia Mine
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-04T06:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/extract-says-itochu-very-interested-in-husab-uranium-output.html
Extract Resources Ltd. , the uranium
explorer partly owned by Rio Tinto Group, said Japanese trading
house  Itochu Corp.  wants to purchase production from its Husab
mine in Namibia.  “Itochu is very interested in taking offtake,” Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie said in an interview in Perth
today.  Extract, about 15 percent owned by Rio Tinto, aims to
develop the world’s second-biggest uranium venture after Cameco
Corp.’s McArthur River mine in Canada. The company intends to
gain from a nuclear-power revival as countries turn to the
technology to meet energy demand and cut emissions.  Itochu agreed in July to buy a 10.3 percent stake in
London-based Extract to benefit from global growth in demand for
the fuel. It now holds 13 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The stake purchase “doesn’t restrict us in any way,
it just gives us more options,” Leslie said.  The two companies are in talks about Itochu helping to
develop the Namibian project’s desalination plant, Leslie said.  Extract  gained 3.2 percent to A$8.15 at the close in Sydney
trading, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.5 percent.  Feasibility Study Delay  The company said in June it aims to begin production in
2014. In an announcement earlier today, Extract said it was
delaying the publishing of Husab’s definitive feasibility study
to 2011’s first quarter from the final quarter of this year.  “It’s been a very aggressive timetable,” Leslie said.
“We’ve made some rapid progress. We’ve got to make sure we
deliver the project fully optimized. We need the time to make
sure we get the result. Our shareholders would understand the
importance of getting it right.”  Uranium rose $1.50 to $53.50 a pound in the week through
Nov. 1, Roswell, Georgia-based UxC Consulting Co. said in a
report.  Uranium prices look “very strong” in the medium term,
with recent gains on the spot market driven by producers failing
to meet production targets, he said.  “We can see a gap opening up in the market in two to three
years,” Leslie said. “The belief is Kazakhstan is getting
toward the end of the period where they’ve got the easy stuff,
the low-hanging fruit, so their costs are going up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 