-- Fannie, Freddie Fix May Cost $685 Billion, S&P Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-04T19:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/fannie-freddie-solution-may-cost-u-s-685-billion-s-p-says.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the
mortgage firms operating under federal conservatorship, may cost
taxpayers as much as $685 billion as the U.S. covers losses and
overhauls the housing-finance system, Standard & Poor’s said.  Costs for resolving the two government-sponsored entities
could reach $280 billion, including $148 billion already
delivered under a U.S. Treasury Department promise of unlimited
support, New York-based S&P said today in a research report. The
government may spend another $405 billion to capitalize a
replacement for the two companies, which own or insure more than
half the U.S. mortgage market.  “It appears unlikely in our view that housing and mortgage
markets will be able to operate normally without continuing and
substantial government involvement,” S&P said, citing the GSEs’
growing portfolio of unsold homes, a sluggish economy, high
unemployment, the prospect of rising foreclosures and billions
in legacy losses.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who has said there
is a strong case to be made for continued U.S. involvement, has
promised to deliver the Obama administration’s plan to overhaul
the housing-finance system by the end of January. Republican
lawmakers who will take control of the House of Representatives
in January have called for the government to end its support for
Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia.  “Although federal authorities have taken no concrete
public steps toward sponsoring a GSE alternative, Standard &
Poor’s believes that it’s a useful exercise to consider how much
such a recapitalization might cost taxpayers,” the report said.  Replacement  A replacement for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would be
capitalized at 7 percent of total assets, or $400 billion,
supplied by the government, the report said.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, said last month that the two companies
could need as much as $363 billion in taxpayer aid -- including
funds already delivered -- through 2013 if the housing market
falls to levels it reached during the credit crisis. The actual
cost to the U.S. would be $259 billion, because almost 30
percent of the funds would come back to Treasury as dividend
payments on its holdings of senior preferred stock.  The total cost could be as little as $221 billion, or $142
billion after dividends, if there is moderate growth in home
prices, FHFA said in its report. If prices decline slightly, the
companies would need $238 billion, or $154 billion after
dividends, FHFA said.  The estimates in S&P’s report included projected outlays
from Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but didn’t factor
in the dividend payments.  The Congressional Budget Office calculated last year that
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would need $389 billion in subsidies
through 2019. The White House Office of Management and Budget
said in February that aid could total as little as $160 billion.  Treasury Department officials said last week 90 percent of
the companies’ losses are behind them, with most attributable to
loans made before the government took control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clea  Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 