-- Fed May Need to Buy More Assets After QE2, Pimco’s Clarida Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-04T17:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/fed-may-need-to-buy-more-assets-after-easing-round-pimco-s-clarida-says.html
The Federal Reserve may be forced to
buy more assets if the $600 billion in bond purchases announced
yesterday isn’t enough to boost growth and inflation, Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Richard Clarida  said.  “A year from now, if unemployment is 9, 9.5 or 10 percent,
we are going to see more,” Clarida, a global strategic adviser
for Pimco, said during on Bloomberg Television’s  "InBusiness" 
with Scarlet Fu. “It may take a different form; it may be 
concentrated in different assets, but the Fed can’t cut interest
rates. They are at zero at the short-end. If they are going to
ease policy, they have to do it through these quantitative
measures.”  The central bank will buy about $75 billion of Treasuries a
month, or $600 billion through June and “will adjust the
program as needed,” policy makers said in a statement issued
after the conclusion of the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting yesterday. They’ve kept the benchmark  target rate  for
overnight loans between banks at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  “The Fed has indicated very clearly it has a dual mandate
of inflation of 2 percent and a low unemployment rate,” Clarida
said. “Right now the Fed has fallen short on both of those
mandates. This is potentially not the end of QE, depending on
the data.”  U.S. initial jobless claims rose to 457,000 in the week
ended Oct. 30 from a revised 437,000 the prior week,  Labor
Department  figures showed today. The median forecast of 50
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase to
442,000 from a previously reported 434,000.  Preferred Measure  The unemployment  rate  has been above 9 percent since May
2009. The Fed’s preferred annual measure of inflation was
unchanged from the prior month and was up 1.2 percent last month
from a year earlier, the smallest gain since September 2001,
government figures showed Nov. 1. The so-called core PCE rate
tracks the personal consumption expenditures price index
excluding food and energy.  Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual rate from
July through September, in line with economists’ forecasts,
Commerce Department figures showed Oct. 29. The pace was 1.7
percent in the second quarter and 3.7 percent in the first.  “The transmission mechanism from lower rates to more
economic growth is an uncertain one and right now it’s not
operating as the Fed would like,” Clarida said. “Most
economists would have thought that with these low interest rates
and the quantitative easing we’ve had, we would have seen more
of an impact on job growth and the economy.”  In its first round of purchases, which ended in March, the
Fed bought $1.75 trillion in securities, including $300 billion
in Treasuries.  “The Fed is much more concerned about a deflationary
outcome, falling prices than it is about rising inflation,”
Clarida said. “The Fed is hoping that leads to economic growth
and lower unemployment. That’s the transmission mechanism that
they can’t directly control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net :
Scarlet Fu in New York at 
 scarfu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  