-- Fed Overlooked Foreclosed Homes in Asset Choices: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-11-04T01:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/fed-overlooked-foreclosed-homes-in-asset-choices-caroline-baum.html
How will we know if it’s working?  The Federal Reserve surprised no one yesterday when it
 announced  it would purchase $600 billion of long-term
Treasuries, concentrated in 2 1/2- to 10-year  maturities , by the
end of the second quarter of next year. The move was about as
well-advertised as it gets.  Now comes the hard part. The Fed’s goal for quantitative
easing, part II, is to lower other long-term rates, making it
cheaper to buy homes and finance factories. With both ends of
the yield curve now under the influence of the central bank,
policy makers will lose one of the more important signaling
measures they have.  Not that they’re watching or listening. The yield curve, or
spread between a Fed-pegged  overnight rate  and a market-
determined long-term rate, succinctly describes the stance of
monetary policy. Unlike the Fed’s econometric model, which did
such a fine job of anticipating the recession, the inverted
 yield curve  from mid-2006 through January 2008 provided advance
warning -- and was widely ignored.  In the same way that  printing money  risks raising asset
prices instead of increasing demand for goods and services,
“there’s a danger in depressing a market signal,” says  Jim Glassman , senior U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Operation Twisted  Other signs of the economy’s health and the effectiveness
of the Fed’s efforts -- stock prices, the value of the dollar
and credit spreads -- will remain viable, but playing with the
yield curve is like trying to fool Mother Nature.  The last time the Fed and Treasury made a serious attempt
to manipulate the yield curve was with Operation Twist in 1961.
The idea was to lower long-term interest rates to stimulate
investment --  John Maynard Keynes  was big back then, too -- and
prop up short-term rates to prevent capital outflows.  The mechanics involved the Fed buying notes and bonds
(previously it had a “bills only” policy) in its open-market
operations. At the same time, the Treasury acted like a banker,
borrowing short (to finance its spending) and lending long (for
its trust accounts).  While Operation Twist was considered a failure at the time,
in part because of the reluctant participation of the parties
involved, the idea keeps coming back. It was kicked around in
the U.S. in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. It rears its head
periodically in Japan. Last year the Fed bought $1.7 trillion of
long-term Treasuries, agency debt and mortgage-backed securities
in its first stab at boosting the economy with the benchmark
rate near zero.  Home-Purchase Plan  Mortgage rates  did fall, and the  spread to Treasuries 
narrowed, during the Fed’s buying bonanza, but it’s impossible
to tease out the Fed effect from weak housing demand.  Existing
home sales  are no higher now than they were when the Fed
announced its MBS purchases in November 2008;  new home sales  are
lower.  Which brings me to my idea for the Fed. Instead of another
round of Treasury purchases, the Fed missed an opportunity to
kill two birds with one stone by using QE2 to buy  foreclosed
homes .  I was half-kidding when I wrote that sentence. Now I’m not
so sure it’s a bad idea, assuming the Fed were empowered to buy
houses.  Look at it this way: The Fed stimulates aggregate demand by
increasing the quantity of  reserves  in the hope banks will use
them to make loans and buy securities, expanding the money
supply even further. From the perspective of quantitative
easing, it doesn’t matter what the Fed buys. The reserves impact
is the same.  Fed Squatters  Right now there are more homes than buyers, putting
downward pressure on prices. Instead of spending $600 billion to
lower long-term rates a tad, the Fed could accumulate a sizeable
inventory of foreclosed properties, reducing the  supply of homes 
and stabilizing the housing market.  The Fed could offer its employees in Washington and in the
cities where it has district banks free housing. Those employees
would presumably spruce up the premises, preventing further
erosion in the property and the neighborhood.  Unlike the losses the Fed will incur on its portfolio of
 Treasuries  and  MBS  when interest rates rise, the homes would
probably turn a profit. In a rising market, it’s not hard to
unload inventory. The tenants of those homes would have to find
new places to live, providing added demand for housing.  OK, so it’s a little unconventional. But isn’t that what
the Fed is looking for? Why not be creative?  Depressed Signal  By purchasing Treasuries, the Fed will miss the turn in the
cycle as long rates are artificially depressed. Six months ago 
policy makers were mulling their exit strategy, only to be side-
swiped by the data.  All it took was a hint the U.S. economy was improving to
send 10-year note yields soaring to 4 percent in April 2010 from
a low of 2 percent in December 2008 in the darkest days of the
crisis. Imagine what will happen when the real turn in the
economy comes.  The anticipation of QE2 has done more for stock and
commodity prices than for bonds. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note is just about where it was when Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  first teed up additional asset purchases in late
August.  If I were a central banker with a $2.3 trillion  balance
sheet , I would want as many market signals as I could get to
nudge me when it’s time to head for the exits. Depressing one of
the better ones is, well, depressing in itself.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  