-- Fed Said to Plan Guidelines for Bank Dividends, Stock Buybacks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-11-05T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/fed-said-to-prepare-guidelines-for-bank-dividend-boosts-jpmorgan-advances.html
The Federal Reserve is preparing
guidelines for supervisors to use in assessing whether banks
are strong enough to boost dividends or buy back shares, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The Fed plans to release the guidelines as soon as this
month, said the person, who declined to be identified because
the plan hasn’t been made public. The Fed is seeking to
standardize procedures for supervisors to evaluate inquiries
from banks, the person said.  “It’s significant because it will give a level of
guidance and understanding that the Federal Reserve did not
use before,” said  Thomas Sowanick , chief investment officer
and co-president of Omnivest Group LLC in Princeton, New
Jersey, which has $1 billion under advisory. “It really
demonstrates the enhanced oversight that the Fed has.”  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from
souring loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue
a letter to its regional supervisors telling them banks
“should reduce or eliminate dividends” when earnings decline
or the economic outlook deteriorates. The new guidelines may
show the Fed’s confidence in banks’ health is being restored.  “It signals that the Fed is comfortable with the
capitalization the industry has or will have in the future,”
said  James Chessen , chief economist for the American Bankers
Association in Washington. “It’s a very good sign.”  ‘Top Priority’  Bank stocks rose, helping drive the Standard and Poor’s
500 Index to the highest since September 2008, after the Wall
Street Journal reported that the Fed may start letting healthy
banks raise dividends. The six largest U.S. banks currently
pay quarterly dividends totaling 51 cents, down from $2.49 in
2007.  Wells Fargo & Co. Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins ,
59, said last month that an increase is a “top priority” for
the bank. JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said he was “reasonably hopeful” the firm will be
able to raise its payment in 2011’s first quarter and that
regulators were open to the idea.  “But they are going through their own calculations, and
they obviously want to look at the global issues I think
before they make any final determinations,” Dimon said Oct.
13.  The U.S.  Treasury Department  forced Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. to
slash their quarterly payments to no more than a penny as a
 condition  of receiving an additional $20 billion of bailout
money in late 2008 and early 2009. The banks had gotten $25
billion a few months earlier.  ‘Winners and Losers’  Bank of America cut its  dividend  to 1 cent a share, the
lowest since predecessor BankAmerica Corp. eliminated its
payout between 1986 and 1988 because of loan losses. Citigroup
canceled its dividend altogether in February 2009. It repaid
$20 billion to the Treasury last December and is still
partially owned by the government.  Not all bank balance sheets have recovered enough from
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression to start
increasing payouts, said  Paul Miller , a bank analyst at FBR
Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  “There are still a lot of banks out there that should be
retaining as much capital as possible,” Miller said. “You’re
really picking winners and losers here if you’re allowing some
banks to increase dividend payments.”  Basel Requirements  Some banks may not be able to raise their dividends as
they prepare for higher capital requirements. At a meeting in
Basel, Switzerland, in September, regulators reached a
compromise that more than doubles capital requirements for the
world’s banks, while giving them as long as eight years to
comply. U.S. regulators may require an additional buffer
beyond the 7 percent Tier 1 common ratio proposed by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, according to analysts.  Most of the biggest lenders repaid their government
rescue funds last year.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan, all based in New York, were among banks
that paid back the government in June 2009, while Bank of
America and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo returned funds
later that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 Mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 