-- Fed Easing Worsens Hong Kong `Bubble' Risk, Chan Says
-- B y   M a r c o   L u i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-11-04T02:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/fed-s-easing-worsens-property-bubble-risk-in-hong-kong-hkma-s-chan-says.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s expansion
of stimulus will add to the risk of a housing bubble in Hong
Kong and may force extra measures to cool prices, said  Norman Chan , the head of the city’s central bank.  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority will “take measures that
are specific to the housing market if necessary,” Chan said at
a press briefing in the city today. “The risk of an asset
bubble in Hong Kong’s property market is rising.”  Monetary easing to spur growth in developed economies has
sparked inflows of cash to Asia, threatening surging prices for
stocks, real-estate and consumer goods. Hong Kong has already
tightened purchase requirements after home prices rose about 50
percent from the start of 2009 to the highest level since 1997,
according to an index compiled by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  The Fed’s move to buy another $600 billion of Treasuries,
announced yesterday, will “definitely add pressure to the asset
markets in emerging-market economies,” Chan said. The HKMA may
step up efforts to ensure that banks control the risks
associated with expanded property lending, he added.  Former HKMA head Joseph Yam said yesterday that emerging
economies may use measures such as currency gains and temporary
capital controls to cope with money inflows from U.S. easing.
The former option isn’t open to Hong Kong, which has a currency
pegged to the U.S. dollar.  Hong Kong’s government has since August raised down-payment
ratios, stopped offering residency to foreigners who buy
property in the city, and increased land auctions to boost
supply. Sales of new homes doubled in October on record-low
mortgage rates and an influx of wealthy mainland Chinese buyers.  The city’s government yesterday sold a building site for
about 20 percent less than surveyors estimated ahead of rules
that restrict sellable areas in apartments.  Chinachem Group  paid
HK$2.17 billion ($280 million) for the site in Kowloon Tong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marco Lui  at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  