-- Ferrari World Theme Park by Aldar Properties Opens to Public in Abu Dhabi
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-04T15:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ferrari-world-theme-park-by-aldar-properties-opens-to-public-in-abu-dhabi.html
Aldar Properties PJSC ’s Ferrari
World, the biggest indoor theme park in the world, opened for
the public today in Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich emirate which has
earmarked $32 billion to transform into a regional tourism hub.  Ferrari World , located on the 2,500 hectare Yas Island,
sits alongside the Yas Marina Circuit, which will host its
second Abu Dhabi Grand Prix this month.  “Our core target market will naturally be those living in
and visiting the Gulf Cooperation Council, although
international tourists are still a very important audience for
us,” Claus Frimand, general manager of Ferrari World Abu Dhabi,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Abu Dhabi, with 1 million people, 8 percent of the world’s
oil reserves and one of the largest wealth funds, is pumping
money into developing tourist attractions and manufacturing to
break away from its dependence on crude oil exports. Ferrari
World is one of several attractions lined up by Abu Dhabi, home
to one of the world’s largest wealth funds, to lure tourists
with art, culture and entertainment.  Abu Dhabi’s non-oil businesses will contribute 50 percent
of its gross domestic product by 2015, adding about $167 billion
a year, as stated in its  2030 plan , which involves spending $500
billion on development.  Abu Dhabi, the capital and largest member of the United
Arab Emirates, aims to build as many as 60 new hotels by 2015,
for a target of 3 million tourists a year. Last year, Abu Dhabi
Airports Co. inaugurated the 1 billion-dirham ($272 million)
Terminal 3, boosting the airport’s capacity to more than 12
million passengers a year.  The emirate faces regional competitors including its
neighbor, Dubai, which is home to the world’s tallest building,
an indoor ski slope and the biannual Dubai Shopping Festival.  “We watched the mistakes and successes of others and
learned how to plan our own development,”said Mubarak al-
Muhairi, who heads the Abu Dhabi Tourism Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at   iersan@bloomberg.net  