-- Finmeccanica Agrees to Fix Boeing 787 Dreamliner's Stabilizer by Year End
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-11-04T11:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/finmeccanica-boeing-agree-on-plan-to-fix-787-stabilizer-issue.html
Finmeccanica SpA  agreed to fix
problems with the production of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner’s
horizontal stabilizer by year end, Co-General Manager  Alessandro Pansa  said.  Finmeccanica and  Boeing Co.  “have finally agreed on a
recovery plan in order to fix both the development and the
production of the horizontal stabilizer,” which Finmeccanica’s
Alenia Aeronautica unit builds in Italy, Pansa said on a
conference call with analysts today. “We expect that by the end
of the year the entire production will be restructured and
fixed.”  Costs related to the horizontal stabilizer issue will
contribute to a drop in Alenia’s profit margin to an estimated
7 percent this year, Pansa said. Last year’s figure was 9.1
percent, Rome-based Finmeccanica said in a  presentation  on its
website. Alenia also builds two fuselage sections for the 787 in
Italy, and Pansa said it’s on “on track” to reach the target
agreed with Boeing for annual deliveries of seven shipsets, or
complete fuselage sections including the horizontal stabilizer.  Meeting Boeing Standards  Boeing in August reinspected its fleet of Dreamliners after
discovering flaws in horizontal stabilizers made by Alenia.
Boeing said it needed to verify that Alenia’s production
processes and workmanship were up to Boeing standards. Starting
from the beginning of 2011 Alenia “will produce stabilizers
granting the conformity to Boeing’s needs and to the program’s
requirements,” Pansa said.  The  horizontal stabilizer  is the wing at the rear that
prevents the nose of the plane from experiencing a pitching
motion.  The Dreamliner is almost three years behind schedule,
partly because it relies on suppliers around the world to build
complete sections of the aircraft, which are then flown to
Boeing’s factory in Everett, Washington, and snapped together.
Boeing last year temporarily stopped production of the 787 after
finding wrinkles in Alenia’s composite-fuselage sections.  Future profit margins for Alenia on the 787 program will
depend on the outcome of negotiations with Boeing on repricing
for an increased production rate for parts and the potential
extension to other versions of the 787, Pansa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  