-- For-Profit Colleges Seek Share Revival, Rule Relief
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2010-11-04T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/for-profit-colleges-seek-shares-revival-reprieve-on-u-s-rules.html
For-profit colleges, whose stocks
have lost 34 percent this year, are likely to get help from
Republicans to ease limits on federal grants and loans that
provide the bulk of education companies’ revenue.  Republican Representative  John Kline  from Minnesota, in
line to become chairman of the House  Committee on Education and
Labor , has criticized a proposed U.S. Education Department
regulation that ties for-profit colleges’ eligibility for
student aid to whether graduates pay back their loans. The
department today began two days of hearings on the so-called
gainful employment rule.  For-profit colleges may also ask lawmakers to extend a
provision easing a rule that can cut their access to student aid
when more than 90 percent of their revenue comes from government
sources.  Apollo Group Inc ., the biggest U.S. education company
by enrollment, and  Corinthian Colleges Inc.  have said some of
their campuses are likely to violate the rule in the coming
year.  “There’s optimism that Republicans will change the higher
education debate in Washington and prevent some of the most
onerous regulations and legislation from taking effect,” said
 Jarrel Price , an analyst with Height Analytics in Washington, in
a telephone interview yesterday.  Shares Fall  Phoenix-based Apollo fell $3.09, or 8 percent, to close at
$35.38 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading after saying in a regulatory filing that the Education
Department plans to review the company’s financial aid
administration. An  index  of 13 for-profit college stocks fell
2.6 percent.  Republicans won a majority in the House of Representatives
in the Nov. 2 election, gaining at least 60 seats, their biggest
increase since 1938. Officials from Education Management Corp.
said today on the Pittsburgh-based company’s earnings conference
call that they’re hopeful the election will result in changes to
proposed regulations.  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  delayed issuing the gainful
employment rule after receiving 90,000 comment letters.  Kline feels the measure, scheduled to take effect in 2012,
unnecessarily hurts for-profit colleges and their students, said
Alexa Marrero, a spokeswoman for the congressman. Kline called
the proposed rule “confusing and complex,” in an Aug. 2 letter
to the agency.  Preferred Approach  “Our preferred approach is to ensure greater disclosure
and transparency on the part of institutions,” Marrero said in
a telephone interview. “Information about graduation and job
placement is better than the federal government coming in and
deciding which schools are best for students.”  For-profit colleges and their advocates aired their
unhappiness with the gainful employment proposal today at the
 Education Department  hearings. Part of the department’s
eligibility test is based on former students’ income data that
isn’t available to companies seeking to comply, said  Nancy Broff , a lawyer at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in Washington speaking
on behalf of  ITT Educational Services Inc . Colleges won’t know
whether they’re out of compliance until the department tells
them, she said.  “We can’t reliably hit an invisible target,” said  Randy Proto , president and chief executive officer of  American
Institute , a for-profit college in White Plains, New York. The
department is also proposing that the rule, which measures loan
repayments over three years, go into effect in 2012, Proto said.
That means the government will be looking at colleges’
compliance before the rule was published.  Small Schools  The rules may also threaten to put some small schools out
of business, said Scott Rogers, executive director of  Ohio
Valley College of Technology  in Liverpool, Ohio. Unlike large
chains, a small college with 10 or fewer programs might be
devastated if just a few were cut off from federal funds because
of a failure to comply with the rules, he said.  Department officials heard some “some things that we liked
and that we hadn’t heard before,” and will discuss them
further, said David Bergeron, acting deputy assistant education
secretary for policy, planning and innovation in the Office of
Postsecondary Education, in an interview at the meeting. He
declined to say which points had caught his attention.  Republicans may seek to soften the rule either by
negotiating with the administration on its other goals, such as
expanded early childhood education, or by advancing legislation
to revoke some of or the entire proposal, Price said. Either
approach will present a challenge, he said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “It’s unclear whether Republicans can bring gainful
employment to the horse-trading block,” Price said. “It’s an
uphill battle for them to get legislative proposals past a
Democratic Senate filibuster or a presidential veto.”  While Republicans are more sensitive to for-profit
colleges’ concerns about regulation, the industry must still
show that its programs are worthy of government support, said
 Harris Miller , president and chief executive officer of the
 Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities  in
Washington. Some Republicans have called for widespread budget
cuts that might affect the Pell Grant program, he said. For-
profit colleges received about $7.3 billion in student Pell
Grant aid in the 2009-2010 academic year, according to the
Education Department.  Requesting Extension  “We have to show that taxpayers and students are getting a
good return on their investments, particularly if budget control
and spending control become a central theme,” Miller said.  Education companies are particularly concerned about the
expiration of the law that has eased the “90/10 rule” for two
years, Miller said. Companies got the relief because of the
abrupt increase in aid that became available to students as the
Obama administration expanded the  Pell Grant  program, pushing
many for-profit colleges close to the 90 percent limit, he said.  “We’re asking for another year of extension to create time
for the marketplace to adjust and stay compliant,” Miller said.
Companies that violate the 90/10 rule two years in a row can
lose access to government aid.  Senator  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who heads the Senate
education committee, has commissioned a government probe of for-
profit colleges and held three hearings on their sales tactics,
use of government funds and program quality. Harkin has
scheduled a fourth hearing in December that will likely
scrutinize enrollments of military personnel, said  Jeff Silber ,
an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in New York, in a note to
clients yesterday.  Federal Spending  Federal spending on veterans’ education will more than
double this year to $9.6 billion from $4.2 billion in 2009,
according to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.  Harkin said Sept. 30 he’s planning “legislative changes”
for the education industry. Republicans will now likely block
those efforts, said  Robert Froehlich , chief investment
strategist at Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. Hartford’s
mutual funds unit manages about $95 billion.  Democrats “wanted to figure out some way of congressional
control and oversight of that industry,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “There is no way that happens with
Republicans controlling the House, so that industry has really
got to be popping the champagne bottles.”  While Democrats retained control of the Senate, Republicans
on the Senate education committee have criticized Harkin’s
scrutiny. Senator  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming, the highest ranking
Republican on the committee, walked out of a September hearing
saying Harkin was determined to “beat up” on for-profit
colleges. Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, who was re-
elected Nov. 2, also walked out of the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 