-- Frisky Pioneers Jazz D.C. ‘Oklahoma!’; Bernstein’s Dud: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/frisky-pioneers-jazz-d-c-oklahoma-noisy-bernstein-dud-jeremy-gerard.html
The turbo-charged, romantic revival
of “Oklahoma!” that opens in Washington this week may boast of
a surrey with the fringe on top. But it has ants in its pants,
too.  The  Rodgers  and Hammerstein perennial was a gutsy choice
for artistic director Molly Smith. But the $135-million  Mead
Center for American Theater  -- that’s the fancy new name for
D.C.’s venerable, now lavishly revitalized Arena Stage --
deserved a big, celebratory show.  Smith, 58 and now in her 12th season as artistic director,
has put just enough spin on things to make “Oh, What a
Beautiful Mornin’” sound fresh.  She was determined to cast a company that “looks like the
city we live in,” not to mention the Indian Territory itself at
the turn of the last century. She brought in Eugene Lee to
design the sets (you know his work if you watch  “Saturday Night
Live”  or have seen  “Wicked” ), which have an attractively
unfinished, rough-hewn quality.  Floating Band  Lee puts the frontier all around us, stashing the pit band
in a skeletal, half-built schoolhouse floating above the
audience and opposite a metal-bladed windmill.  That leaves the central playing area clear for all sorts of
inventiveness in a show that asks the compelling question: Who
will get to take Laurey Williams to the box social -- dreamy,
clean-cut cowboy Curly McLain or furtive, dirty-picture-loving
farmhand Jud Fry?  When Jud’s cramped, creepy smokehouse digs pop up from
below, he’s surrounded by Real! Live! Girls! in their
unmentionables, 3-D versions of the “French” photo cards he
collects. Aaron Ramey delivers Jud’s electrifying ballad
“Lonely Room” like a caged tiger ready to pounce.  Menacing Men  Act Two opens with roughhousing between the farmers and the
cowboys that quickly turns menacing, injecting some adrenaline
into “The Farmer and the Cowman.” Smith and choreographer
Parker Esse never let the movement flag.  A young, diverse company adds to the kinetic mix of mirth
and poignancy. Laurey and her Aunt Eller are played by black
actresses: Eleasha Gamble, a last-minute replacement as Laurey,
sings beautifully and has a winningly expressive face. E. Faye
Butler is just about perfect as Aunt Eller, the show’s warm-
hearted, no-nonsense anchor.  As Curly, Nicholas Rodriguez is an affable foil to Ramey’s
sinister Jud. Sixteen-year-old June Schreiner is an adorable Ado
Annie whose glass-shearing voice surely will mellow with age.
Cody Williams and especially Nehal Joshi gamely flesh out the
stock characters of moronic Will Parker and slippery peddler Ali
Hakim.  George Fulginiti-Shakar provides brisk, confident musical
direction. There are terrific period costumes by the always
imaginative Martin Pakledinaz and fine lighting by Michael
Gilliam.  Through Dec. 26 at the Arena Stage, 1101 Sixth St. SW,
Washington, D.C. Information: +1-202-488-3200;
 http://www.arenastage.org 
Rating: ***  ‘A Quiet Place’  Back home, I caught  Leonard Bernstein ’s “A Quiet Place”
at the  New York City Opera .  There’s a reason why this endurance test disappeared from
view after disastrous outings in Houston, Milan and Vienna
almost three decades ago. A heavy-handed ode to suburban
malaise, it was passe even before its debut and merely served to
remind listeners of how far Bernstein had drifted from his
multiple gifts as composer, raconteur and parodist.  “A Quiet Place” opens in a funeral home. Family and
friends are gathered to mourn Dinah, a drunk who has died in a
car crash, possibly a suicide. While her catatonic husband, Sam,
listens, their weird grown children bicker and the neighbors
chatter and gossip in atonal spurts as equally unpleasant sounds
emanate from the orchestra.  Inside “A Quiet Place” lives a smaller, charming work.
Jazz-inflected and spiked with humor, Bernstein’s 1952 “Trouble
in Tahiti” is set several years earlier, when Sam, Dinah and
their brood are living the American dream in a town that, as the
lyric suggests, could be Scarsdale, Elkins Park or Chagrin
Falls.  Bernstein and librettist Stephen Wadsworth eventually
decanted “Tahiti” into “A Quiet Place,” an uneasy fit that
turned the earlier work into an Act Two flashback.  At least in “Tahiti” Bernstein seemed to be having fun.
When the word “suburbia” is sung by a jazzy trio comprising
Dinah’s psycho son, needy daughter and the man who sleeps with
both of them, the composer quotes the same four notes that make
up “New York, New York” from his Broadway musical comedy “On
the Town.”  Christopher Alden’s zombie-style production has its
moments, though perhaps there should be a moratorium on crowds
wearing sunglasses and female singers being forced to spend long
minutes on their knees simulating fellatio.  Jayce Ogren conducted a committed cast. Sara Jakubiak,
Dominic Armstrong and Joshua Hopkins were vocally lithe as the
love triangle-cum-jazz trio at the center of “Tahiti.”
Patricia Risley and Louis Otey are compellingly serious as Dinah
and Sam.  At the  David H. Koch  Theater, Lincoln Center. Information:
+1-212-870-5570;  http://www.nycopera.com .
Rating: * 1/2  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 