-- Galleon Defendants Goffer, Drimal Assail Evidence in Insider Dismissal Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-04T17:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/galleon-defendants-goffer-drimal-assail-evidence-in-insider-dismissal-bid.html
Former Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , who is accused of leading an insider-trading ring, and
four co-defendants urged a judge to dismiss the government’s
case, citing the inadequacy of the evidence against them.  The men assailed “the government’s convoluted theory” of
insider trading in a filing today in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. The “alleged inside tips consist of material
information that is already public, or nonpublic information
that is not material,” according to the brief.  Joining Goffer were co-defendants  Craig Drimal ,  Emanuel Goffer  and  Michael Kimelman , all traders, and lawyer Jason
Goldfarb. They are among 21 people accused in two overlapping
insider-trading cases involving Galleon Group founder  Raj Rajaratnam .  Rajaratnam, who denies wrongdoing, was arrested in October
2009 as part of a first wave of charges accusing him and others
of trading on leaks from corporate officials, hedge-fund
traders, and other insiders.  Goffer and his co-defendants were part of a second wave of
arrests last November. So far, 12 people have pleaded guilty in
the two cases.  Prosecutors said the Goffer ring traded on stock tips
originating from lawyers at the Ropes & Gray LLP law firm in New
York and from  Gautham Shankar , an ex-trader at New York-based
Schottenfeld Group LLC, where Goffer also worked. The U.S. has
placed Goffer at the center of the scheme and claimed his
accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a reference to the 1983 James
Bond movie, because of his many sources of information. Goffer’s
lawyers dispute the characterization.  Already Public  Goffer’s 84-page brief includes arguments that the
defendants may advance at trial. It says the evidence is
insufficient and the criminal insider-trading statute is vague.
Like Rajaratnam, they are seeking a ruling barring prosecutors
from offering as evidence secretly recorded conversations of
phone calls.  “The material information in question (that certain
companies were acquisition targets and that certain companies
were potential bidders) was already public,” the brief says.
“The arguably nonpublic information (that Ropes & Gray was
representing a long-standing client in making a potential bid)
was not material.”  Assails Claim  The defense assails a government claim that the men traded
on information about two companies, Kronos Inc. and Hilton
Hotels Corp., that allegedly came from the roommate of a former
Moody’s Corp. analyst, Deep Shah, who is a fugitive. The
information allegedly traveled from the roommate, who isn’t
identified, to Shah and then to Shankar and to the defendants.  As there’s no evidence that Shankar knew the information
was confidential, the defendants can’t be liable for trading on
illegal tips, the brief says.  Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara,
declined to comment. Prosecutors will file a response to the
defense brief.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 