-- Geithner Visited Jon Stewart in April, Though Not for Laughs
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/geithner-visited-jon-stewart-last-april-to-talk-about-economy-not-comedy.html
In the midst of debates on financial
regulation and China’s currency in April, Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  sat down to discuss the U.S. economy -- with
comedian  Jon Stewart .  Geithner and Stewart, host of Comedy Central’s “The Daily
Show,” held an off-the-record meeting at Stewart’s office in
New York on April 2, according to Geithner’s appointments
calendar, updated through August on Treasury’s  website .  Geithner didn’t stay for a television interview with
Stewart although other administration officials -- most notably
President  Barack Obama  last week -- have turned up for on-camera
chats.  “Jon Stewart is influential in America, so we took the
opportunity for the two to meet and to discuss the economy,”
Treasury spokesman  Steve Adamske  said in an e-mail yesterday.
Stewart’s program has poked fun at Geithner, including a segment
last year about the Treasury secretary’s trouble selling his New
York home.  On the same day he met with Stewart, Geithner spoke on the
phone with Democratic lawmakers including Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  of Connecticut, Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada and House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California, according to the appointments calendar.  Geithner also spoke with House Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts and Senators  Charles Schumer  of New York and  Max Baucus  of Montana, all Democrats.  The Geithner-Stewart summit-of-sorts was held on a day of
some good news for the administration: Labor Department figures
for March showed employment figures had improved the most in
three years.  China’s Currency  Geithner the next day announced that Treasury was delaying
a report to Congress on whether to accuse China of manipulating
its currency. At the time, he was also trying to push the Obama
administration’s financial-regulation overhaul through Congress.  On April 2, Geithner also visited the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, where he was president for more than five years,
and had an on-camera interview in New York with Bloomberg News.  Spokesman  Steve Albani  of the Comedy Central network
declined immediate comment on the meeting between Geithner, 49,
and the 47-year-old Stewart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 