-- Geithner's 4% Solution May Be `Unworkable' as APEC Gathers
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-05T04:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/geithner-s-4-solution-may-prove-unworkable-as-apec-finance-chiefs-meet.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s shot to end the “currency war” by pushing for targets
to shrink current-account gaps risks failing over the complexity
of shifting trade and investment flows.  Geithner may use a Nov. 5-6 meeting of Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation forum counterparts in Kyoto, Japan, to
press his case for current-account deficit or surplus targets of
less than 4 percent of gross domestic product. The issue will
also likely feature at a Group of 20 summit in Seoul next week.  The U.S. has cited a glut of Asian savings for helping
spark the credit crisis earlier this decade, while Asian
officials now counter it’s the American central bank’s liquidity
injections that are warping global capital flows. Geithner’s
initiative is undermined by disagreements over the causes of the
imbalances and the failure of similar efforts in the past.  “With the U.S. wanting China to make the yuan more flexible
and having limited success with it, the current-account
discussions will be an indirect approach” that may work better,
said  Tomo Kinoshita , deputy head of Asia economics research at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. The challenge is that “a
concrete agreement on current-account targets will be difficult
to achieve.”  China Response  Geithner’s plan was in part designed to broaden discussions
beyond China’s exchange-rate policy, blamed by U.S. lawmakers
and companies for keeping the yuan artificially low in a subsidy
for local exporters. While a central bank adviser indicated last
week that China may be open to the idea, a Foreign Ministry
official today reversed that impression.  “The artificial setting of a numerical target cannot but
remind us of the days of a planned economy,” Vice Foreign
Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at a press briefing in Beijing. Cui
echoed concerns across emerging markets that the Federal
Reserve’s asset purchases will hurt global confidence, while
adding that the U.S. and China are capable of overcoming
difficulties in their relationship.  Finance chiefs from the 21 APEC economies will discuss
sustainable growth policies, and some officials may bring up
currencies as part of those talks, Japanese Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo today. The U.S. will
press Asian trading partners, including China, to reduce trade
surpluses and move toward market-set exchange rates, a Treasury
official said in Washington before Geithner’s trip.  Broader Group  Coming a week before the Seoul summit of the G-20, which
includes the largest developed and emerging markets, the APEC
gathering may prove less substantive, according to economist  Tai Hui . APEC spans smaller economies from Peru to Papua New Guinea.
China’s Finance Minister  Xie Xuren , won’t be coming to Kyoto,
the Nikkei newspaper said this week.  “The market focus will still be on the G-20,” Hui, head
of Southeast Asian economic research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Singapore. “But we now have a greater clarity of what  the
Fed  is doing so officials may have something a bit more concrete
to discuss in terms of how to mitigate the impact of additional
liquidity from the Fed.”  Asian officials warned that the Federal Reserve’s decision
to pump $600 billion of liquidity into the U.S. to shore up
growth will spark flows of capital to emerging markets that
threaten asset-price bubbles.  Reaction to Fed  “Our country will actively consider implementing capital
control measures,”  Kim Ik Joo , a director general of South
Korea’s finance ministry, said in an interview yesterday. Hong
Kong’s central bank chief  Norman Chan  said his city’s housing
market may come under pressure with money flowing in.  Brazil, which is a G-20 member while outside of APEC,
criticized the Fed’s move yesterday, with Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  saying “it doesn’t work to throw money from a helicopter
because this won’t make growth flourish.”  Geithner outlined his plan in a letter to G-20 colleagues
two weeks ago, saying “reducing external imbalances below a
specified share of” GDP would force those with persistent
deficits to boost savings and those with lasting surpluses to
cut export reliance. Four percent is “likely to emerge as the
basic benchmark,” he said on Bloomberg Television last month.  By turning the focus to current accounts away from
currencies, Geithner is hoping China will be more open to
accelerating the yuan’s appreciation after curbing its gain to
about 2 percent against the dollar since June.  Li Daokui , an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said his nation has the
“political and economic foundation” for agreeing to targets.  ‘Encouraging’ Step  “It’s kind of unworkable but it does show the G-20 on the
right page, which is encouraging,”  Chris Turner , head of
foreign exchange research at ING Groep NV in London, said of the
Geithner proposal. “For currency markets it’s encouraging to
think you’ll see more flexibility in Asian currencies.”  Among G-20 economies, Saudi Arabia, Germany, Russia and
China all have surpluses larger than 4 percent, while Turkey and
South Africa have deficits bigger than that, according to the
International Monetary Fund. The U.S.’s deficit is estimated at
3.2 percent.  While  Thomas Stolper , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist in
London, said Geithner’s plan makes “important progress” by
approaching the long-standing issue of misaligned exchange rates
from a new angle, it may still be slow to work because current
accounts are the result of many variables including business
cycles, commodity supplies and cultural preferences on savings.  ‘Small’ Chance  “The likelihood of G-20 nations being able to agree on
binding targets that take into account all the special factors
must be small,” Stolper said.  The targets could be skirted, with China expanding its
trade surplus with the U.S. and still hitting the overall goal
by offsetting the imbalance elsewhere, said  Steven Englander ,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New
York.  Meantime, the U.S. may miss its own guideline once its
economic growth picks up because of the tendency for its imports
to surge when consumers spend more, Englander said.  The current account target is a “clever idea,” yet the G-
20 has no way of making it binding, said  Tim Adams , a former U.S.
Treasury undersecretary for international affairs.  European governments ignored budget deficit targets for a
third of the euro’s first decade, while a 2006 effort by the
International Monetary Fund to encourage key nations to
rebalance the world economy flopped.  The G-20 has also failed to follow its own commitments with
Global Trade Alert, a monitor group, estimating more than 400
measures that hurt trading partners have been introduced in the
past two years even amid repeated pledges to avoid protectionism.  “It not only won’t solve the imbalances problem, it will
become a distraction from the need to make progress on the
underlying policies from which the current account is derived,”
said Adams, now managing director at the Fairfax, Virginia-based
Lindsey Group, an economic advisory firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  