-- GM's Return to S&P 500 May Take a Year on Guidelines
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-04T18:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/general-motors-return-to-s-p-500-may-take-a-year-amid-profit-requirement.html
It took 51 years for  General Motors
Co.  to go from the largest company on the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  to being dropped after its bankruptcy last year. The
automaker may need at least another year until it returns.  Initial public offerings “should be seasoned for six to 12
months before being considered for addition to an index,”
according to  methodology  listed on S&P’s website. A company’s
inclusion is decided by S&P’s U.S. Index Committee.  “We like one year typically that the issue be out and
public, trading, to show liquidity, and one year of positive
GAAP earnings,”  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P
in New York, said in an interview. GAAP refers to generally
accepted accounting principles.  GM , 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, said
yesterday it will sell 365 million shares at $26 to $29 each.
The offering seeks to raise as much as $10.6 billion and reduce
the U.S. government to a minority shareholder. The Detroit-based
automaker will also offer about $3 billion of preferred shares
that later will become common stock.  A company’s inclusion in the S&P 500 can be material
because index funds are required to buy the shares to minimize
tracking error, or the difference between the performance of the
fund and the index. An  S&P study  from 2000 found that shares of
companies being added to the index increased an average of 8.5
percent from the announcement date to the effective date.  GM’s Bankruptcy  General Motors Corp.  was removed from the S&P 500 when it
filed for bankruptcy protection in June 2009 after posting $88
billion of losses since 2004. General Motors Co. emerged 39 days
later.  The last time GM was the largest company on the S&P 500 by
market value was November 1958, at $13.5 billion, Silverblatt
said. GM traded the top spot throughout the 1950s with AT&T Inc.  Ed Whitacre , who will retire as GM’s chairman at the end of
the year, was chairman and chief executive officer until 2007 of
the telephone service provider formerly known as AT&T Corp.  At the IPO’s midpoint price of $27.50 each,  GM  would have a
market capitalization of $41.25 billion, based on 1.5 billion
shares that will be outstanding after the offering, according to
the company’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  GM said separately yesterday that it had third-quarter  net
income  attributable to common stockholders of $1.9 billion to
$2.1 billion. The results are preliminary, and details are
scheduled to be released Nov. 10, GM said in a statement.  Third-Quarter Earnings  The company had earnings before interest and taxes of $2.2
billion to $2.4 billion on revenue of about $34 billion for the
three months ended Sept. 30, according to the statement. GM
earned $2.6 billion in the first half of the year.  S&P has made exceptions to the index addition guidelines,
including that companies post a year of positive earnings,
Silverblatt said.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 
reported a $1.53 billion first-quarter loss last year and was
picked to join the S&P 500 on Jan. 26.  “We looked at other criteria and stated that, yes, there
was a negative item that they had in there at one point for
earnings within the last year,” Silverblatt said. “However,
looking at the balance sheet and using the whole methodology, it
was acceptable.”  GM said in the regulatory filing yesterday that it would
have positive earnings before interest and taxes in the fourth
quarter. The company also said EBIT would be lower than prior
quarters because it will be building a  different mix  of vehicles
and engineering costs for future models will be higher. GM is
introducing the new Chevrolet Volt gas-electric car and Chevy
Cruze compact during the quarter.  The company’s offering may price on Nov. 17 and the shares
would begin trading the following day, people familiar with the
plans have said.  GM’s common shares will be listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange  under the ticker GM and on the Toronto Stock Exchange
under the ticker GMM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 