-- BayernLB Scraps Talks With WestLB About Merging the Two State-Owned Banks
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-11-04T15:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/germany-s-bayernlb-westlb-said-to-scrap-talks-about-landesbanken-merger.html
Bayerische Landesbank  pulled out of
talks with  WestLB AG  on a merger to create Germany’s third-
biggest lender because a combination wouldn’t “sufficiently”
boost profitability.  BayernLB and WestLB said on Sept. 20 that they were
exploring a possible merger after the two state-owned lenders
were bailed out with taxpayer money during the financial crisis.
As part of its restructuring, Dusseldorf-based WestLB has to
sell itself by the end of 2011 under conditions imposed by the
European Commission.  “The economic benefits of a tie-up compared to the
profitability of an independent BayernLB do not sufficiently
outweigh the typical challenges of implementing a merger of this
size,” the Munich-based bank said in a  statement  today.  Germany’s eight state-owned lenders, known as Landesbanken,
are being urged by lawmakers such as Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  to combine. New
capital rules agreed by central bankers and regulators in Basel
have also increased pressure on the lenders to merge.  “I’m surprised that the talks collapsed so quickly,” said
 Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets. “This won’t help WestLB attract other buyers.”  ‘Attractive Merger Partner’  WestLB has received several bailouts, including 3 billion
euros ($4.3 billion) in capital from Germany’s Soffin bank-
rescue fund. The lender shifted about a third of its assets into
a bad bank to shield itself from losses and help attract buyers.
 Friedrich Merz , a lawyer and former lawmaker who is overseeing
the sale of WestLB, said on Oct. 28 that it’s attracting
“robust interest” from potential buyers.  “The perspectives opened up by a merged bank were positive
at this early stage,” WestLB Chief Executive Officer  Dietrich Voigtlaender  said in a separate  statement  today, adding that a
closer examination would have made sense. The bank is “an
attractive merger partner” following its restructuring efforts,
he said.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s competition
commissioner, “was not convinced that merely merging two banks
in difficulty without changing their business model would
restore their viability,”  Jonathan Todd , a commission
spokesman, said today.  BayernLB, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned bank after
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, needed 10 billion euros in fresh
capital and a 4.8 billion-euro risk shield for its portfolio of
asset-backed securities from the state of Bavaria, which now
owns 95.8 percent of the lender. CEO  Gerd Haeusler  has said he’s
seeking to improve profitability to attract new owners.  ‘Well Positioned’  “BayernLB is well positioned for the future,” Haeusler
said in today’s statement. “First indications of the results
for the first nine months of the current financial year confirm
that we are on the right track.”  The Bavarian lender plans to publish nine-month results
later this month. BayernLB reported a second consecutive annual
loss for 2009 on charges to unwind its investment in Hypo Alpe-
Adria Bank International AG, which the Austrian government
nationalized in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  