-- European Government Bonds Fall on Fed QE; Irish Debt Slides an Eighth Day
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-11-04T17:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/german-bonds-fall-after-fed-decision-france-spain-to-auction-securities.html
European bonds fell, led by thirty-
year securities, after the Federal Reserve announced it would
buy $600 billion in Treasuries and focus its purchases on
medium-term debt to stimulate the economy.  Irish bonds slid for an eighth day, the longest run in two
years, as the government gave details of a budget that some
investors are concerned may not pass. Portuguese and Greek debt
followed, pushing yield spreads over bunds wider. The German 30-
year bund fell for the first day in six as the European Central
Bank kept its key  interest rate  at a record low, while investors
absorbed new issues of French and Spanish debt as stocks surged.  “Bunds are suffering as the market scrutinizes details of
the Fed, and there seems to be some supply indigestion,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf, Germany. “The monthly pace of purchases is a bit
slower than expectations. There’s some switching out of bunds
into equities in the hope that the Fed will eventually get the
job done to promote growth.”  The 30-year bund yield climbed six basis points to 2.90
percent at 4:45 p.m. in London. The 3.25 percent security
maturing in July 2042 fell 1.13, or 11.3 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,421) face amount, to 107.12. The yield on the 10-year bund,
Europe’s benchmark security, fell four basis points to 2.38
percent after reaching 2.51 percent earlier today.  The MSCI World  Index  of stocks jumped 2.2 percent, heading
for its biggest daily gain since Sept. 1.  Speaking at a press conference in Frankfurt after the ECB
policy meeting, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said interest
rates were “appropriate” and that inflation expectations were
“firmly anchored.”  Debt Auctions  The yield on the bund rose four basis points to 2.26
percent after the ECB’s previous meeting on Oct. 7. The
Frankfurt-based central bank has held its main interest rate at
1 percent since May 2009. Risks to the economic outlook are
“tilted to the downside,” while risks to the inflation outlook
are “tilted to the upside,” Trichet said today.  France sold about 8.85 billion euros of bonds maturing in
2020, 2023 and 2060, including 4.66 billion euros of 2.5 percent
2020 securities at an average yield of 2.87 percent. Investors
bid for 1.87 times the amount on sale, up from a bid-to-cover
ratio of 1.78 at the previous auction of the debt on Oct. 7.  “The French auctions looked quite well-received, given the
total issuance size,” Leister said.  Spain auctioned 3.4 billion euros of five-year notes, less
than the sale’s 4-billion-euro maximum target. The 2016 bonds,
issued for the first time, yielded an average 3.576 percent,
compared with 3.531 percent for bonds of similar maturity on the
secondary market before the sale.  Spanish Yields  The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose after the auction
to 4.33 percent, up four basis points from yesterday.  Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s second-largest,
said investing in Spanish debt has grown less attractive since
the beginning of the third quarter after the southern European
country’s bonds grew more expensive.  Though the oil fund held a more positive view on Spain’s
debt at the beginning of last quarter, “it is of course now a
different situation than it was in July,” said  Yngve Slyngstad ,
chief executive officer at Norges Bank Investment Management, a
unit of the central bank that manages Norway’s $520 billion in
oil funds, in an interview in Oslo today.  The Norwegian oil fund’s investment in Spanish bonds is
“more than it used to but it is still not at the benchmark
rate, less than benchmark,” Slyngstad said today, referring to
the portfolio against which the fund measures its allocations.  Slyngstad said his fund’s investments in Ireland are “not
large,” without elaborating.  Irish Budget  The Irish 10-year bond tumbled, sending the yield 20 basis
points higher to 7.77 percent.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  plans to slash the
budget deficit by 6 billion euros in 2011 as he fights to save
the nation’s economic independence. The budget shortfall will be
reduced to between 9.25 percent and 9.5 percent of gross
domestic product next year, the Finance Ministry in Dublin said
in a statement today.  There’s a “real risk” the government won’t be able to
pass its budget, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief European
Economist  Erik Nielsen  said in a note yesterday. Ireland is
still “fully funded through mid-2011, so we are not talking
about an imminent liquidity crisis,” he wrote.  The Irish government last month said it needs 15 billion
euros of savings over the next four years to reduce the deficit.  The difference in yield, or  spread , between Irish bonds and
benchmark German bunds rose as much as 25 basis points to 527
basis points, according to Bloomberg generic data. That’s the
most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1991.  Irish Swaps  That compares with the record 973 basis-point premium on
Greek 10-year debt, reached May 7, before the European Union
crafted a rescue package worth 750 billion euros. The Greek-
German spread widened 50 basis points to 894 after earlier
narrowing to 835. The Portuguese-German yield gap increased 31
basis points to 418. The yield on the Portuguese 10-year
 security  climbed to the highest since 1997, reaching 6.655
percent, according to Bloomberg generic data.  The cost of insuring Irish debt rose. Credit-default swaps
on Irish government debt surged 30 basis points to a record 590,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals a deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  Bond Returns  German bonds have returned 8.7 percent this year, compared
with an 8.9 percent gain for U.S. Treasuries, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Treasuries
instead of bunds may drop because the ECB is not likely to
follow the Fed decision to extend its asset purchases, Lloyds
TSB Corporate Markets said.  “The 10-year Treasury note-bund spread should get to
parity and potentially beyond in the coming weeks,”  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy in London, said in a telephone
interview today.  French debt has returned 8.5 percent and Spanish bonds have
gained 1 percent. Greek debt has lost 17 percent, Irish
securities lost 8.6 percent, while Portuguese bonds lost 6.7
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  