-- Gladiators, Harem Girls Emerge From Hiding at Musee d’Orsay
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-11-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/gladiators-harem-girls-emerge-from-hiding-in-musee-d-orsay-show-review.html
Had  Cecil B. DeMille  been a painter,
his canvases would look like those of  Jean-Leon Gerome . The
French artist’s gladiator fights and scenes of Roman decadence
could be straight out of epic films such as “Cleopatra” and
“The Sign of the Cross.”  The vast show at the  Musee d’Orsay  in Paris is a witty
counterpoint to the Monet retrospective at the  Grand Palais :
Gerome hated the Impressionists and did what he could to prevent
their paintings from entering French museums.  In 1894, he lobbied the French government not to accept a
bequest from the painter Gustave Caillebotte consisting of 67
“ordures,” or trash, as he called them, by  Monet ,  Degas  and
 Renoir , among others. He was only partially successful: 40 items
passed muster; most of the rest ended up in the collection of
 Dr. Barnes  in Philadelphia.  At the 1900 Exposition Universelle, he tried to dissuade
President Loubet from entering the Salle Impressionniste:
“Don’t go, Mr. President, this is France’s shame!”  The curators savored their revenge. After the triumph of
Impressionism, Gerome was banished to the storerooms. The show
at the Musee d’Orsay is the first since his death in 1904.  It’s no accident that it has been jointly organized with
the  Getty Museum  in Los Angeles where it started in June. The
Vanderbilts, the Astors and other U.S. millionaires were among
Gerome’s most fervent admirers. Many of the 200 works on display
come from U.S. collections.  Master of Technique  Today, we smile at Gerome’s unabashed showmanship, his
calculated sentimentality and the come-hither voluptuousness of
many scenes. His technical mastery is never in doubt.  From his teacher Paul Delaroche he learned all the tricks
of the traditional academic style, and from Ingres he grasped
the secret of giving an erotic glow to human flesh. After his
first success at the 1847 salon -- a cock fight watched by two
sleek nudes -- he was hailed as the paragon of a Neo-Greek
school of painting.  Again and again, Gerome fell back on picturesque anecdotes
from ancient Greece and Rome. Another of his specialties was
Oriental scenes, much en vogue at the time. To get inspiration
for his Turkish baths, harems and snake charmers, he went on
trips to Constantinople, Egypt and Syria.  Customers less interested in exotic settings could choose
between scenes from French history or contemporary dramas --such
as the famous “Duel After the Masked Ball.”  Gerome may have been a reactionary; his production and
marketing methods were ahead of his time. In his slyly erotic
“Phryne Before the Areopagus,” the nude object of male
curiosity is an almost exact copy of a photo by Nadar -- without
the pubic hair, of course.  Mass Production  Like  Andy Warhol  after him, Gerome understood that big
business starts with mass production. Adolphe Goupil, his dealer
and father-in-law, made a fortune for the painter and himself by
selling copies of his paintings as photogravures.  In his later years, Gerome tried his hand at sculpture.
Inspired by archaeological discoveries indicating that the
Greeks had painted their statues, he tinted his marble works
with a mixture of wax and pigment. There are a few striking
examples in the show.  Then, suddenly, you find yourself in front of a charming
little canvas, depicting the painter’s father and son with a
dog, and you understand that deep down, beneath the fireworks of
vapid virtuosity, hid a great artist.  The exhibition is at the Musee d’Orsay through Jan. 23,
2011. From March 1 to May 22, 2011, it will be at the  Museo
Thyssen-Bornemisza  in Madrid. Information:
 http://www.musee-orsay.fr  or +33-1-4049-4814.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 