-- GM Says Profit Before Interest, Taxes Could Reach $19 Billion in IPO Pitch
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-04T23:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/gm-says-profit-before-interest-taxes-could-reach-19-billion-in-ipo-pitch.html
General Motors Co. , pitching
investors on its initial public offering, said earnings before
interest and taxes may rise to as much as $19 billion in what it
called a “high cycle” for the global automobile industry.  GM, planning to raise as much as $10.6 billion in an IPO,
has reduced its hourly labor costs and will be able to produce
as much as $16 billion in free cash flow with profit margins as
wide as 10 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said.  The old General Motors Corp. restructured in a U.S.-backed
bankruptcy last year, allowing the Detroit-based automaker to
earn as much as $4.2 billion through three quarters this year.
The company aims to pay off all  debts  and fully fund employee
pensions, Liddell said.  “This will give us the type of fortress balance sheet that
we believe is appropriate for a company in a high fixed-cost,
cyclical industry,” Liddell said in a videotaped presentation
on the  website  retailroadshow.com.  GM estimates it will have slashed hourly labor costs by
more than two-thirds by next year, to $5 billion from $16
billion in 2005. Health care-related costs alone for hourly
retirees were $4 billion in 2005, Liddell said.  GM still needs to maintain its current cost base and see an
economic rebound for those profit projections to come to
fruition, said  Mary Ann Keller , the consultant and founder of
the self-titled firm in Stamford, Connecticut.  ‘Very Profitable’  “The government set GM up to be very profitable,” Keller
said in a telephone interview. “But that assumes that the union
doesn’t get its concessions back and that car buyers keep buying
trucks and SUVs at the level they are now. You need to know what
the assumptions are behind those projections. No one should base
their valuation of GM on it.”  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  said the automaker now
has “a bias for action” and is “making and implementing
decisions faster than ever.” The company is looking to lower
the stake the Treasury Department acquired as part of a $50
billion taxpayer bailout last year to 43 percent from  61
percent .  “We are making great strides in changing the GM culture to
one that values speed, simplicity, accountability and action,”
Akerson, 62, said in a presentation. The acquisition of General
Motors Financial Co., the subprime lender formerly known as
AmeriCredit Corp., shows the changing culture, he said.  High Cycle  In a so-called high cycle for global auto sales, GM could
post margins as wide as 10 percent and generate free cash flow
of as much as $16 billion, Liddell said. In a mid-cycle market,
GM would have EBIT as high as $13 billion and free cash flow of
as much as $10 billion, he said. Liddell didn’t specify the
level of vehicle sales that constitutes a mid or high cycle.  Third-quarter net income was $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion,
GM said yesterday in a statement. GM said it will hold a
conference call to discuss the results on Nov. 10.  GM plans to build on its position in emerging markets
including Brazil, Russia, India and China, Akerson said. The
former managing director of private equity firm The Carlyle
Group became CEO Sept. 1, succeeding Chairman  Ed Whitacre .  Liddell said GM plans to command better pricing to increase
profitability and cash flow. GM will use its stronger financial
position to develop more models and grow in countries such as
Brazil, Russia, India and China, where the company has the top
combined market share, he said.  GM has 13 percent market share in those countries,
according to Liddell’s presentation.  Volkswagen  has an 11
percent share, followed by Toyota Motor Corp. at 4 percent and
 Ford Motor Co.  at 3 percent, the presentation showed. GM also
holds the top spot in the North American market, which has the
second-highest potential for growth, he said.  “We clearly have the best of both worlds,” Liddell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  