-- GM Said to Have Disagreed With Treasury Over IPO Price Range
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/gm-said-to-have-disagreed-with-treasury-over-ipo-price-range.html
General Motors Co.  and its government
owners disagreed over the price for the automaker’s initial
public offering before settling on a range between $26 and $29 a
share, according to eight people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Treasury was seeking a split-adjusted price of $30
a share, referred to as the “Obama number” by officials in the
administration, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. At that price, the government
could say it recovered all the money spent on GM’s bailout under
President  Barack Obama , though not what his predecessor put in.  GM  and its bankers for weeks had pushed for an  IPO  price in
the low-to-mid $20s to help ensure demand and a significant gain
on the first day of trading, the people said. The United Auto
Workers retiree health-care trust and the Canadian government,
which are also shareholders, sought a $30 offer price as well to
maximize their return.  “If you’re a seller, you don’t want to leave money on the
table,” said  Maryann Keller , president of Maryann Keller &
Associates in Stamford, Connecticut. “The Treasury would look
stupid if they priced it at $20 and the first day of trading it
closed at $29.”  Over the past month, Detroit-based GM and its bankers
agreed to a higher offering price range as they watched rival
 Ford Motor Co. ’s shares rise, said two people familiar with the
matter. At a meeting in mid-October, the parties settled on $25
to $29 a share. As Ford shares climbed, they boosted the bottom
of the range.  Ford Rising  Ford advanced to a six-year high yesterday after saying its
U.S. vehicle sales rose 15 percent in October. The shares gained
75 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $15.18 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, bringing the  increase  for the year to 52
percent. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s market
capitalization has reached $52 billion.  At the midpoint price of $27.50 each, GM would have a
market value of $41.25 billion, based on 1.5 billion shares that
will be outstanding after the offering, according to the
company’s filing and data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  wants to recover as much of the
taxpayer’s $80 billion investment in the auto industry as
possible, two of the people said. The Treasury department cut
its expected losses to $17 billion in August from an estimate of
$28.2 billion a year ago.  “You now have all those U.S. auto companies showing a
profit,” Obama said in an interview on the ABC-TV program “The
View” in July. “They’ve rehired 55,000 workers. We are going
to get all the money back that we invested in those car
companies.”  Obama’s Money  Obama was referring only to the money his administration
spent rescuing the auto industry, not the $13.4 billion in aid
granted under President  George W. Bush , according to the White
House.  With a 3-for-1 share split, the U.S. government needs an
average share price of almost $44 to get back all of the $49.5
billion it put into the automaker under Bush and Obama. That is
based on the $131 a share breakeven level cited by a person
familiar with the matter in September.  Including the repurchase of the Treasury’s preferred shares
after the IPO, taxpayers will have received $9.5 billion in
repayments, interest and dividends from  GM  since the automaker
emerged from bankruptcy in July 2009, according to the Treasury.  Take away those payments and the money invested under Bush,
and the Obama administration’s figure drops to $26.6 billion.
With 912.4 million shares that Treasury currently owns, it can
cover that if it gets an average of $29.15 a share. It plans to
sell 263.5 million shares in the IPO.  A Treasury spokesman,  Mark Paustenbach , and Noreen
Pratscher, a GM spokeswoman, declined to comment about the
pricing decision.  Market Value  GM’s underwriters, including  Morgan Stanley , JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc., pushed in
meetings over several weeks for a lower price that would ensure
the offering would be oversubscribed and value GM at a lower
level relative to  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, also called Ebitda, than  Ford , said six of the
people.  After weeks of negotiations, the Treasury, the UAW and the
Canadian government settled with GM and its underwriters on a
price that was between what the two sides wanted, said the
people.  The Treasury department agreed that it would be beneficial
to start with a lower price so the shares would rise on the
first day, creating good publicity for the offering, two of the
people said. The Canadian government and the UAW health-care
trust, which own 11.7 percent and 17.5 percent of GM,
respectively, sided with the U.S. Treasury, five people said.  CEO Gap  GM’s underwriters argued that the automaker will trade for
some time at a lower Ebitda multiple than  Ford , said these
people, because investors would favor the experience of Ford’s
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who has been with the
company since 2006. GM CEO  Dan Akerson  took over three months
ago after serving a year on the automaker’s board.  The Treasury and GM’s banks project that the shares will
quickly climb above the $30 level, said the people, because the
automaker has more business than  Ford  in some of the world’s
fastest growing economies from China to Brazil.  GM and Ford yesterday reported U.S.  sales  increases that
topped analysts’ estimates in the best month yet this year. GM’s
deliveries climbed 3.5 percent to 183,759, when the average of
three analysts’ forecasts was for a 6.3 percent decline, while
sales at Ford increased 15 percent to 157,935, topping the 14
percent average of six analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 