-- MGM Studios Wins Approval to Use Cash in Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-04T22:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mgm-studios-wins-court-approval-to-use-collateral-of-lenders-in-bankruptcy.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.,
distributor of the James Bond and Rocky movies, won temporary
permission to use its cash to operate while it reorganizes in
bankruptcy with support from billionaire  Carl Icahn .  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in  Manhattan  today
approved MGM’s request to use the collateral. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. is the agent for the lenders. Bernstein set a Dec. 2 date
for a hearing in which MGM would seek final approval of its
reorganization plan and the use of cash.  MGM filed for bankruptcy yesterday with a so-called
prepackaged plan to move it through the court in 30 days. The
Los Angeles-based company said it intends to raise $500 million
for operations, including new movies and television series,
after the bankruptcy.  “We look forward to a quick and successful pre-pack,” Jay Goffman, an MGM lawyer, told Bernstein. “We not only have the
necessary votes in favor of the plan, but with the vote of Mr.
Icahn we have almost unanimous approval.”  Icahn said yesterday he would support the plan. MGM filed
for bankruptcy after rejecting a takeover bid by Icahn and  Lions
Gate Entertainment Corp . MGM listed $2.7 billion in assets and
$5.8 billion in debt, including accrued interest on its loans,
in its Chapter 11 filing.  Some of the cash covered by Bernstein’s authorizations
today is being used as collateral to secure loans. MGM said it
will use the money for general corporate purposes and costs
related to its bankruptcy.  Icahn Offers  Goffman told Bernstein of Icahn’s failed attempts to block
MGM’s reorganization by making tender offers for debt. Icahn
agreed to the plan after changes were made, including one
granting him authority to designate one of nine directors of the
reorganized company’s board.  The studio, which foundered after piling on debt to go
private in 2005, plans to install managers from  Spyglass
Entertainment Group Inc. , the producer of “The Sixth Sense.”
The Chapter 11 plan aims to shave $5 billion in debt by
converting a loan through JPMorgan into all of the new stock in
the reorganized company, Goffman said. General unsecured
creditors would be paid in full.  “Equity holders agreed to support the plan,” Goffman
said. “They’re not seeking anything and they’re not getting
anything. For that we’re eternally grateful.”  Separately, Bernstein granted MGM permission to pay
employees and approved other routine first-day requests that
allow a company to continue operating smoothly in bankruptcy.  ‘Difficult’ Years  “The last few years have been difficult for MGM,” Goffman
said as he described the company’s efforts to hire restructuring
advisers and look into mergers before the filing. “First there
was a change in the way DVDs were used worldwide, then we had
the greatest recession in 80 years.”  MGM, whose 4,000-title film and television library included
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Gone With the Wind,” has a co-
production deal with  Time Warner Inc .’s Warner Bros. on a
planned movie based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s novel “The Hobbit.”  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studies Inc.
10-15774,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 