-- Goldman's Pay Pool Shrinks Fastest as Traders' Fortunes Dwindle
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-04T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/goldman-s-compensation-pool-shrinks-fastest-as-traders-fortunes-dwindle.html
Wall Street traders, who typically
receive the fattest year-end bonuses among bank employees, are
poised to suffer the biggest pay cuts as revenue at their
divisions dropped an average of 12 percent so far this year.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the New York-based bank that
makes most of its money from trading and set a Wall Street pay
record in 2007, slashed average compensation 26 percent in the
first nine months. By contrast, Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. , which employs branch managers and brokers
as well as bankers and traders, raised average pay 10 percent.  While some compensation consultants say traders’ pay will
rebound as soon as revenue recovers, new regulation and capital
requirements may lead to sustained reductions in the
multimillion-dollar awards that sparked popular outrage and
spurred investigations by politicians and regulators after the
2008 financial crisis, analysts say.  “The industry will be significantly less profitable going
forward, also significantly less risky,” said  Douglas J. Elliott , an economics fellow at the Washington-based  Brookings
Institution  and a former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker. “The
lower profitability means there will be less net revenue to
distribute between the shareholders and the employees. I do
think there will be a squeeze on compensation over time.”  Compensation Reversal  Compensation trends at eight of the world’s biggest banks
(see table below) show the reversal that has taken place since
the first quarter, when many trading desks earned money every
day for three months. While average pay per employee has dropped
0.8 percent this year at the eight banks, it has fallen 11
percent at six that focus most on trading, such as Goldman Sachs
and the investment bank unit of  Credit Suisse Group AG .  “There’s been a drop-off in activity -- predominantly
around client volumes and related trading flows -- that has
impacted the revenues,” said  John Lee , a New York-based partner
at recruitment firm  Heidrick & Struggles International Inc.  who
leads the North American global markets practice.  Fixed-income traders’ pay will probably fall as much as 30
percent this year, according to a new report from New York-based
compensation consultants  Johnson Associates Inc.  Compensation
for merger advisers will be flat to 5 percent higher, and
investment bankers who manage stock and bond sales will see a
range between 5 percent up and 5 percent down, the report said.
Pay for retail and commercial bankers will be slightly higher,
and asset-management staff will see increases up to 15 percent.  ‘Gotten Harder’  “The economics of these firms and their pay is less than
we would have thought three or six months ago because things
have clearly gotten harder,” said  Alan Johnson , president and
founder of Johnson Associates. For traders “it’s going to be
harder to make large amounts of money without being able to take
risk or use as much capital” because of rule changes, he said.  At New York-based  JPMorgan , the second-biggest U.S. bank by
assets, the total compensation pool for the first nine months
fell 1.2 percent from the same period in 2009, and average pay
per worker dropped 8 percent. Within the firm’s investment bank,
the pool shrunk 10 percent, even as the number of employees
swelled 6.2 percent, to slash average pay 15.5 percent.  Goldman Sachs’s compensation pool fell 18 percent this
year, the fastest of all the banks, and more than its 14 percent
revenue decline. When compared with rivals’ investment bank
units, Goldman Sachs’s drop is second biggest after the 20
percent reduction in compensation expense at Credit Suisse. The
figures include a tax levied on bonuses by the U.K. government.  Banks report their expense for compensation and benefits,
which includes salaries, bonuses and severance costs. Because
many pay packages include stock awards that vest over several
years, each year’s compensation expense can include a portion of
previous equity awards vesting in the current year.  ‘Tough’ Environment  “We are seeing compensation down from 2009 anywhere from
22 to 27 percent” for traders, said  Michael Karp , chief
executive officer of recruitment firm Options Group in New York.
“We are in a tough regulatory environment, and in a situation
where revenues and volumes are down, it’s hard for any bank to
pay its employees more.”  Spokesmen for all eight banks declined to comment.  New regulations following the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression have focused on reducing risk-taking at
banks and requiring them to do a better job aligning pay with
performance. New York-based  Morgan Stanley  and Credit Suisse in
Zurich are among banks paying a larger portion of year-end
bonuses in restricted stock over several years or cash that can
be clawed back if trading positions or investments backfire.  Dodd-Frank Impact  The Dodd-Frank financial reform law passed in the U.S. in
July requires regulators to write stricter rules for proprietary
trading, or bets firms make with their own capital, and
derivatives trading, which was one of the fastest-growing
sources of investment bank revenue before the crisis.  Executives at Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities
firm in Wall Street history, estimated earlier this year that
proprietary trading made up about 10 percent of its revenue,
while derivatives contributed as much as 35 percent. Derivatives
are contracts whose value is based on underlying securities such
as stocks or bonds or changes in currencies, interest rates or
the weather.  Provisions in the Dodd-Frank law will shave between 18
percent and 21 percent from 2010 pretax earnings at the largest
U.S. banks, Standard & Poor’s analysts wrote in a report this
week. Many of the new rules won’t take effect fully until 2013,
when a better economy may help offset some of the drop in
revenue, the analysts said.  Basel III  In addition, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is
drafting new global requirements known as Basel III that
increase the capital banks must hold and limit leverage, or the
use of borrowed money. While the requirements won’t begin taking
effect until 2013, and won’t be implemented fully until 2018,
they could herald a long-term change in profitability and
compensation, according to  Brad Hintz , an analyst at  Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  in New York.  “Under Basel III, it looks very difficult for the major
trading groups of any of the banks to beat their costs of
capital based on historic margins,” said Hintz, who was rated
the top analyst covering broker-dealers in a survey of fund
managers published by Institutional Investor magazine last
month. To improve margins “you can increase commissions and
spreads or you can cut the compensation of the people who work
there, and my guess is that both of them happen.”  Replacing Revenue  Banks may cut pay for administrative staff, including those
in human resources, communications and finance, by outsourcing
more tasks to low-wage countries such as India and by using
technology to automate benefits and other internal functions,
said Robert Dicks, a principal at New York-based Deloitte
Consulting LLP who focuses on compensation and benefits. He said
Wall Street firms currently pay such back-office employees as
much as four times what they would get elsewhere.  “These firms are recognizing that they need to streamline,
they’ve got to become more efficient, and that money very
quickly comes back to the front-office producers” such as
bankers, brokers and traders, Dicks said. “Wall Street adapts
very fast.”  Investment banks are also seeking ways to replace revenue
from complex structured products such as collateralized debt
obligations that fell out of favor after they led to losses and
government bailouts. A surge in government bond and foreign
exchange trading that buoyed earnings last year and early this
year has also faded.  2 Rupees  Goldman Sachs is looking at opportunities for growth in
emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and South
Korea, according to  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights
Inc. in New York who recently met with  David Viniar , the
company’s chief financial officer.  Competition for investment banking deals in emerging
markets can mean minimal fees. In August, three people familiar
with the situation said Goldman Sachs submitted a bid to manage
a share sale by state-owned  Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. 
that would have generated a fee of 2 rupees (5 cents).  “It’s a big question mark for these companies where
they’re going to find new revenue to make up for some of the
businesses, like structured credit, that have gone away,” said
 Eric Moskowitz , head of market intelligence in the global
financial markets practice of Los Angeles-based executive search
firm Korn/Ferry International. “While many are seeking growth
in emerging markets, they’re finding that the fees they receive
in those markets are often much lower than they can make in the
developed countries.”  Return on Equity  Even with the new Dodd-Frank rules and Basel capital
requirements, Goldman Sachs hasn’t revised its target of
generating an average 20 percent  return  on equity throughout the
economic cycle, which takes into account that some periods will
be lower and some will be higher.  The firm’s annualized return on equity for the first three
quarters was 11.6 percent, or 13.2 percent excluding one-time
costs for a U.K. bank tax and a $550 million settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in July. That compares with a
19.2 percent annualized return on equity in the first nine
months of 2009.  Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, the biggest money-maker for most investment banks,
fell at six of the eight banks, while equities trading revenue
dropped at five. The biggest declines were the 42 percent drop
in fixed-income trading at Credit Suisse and the 32 percent
fall-off in equities trading at Goldman Sachs during the first
nine months of the year compared with the same period in 2009.  Among the gainers, Morgan Stanley posted a 41 percent rise
in fixed-income trading and a 29 percent improvement in
equities, and  UBS AG ’s negative fixed-income revenue a year ago
swung to a gain this year.  Wide Gap  While earnings at banks such as Bank of America, New York-
based  Citigroup Inc.  and JPMorgan featured lower trading revenue
this year, firms were able to release reserves set aside for bad
loans in previous years. That helps staff in areas outside of
the investment bank most, said  Rose Marie Orens , a senior
partner at  Compensation Advisory Partners LLC  in New York.  “That’s going to really go to the core bank more than to
the investment bank,” Orens said. Still, “it’s not to say that
their actual pay is getting closer” to that of investment
bankers and traders, she said.  Indeed, the gap between what traders make and the average
compensation of bank employees is wide. Goldman Sachs’s $387,655
per worker -- down from an average $527,192 in the first nine
months of last year -- compares with Bank of America’s average
$92,723 per employee and Citigroup’s $72,264. Neither Bank of
America nor Citigroup provide compensation and employee numbers
for their investment bank, so the figures include loan officers
and tellers as well as traders and advisers.  UBS, Morgan Stanley  While the totals for the eight firms show faster declines
in investment bank pay than in overall compensation, there are
exceptions. Average pay per employee at UBS’s investment bank,
which is hiring to rebuild its fixed-income operation, surged 14
percent, while the Zurich-based bank’s overall average rose less
than half a percent. Average pay at Morgan Stanley, which owns
the largest U.S. brokerage, also climbed as the company sought
to add employees.  At Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG ’s investment bank,
average pay slid 3.6 percent to 285,353 euros ($403,004),
exceeding the average at Goldman Sachs.  Investment banks pay out a larger percentage of revenue to
their employees than do consumer banks. For example, 39 percent
of the revenue generated by JPMorgan’s investment bank went to
pay employees compared with 28 percent for the bank as a whole.
Goldman Sachs has set aside 43 percent of revenue to pay workers
this year, and Morgan Stanley has allocated 50 percent.  ‘Total Aberration’  Banks often revise their ratios of pay to compensation at
the end of the year, which can mean they dole out much more or
less than appeared likely after the third quarter. Last year
Goldman Sachs slashed its full-year ratio of compensation to
revenue to 36 percent, its lowest level ever, after having set
aside 47 percent for the first nine months.  Not everyone sees the decline in traders’ pay this year as
a symptom of a long-term change in compensation.  “Assuming we’re headed back into an economic growth phase,
we’ll look back at this and it will be a total aberration,”
said  Joseph Sorrentino , managing director at compensation
consultant  Steven Hall & Partners LLC  in New York. “I do get
the sense that once we have a rebound that these positions are
going to return to their previous levels.”  The following is a table of compensation and employees at
eight global banks that have reported earnings for the first
nine months of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 