-- Greeks Bombing EU Hands in Bailout Show No Shame Two Days Before Election
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-04T22:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/greeks-bombing-eu-hands-in-bailout-show-no-shame-two-days-before-election.html
Two days before local elections that
will show opposition to bailout-driven austerity, there’s little
shame in Greece for bombs that are landing in the post box of
the European Union.  More than a dozen explosives were discovered by police this
week before the Nov. 7 vote, including one sent to German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who helped put together a package of
loans in May to bail out Greece.  “Our lives in Greece virtually changed overnight, so it
should be no surprise that we see such actions taking place,”
said Christina Angreou, 34, a teacher in Athens who is declining
to vote. “Not that I’m for such actions, but it’s a protest.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  faces his first test at
the ballot box since his 13-month-old government inherited an
economy that required a 110 billion-euro ($154 billion) rescue
package from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.  After cutting wages and pensions and raising taxes on fuel,
tobacco and alcohol, the 58-year-old premier raised the stakes
for this weekend by suggesting on television he might call an
early national election unless people endorsed his policies. The
prospect of political upheaval may spook investors again just
after Greece’s cost of borrowing had started to decline.  “He has chosen to turn the municipal elections into a de
facto vote of confidence, which seems to involve taking an
unnecessary risk at a delicate time,” said  Alastair Newton ,
senior political analyst at Nomura International Plc in London.  Spreads Widen  The difference in yields between Greek 10-year bonds and
German bunds of the same maturity jumped 190 basis points to 881
since Papandreou mooted early elections on Oct. 25. The  spread 
had narrowed to 649 basis points on Oct. 18 from a record 965 on
May 7, five days after the EU and IMF approved the bailout.  Police said they had detected 14 parcel bombs, including
one to Merkel’s office on Nov. 3. Others were sent to Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and embassies in Athens, including one intercepted
yesterday en route to French diplomats, they said.  “Democracy won’t be terrorized,” Papandreou said in
statements carried live Nov. 3 on state-run NET TV. “These
irresponsible and foolish acts were designed and are designed to
hurt the great attempts of the Greek people to get the country
back on track, to get the economy back on track.”  The sender of the package to Merkel, who initially refused
to rush to Greece’s aid earlier this year, was given as the
Greek Finance Ministry, according to a Nov. 3 police statement.
Papandreou vowed to track down the perpetrators.  History of Violence  Extremist groups in Greece have a history of small-scale
bomb attacks on public buildings or offices of political or
business figures. Since the police shooting of a teenager in
December 2008 and subsequent unrest, the number of such groups
has mushroomed. Attacks by anarchists in May this year during a
strike left three people dead.  “It’s so they can distract our thoughts from the
election,” said Bado Plemenou, 52, a former hospital worker in
Athens who has been unemployed for eight months. “The results
will be the same despite the bombings and worse.”  Polls indicate that most Greeks will vote this weekend
against the policies to narrow a budget deficit of almost 13.6
percent of gross domestic product. The size of the deficit was
discovered after Papandreou won elections in October 2009 on a
promise of higher wages and more spending.  About 67 percent of 5,000 voters surveyed by GPO in a poll
published Oct. 22 had a negative opinion of the government, up
from 57 percent in August. Almost 66 percent of 1,183 Greeks in
a Kapa Research poll released Oct. 10 think the country could
have avoided asking for funds, up from 42 percent in April.  Election Gambit  Papandreou’s local election gambit risks alienating voters
like Aphrodite Kartalou, 61, who said she would reject the
government should the premier hold a national vote.  “I don’t like what I consider a threat from the prime
minister to vote for government-backed candidates to avoid an
impasse and the possibility of general elections,” said
Kartalou, a retired secretary who will cast her ballot in the
seaside municipality of  Saronikos , which is southeast of Athens.
“If that happens, then I will vote against the government.”  Papandreou and his socialist Pasok party lead the main
opposition New Democracy party. Forty-one percent had greater
trust for Papandreou, compared with 23 percent for New Democracy
leader  Antonis Samaras , according to the Kapa poll.  Papandreou’s call for support has been seen by some as a
rallying cry for his disenchanted supporters, some of whom plan
to vote for Yiannis Dimaras, one of three lawmakers expelled
from the  Pasok party  after defying Papandreou in the May vote on
terms of the bailout.  Getting Tough  Dimaras, 66, is poised to beat the ruling party’s candidate
in the race to head the new regional authority for the greater
Athens area, according to the GPO poll. His election slogan is
“memorandum for the people.”  Anna Kristalou, 50, agrees with  Papandreou  even though her
state schoolteacher’s salary has been cut.  “While tough, the measures introduced by the government
are necessary for the good of the country and need to be
followed through,” said Kristalou, another voter in Saronikos.
“The opposition is in no state to govern.”  This weekend’s ballot is the first since Papandreou’s
reorganization of local government. The so-called Kallikratis
plan, named after one of the architects of the 2,500-year-old
Parthenon Temple, aims to save the central government at least
1.5 billion euros over three years.  Greece’s 1,034 local municipalities will be cut to 325, and
67 regional and prefectures will be replaced with 13 more
powerful regional authorities.  The government-backed candidate in Saronikos, Christina
Christofaki, the wife of the deputy prime minister, said there
will be no protest vote.  Greeks in Saronikos “want someone to solve the problem of
landfills, of asbestos water pipes, of sanitation works, filling
pot holes and keeping towns clean,” she said in an interview
Nov. 3. “For everything else, there are other ballot boxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tugwell  in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  