-- Greek Police Detonate Parcel Bomb Sent to French Embassy as Mail Suspended
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-04T13:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/greek-police-detonate-parcel-bomb-sent-to-french-embassy-as-mail-suspended.html
Greek police detonated a parcel bomb
addressed to the  French Embassy  in Athens today and are
investigating at least two more packages, the latest in a spate
of mail bombings targeting embassies and European leaders.  The parcel bomb was detonated at around 1 p.m. at a courier
company in the Athens neighborhood of Kallithea, according to a
mobile-phone text message from the Greek police. The parcel was
addressed to the French embassy with the Athens Archdiocese
given as the sender, the police said.  Greece suspended international mail services for 48 hours
yesterday after devices exploded at the Swiss and Russian
embassies in Athens and one reached German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s office. Police arrested two men in connection with the
campaign and are seeking another five. Government spokesman
 George Petalotis  said there is no connection to international
terror groups.  At least two other suspicious parcels found at a separate
courier company south of the city center are being investigated
by a bomb squad, the spokesman said.  Police have battled to defuse a barrage of package devices
in the capital. A courier company employee was injured on Nov. 1
when a parcel bomb exploded. There have been no other injuries.  The two men arrested, aged 22 and 24, were caught in Athens
with two bombs addressed to the Belgian embassy in Greece and to
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . There has been no claim of
responsibilities for the attacks.  This week’s incidents follow a June 24 attack in which a
security guard was killed when opening a parcel bomb at the
country’s police ministry in Athens. The device was intended for
the Minister of Citizen Protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  