-- Ground Zero Landlords Say Rising Demand Means No Manhattan Office Glut
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-11-04T19:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ground-zero-landlords-say-demand-for-high-tech-space-means-no-office-glut.html
Rising demand for high-tech, modern
spaces will prevent an office glut in downtown Manhattan as new
towers rise at the site of the former World Trade Center, three
area landlords said.  The bulk of the demand at the site of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks will come from tenants now working in Midtown
as they outgrow their space there and seek more technologically
and environmentally advanced buildings, the office owners said
at the Real Estate Briefing hosted by Bloomberg Link today.  “People will very much want to be here because it will be
the only game in town,” said  Larry A. Silverstein , chief
executive officer of Silverstein Properties Inc., which has the
right to construct three buildings at the Ground Zero site.  The two towers being built at Ground Zero -- 1 World Trade
Center and Silverstein’s 4 World Trade -- will add 4.4 million
square feet (409,000 square meters) of office space to the
downtown market, where the vacancy rate in the third quarter was
at a six-year high of 12.1 percent, according to Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. Were 1 and 4 World Trade to be delivered empty,
that would push the rate to more than 16 percent, according to
 Kenneth McCarthy , head of New York-area research for Cushman.  Renters will pay a premium for new offices and the glamour
of being in the city’s newest office neighborhood, Silverstein
said.  “We’ll be seeing most of the tenants coming from Midtown
to Downtown,” he said.  Brookfield Renovations  Expected demand has pushed  Brookfield Office Properties ,
the owner of the World Financial Center, to invest “hundreds of
millions of dollars” renovating and upgrading the complex,  Ric Clark , president of the New York-based real estate investment
trust, said during today’s panel discussion in New York.  Since 2005, some 235 tenants have moved from Midtown to
Downtown and collectively leased 5 million square feet, Clark
said. The new tenants are a mix of technology firms,
professional services, media companies and non-profits, rather
than being from the financial industry that dominated the area’s
leasing before Sept. 11, he said.  “There’s been a great diversification of the mix in lower
Manhattan,” Clark said. The addition of new space across West
Street at Ground Zero is not a problem, he said. “It’s an
opportunity.”  Some of the office demand in lower Manhattan is being
driven by younger New Yorkers who want to live and work in the
Financial District and adjoining areas, Clark said. He estimated
that 60,000 people will live south of Chambers Street by the end
of next year.  Entrances, Shops  Renovations to Brookfield’s World Financial Center will
include adding ground-level entrances and shops, including a
supermarket or a gourmet food hall, Clark said.  Bank of America Corp.  has leases expiring in 2013 on 4.6
million square feet of space at the World Financial Center. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender inherited that space when
it bought Merrill Lynch & Co., which had its headquarters at the
property. Bank of America has told Brookfield it plans to
“maintain a presence” at the financial center, Clark said in
February.  Delays in completing the 1 World Trade Center may have made
it more commercially viable, said  Douglas Durst , chairman of the
Durst Organization Inc., which agreed to take at least a $100
million cash equity stake in the project. The company is working
in partnership with the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, which owns the property and has been building the tower.  ‘Definitely Make Money’  With the bulk of the project ready for tenants in 2013,
years behind the original plans, demand for new space will be
higher, Durst said. He said he is planning to hold the top
floors of the 1,776-foot (541-meter) tower off the market until
at least 2015, in part to allow demand to recover and rents to
rise.  “The building will definitely make money,” Durst said at
the conference. “It’s not going to make the level of return
that a typical investor would seek from the building.”  Durst said plans to lease a large block of space at 1 World
Trade to the state of New York may not go through, with the
state’s budget in disarray and cheaper space potentially
available elsewhere.  Rents at 1 World Trade should be “in the $70 range” a
square foot, excluding the building’s top floors, Durst said.  Latest Technology  With about 400 million square feet of office space in New
York, and the bulk of it more than 50 years old, demand for new,
high-tech space won’t ease, Silverstein said. Tenants have shown
a preference for buildings that meet stricter energy-efficiency
standards and are wired to use the latest technology.  “There are so many tenants out there with a need to be on
the cusp of technology, and you can only get that in a new
building,” he said.  Conde Nast is negotiating final details of a lease of as
much as 1 million square feet at 1 World Trade. The closely held
company, the publisher of Vogue and  The New Yorker  magazines,
has its current headquarters at Durst’s 4 Times Square tower in
Midtown.  Two more buildings are planned at the Ground Zero site,
with an additional 4.4 million square feet of space.
Construction of the foundations of those properties, known as 2
and 3 World Trade Center, has begun. No completion dates have
been set pending additional financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  