-- Icelandic Debt Relief Saga Forces `New Ethics' on Government
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-11-04T16:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/icelandic-debt-relief-saga-forces-new-ethics-as-creditors-imf-look-on.html
Iceland’s first female Prime Minister,
 Johanna Sigurdardottir , will present what may be the world’s
biggest debt relief proposal next week, risking alienating the
International Monetary Fund and bank creditors.  The 68-year-old is trying to prevent the 39 percent of
households that are technically insolvent from losing their
homes. She was forced to back down from proposals requiring
lenders to forgive $2 billion in mortgage debt -- 15 percent of
Iceland’s economic output -- after pension funds blocked them.
Now she’s looking for other ways to help families reeling from
last year’s 20 percent drop in incomes.  The job has required “literally resurrecting Iceland from
the ruins of collapse,” Sigurdardottir said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “It’s demanded a new modus operandi --
new ethics.”  If she pulls off a resurrection, debt-ridden countries such
as Greece and Portugal may look to the island for clues on how
to rebuild their economies. If she fails, Iceland risks
exacerbating unresolved creditor disputes that prevent it
normalizing relations with the world or rebuilding international
investor ties essential to growth.  “It will become unbearable for the government to hold on
to power if it fails,” said Birgir Gudmundsson, a professor in
political science at the University of Akureyri in Iceland’s
north, in an interview.  Economic Wreckage  Iceland’s banking failure two years ago precipitated an
economic meltdown that forced the resignation of former Prime
Minister  Geir H. Haarde . On Sept. 28, he became the world’s
first political leader to be indicted for economic mismanagement
since the credit crisis started.  The economy, the world’s fifth-richest per capita as
recently as 2007, contracted 6.8 percent last year and shrank an
annual 8.4 percent in the second quarter.  The IMF, which is leading the country’s $4.6 billion loan,
estimates 63 percent of the island’s loans to households and
businesses are non-performing. On Oct. 4, about 8,000 Icelanders
took to the streets to voice their grievances in the island’s
biggest protests since it was engulfed by the financial crisis.  A group calling itself Protestors in Iceland called on
citizens to disrupt today’s session of Parliament. About 400
people gathered in front of the legislature, according to police
estimates. Demonstrators beat makeshift drums and called for a
national unity government to replace the current coalition.  Confidence Vote?  Sigurdardottir today challenged the opposition to call a
vote of no confidence after lawmakers criticized her handling of
the country’s economic crisis. She told the Morgunbladid
newspaper her debt relief proposal will be ready on Monday,
after which she will call a meeting with all interest groups.  The government responded to last month’s protests with
crisis talks and promises to help families unable to service
their debts. While Sigurdardottir on Oct. 19 backed away from
initial proposals to write down 20 percent of all mortgage debt,
she said she hasn’t given up on her goal of delivering broad
debt relief.  The IMF won’t be “allowed” to block her efforts, even if
the government becomes more indebted, she said on Oct. 8  To help families, her government is pushing a bill that
will allow bankrupts to walk away from their debts after two
years. Her administration on Oct. 22 also presented a foreign-
lending bill that will reduce each household’s debt burden by
$13,500 on average, leaving lenders liable for the impact of
currency losses. She extended by five months a moratorium on
foreclosures, breaching the country’s IMF agreement.  IMF View  Sigurdardottir said on Nov. 2 she hopes to present a debt
relief proposal next week.  “If ideas of a general write-down of debts resurfaces, the
IMF will point out that it’s expensive, unfortunate and will be
most costly for those who are most vulnerable,” said  Ludvik Eliasson , head of research with MP Bank hf in Reykjavik.
Targeted debt relief ‘is what should be done and should have
been implemented already. Hinting and talking about further
widespread measures being underway has just increased the
difficulties.”  The IMF’s Director of External Relations,  Caroline Atkinson ,
today said she is “not aware of any problems in our relations
with Iceland,” at a briefing for reporters in Washington. An
IMF mission is in Iceland until Nov. 15 to discuss the island’s
fourth review under its Stand-By Agreement, Resident
Representative Franek Rozwadowski said in a statement on Nov. 2.  Compromise Difficult  The prime minister may find it difficult to reach a
compromise that satisfies the country’s biggest interest groups.
The lobby group representing homeowners says it won’t back down
from its demands that lenders write off about 20 percent of
their mortgage debt.  “We haven’t been willing to declare that we’d approve
anything else,” said Fridrik O. Fridriksson, chairman of the
Interest Group of the Homes, in a Nov. 1 interview.  At the same time, the pension funds say they won’t accept
debt relief terms that deplete the value of their mortgage
investments.  “We’ve been clear that the rules of the pension funds don’t
allow for a general write-down of debts,” said  Hrafn Magnusson ,
managing director of the Icelandic Pension Funds Association, in
an interview.  The failure of  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf  and
 Landsbanki Islands hf  in October 2008 left creditors wondering
how to recoup $86 billion in loans to the banks that have yet to
be repaid. By contrast, the island’s 2009  gross domestic product 
was $13 billion.  Too Weak  The financial system remains too weak for the central bank
to consider removing capital controls, Governor  Mar Gudmundsson 
said yesterday. His bank will push back by at least three months
plans to start easing currency restrictions needed to shield the
krona.  Iceland’s government debt is ranked “junk” at Fitch
Ratings, while Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
give the sovereign their lowest investment grade. Moody’s says
mortgage relief measures that swell government debt would hurt
Iceland’s rating.  Rising household debt burdens, deteriorating economic
indicators and a failure to reach settlement with Iceland’s
creditors have eroded some of Sigurdardottir’s goodwill with
voters.  Support for her Social Democrat, Left Green coalition
slipped to 30 percent in an October opinion poll by Capacent
Gallup, compared with the 51 percent of the vote it received in
the April 2009 general election.  “Her great success is to be the first woman prime minister
in Iceland and the leader of the first real left wing
government,” said Eirikur Bergmann, a professor of political
science at Bifrost University outside Reykjavik. “Her failure
is that she hasn’t been able to keep the government on the same
track or find a suitable solution for the dept burden of normal
households.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  