-- Michigan Gets Third Year of Probation, Rich Rodriguez Avoids Major Penalty
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-04T21:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/michigan-gets-third-year-of-probation-rich-rodriguez-avoids-major-penalty.html
Coach  Rich Rodriguez  was cleared
of major infractions at the  University of Michigan , with
his football team handed a third year of probation by the
National Collegiate Athletic Association.  Rodriguez, who initially was accused by the NCAA of
failing to promote an atmosphere of compliance, was found
only to have failed to monitor the program, the college
sports governing body said in a  public report . He is
required to attend a rules seminar next year.  Paul Dee , chairman of the NCAA’s Committee on
Infraction, said the group reviewed the facts and decided
to change the initial charge against Rodriguez, 47, who is
13-19 without a bowl appearance in 2½ seasons at Michigan.  “The coach is ultimately responsible, but that
doesn’t mean that the coach was involved in all of the
activities that occurred,” Dee said on a conference call.
“Consequently, some of the things that did occur did not
get all the way to the coach, but ultimately the coach
bears the responsibility for the program.”  The Ann Arbor-based school had imposed on itself a
two-year probation and reduction of practice time by 130
hours following an NCAA investigation into excessive
practices and over-involvement by staff members.  The NCAA said today that it was adding a third year to
the probation, which will end Nov. 3, 2013, based on the
violations.  “I’m glad the process is over so it no longer can be
used as a thing that is hanging over the program from a
negative recruiting standpoint,” Rodriguez said at a news
conference. “We fought for the things that we thought we
should fight for. We agreed to mistakes that were made. We
fixed the mistakes in a hurry and now it’s over.”  Practice Time  The Wolverines exceeded practice limits by about 65
hours between the time Rodriguez joined the Big Ten
Conference school in January 2008 through September 2009 by
having football staff members monitor voluntary workouts,
the NCAA said.  Five Wolverines quality-control staff members were
ruled to be acting as coaches, exceeding the number of
coaches allowed by NCAA rules.  Michigan began an investigation of its own program in
August 2009 after the Detroit Free Press cited anonymous
Wolverines players who said their in-season and out-of-
season workouts exceeded NCAA time limits.  The NCAA confirmed its own investigation in October
2009. Another inquiry at West Virginia University, where
Rodriguez coached from 2001 to 2007, also was undertaken.  “None of the information with regard to that case was
made available,” Dee said.  School Punishment  Michigan released the NCAA Notice of Allegations in
February that cited five infractions by the school.  The school agreed with four allegations and in May
announced self-imposed penalties that included two years of
probation and reduced practice time. At an August hearing,
it challenged the remaining allegation -- that Rodriguez
failed to promote an atmosphere of compliance.  The Wolverines are  5-3  this season and 1-3 in Big Ten
play after dropping their last three games. They play
Illinois this weekend.  Rodriguez, who according to the Associated Press is
being paid $2.5 million annually over a six-year contract,
agreed in July 2008 to pay West Virginia a $4 million
buyout after breaking his agreement there. Michigan said it
would provide Rodriguez with $2.5 million to make the first
payment and he would pay the remaining $1.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  