-- Microsoft Uses Kinect to Combat Nintendo Wii, Lure Gamer Moms
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-11-04T21:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/microsoft-uses-kinect-to-combat-nintendo-wii-lure-gamer-moms.html
Microsoft Corp.  today starts selling
Kinect, a device that lets consumers play video games with their
bodies, to help it lure casual gamers and add years to the life
of its Xbox 360 gaming console.  Kinect, shaped like a flat, black box, tracks a player’s
movement and voice and costs $149.99 by itself or starting at
$299.99 when purchased with an Xbox 360 console. Microsoft
yesterday boosted its forecast for Kinect sales this year to 5
million units from 3 million after the device sold out in pre-
sales at retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. and  Best Buy Co.   Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is depending on
Kinect to catch Nintendo Co., which pioneered the motion-sensing
gaming market with its Wii controller, and Sony Corp., whose
Move controller hit stores in September. The product is also
designed to help Microsoft goose sales of the aging Xbox 360,
released in 2005, and improve margins of a unit that lost about
$8 billion before reaching profitability in 2008.  “It’s a very intuitive and innovative product,” said  Gregg Moskowitz , an  analyst  at Cowen & Co. in New York, who has an
“outperform”  rating  on Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.
“It’s not ideal for every video game, but it has that potential
to tap into a new market where we haven’t seen Microsoft
before.”  Microsoft may generate $500 million in  Kinect  sales this
quarter and $1 billion this fiscal year, which ends in June,
according to Moskowitz. If Microsoft can meet its new forecast
for holiday Kinect sales, the company will exceed his estimate
by about $250 million for the quarter, Moskowitz said.  Casual, Social Gamers  With Kinect, Microsoft is aiming at users of so-called
casual games, which tend to be more family-friendly than
traditional shoot-’em-up video titles, and social games, played
on social networks such as Facebook Inc. Consumers may spend
$2.4 billion on casual games this year, according to  Parks
Associates , a research firm in Dallas.  Microsoft, which pioneered the market for online
multiplayer console games, will try to extend its advantage with
Kinect games such as “Kinect Sports” and “Kinect
Adventures.” Many of the 17 games available at introduction let
gamers snap photos of themselves playing and post them online.  As a company that hasn’t traditionally attracted casual
gamers with Xbox, Microsoft may need to take pains to win over
wives, mothers and teenage girls who may already have an Xbox in
the house but don’t use it, said  Michael Pachter , a video-game
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc.  Ellen, Oprah  To do that, Microsoft has previewed the device on daytime
talk shows hosted by  Oprah Winfrey  and  Ellen DeGeneres . A  clip 
of DeGeneres doing Merengue moves along with Kinect’s “Dance
Central” game -- from the makers of the classic title “Rock
Band” -- led Pachter’s non-gamer wife to ask when the family
was getting one.  It worked in Ballmer’s household too, the executive told a
group of students at the  University of Washington  last month.
His wife, Connie, had banished the Xbox from the main part of
the house, saying it was distracting the kids from homework,
until she saw Kinect, Ballmer said at the time.  “They have a lot riding on it,” Pachter said. “If they
can get every Wii household to upgrade to this, they can sell
another 50 million consoles. They won’t succeed in that, of
course, but that’s the goal.”  Microsoft rose 11 cents to $27.14 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has  declined  11 percent this
year.  Microsoft’s ‘Confidence’  Microsoft’s higher Kinect sales forecast “shows a lot of
confidence,” Pachter said. In that same period, Sony may sell
about 3 million Move units, he said.  Microsoft’s  Entertainment and Devices  unit, made up mostly
of Xbox sales, had a profit of $679 million for the year that
ended June 30, only the third year the business has turned a
profit. Kinect is key to expanding margins. Consoles typically
lose money for the first several years before turning profitable
and the Xbox 360 is now narrowly profitable, Microsoft has said.  Unlike a new console, Kinect won’t lose money from the time
of its release, according to Moskowitz. When it reaches full
sales capacity, Moskowitz expects Kinect to be more profitable
than the Xbox. Microsoft unveiled Kinect in June 2009.  Still, many hard-core gamers like Pachter himself “won’t
really care” about Kinect, he said. Pachter said he’d rather
spend the money to buy “Vanquish” and the latest installments of
“ Gears of War ’ and “Call of Duty,” three shooting games.  Don Mattrick , president of Microsoft’s Interactive
Entertainment Business, said in an interview that he’s confident
“Xbox and Kinect is for everyone, whether you are 8 or 80.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  