-- Millionaire Poker Players Bring in EvilCPA to Preserve Winnings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/millionaire-poker-players-bring-in-evil-cpa-to-help-them-preserve-winnings.html
Fans rooting for  John Dolan  when the
24-year-old college dropout sits down at this weekend’s  World
Series of Poker main event  final table will include family,
friends and EvilCPA.  That’s one of two online poker names for  Ann-Margaret
Johnston , a 42-year-old Atlanta-based certified public
accountant, who has built a client roster of more than 200
professional poker players, including Dolan and several
millionaires under the age of 21. She charges $250 an hour for
her advice on taxes and other financial matters.  One of her first clients was  Chris Moneymaker , a then-27-
year-old Tennessee accountant who won the $2.5 million prize at
the 2003  World Series of Poker  after qualifying online for $39.  “After Chris won, everybody thought they could be a poker
player,” Johnston, who started playing poker during her first
visit to Las Vegas in 1997, said in an interview. “I’m trying
to help them with their money so they don’t get stupid.”  Johnston said about 30 percent of her business comes from
poker clients, declining to give a dollar figure for revenue.  “It’s rare to have a few hundred professional poker
players as your core client base,” Bill Roberts, a spokesman
for the American Institute of CPAs, said in a telephone
interview. “You don’t see that very often.”  Dolan, a Florida State University dropout, is one of the
nine players at the final table and Johnston’s newest client.
The main event concludes on Nov. 8 at the Rio All-Suites Hotel &
Casino in Las Vegas and has a first prize of $8.9 million.  $811,823 Guarantee  As a member of the so-called November Nine, Dolan will
bring 46.25 million chips to the final table, the second-biggest
total behind Jonathan Duhamel’s 65.98 million chip stack.
Johnston, who has operated her own accounting practice for 15
years, will be there to make sure Dolan keeps as much of his
winnings as possible. All nine players are guaranteed at least
$811,823.  “It’s just a relief to have someone you know who is going
to take care of you the right way and not make mistakes,” Dolan
said in a telephone interview. “The fact that she actually
understands both sides of it makes her the clear-cut favorite
and makes you want to use her.”  Johnston plays online under the screen names EvilCPA and
CPAEvil, and finished third in the Ladies Event at the
PokerStars Caribbean Adventure Main Event in January, earning
$9,335.  ‘Moneymaker Effect’  At tax time, poker players face questions ranging from what
income they should claim to whether they should file as a
professional or amateur, Johnston said. Poker tax laws also vary
from state to state. For online games, she suggests her clients
keep spreadsheets with extensive details of each game they play
in case they get audited.  Poker participation surged after the 2003 event, creating
what has become known as the “Moneymaker effect.” In 2004,
World Series of Poker entrants tripled to 2,576 from 839 a year
earlier. The 2010 series drew 7,319 entrants, the second-most
behind the 8,773 entrants in 2006. Ninety-seven percent of this
year’s entrants are men, according to  Seth Palansky , a World
Series of Poker spokesman.  Shares of Gibraltar-based PartyGaming Plc, the largest
publicly-traded online gaming company by market capitalization,
have risen 3.1 percent in the last 12 months.  Online poker players in the U.S. are projected to pay $1.3
billion in fees to gaming companies this year, up from $224
million in 2003, according to Manchester, England-based
consulting firm H2 Gambling Capital. During the same period,
global fees paid to gambling companies have climbed to $5.4
billion from $323 million.  Poker as a Business  The growth has produced players like 21-year-old  Carter
Phillips , who has won more than $1.7 million. He called Johnston
because his mother told him to.  After his mother bought a book Johnston wrote about turning
 poker into a business  in a Charlotte, North Carolina, bookstore,
Phillips did some research and gave her a call.  “Most of the other accountants didn’t know how to handle
taking wins and losses and dealing with all of the online
stuff,” said Phillips. “They didn’t know how to deal with
where the money was coming from.”  Dolan was referred to Johnston by his financial backer
Brian Hawkins, a fellow poker player and Johnston client.  Dolan, who has won more than $1 million as a poker pro,
doesn’t own a home, drives an 8-year-old Infinity I-35 sedan and
mostly stays with friends while traveling to tournaments.  “I’m pretty simple,” he said. “I’d rather be a little
conservative right now, but one of the first things I want to do
is buy a house and a new car.”  College Referrals  One of the first calls Jeff Williams made after winning $1
million was to Johnston.  “When I had my big score I just knew I would have to pay a
bunch of taxes,” said Williams, whose winnings came in the
European Poker Tour Grand Final in Monte Carlo in 2006 while he
was a 19-year-old freshman at the University of Georgia. “It
just gets so complicated.”  After Williams used Johnston to do his taxes that first
year, he began referring more of his college friends and poker
competitors her way.  “A lot of them are between 18 and 21 and are
multimillionaires,” said Johnston. “They all get irritated
that they have to pay all these taxes. Yeah, well, welcome to
the real world.”  ----With assistance from  Mason Levinson  in New York. Editors:
 Anita Sharpe ,  Larry Siddons .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 