-- Lilly Wins Backing to Use Antidepressant Cymbalta for Back, Arthritis Pain
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-11-04T22:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lilly-wins-backing-to-use-antidepressant-cymbalta-for-back-arthritis-pain.html
Eli Lilly & Co.  won approval to sell
the antidepressant Cymbalta, its second-biggest drug, as a
treatment for pain.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared Cymbalta for
musculoskeletal pain such as arthritis and chronic lower back
conditions, the agency said today in a  statement . An FDA
advisory panel voted 8-6 in favor of Indianapolis-based Lilly’s
application to expand Cymbalta use on Aug. 19.  Lilly is under pressure to maintain sales as its top drugs
prepare for generic competition and new products struggle to
reach the market. Broader approval of Cymbalta may provide only
a small reprieve because the medicine’s patent expires in three
years and it is already being prescribed as a painkiller, said
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston.  “Half of that market opportunity could already be
potentially accounted for,” Fernandez said in a telephone
interview. He estimates annual sales of Cymbalta may increase by
$500 million, or 16 percent, with approval in pain.  Sales of Cymbalta were $3.07 billion last year, accounting
for 14 percent of Indianapolis-based Lilly’s  revenue . The drug
is scheduled to lose U.S. patent protection in 2013, along with
the insulin Humalog, which ranks third in revenue. Top-selling
Zyprexa, an antipsychotic, faces generic competition in 2011.  Treatment Option  “Up to three-quarters of the population experience chronic
pain at some time in their lives,”  Janet Woodcock , director of
the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the
statement. “This approval means that many of those people now
have another treatment option.”  About 30 million patients have used Cymbalta since its
initial approval for major depressive disorder in 2004, the
agency said.  About 6.5 percent of Cymbalta prescriptions through last
year were for headaches and nerve pain, including “chronic pain
syndrome,” and 7 percent were for musculoskeletal system
diseases, including arthritis and back pain, FDA staff said in a
report released before the advisory panel meeting. While
companies can’t promote drugs for uses not cleared by the FDA,
doctors are allowed to prescribe them as they see appropriate.  Lilly asked for broad approval in chronic pain in the
second quarter of 2008 before withdrawing the application after
the FDA raised concerns about study design and statistical
methodology. The application was resubmitted in June 2009.  Advisory Panel  An advisory panel review initially slated for January was
canceled so regulators could have more time to consider new
information pertaining to the drug’s “benefit-risk balance” in
pain. Most of the advisers supported approval of the drug in
August over concerns that it can cause liver damage and may not
work for all patients. While the FDA usually follows its panels’
recommendations, it isn’t required to do so.  Lilly gained 19 cents, or less than 1, percent, to $35.76
at the 4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The drugmaker has increased 5.2 percent in the past 12
months,  compared with  an 8.6 percent  gain in the 11-member
Standard & Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 