-- Time Warner Cable Plans $4 Billion Stock Buyback
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-04T20:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/time-warner-cable-to-buy-back-4-billion-in-stock-in-first-repurchase.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. cable operator, said it plans to buy back $4
billion of its stock and posted third-quarter earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates. The stock rose the most in two
months.  The buyback is the first since Time Warner Inc. spun off
the company in March 2009. The timing of the purchase will be
based on market conditions and other unidentified factors, the
New York-based company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Britt  has added subscribers
by promoting broadband offerings, stabilized  profit margins 
through stemming programming costs, cut capital spending and
debt, and vowed to return cash to shareholders. The company
posted a 5.7 percent increase in third-quarter adjusted
operating income before depreciation and amortization, a measure
followed by investors in cable companies.  “Financially the results are just what the doctor
ordered,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in New York who rates the shares as “outperform.”
“They have executed well, with solid revenue and unit growth,
and they have stuck to a clear script of debt reduction.”  Time Warner Cable, which trails only Comcast Corp. in cable
subscribers, rose $2.67, or 4.5 percent, to $62.33 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the biggest gain
since Sept. 1. The stock has added 51 percent this year.  Net Income Rises  Net income rose 34 percent to $360 million, or $1 a share,
from $268 million, or 76 cents a share, bolstered by higher
monthly bills, an increase in high-speed Internet subscribers,
and a boost in advertising sales. Excluding items such as
restructuring costs, earnings were $1.04 a share, topping the
90-cent average estimate in a  Bloomberg survey.   Sales gained 5.2 percent to $4.73 billion. Net debt and
mandatorily redeemable preferred equity fell to $20.5 billion,
down $1.1 billion from the end of 2009.  Free cash flow rose 8.2 percent to $1.6 billion in the
first nine months of the year.  Britt reiterated in September his strategy to hold a 3.25
net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization ratio, and use the cash left after capital
expenditures and acquisitions for dividends and share
repurchases. As of June 30, the debt ratio had  dropped  to 3.07
and at the end of the third quarter fell below 3 times, freeing
up cash for a buyback.  Confidence in Cash Flow  “This repurchase program, in conjunction in our regular
dividend, show the confidence, strength and stability of the
company’s free cash flows,” Britt said on the company’s
conference call today.  Subscription revenue rose 4.5 percent to $4.5 billion, as
Time Warner Cable increased prices and more users elected high-
speed Internet and premium services such as digital video
recorders. Time Warner Cable added 104,000 broadband
subscribers, helping to offset a loss in video customers.  Increased competition from phone and satellite providers
and consumers having to endure high  unemployment rates  and
rising foreclosures has stumped subscriber growth.  Time Warner Cable lost a net 63,000 customers for Internet,
phone and TV last quarter, compared with an addition of 110,000
in the second quarter. In September, Chief Financial Officer  Rob Marcus  told investors the company may lose customers in the
third quarter because of the weak economic environment.  “We’re performing well financially, despite the economic
and competitive climate,” said Britt in the statement. The
company has seen better subscriber trends in the fourth quarter.  Time Warner Cable may meet or exceed its financial guidance
this year, CFO Marcus said. The company forecasts adjusted
operating income before depreciation and amortization will
increase 6 percent in 2010 and capital expenditures should be
less than $3 billion.  (Time Warner Cable held a conference call at 8:30 a.m. New
York time. For a replay go to  http://www.timewarnercable.com )  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  