-- IMF Says Fed's Extra Purchases May Have `Modest' Positive Economic Impact
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-04T15:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/imf-says-fed-s-extra-purchases-may-have-modest-positive-economic-impact.html
The Federal Reserve’s plan to buy an
additional $600 billion of  Treasuries  through June is expected
to help the economy, though its positive impact may be
“modest,” a spokeswoman for the International Monetary Fund
said.  “We believe that this action shows the Fed’s commitment to
supporting the economy, the recovery and in particular to
avoiding the risk of long-term deflation or lowering of long-
term inflation expectations,”  Caroline Atkinson , the
institution’s director of external relations, said today at a
press conference in Washington. “We expect that it will have a
positive impact on the economy, although that may be modest.”  Asked about other topics, Atkinson said the fund has not
been in touch with  Ireland  regarding possible financial help for
that country.  Ireland’s authorities “have been taking important fiscal
measures,” she said. “We think what’s important is the
implementation of that adjustment which will support the
underlying fiscal position.”  Irish 10-year securities fell for an eighth day, the
longest streak in two years, pushing the yield on the debt up 24
basis points to 7.81 percent. The spread over German bunds rose
as much as 23 basis points to 525 basis points, according to
Bloomberg generic data. That’s the most since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1991.  Atkinson also said that the IMF has a staff mission in
Iceland to review the implementation of policies agreed to under
an IMF loan, saying she is “not aware of any problems in our
relations with Iceland.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 