-- Stocks Surge to Record as India's Growth, Consumption Draw Foreign Inflows
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-11-04T11:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/india-s-sensex-index-set-for-record-close-as-growth-draws-foreign-inflows.html
Indian stocks climbed, driving the
benchmark index to a record close, as foreign buying of the
equities surged to an all-time high on the expectation consumer
spending will boost corporate earnings.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index, or  Sensex ,
gained 2.1 percent to 20,893.57 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai. The gauge -- which remains below the intraday record of
21,206.77 on Jan. 10, 2008 -- advanced as the U.S. central bank
expanded support for the world’s biggest economy.  This year’s 20 percent rally makes the  Sensex  the best
performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. Foreign
fund inflows have surged 80 percent, helping to absorb the
nation’s largest initial share sale by  Coal India Ltd.  and
making the gauge the most expensive in Asia and among the BRIC
markets that also include Brazil, Russia and China.  “Money is chasing growth,” said  Sankaran Naren , chief
equities investment officer at ICICI Prudential Asset Management
Co., which manages $15.8 billion. Global investors are shifting
cash to markets with lower debt and higher consumption. “They
had no choice but to aggressively invest some part of their
assets outside,” including in India, he said.  Developing nations will expand 6.4 percent next year as
advanced countries grow 2.2 percent, according to forecasts last
month from the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
India’s gross domestic product expanded 8.8 percent in the
quarter ended June, Brazil grew 8.8 percent in the second
quarter, while China expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter.  Tata Motors  The  S&P CNX Nifty Index  on the National Stock Exchange rose
2 percent to 6,281.80. The  BSE 200 Index  increased 1.7 percent
to 2,646.71. Tata Motors Ltd., the  best performer  on the
benchmark index this year, gained 4.1 percent to 1,234.05
rupees, its highest close in at least January 1991.  Reliance
Industries Ltd. , the most valuable company, surged 3.7 percent
to 1,105.05 rupees, reversing a three-day drop.  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, led gains
among financial companies and the 30 Sensex shares. It soared
4.9 percent to 3,433.45 rupees, its highest close in at least 19
years.  Housing Development Finance Corp. , the biggest mortgage
lender, increased 3.3 percent to 739.7 rupees.  Overseas  investors  bought a net  9.3 billion rupees  ($209
million) of Indian equities on Nov. 2, extending this year’s
record inflows to 1.2 trillion rupees, according to data on the
 website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.  Asian stocks climbed, pushing the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
to the highest level in more than two years. The Federal Reserve
expanded asset buying by $600 billion after near-zero interest
rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases helped pull the
economy out of recession, without reviving the labor market.  Diwali Lights  India’s equities closed at an all-time high on the eve of
Diwali, the festival of light and the start of the Hindu new
year. Bourses will hold a truncated one-hour trading session
tomorrow evening, enabling token stock purchases while investors
light lamps and make offerings for a prosperous year. The so-
called Muhurat trading, determined by the new moon, is
considered the most auspicious time to start investments and to
put aside any losses from the past year. Hindus make up 80.5
percent of the nation’s population.  “Increasing conviction about India’s long-term potential
has led global investors to take a higher exposure to India,”
said  Sukumar Rajah , who manages about $4 billion, as chief
investment officer of Asian equities at Franklin Templeton
Investments. “Given the easy global liquidity and low interest
rates in developed markets, investors have been in search of
higher yields and prefer strong economies such as India.”  The Sensex has climbed every quarter since Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  in May 2009 led the Congress party to its biggest
electoral victory in two decades, pledging to cut a fiscal
deficit and boost economic growth. The gauge has more than
doubled since plunging as low as 8,160.40 in March 2009, during
the global financial crisis.  Billionaire Jhunjhunwala  Investors “need to be cautious,” Billionaire investor
 Rakesh Jhunjhunwala , named by Forbes magazine as the  Warren Buffett  of India, said at an investor event organized by
Bloomberg-UTV in Mumbai on Sept. 27. In the longer term, he said
he still expects a “multiyear” rally as the Indian economy and
growth are “on a continuous uphill climb.”  The gains have made India the most expensive among the
world’s 10 largest stock markets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Stocks on the Sensex are valued at  20 times  earnings,
compared with 13.5 times for Brazil’s  Bovespa Index , 8 times for
Russia’s  Micex Index  and 17.5 times for China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index , among the so-called BRIC markets.  Coal India  Coal India, the world’s No. 1 producer of the fuel, surged
40 percent to 342.55 rupees after selling 152 billion rupees
($3.4 billion) of shares at the top of the marketed price range.
Investors pulled money from banks to buy the Kolkata-based
company’s shares, causing rates for three-month  corporate debt 
to almost double. Coal India attracted bids worth at least $48.7
billion, exceeding the gross domestic product of neighboring Sri
Lanka, as energy demand in an accelerating economy and a surging
stock market helped draw record inflows.  “Investors are cheering the Coal India IPO,” said  Alex Mathews , head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. in Kochi. “Coal India is an auspicious sign for
investors before Diwali. Those who missed out on the IPO will
get a chance to buy it now. Foreign inflows into our country
will rise for the growth it offers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  