-- India Food Inflation Slows to One-Year Low, Easing Interest Rate Pressure
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2010-11-04T09:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/india-food-inflation-slows-to-one-year-low-easing-interest-rate-pressure.html
India’s food inflation slowed to a
one-year low, reducing pressure on the central bank to raise
interest rates.  An  index  measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products including lentils, rice and vegetables, and compiled by
the commerce ministry, rose 12.85 percent in the week ended Oct.
23 from a year earlier, according to a statement in New Delhi
today. It gained 13.75 percent the previous week.  The decline in food prices will help Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao ’s plan to refrain from raising borrowing costs in the
next three months. Higher rates in India may attract more
capital flows from abroad, boosting liquidity and inflationary
pressures, as central banks from Japan to the U.S. provide
additional stimulus to support growth.  “This is what the central bank and the government have
been hoping for,” said  Prasanna Ananthasubramaniam , chief
economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. “It will
help them in their commitment to not hike rates in December.”  Subbarao this week increased the  repurchase rate  to 6.25
percent from 6 percent and the reverse repurchase rate to 5.25
percent from 5 percent, boosting the benchmark for the sixth
time this year. He said the central bank probably won’t tighten
monetary policy further in the next three months.  The Reserve Bank of India is scheduled to announce its next
monetary policy decisions on Dec. 16 and Jan. 25.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June, and left
unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.” The Fed’s rate target for overnight
interbank loans is zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008.  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen ($62
billion) fund that will buy government and corporate debt, as
well as invest in real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board
start a two-day policy meeting today to discuss the purchases.  Food prices in India are declining after the country
received the heaviest rainfall in three years in the June to
September monsoon season, helping spur farm production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 