-- Indian Solar Projects May Struggle to Get Funds for Development, ADB Says
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T10:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/indian-solar-projects-may-struggle-to-get-funds-for-development-adb-says.html
Developers of solar-power projects in
India may be unable to obtain loans to complete the plants
because the government’s proposed stations are too small and
tariffs may be too low, an Asian Development Bank official said.  “Banks are very uncomfortable financing solar in India,”
Don Purka, senior investment specialist for the Manila-based
bank, said in an interview today at the Clean Energy Forum in
Singapore. “The power purchase agreements must be modified for
banks to lend.”  India’s National Solar Mission seeks to increase grid-
connected solar capacity to 1,000 megawatts by 2013 and 20,000
megawatts by 2022 from 12 megawatts currently to help battle a
power deficit that could constrain economic growth. State
distribution companies would buy the power that will be
generated from the solar projects.  Lenders are worried about the capacity of those
distribution companies to pay,  Jotdeep Singh , Rabobank’s head of
Asia renewable energy and infrastructure finance, said. Because
many Indian power distribution companies are in poor financial
health, solar-power developers and financiers have raised
concerns about the possibility of payment defaults.  “The payment issue is absolutely vital in solar, more than
it would be in biomass or wind or small hydro, for the simple
reason that the tariffs are so much higher in solar, and
therefore so are the risks,” said Singh. “Non-payment in solar
has a much more dramatic impact so it has to be watertight.”  Aggressive Bidding  Initially, the government may have to guarantee payments
for the full lifetime of the projects in order to get banks to
lend, Singh said. Such a guarantee could be reduced or removed
once the projects start, he said.  The government is currently collecting revised bids for the
first round of projects for 150 megawatts of solar photovoltaic
plants and 470 megawatts of solar thermal plants. The minimum
size is set at 5 megawatts a project.  There are no benefits in building 5 megawatt-sized solar
photovoltaic projects, the standard size of plants to be awarded
by December under the first round, said Manila-based Purka, who
advised the government on the bidding process. “You need to
consider 30-50 megawatts and scale up. It’s going to be very
challenging for India to meet their targets.”  Solar and Coal  India received bids to develop 5,126 megawatts of solar
projects under the first round of the National Solar Mission,
said A.K. Maggu, additional general manager of NTPC Vidyut
Vyapar Nigam Ltd.  Under the program, power trading company NTPC Vidyut will
buy the output of the solar plants and bundle it with cheaper
coal-fired electricity from parent NTPC Ltd. that is sold to
distribution companies.  Developers may bid “aggressively,” as low as 12 rupees
($0.27) a kilowatt-hour compared with the government’s offer of
about 18 rupees, to win the bid, Purka said.  According to the Solar Mission program guidelines, project
developers offering the lowest tariffs would be chosen if the
applications received exceeded the capacity to be awarded.  India has “good” potential to harness the sun’s rays to
produce power because one can use barren or non-arable land for
such ventures, Purka said. It may cost about $3 million a
megawatt to set up a solar plant, about three times higher than
thermal plants, he said.  The ADB plans to lend or provide guarantees to 3,000
megawatts of sun-powered electricity by 2013 in Thailand, India,
China, Philippines and Uzbekistan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  