-- Indonesia Keeps Record-Low Interest Rate as Asia Battles Capital Inflows
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-11-04T09:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/indonesia-keeps-interest-rate-at-record-low-as-asia-fights-capital-inflows.html
Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low as slowing  inflation  allowed
policy makers to delay an increase that could attract capital
inflows and strengthen the currency further.  The central bank maintained its reference rate at 6.5
percent for a 15th meeting, it said in Jakarta today. Eighteen
of 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News had expected the
decision. The measure is at the lowest level since its
introduction in July 2005.  Indonesia’s benchmark rate is among the highest in Asia
even after policy makers in India raised borrowing costs six
times and Australia increased its key rate four times in 2010.
Bank Indonesia said last month it will “guard” the rupiah at
its “fundamental” level of 8,900 to 9,300 against the dollar,
as the region’s growth lures funds at a time when Japan and the
U.S. are keeping borrowing costs low to boost their economies.  “While the low level of inflation is the key reason for the
lack of policy rate action in the country, the policy
authorities are also anxious not to generate too much further
appreciation pressure on the rupiah by raising rates,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , head of India and Southeast Asia economics at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore, said in a note after the
rate decision.  The benchmark stock index rose 0.7 percent at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Jakarta. The rupiah climbed 0.1 percent to
8,908 per dollar as of 3:02 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Estimate  The rate decision comes a day before a government report
that may show the $540 billion economy expanded at a faster pace
last quarter.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.4 percent from
a year earlier, after growing 6.2 percent in the second quarter,
according to the median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Third-quarter growth may have been faster than in the
previous three months, Bank Indonesia said today. Inflationary
pressure may increase as commodity prices rise and amid higher
demand for goods and services at the year-end, it said.  “The risk of hot money is quite significant and the
central bank is duly concerned about that,”  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
an economist at OSK-DMG Group in Singapore, said before the
report. “The central bank may raise interest rates only in the
third quarter of next year.”  Fed Decision  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June, and left
unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period.”  The Fed’s rate target for overnight
interbank loans is zero to 0.25 percent, where it has been since
December 2008.  The Bank of Japan last month unveiled a 5 trillion-yen ($62
billion) fund that will buy government and corporate debt, as
well as invest in real-estate investment trusts and exchange-
traded funds. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his policy board
start a two-day policy meeting today to discuss the purchases.  Bank Indonesia Governor  Darmin Nasution  has ordered lenders
to set aside larger reserves, aiming to rein in liquidity
without hurting an expansion that has boosted the main stock
gauge to a record.  The rupiah has risen more than 5 percent against the dollar
this year. It reached 8,896 on Oct. 26, the strongest since June
2007, rallying as global funds pumped $2.3 billion into the
stock market and another $9.4 billion into government bonds.  Liquidity Management  Bank Indonesia said last week it is assembling options if
needed to address capital inflows, including extending a holding
period for foreign purchases of central bank notes to three
months from one.  “Bank Indonesia will strengthen liquidity management and
the effectiveness of monetary policy through a mix of monetary
and prudent macro” policies to manage the flow of foreign funds,
the rupiah’s stability and ensure inflation is in line with the
2010 target of 4 percent to 6 percent, the central bank said
today.  Indonesia’s 10-year government debt is yielding 66 basis
points less than the 7.95 percent on similar maturity Indian
bonds, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the Reserve Bank of
India increased its benchmark rates the most in Asia in 2010.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  has gained more than 43 percent
this year and reached a record 3,667.01 on Oct. 27, boosting
stocks of companies including lender PT Bank Central Asia and
noodle-maker PT Indofood Sukses Makmur.  Indonesia’s inflation slowed in October to a four-month low
of 5.67 percent, a report showed this week. The statistics
bureau said consumer prices may rise less than 6 percent in 2010.  “Inflation has been fairly well-behaved,”  David Cohen , a
Singapore-based economist at Action Economics, said before the
report. “Perhaps, we’ll see some need for tightening next
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  