-- Indonesia Said to Set 1.6% Coupon on Samurai Debt, Similar Cost to Mexico
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-11-04T03:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/indonesia-said-to-set-1-6-coupon-on-samurai-debt-similar-cost-to-mexico.html
Indonesia set a 1.6 percent coupon on
a 60 billion yen ($741 million) sale of 10-year Samurai bonds,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said, a similar
yield premium to Mexico, whose debt is rated four levels higher.  The bonds, guaranteed by the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, were priced to yield 55 basis points more than the
yen swap rate, said the people, who asked not to be named as the
information is private. The premium paid by Mexico at an Oct. 20
sale of 150 billion yen of similar-maturity samurai bonds was 50
basis points above the swap rate at a 1.51 percent coupon.  Rating upgrades are bolstering demand for Indonesian debt 
as near-zero interest rates in Japan fuel demand for higher-
yielding securities. The International Monetary Fund forecast on
Oct. 6 that growth in Southeast Asia’s largest economy will 
accelerate to 6 percent this year from 4.5 percent in 2009. 
Japan Credit Rating Agency, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s 
all raised their assessments of Indonesia this year.  “The spread was set at the lowest of the previously
suggested range, showing demand was quite strong,” said
Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior fund manager at Asahi Life Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, which oversees $8.5 billion of assets.
“This also indicates there is lots of money seeking better
opportunities in Japan. JBIC’s guarantee also made it really
attractive.”  Credit Ratings  Indonesia sold 35 billion yen of 10-year samurai bonds in
July 2009 at 2.73 percent. The yield has dropped 17 basis points
to 2.62 percent since Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo said on
Oct. 26 the government has completed the roadshow for the debt
issue. He said Indonesia expects to sell 6 trillion rupiah ($673
million) of the Samurai notes.  The  rate  on Japan’s 10-year bonds fell to as low as 0.82
percent on Oct. 6 and 7, the lowest level since June 2003, after
its central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.1 percent and pledged to buy up to $60 billion of
assets to boost growth.  The Japan Credit Rating Agency lifted its assessment of
Indonesia to investment grade in July. Fitch Ratings raised its
rating for Indonesia in January to BB+, the highest non-
investment grade. Standard & Poor’s upgraded Indonesia in March
to BB, while Moody’s Investors Service rates Indonesia Ba2. S&P
and Moody’s both rank Indonesia two levels below investment
grade.  Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy, is ranked
Baa1 at Moody’s, the third-lowest investment grade. S&P and
Fitch assess the country at BBB, two notches above non-
investment rank.  Samurai bonds are yen-denominated notes sold in Japan by
overseas borrowers. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
Indonesia hired Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. and Nomura
Securities Co. to help sell the yen-denominated bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 