-- Indonesia's Stock Rally to Falter After Asia's Biggest Gain, Bahana Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-11-04T09:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/indonesia-s-stock-rally-to-falter-after-asia-s-biggest-gain-bahana-says.html
Indonesia’s stocks rally may falter
as slowing purchases by foreign investors signal gains in Asia’s
best-performing market may be limited, according to PT Bahana
TCW Investment Management.  The  Jakarta Composite Index  surged 42 percent this year as
foreigners bought shares to benefit from the rupiah’s
appreciation and higher interest rates than those in the
developed world. This year’s advance, the biggest among Asia’s
10 biggest markets, drove valuations to 31 times reported
earnings, twice the  MSCI Emerging Market Index ’s 14.9 multiple,
making it the most expensive in the region.  “The best way is to tone down expectations on future gains
as it will revert to earnings as the main fundamental,”  Budi Hikmat , whose company oversees about $1.8 billion and manages
the nation’s third-best performing fund this year, said in an
interview in Jakarta. “Most of the good news is priced in and
with limited catalysts, I think the index may afloat at the
current level.”  Foreign net purchases  of Indonesian shares jumped to 6
trillion rupiah ($672 million) in September, the biggest monthly
net purchase this year, before dropping to 322 billion rupiah in
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Foreign
ownership accounted for 66 percent of Indonesia’s total market
capitalization as of the end of October, according to data from
the Indonesian Central Securities Depository.  The  Jakarta Composite  rose 0.7 percent to 3,629.05 as of
the 4 p.m. local-time close. Foreigners sold shares in five of
the past six trading days.  ‘Entry Opportunity’  Morgan Stanley said in an Oct. 28 report stock volatility
may increase because of “liquidity-driven momentum buildup” in
equity and commodity markets and a rise in inflation. Investors
should utilize this volatility as an “entry opportunity,” the
brokerage said.  Inflation may “slightly” exceed the central bank’s
forecast of 6 percent, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution
said Oct. 27. Indonesia’s consumer price index last month rose
5.67 percent from a year earlier, the central statistics office
said Nov. 1. Bank Indonesia will likely keep its benchmark
interest rate at 6.5 percent when it announces its decision
today, according to a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists.  Australia and India raised rates earlier this week, and
Japan’s policy makers will meet today and tomorrow. The Reserve
Bank of Australia increased its benchmark rate on concern
stronger economic growth will fuel inflation, while India’s
central bank raised borrowing costs for a sixth time this year.  Fed Actions  The U.S. Federal Reserve will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding its record
stimulus. The Fed also kept its  benchmark interest rate  target
for overnight interbank loans at zero to 0.25 percent yesterday,
where it has been since December 2008.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Japan have spurred
funds to seek higher returns in emerging markets. The rupiah
rose 5.4 percent against the dollar in the nine months through
September as investors poured money into Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy.  Interest in Indonesian shares may pick up again next year
with the initial public offerings of companies such as  PT Garuda
Indonesia  and a rights offer by  PT Bank Mandiri , said Hikmat,
who’s Bahana’s director of research. Garuda is Indonesia’s
biggest airline and Mandiri is the largest bank by assets.  The Bahana Optima Protected Fund 18 has gained 91 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  