-- Miniskirts on Mount Fuji as Japan's `Yama Girls' Spur Trekking
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-11-05T07:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/miniskirts-conquer-mount-fuji-as-yama-girls-spur-japanese-trekking-trend.html
Forget the ice ax and $500 climbing
boots. The mode du jour for today’s female mountain hikers in
Japan is a miniskirt and leggings.  The North Face, a maker of Gore-Tex waterproof jackets, and
 Alpine Tour Service Co.  are targeting “yama girls,” or
mountain girls, the nickname for the growing number of women who
are taking to the hills of Japan wearing short pants or fleece
skirts with leggings and designer trekking boots.  “I want to wear something cute like a skirt,” said
Machiko Miyauchi, 25, who made her first ascent of  Mount Fuji ,
Japan’s highest peak, earlier this year after buying new
equipment and shoes. “Climbing is healing. You can breathe
fresh, clean air.”  Visitors to Mount Fuji in the two months ended Aug. 31, the
busiest climbing season, were the most since the government
began tracking traffic using infrared sensors in 2005. The
number of women applying for Alpine’s treks jumped sixfold from
last year, prompting the Tokyo-based company to increase women-
only tours to 13 this year from six in 2009, spokesman Yasushi
Kodama said.  Clothing companies have hired mountain fashion pioneers
such as Yuri Yosumi to promote new women’s lines for
mountaineers. Yosumi’s “Love Trek”  website  includes red mini
dresses and pink bush hats from Paris-based  Aigle .  Berghaus  Ltd., a U.K. outdoor wear maker, introduced skirts
jointly developed with Yosumi in 2009, while  Jarden Corp. ’s
 Marmot  Mountain LLC, a U.S. outdoor clothing company, followed
this year, according to Yosumi’s husband Daisuke.  Pants Only  “We’re giving an option to the market where only pants
were available before,” Daisuke Yosumi said. He said his wife
wasn’t available to comment.  Japan’s fashion scene has a record of establishing cult
trends that sweep the industry, typically for a few years, such
as the “ganguro” look that mixed deep fake tans with white
lipstick, brightly colored clothes and orange-to-blond hair.
Tokyo ranked 14th this year in Global Language Monitor’s  annual
list of world fashion capitals , trailing Hong Kong and Shanghai
in Asia.  The nation’s top climbing spot is the 3,776 meters-high
(12,388 feet) Mount Fuji, within sight of Tokyo, where the
number of trekkers rose 9.9 percent to 320,975 in July and
August, according to a  report  by the Environment Ministry. About
12.3 million people hiked Japan’s mountains last year, compared
with 590,000 in 2008, according to a 2010 Japan Productivity
Center White Paper on Leisure,  published  in July.  Fuji Catalyst  “Mount Fuji seems to be a catalyst for many people,” said
Machiko Ito, who plans trekking tours at  Yama-kei Publishers Co. 
“It’s like going to  Tokyo Disneyland  -- people get this feeling
that everyone else is going, so they will too.”  Alpine Tour and Yama-kei offered a women-only tour to Fuji
for 28,000 yen ($347) in July, and plan two more all-female
tours to other locations in December.  “Single women are spending their spare time on something
fashionable and good for their health, as they can’t do it once
they get married,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Mountaineering is
luring in female fans.”  Yamato International Inc. , which sells the Aigle brand in
Japan, attributed its profit gain to the “yama girls,”
President  Tomoki Hannya  said on Oct. 15, when the company posted
net income of 522 million yen in the nine months ended Aug. 31,
beating its estimate by 19 percent.  Shares of Yamato rose 2.6 percent to close at 352 yen in
Osaka trading today, extending their gain this year to 7
percent. That compares with an 8 percent decline by the
benchmark Topix index in the same period. Tokyo-based  Goldwin
Inc. , which has a licensing agreement to sell The North Face’s
clothing in Japan, advanced 2.5 percent to 164 yen, trimming its
loss to 4.7 percent in 2010.  Continuing Trend  With more women remaining in the workforce, the trend may
continue. The average age for Japanese women to get married for
the first time rose to 28.6 last year from 26.3 in 1995, while
the birth rate dropped to 1.37 from 1.42 in the same period,
according to  Japan’s health ministry .  “It was amazing when we saw the sun rise at the top of
Mount Fuji,” said Yumiko Hongo, 25, who works at a recruiting
company and spent almost $500 on a climbing jacket and shoes for
the hike. “I could really enjoy the nature.”  Sales of The North Face’s women’s apparel rose to 35
percent of total revenue this year from less than 30 percent a
couple of years ago, said Hikari Mori, general manager for the
brand at Goldwin.  Sales have risen at least 10 percent so far
this fiscal year, he said.  “Mountaineering is a real trend now, tapping into a flow
from yoga and running, and this is only happening in Japan,”
said Mori. “We want to make outdoor activities a lifetime
sport, not just a one-time boom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net . 