-- Ireland Plans 6 Billion-Euro '11 Budget Cut to Stave Off Bailout
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-04T17:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ireland-plans-8-5-billion-in-budget-cuts-for-next-year-to-avoid-a-bailout.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
plans to slash the budget deficit by 6 billion euros ($8.5
billion) in 2011 as he fights to save the nation’s economic
independence.  The budget shortfall will be reduced to between 9.25
percent and 9.5 percent of gross domestic product next year, the
Finance Ministry in Dublin said in a statement today. The
underlying deficit this year will be 11.9 percent, or 32 percent
when the costs of the bank bailout is included. The savings
amount to about 3.6 percent of the economy and Lenihan will
publish details on Dec. 7.  As the country’s borrowing costs soared, the government
last month said it needs 15 billion euros of savings over the
next four years to reduce its deficit to 3 percent of GDP. The
country’s tax take plunged as the economy once known as the
Celtic Tiger suffered its worst recession on record, sparking
investor concern it may be forced to follow Greece and seek aid.  “It’s ambitious. It’s intended to deliver a clear
statement of intent,” said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at
KBC Bank Ireland in Dublin. “The critical question can it be
attained. We need to see a little bit more in terms of the
detail.”  Irish 10-year securities fell for an eighth day, the
longest streak in two years, pushing the yield on the debt up 20
basis points to 7.77 percent. The  spread  over German bunds rose
as much as 23 basis points to 526 basis points, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  ‘Serious’  Brian Devine , an economist at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin,
said today’s announcement may do little to lower Ireland’s
borrowing costs.  “There is no doubt that Ireland is serious about tackling
its fiscal deficit,” he said in an e-mailed note. “The market
doesn’t seem to care though -- events have surpassed the
unveiling of a credible, conservative multi-year budget.”  European Central Bank President  Jean Claude Trichet  said
Ireland’s fiscal problems are not comparable to those of Greece,
which was required to seek a bailout earlier this year.  “I would not make such a comparison,” Trichet said in a
pool interview in Frankfurt today. “We have situations that are
very different by many means. The Irish situation is more of a
commercial banks nature in comparison with the Greek
situation.”  Budget Battle  The mounting burden on Ireland of bank bailouts is weighing
on investors. The cost of saving lenders such as  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp . may be as much as 50 billion euros. The government in
September canceled debt auctions for the remainder of the year
and said it was “fully funded” through the middle of 2011.  Lenihan may face a fight to pass the budget after a Nov. 25
election to fill a vacant parliamentary seat. The vote threatens
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen’s  majority in the parliament, where
he has the support of 82 lawmakers, including independents,
compared with 79 for the combined opposition.  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt rose 21 basis
points to 581 today, according to CMA prices. A basis point on a
credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “We have little doubt that Ireland’s fiscal position is
unsustainable,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fund manager at Glasgow-
based Ignis Asset Management, who helps oversee about $110
billion. “At some point in the next two years, you will find
they will be forced to borrow from the European Financial
Stability Fund.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 