-- Ireland Faces `Messy' Month as Tension Mounts on 2011 Budget, Goldman Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-11-04T12:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ireland-faces-messy-month-as-tension-mounts-on-2011-budget-goldman-says.html
Ireland faces a “messy” four weeks
as the government prepares its 2011 budget and tries to reassure
investors, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief European Economist
 Erik Nielsen  said.  There is a “real risk” that the government won’t be able
to get the budget on Dec. 7 passed, Nielsen said in an e-mailed
note late yesterday. Still, Ireland is “fully funded through
mid-2011, so we are not talking about an imminent liquidity
crisis.”  A selloff in  Irish bonds  continued today, pushing the extra
yield that investors demand to hold the country’s debt rather
than German bunds to a record. The  yield premium  has more than
doubled in the last three months on investor concern that
Ireland won’t be able to manage its fiscal problems without
external aid.  The government last month said it needs 15 billion euros
($21 billion) of savings over the next four years to reduce the
deficit. It will announce its 2011 target this week. It will
still have a “very substantial” borrowing requirement next
year even with a 6 billion-euro budget package for 2011, John
Curran, a government spokesman, said in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today.  The government will publish new economic forecasts for the
period through 2014 at 4:30 p.m. in Dublin today, the Finance
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  Political Troubles  “It is hard to believe that such cuts can be designed in a
way that would not cause some damage to growth, but if they are
primarily on the spending side then the effect need not be that
dramatic,” Nielsen said.  “Also, the Irish debt numbers are
not so large that a couple of years of negative growth --
unpleasant as that will be -- would cause serious longer term
sustainability issues.”  Irish police arrested several people yesterday after
clashes during a student demonstration when part of the Finance
Ministry in downtown Dublin was temporarily occupied by
protestors.  The  spread  between Irish 10-year securities and benchmark
German bunds widened 18 basis points to 521 basis points as of
12:36 p.m. in London. Portugal’s spread widened 24 basis points
to 412 and the Greek spread widened 13 basis points to 857.  Ireland’s government plans to hold an election to fill a
vacant parliamentary seat on Nov. 25, Deputy Prime Minister  Mary Coughlan  said in parliament in Dublin today. The election comes
after the High Court ruled yesterday there had been an
“unreasonable delay” in setting the date for the election.  ‘Working Majority’  The vote could threaten Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s
majority in the parliament. The government has the support of 82
lawmakers, including independents, compared with 79 for the
combined opposition.  The government will continue to hold a “working majority”
in parliament regardless of the election’s outcome, Curran said.
The government is focused on passing the 2011 budget and
returning to bond markets next year, he said.  “The next four weeks are likely to be messy in Ireland,”
said Nielsen, who sees three potential scenarios.  In the first, the budget is passed and bond-yield spreads
narrow enough for the government to return to the market early
next year. In the second, the budget is approved but funding
costs remain “unsustainable” and the government needs to seek
external aid.  The final possible outcome is the failure of the budget in
parliament, an early election and a new government probably
seeking help from the European Union’s stability facility,
according to Nielsen.  “Political risk is overstated in our view -- but one can
appreciate the nervous sentiment from an outsider looking in,”
Glas Securities, a Dublin-based fixed-income firm, said in a e-
mailed note today. The risk of the 2011 Irish budget not passing
is “remote,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  