-- Pirelli Forecasts Average Annual Revenue Growth of 8% During Next 3 Years
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-11-04T12:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/tiremaker-pirelli-targets-higher-profitabilty-with-new-plants-in-mexico.html
Pirelli & C. SpA , Europe’s third-
largest tiremaker, aims to widen its profit margin by investing
1.9 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to build plants in emerging
markets including Mexico and Russia.  Pirelli’s  earnings before interest, taxes and restructuring
costs  will climb to as much as 11.5 percent of revenue in 2013,
from about 8.5 percent this year, the company said in a
statement today.  “Company indications for 2013 are surprisingly high,”
 Giuseppe Puglisi , an analyst at Intermonte, wrote in a note to
clients. “Management has proven in the past that it is able to
achieve its targets,” and Pirelli “still has room to rise,”
said Puglisi, who has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  The company yesterday reported a nine-month net loss of 87
million euros compared with an 18.2 million-euro profit a year
earlier. Charges linked to last month’s spinoff of the real-
estate unit, now called Prelios SpA, weighed on results, Milan-
based Pirelli said. The company completed the spinoff last month
and sold Pirelli Broadband Solutions to concentrate on tires.  “We rationalized the company, we are going to enter new
markets, enhance our value,” Chairman  Marco Tronchetti Provera 
said today at a presentation to analysts in Milan. “There’s no
room for major mergers in the market. We’re targeting factories,
not companies.”  Mexico Plant  Pirelli plans to invest $210 million in the next two years
for a new plant in Mexico. About two-thirds of profitability
will come from Latin America and other new markets in 2015, the
company said today. Pirelli forecast revenue will grow an
average 8 percent annually in the next three years, climbing to
6.05 billion euros from 4.8 billion euros in 2010.  Pirelli is the second- best performer  on Italy’s benchmark
FTSE MIB this year, rising 43 percent while the index has fallen
7.5 percent. The shares gained as much as 4.2 percent to 6.36
euros in Milan, and traded at 6.21 euros, up 1.8 percent, at
12:44 p.m. local time, giving the company a market value of 3.03
billion euros.  Pirelli in June was named the official tire supplier for
the  FIA Formula One World Championship  for the next three years.
 Tronchetti Provera  said in a July 1 interview that the deal, in
which Pirelli will supply all 12 F1 teams, will boost the
company’s premium-tire business, which includes models for BMW
and Ferrari cars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 bertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  