-- Istithmar to Focus on Loans, Debt Refinancing as Dubai World Restructures
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-11-04T13:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/istithmar-to-focus-on-refinancing-debt-loans-for-units-ceo-watson-says.html
Istithmar World PJSC, a private-
equity investor, will concentrate on refinancing its borrowings
and raising new loans to fund growth of its holdings over the
next 24 months as parent company Dubai World restructures debt.  “There are promising signs in the U.S. and Europe and
there is more leverage available now,” Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Watson  said today at a conference on high-yield bonds in
Dubai. Companies are focusing on cash flow and cutting costs, he
said.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said in September that almost all its
creditors had agreed to a plan to alter the terms on $24.9
billion of debt. Some of the state-controlled firms have had
difficulty in raising new loans in the past two years after
credit markets froze amid the economic crisis.  Loehmann’s Inc. , the New York-based seller of discounted
designer goods owned by Istithmar, may file for bankruptcy
protection as soon as next week after failing to reach an accord
with creditors that would let it restructure outside court
protection, two people with knowledge of the plan said Nov. 2.  The retailer is preparing a so-called prepackaged
bankruptcy, in which a company and its creditors agree to key
terms before filing a petition with the court, according to the
people. Istithmar, which bought Loehmann’s in 2006, may invest
$15 million of new equity in the company, the people said.  Watson declined to comment on Loehmann’s today.  Barneys Investment  Istithmar owns stakes in a clutch of companies spread
across the consumer goods, industrial and financial services
industries as well as hotels and commercial buildings. It bought
luxury retailer Barneys New York Inc. for $942.3 million in 2007
and paid $285 million for U.K.-based Inchcape Shipping Services
in 2006.  Dubai World may sell Istithmar’s assets to repay $14.4
billion of bank debt over the next five to eight years,
according to its restructuring plan approved by lenders.  Istithmar’s other assets include stakes in Montreal-based
Cirque Du Soleil, which stages circus-like performances,
boutique advisory firm Perella Weinberg Partners, casino
operator Kerzner International Ltd. and the Atlantis Hotel on
the palm island in Dubai, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  