-- Italian-Thai to Build $8.6 Billion Deep-Sea Port Under Deal With Myanmar
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-04T03:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/italian-thai-to-build-8-6-billion-deep-sea-port-under-deal-with-myanmar.html
Italian-Thai Development Pcl ,
Thailand’s biggest construction company, signed an $8.6 billion
contract with Myanmar’s government to build a deep-sea port and
industrial estate, Vice President  Anan Amarapala  said.  The project will be located in  Dawei , less than 300
kilometers (186 miles) west of Bangkok, offering another route
for exporters to ship goods to Europe and the Middle East.
Financing for the agreement is still under discussion, Anan said.  “Thailand’s government has said they want to support the
project, so Italian-Thai will discuss details with them,” Anan
said by phone. “There have been no official talks yet.”  The planned project would be 10 times bigger than
Thailand’s main port and industrial estate, according to  Tanit Sorat , vice chairman of the  Thai Chamber of Commerce , who has
studied the proposal.  Nippon Steel Corp. , Japan’s largest steel
maker, and  PTT Plc , Thailand’s largest energy company, are also
considering an investment in the project, Tanit said last month.  The project will include a coal-fired power plant, an
industrial center, oil and gas pipelines and an eight-lane
highway, according to Thailand’s  National Economic and Social
Development Board . It may benefit automakers and petrochemical
companies looking to expand in the region, it said.  Holding Company  “Many private companies from Thailand and overseas would
like to be involved in the Dawei project as developers or
investors,” Chompunuch Ramanvongse, an NESDB analyst, said last
month. “There is a possibility that Ital-Thai will form a
holding company for the purpose of co-financing with those
developers.”  Investors from China, Japan and Thailand have expressed
interest in the project,  Porametee Vimolsiri , the NESDB’s deputy
secretary-general, said last month. The concession periods for
the roads, ports and industrial estate would vary from 40 years
to 60 years depending on the project, he said.  Italian-Thai’s  shares  have risen 85 percent this year, more
than double the gain in the benchmark  SET Index . The company’s
shares increased 0.9 percent to 5.45 baht as of 10:48 a.m. after
climbing 7 percent yesterday.  Italian-Thai executives signed the contract with Myanmar’s
government on Nov. 2 at a ceremony in Naypidaw, the capital,
Anan said. They can start minor construction work immediately
while they complete the design work, which must be submitted for
approval, he said.  Myanmar has struggled to contain dozens of armed ethnic
groups, including the Mon National Liberation Army, which
operates in the area of the proposed highway. The United Nations
maintains a  camp  in Thailand near the planned route that is home
to 5,000 refugees from Myanmar.  Italian-Thai was founded in 1958 through a partnership from
business executives from Italy and Thailand. It oversaw the
construction of Bangkok’s main international airport and
elevated train line and operates in about a dozen countries
around the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  