-- Lithuanian Central Bank Raises Inflation Forecasts for This Year and Next
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2010-11-04T10:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lithuanian-central-bank-raises-inflation-forecasts-for-this-year-and-next.html
Lithuanian  inflation  will accelerate
more than previously estimated this year and next because of
higher food and energy prices, the central bank said.  Consumer prices will rise 1.2 percent this year, compared
with an Aug. 19 forecast of 1 percent, and 2.3 percent in 2011,
the  Lietuvos Bankas  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank in Vilnius has raised its inflation
forecast twice in the past four months as drought in major
grain-growing countries, including Russia and Ukraine, pushed
food prices higher. Inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in September
from 1.9 percent in July, the fastest in 10 months.  “Owing to adverse weather conditions, poor harvest, and
export restrictions in the leading cereal exporters, prices of
cereal grew strongly in international markets in the summer of
2010,” the central bank said. “Such trends of global food
prices are likely to have stronger impact on Lithuania’s
inflation next year.”  The bank reiterated its  economic growth  forecast of 0.5
percent this year and 3.1 percent in 2011. Growth slowed to 0.6
percent in the third quarter as domestic consumption remained
fragile because of falling wages and the highest unemployment
rate in 12 years.  Private consumption is “weaker than expected,” the
central bank said.  The situation in the labor market will continue to be “one
of the main challenges for economic policy in the years ahead,”
the bank said. Unemployment will average 17.9 percent this year
before slowing to 16.5 percent in 2011, it said.  “The number of the long-term unemployed has been growing
in recent quarters,” the central bank said. “They are likely
to lose their qualifications and motivation to work, therefore
the level of unemployment might decrease at a slower pace than
projected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  