-- Mitsubishi, Murchison Oakajee Port Project Delayed in Western Australia
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-04T05:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mitsubishi-murchison-oakajee-port-project-delayed-in-western-australia.html
Oakajee Port & Rail Pty, a venture
between Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp.  and Australia’s  Murchison
Metals Ltd. , delayed the start of its A$4 billion ($4.02 billion)
iron ore rail and port project in Western Australia.  Completion of feasibility studies is now due in next year’s
second quarter, with a final investment decision targeted
between late 2011 and early 2012 and first shipments between
late 2014 and early 2015, Murchison said in a statement today.  Oakajee Port & Rail was previously scheduled to complete a
bankable feasibility study this year, with first shipments
planned in 2014. Mitsubishi and Murchison are also partners in
Crosslands Resources Ltd., which is developing the Jack Hills
magnetite iron ore project in Western Australia’s Midwest region
and intends to use Oakajee’s transport infrastructure.  “As a consequence of the substantial increase in the Jack
Hills mineral resource and ongoing work to progress the Jack
Hills expansion project bankable feasibility study, a number of
matters require further investigation so that the results of the
additional work can be incorporated in the bankable feasibility
study,” Murchison said.  The terminal project near Geraldton, 430 kilometers (267
miles) north of the Western Australia capital, Perth, will allow
users to export 45 million metric tons a year of iron ore from
the Midwest region. The iron ore shipped from the port will
mainly be magnetite, a lower grade than the hematite product
mined by  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group from the state’s
Pilbara region.  Murchsion fell 4.5 percent to A$1.485 at 4:06 p.m. Sydney
time on the Australian stock exchange. Mitsubishi traded 3
percent higher to 2,024 yen in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at o
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 