-- Mitsubishi UFJ Shares Rise on Project-Finance Buyout Negotiations With RBS
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-11-04T06:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mitsubishi-ufj-shares-rise-on-project-finance-buyout-negotiations-with-rbs.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,
Japan’s biggest bank, rose as the lender is in talks to buy
project-finance assets from  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  The stock  gained  1.1 percent to 371 yen at the 3 p.m. close
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, after climbing as much as 2.5
percent. The  Topix Banks Index  advanced 0.9 percent.  RBS and the U.K. government, which owns 84 percent of the
lender, have been negotiating with the Japanese bank about a
portfolio of project-finance assets valued at about 4 billion
pounds ($6.4 billion), two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said yesterday. Mitsubishi UFJ is buying overseas assets
to counter slowing loan demand at home where  bank lending  has
fallen for 10 straight months.  “Those asset portfolios would help Mitsubishi UFJ
strengthen their bottom line as interest rate profit margins on
overseas loans are typically higher compared with the rate for
loans in the local Japanese market,”  Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG said.  The purchase would add to Mitsubishi UFJ’s cross-border
acquisitions of California’s UnionBanCal Corp. in 2008 and this
year’s takeovers of two smaller U.S. lenders.  Responding to media reports on a proposed acquisition of
assets in Europe, Mitsubishi UFJ said today in a statement that
“nothing has been decided.”  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, is selling
assets including 318 U.K. bank branches and an insurance unit
after receiving 45.5 billion pounds of government funding during
the global financial crisis, more than any other bank worldwide.  It placed some project-finance assets in its “non-core”
division and identified them for sale as part of its strategic
plan, the bank said in February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 