-- Ivory Coast's Gbagbo, Ouattara Set to Contest Runoff Presidential Election
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-11-04T13:12:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ivory-coast-commission-says-gbagbo-got-38-3-of-vote-ouattara-32-1-.html
Ivory Coast’s President  Laurent Gbagbo  will probably face opposition leader and ex-Prime
Minister  Alassane Ouattara  in a runoff after neither candidate
won a majority of the votes in an Oct. 31 presidential election.  Gbagbo led with 38.3 percent, Ouattara received 32.1
percent and ex-President  Henri Konan Bedie  got 25.2 percent,
Youssouf Bakayoko, president of the  Independent Electoral
Commission , said today in the commercial capital,  Abidjan . He
didn’t provide a date for the second vote.  “The most likely outcome is a relatively smooth election,
with Gbagbo likely to remain the frontrunner,” Rolake Akinola,
London-based West Africa analyst with Eurasia Group, said in an
e-mailed note today.  A total of 4.7 million valid votes were cast in this week’s
ballot, the first in a decade in the world’s top cocoa grower.
The election is the latest attempt to restore political
stability and revive investment in the country after civil
unrest in 2002 left it divided into a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south.  “The country remains fragmented along ethnic lines,” said
 Samir Gadio , emerging markets strategist with Standard Bank Plc
in London. Ouattara won “by a landslide” in the north while
Gbagbo “did well” in the west and parts of the south,
including Abidjan, he said in an e-mailed note today.  Elections Delay  Elections have been delayed at least six times since
Gbagbo’s first term ended in 2005. The 65-year-old pledged to
boost investment in the key cocoa sector, which accounts for
more than a quarter of Ivory Coast’s export earnings.  Cocoa for December delivery climbed for the second day in
eight, adding 8 pounds ($13.02) to 1,835 pounds per metric ton
at 12:45 p.m. in London today.  The provisional results need to be certified by the
country’s constitutional council, Bakayoko said, without giving
further details.  Ouattara, 68, is a former deputy director of the
Washington-based International Monetary Fund and was prime
minister during the 1990s. His bid for president was rejected
over questions about his nationality in the 2000 vote that
elected Gbagbo.  Bedie’s party called for a halt to the announcement of
results late yesterday, citing discrepancies in tallies from at
least five areas including Yamoussoukro, the capital.  Ouattara and Bedie  A pledge last month by Ouattara and Bedie to support each
other should one of them face Gbagbo in a runoff may prove to be
a “weak” alliance, said Joseph Lake, an analyst with the
London-based Economist Intelligence Unit.  “It is doubtful whether their supporters would adhere to
this pact,” he said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Bedie “will be the kingmaker in the runoff,” said Gadio.
“The outcome of the runoff is uncertain at this stage.”  Cristian Preda, head of the European Union’s observer
mission in the country, said yesterday that members of his group
were denied access to some vote-counting centers. The African
Union said Nov. 1 the voting was held in a “climate of peace
and serenity.”  Young-jin Choi, the United Nations mission chief in Ivory
Coast, told reporters the same day the country showed
“political maturity and determination to put an end to the
crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 