-- Mizuho Employee Arrested in U.K. Regulator's Insider Trading Investigation
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-11-04T10:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mizuho-employee-arrested-in-u-k-regulator-s-insider-trading-investigation.html
A Mizuho International Plc employee
was one of two people arrested as part of an insider-trading
probe by the U.K. financial regulator in at least two countries.  Mizuho Securities Co. spokesman  Toshimitsu Okano  said in a
telephone interview today that the bank employee was arrested.
The U.K. Financial Services Authority said earlier this week
that it arrested a 37-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman in
London on suspicion of trading with insider information.  “We understand that the FSA’s investigation relates to
actions carried out by the individual in a personal capacity,
and that it does not involve any conduct by” Mizuho or any of
its other employees, the bank said in an e-mailed statement,
which didn’t name the employee.  City of London Police and the FSA also searched two
addresses in London and worked with police and prosecutors in
Hesse, Germany, to conduct a search there. The FSA is currently
prosecuting 11 people for trading with insider information and
has convicted six men for the crime since March 2009.  Okano declined to provide further details because the
investigation by U.K. authorities is now under way. Mizuho
International is the London-based securities and investment
banking arm of the  Mizuho Financial Group Inc.   FSA spokeswoman Lucy Gaynor declined to comment. The
regulator, facing dissolution by 2012,  is lobbying  for its
enforcement unit to become part a new Consumer Protection and
Markets Authority.  The case isn’t related to any ongoing insider-trading
investigations, the regulator said. The agency never prosecuted
a criminal insider-trading case before 2008.  Along with the independent CPMA, the U.K. government plans
to create a Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of
England to oversee financial regulation. The FSA’s enforcement
unit is slated to become part of a planned economic-crime
agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 