-- Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Shares Advance on Commodity Prices, Fed
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-11-04T23:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/japanese-stock-futures-australian-shares-advance-on-commodity-prices-fed.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and Australian
shares rose as commodity prices increased and on speculation the
U.S. Federal Reserve will succeed in stoking growth in the
world’s biggest economy.  American depositary receipts of Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s
largest commodities trader, climbed 2 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1
mining company, and Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest
gold producer, advanced more than 2.5 percent in Sydney today.
ADRs of  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, jumped
7 percent in New York after increasing its profit forecast.  “With speculation of continuing excess liquidity, money is
flowing into risk assets,” including stocks and commodities,
said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. “Uncertainties about the global
economic outlook are clearing.”  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,470 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,340 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,470 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index rose 1.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained
0.4 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index jumped 1.9 percent yesterday, the most in a
month, as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will succeed
in stoking growth and that banks will raise dividends.  Bank of Japan  The Bank of Japan is scheduled to end a two-day meeting
today. It advanced the session to immediately follow a meeting
by policy makers at U.S. Federal Reserve, which said Nov. 3 that
the U.S. central bank will purchase as much as $600 billion of
assets through June.  “People are attentive to what actions the Bank of Japan
will take,” Nikko Cordial’s Nishi said.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 11 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 9.5 percent by the S&P 500
and 6.7 percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.6 times estimated  earnings  on
average, compared with 14.4 times for the S&P 500 and 12.4 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Prices of oil and metals surged as the Federal Reserve’s
plans to buy more U.S. debt drove the dollar lower, boosting
demand for commodities as alternative investments.  Commodities, Nissan  Crude oil for December delivery rose 2.1 percent in New
York yesterday to $86.49 a barrel, the highest settlement price
since April 6. Copper futures advanced 3.3 percent to a 28-month
high. Gold futures surged to a record of $1,393.40. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum jumped 3.1 percent yesterday, the
most since May.  Nissan Motor boosted its  forecast  for full-year net income
by 80 percent to 270 billion yen ($3.3 billion), more than the
median estimate of 252 billion yen by 22 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage,
increased its share-price estimate on the carmaker to 1,100 yen
from 990 yen.  About 130 companies of almost 1,000 in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index are scheduled to announce earnings this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So far, about six
companies have  exceeded profit estimates  for every five that
have fallen short, based on Bloomberg data compiled from about
440 companies that have reported quarterly results since Oct. 7.  Resona Holdings Inc., Japan’s fourth-largest bank by market
value, may sell several hundred billion yen in shares to repay
its debt to the Japanese government faster, Nikkei English News
reported on its website, without saying where it got the
information.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 