-- JPMorgan Has File Requests on About $8.1 Billion Loans
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-11-04T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/jpmorgan-has-file-requests-on-about-8-1-bln-loans-correct-.html
JPMorgan Chase  & Co., the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, received requests for files this
year on about $8.1 billion in outstanding loans that may be
candidates for buybacks.  Repurchase demands in the second and third quarter were
“very high” and have increased over the previous several
quarters, according to an investor presentation on the New York-
based company’s  website  today.  JPMorgan received $2.9 billion in repurchase demands this
year, compared with $3 billion for all of 2009 and $2 billion
the year before,  Charlie Scharf , chief executive officer for
retail banking, said in a presentation at the BancAnalysts
Association of Boston Conference. About 90 percent of the
repurchase demands are for loans originated from 2006 through
2008, Scharf said.  Requests for loan files from private investors as well as
government-sponsored companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have
increased, according to the presentation. The $8.1 billion in
file requests this year compares with $9.2 billion for all of
last year and $4.6 billion in 2008. The data exclude repurchase
and loan file requests from private insurers.  JPMorgan  has also separately stopped 127,000 foreclosures
in 40 states, up from 115,000 disclosed last month, while it
reviews those files to correct any errors in the documents,
Scharf said. JPMorgan will begin re-filing paperwork in a few
weeks, he said.  Refiling Process  “It’s going to take three or four months or so to get all
these documents re-filed,” Scharf said. “It’s state by state.
It’s not just the affidavits that have to be re-filed.”  He said  the bank  doesn’t yet know what the latest
foreclosure problems will ultimately cost the company, which is
in talks with state attorneys general investigating whether
banks have improperly seized homes. “The delay itself could
cost us up to a couple hundred million dollars a month or so
just in additional work that has to get done,” Scharf said.  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy. Bank of
America Corp. and Ally Financial Inc. were also among lenders
that temporarily suspended some foreclosure sales or evictions,
pending reviews.  A mortgage executive at JPMorgan said in a May 17
deposition that she signed thousands of affidavits and documents
supporting the bank’s claims without personally checking loan
records. The Chase Home Finance operation supervisor said she
was among eight managers who together sign about 18,000
documents a month, according to a transcript of her sworn
deposition provided by  Tom Ice  of Ice Legal PA.  JPMorgan was the third-largest U.S. servicer of home
mortgages as of June 30, with $1.35 trillion or almost 13
percent of the market, according to industry newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance. Bank of America, Wells Fargo & Co., Citigroup
Inc. and Ally Financial round out the top five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 