-- King May Sit Out Bernanke's Stimulus Round on U.K. Strength
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-11-04T08:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/king-may-sit-out-bernanke-s-stimulus-round-on-u-k-strength.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
may decide to wait before joining Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s second round of stimulus as Britain’s economy
shows unexpected strength.  King’s Monetary Policy Committee will probably keep its
bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion) today
after pausing the quantitative easing program in February, said
all but two of the 38 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey . The
bank will announce its decision at noon today in London.  The U.K. economy is showing more signs of life than the
U.S., where an  unemployment rate  of 9.6 percent is hampering
growth. Services and factory surveys signaled the economy
sustained momentum in October after the strongest two
consecutive quarters of growth since 2000. With  inflation 
exceeding the government’s limit, officials may wait before
adding stimulus to an economy braced for the biggest budget cuts
since World War II.  “The U.S. and the U.K. are in two very different
situations,”  Hetal Mehta , an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe in London and a former British Treasury official, said in
a telephone interview. “Growth was an upside surprise, but even
without it we wouldn’t have had more quantitative easing.
Inflation here is much higher.”  The pound rose 0.5 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.6163 as of 8:10 a.m. in London. The yield on the
10-year U.K. government bond gained 1 basis point to 3 percent.  Fed Decision  The Fed yesterday said it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June to head off the risk of
deflation. The move was the first in a 33-hour marathon of
central bank actions, with the European Central Bank’s decision
due 45 minutes after the Bank of England’s today. The Bank of
Japan brought forward its decision to tomorrow and will discuss
buying exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment trusts.  The U.K. central bank may keep its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent, according to all 60 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. It will raise its stimulus plan by
50 billion pounds next year, according to the median forecast of
20 economists in a separate survey. Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc yesterday put back its forecast for that stimulus expansion
to February from today.  GDP Report  While U.K. policy makers signaled last month that more
purchases were becoming likely, the strength of economic growth
may stay their hand.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.8 percent in
the third quarter, twice the pace forecast by economists.
Surveys by Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply this week showed growth in services and
manufacturing unexpectedly accelerated in October.  “It’s hard to argue for additional stimulus at the
moment,” said  Azad Zangana , an economist at Schroders
Investment Management in London. “Expectations have really been
changed by the better-than-expected growth data.”  The strength of inflation is a concern for some officials.
Consumer prices rose an annual 3.1 percent in September,
exceeding the government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month.
 Andrew Sentance  has argued since June that an interest-rate
increase is needed to curb price pressures, and the recovery is
robust enough to do without further aid.  “Sentance may have somebody joining him fairly soon,
especially because of the strong data,” said Schroders’s
Zangana. “The vast majority of them are still waiting to see
the impact of the austerity measures for the next six months.”  Budget Squeeze  Some officials argue that the economy may need more
stimulus as finance minister  George Osborne ’s budget squeeze
feeds through to the economy. He unveiled details of plans on
Oct. 20 to shave as much as 81 billion pounds off  annual
government spending  by the 2014 to 2015 fiscal year, which will
eliminate almost half a million public-sector jobs.  Policy maker  Adam Posen  said last week that Osborne’s cuts
will have a “material drag-down” on growth. Last month he
voted for a 50 billion-pound increase in stimulus to fight
deflation, opening up a three-way split on the Monetary Policy
Committee. King has signaled sympathy for his view, saying that
while officials are “conscious” of the risks to consumer
prices, measures of U.K. inflation such as money supply are
“extremely subdued.”  The economy has shown some signs of weakness. Jobless
claims rose the most in eight months in September.  Mortgage
approvals  remain at less than half the level seen at the peak of
the boom in 2007. Lloyds Banking Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
mortgage lender, said last month it will cut about 4,500 jobs to
reduce costs.  House Prices  Data on the housing market has been mixed. Nationwide
Building Society said  house prices  fell to an eight-month low in
October, though Halifax, the mortgage-lending unit of Lloyds,
said today that prices rose 1.8 percent, erasing almost half of
the loss in September. “We do not believe that prices are set
to fall sharply over a sustained period,” the bank said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said last month that he is a
“monetary activist” who sees monetary policy as “a better
lever” than fiscal measures to aid the recovery. With the
housing market weakening and the budget squeeze yet to impact,
that keeps the onus on the Bank of England to react if the
economy falters.  Quantitative easing is the “elephant in the room,” said
 Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “I’d be
more convinced that we’re not going to get more QE if we see in
six months that the economy has survived the winter and the
outlook for the world looks brighter. At this stage, it’s on the
table and this debate is not going to go away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  