-- KKR Attracting $2.5 Billion May Signal Buyout Fundraising Thaw
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/kkr-raising-2-5-billion-in-second-half-may-signal-buyout-fundraising-thaw.html
KKR & Co. , the private-equity firm
managed by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is set to raise more
than $2.5 billion for new funds in the second half of this year,
as firms seize on a rebound in deals to attract investor cash.  Investors have committed $700 million to a fund focused on
China that has a target of $1 billion, KKR said yesterday on a
conference call. It has won commitments for infrastructure
pools, mezzanine lending and credit deals, and may pitch its
first large buyout fund since 2006 early next year.  KKR’s fundraising is a sign buyout firms are able to
attract new cash, in smaller funds, as the industry rebounds
from a two-year drought in deals that left managers with almost
half a trillion dollars yet to invest.  Blackstone Group LP  this
year raised $13.5 billion for its sixth buyout fund, 40 percent
less than it gathered for its previous pool. KKR hasn’t said how
much it plans to seek for the successor to its current, $17.6
billion pool.  “The market has been soft for a long time, but now the
credit markets are strong and there are some successes to point
to,” said  Paul Schaye , managing partner of New York-based
Chestnut Hill Partners, which helps private-equity firms find
targets. “Everyone’s trying to figure out their angle, and the
big brands like KKR have an advantage in a market like this.”  Private-equity funds raised $57 billion in the third
quarter, 16 percent more than in the previous quarter, when
commitments fell to a seven-year low, according to researcher
 Preqin Ltd.  Funds focused on the U.S. raised the most in the
third quarter, with 37 firms gathering $41.1 billion, London-
based Preqin said. Leveraged-buyout firms, including New York-
based Blackstone, raised the most capital.  Marking Up  KKR and its competitors are seeking to demonstrate rising
values and realize gains on existing holdings to show investors
they should commit money to new funds. KKR said yesterday that
it marked up the value of its fund investments for the sixth
straight quarter as equity markets rebound.  KKR marked up its holdings in HCA Inc. to almost 2.5 times
cost. HCA filed to sell shares to the public earlier this year,
and its listing is pending.  While the markups have helped boost returns, at least on
paper, getting companies public has proven difficult. In
addition to HCA, KKR-backed Toys R Us Inc. and Nielsen Holdings
BV have filed and not completed IPOs.  ‘Uncertain’ Market  “We continue to face an uncertain IPO market,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s head of global capital, said on a conference call
yesterday. Nuttall declined to give investors details about the
new buyout fund, including the size.  Investors have also been reluctant to pony up for new
pools, given that the industry has $461 billion in committed,
unspent capital already, according to Preqin. KKR said yesterday
it had $12.5 billion in uncalled capital commitments to funds in
its private-markets business as of the end September.  KKR’s has committed to  transactions  requiring more than $2
billion more in capital that have closed or will close this
quarter, Chief Financial Officer  William Janetschek  said on the
conference call.  “To the extent that your existing dry powder continues to
dwindle, it makes it much easier to go out and market a new fund
if you don’t have much capacity sitting on the sidelines,” said
 Michael Kim , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners in New
York who has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Other large private-equity managers have sought to expand
by raising funds focused on specific strategies or geographies.
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, is raising
money for an infrastructure fund, as well as a pool for clean-
tech investments.  $1 Billion Account  In addition to its own infrastructure fund, KKR also
established a $1 billion separately management account for
National Pension Service, South Korea’s biggest state fund, to
buy Chevron Corp.’s stake in Colonial Pipeline Co.  Blackstone said last week it would begin investing
Blackstone Capital Partners VI this quarter. Wellspring Capital
Management LLC, the New York-based private-equity firm whose
holdings include the Checkers burger chain, said yesterday it
raised $1.2 billion for its fifth and largest fund.  Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, manages 66 funds from offices in 19 countries around the
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  