-- Kraft Foods Third-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-11-04T21:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/kraft-foods-third-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-shares-advance.html
Kraft Foods Inc. , the world’s second-
largest food company, reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Excluding some items, profit was 47 cents, the Northfield,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement, beating by a
penny the average of 18 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Organic revenue, which excludes acquisitions,
divestitures and foreign-currency fluctuations, increased 2.1
percent on higher prices for Kraft’s products.  “The sales metrics were not great,” said  Edward Aaron , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Denver. “Cadbury was flat,
and nearly all of the Kraft base business growth came from
increased prices.” Aaron has a “sector perform” rating on
Kraft’s stock.  Food companies such as Kraft, Sara Lee Corp. and General
Mills Inc. have said they are increasing prices on certain
products to cope with rising costs for commodities such as
wheat, dairy and sugar. Raw-sugar prices jumped to a 29-year
high today on forecasts for lower global production after
adverse weather damaged crops in Brazil, the world’s biggest
producer.  Kraft Foods North America sales climbed 9.3 percent in the
three months through Sept. 30, fueled by Ritz crackers and Chips
Ahoy! cookies. Revenue grew 70 percent in developing markets,
aided by sales of Oreo cookies in China and Club Social crackers
in Brazil.  Cadbury Acquisition  The company reaffirmed its projection for 2010 earnings of
at least $2 a share and organic revenue growth of as much as 4
percent.  In February, Kraft acquired Uxbridge, England-based Cadbury
Plc for about 13.6 billion pounds ($20.8 billion) in cash and
stock after a five-month standoff. The deal transformed the
maker of Velveeta cheese into the world’s biggest confectionary
company, and Kraft said in September that the acquisition would
produce $1 billion in additional revenue by 2013.  Chief Executive  Irene Rosenfeld  said in the statement that
the integration of Cadbury is proceeding “smoothly and
quickly.”  Net income at the maker of Oreos and Cadbury chocolate fell
8.5 percent to $754 million, or 43 cents a share, from $824
million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier.  Kraft advanced 22 cents today to $31.79 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 17 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 