-- Krona Strengthens as Fed Resumes QE, Speculation Riksbank to Boost Rates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-04T17:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/krona-strengthens-as-fed-resumes-qe-speculation-riksbank-to-boost-rates.html
Sweden’s krona surged today after U.S.
Federal Reserve pledges to pump more money into the economy
fuelled demand for higher-yielding currencies and amid
speculation the Riksbank may raise interest rates next month.  Sweden’s krona jumped as much as 1.5 percent against the
dollar to trade at a two month high and was at 6.5290 at 6:06
p.m. in Stockholm. Against the euro, the krona gained as much as
0.7 percent and was at 9.2803. Norway’s krone also jumped,
strengthening as much as 0.5 percent against the euro and was at
8.1502 at 6:08 p.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, the krone
gained as much as 1.5 percent before trading at 5.7322.  “The Swedish and Norwegian currencies are strengthening
today because of increased risk appetite in the markets after
the Fed’s decision yesterday,” said  Richard Falkenhall , a
currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm. “Usually, both
currencies rise along with risk appetite; of course, the Swedish
central bank is also still in a hiking cycle.”  The Fed said yesterday it will buy $600 billion in Treasury
securities through next June in a bid to further reduce long-
term borrowing costs and keep prices from falling. That sent the
dollar lower today against all 16 major currencies in a basket
tracked by Bloomberg. Central banks in Sweden and Norway, by
contrast, have signalled they will continue raising interest
rates next year as they guide their economies through recoveries.  Rate Increases  “We expect the Riksbank to raise rates at its next two
meetings and see the Swedish krona continuing to strengthen,”
said Falkenhall. “We have, in general, very strong fundamentals
in the two countries, with high growth rates and sound public
finances, which should attract capital in this sort of market.”  SEB expects the krona to strengthen to about 9 against the
euro and to reach 6.3 against the dollar by the end of this year,
Falkenhall said. The Norwegian krone should reach 8 against the
euro and 5.56 against the dollar in the same period, the bank
estimates.  “We’re still fairly bullish,” he said.  Sweden’s Riksbank last month raised its benchmark repo rate
a quarter point to 1 percent and said the rate may reach 2
percent by the end of next year. Oslo-based  Norges Bank , which
in October 2009 became the first in Europe to scale back its
easing cycle, left its deposit rate unchanged at 2 percent. The
bank’s benchmark rate will average 2.25 percent next year and
3.25 percent in 2012, it said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  