-- Namibia's Shiimi Says Inflation is `Very Benign,' While Growth is Worrying
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-11-04T15:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/namibia-s-shiimi-says-inflation-is-very-benign-while-growth-is-worrying.html
Namibian inflation pressures are
“very benign,” while economic growth is threatened by the
slowdown in Europe, central bank Governor Ipumbu Shiimi said,
leaving the door open to further interest rate cuts.  “Depending on how the situation turns we have to look at
monetary conditions and see whether there will be room for
further stimulus,” Shiimi, 41, said in an interview in South
Africa’s capital, Pretoria, today.  The Bank of Namibia, based in the capital Windhoek, cut its
benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
6.75 percent on Oct. 20 as inflation remained close to a five-
year low at 3.7 percent in September. The Namibian dollar, which
is pegged to South Africa’s rand, has rallied 12 percent against
the dollar since June 1, curbing import costs, while food prices
have remained under control, easing pressure on inflation.  “Going forward we’re not worried about inflation, but we
are worried about growth,” said Shiimi. “The inflation outlook
is quite promising.”  The economy’s recovery may stall as growth in Europe, which
buys about 30 percent of Namibian exports, slows, Shiimi said.
Growth “won’t be more than 3 percent” next year, compared with
about 4 percent expected this year, he said.  Rate Differential  Namibia is the world’s biggest producer of offshore
diamonds. The southern African nation also exports uranium and
agricultural products, such as meat.  The central bank generally follows monetary policy set by
the South African Reserve Bank, which has cut its benchmark rate
eight times to 6 percent since December 2008. Namibia hasn’t cut
its key rate to the same level as South Africa because credit
demand in Namibia recovered faster than in its larger neighbor,
Shiimi said.  “During the up cycle, when South Africa was increasing
interest rates, we stayed behind at some point because we
thought South Africa went too far,” Shiimi said. Since reducing
interest rates “we started seeing our credit figures picking up
faster than in South Africa, so we had to pause.”  Namibia aims to eventually reduce the difference between
the two interest rates, the governor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 