-- Navy Suspends Alliant Techsystems Missile Tests Following Software Failure
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-11-04T17:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/navy-suspends-alliant-techsystems-missile-tests-following-software-failure.html
The U.S. Navy halted tests of an
 Alliant Techsystems Inc.  anti-radar missile following 6 software
or circuit-card failures in the first 12 trials.  It’s “a rare occurrence” to stop combat testing so soon,
the Pentagon’s office of operational testing said in an e-mail
provided by  Cheryl Irwin , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Defense
Department. The office said it doesn’t know how long it will
take the Navy and Alliant Techsystems to evaluate fixes and
resume testing.  Testing stopped Sept. 3. One hundred flights are planned to
evaluate the missile’s effectiveness in destroying enemy missile
radar, with the initial flights to assess missile guidance,
internal diagnostics and pre-launch communications with the
pilot, Navy and Pentagon officials said.  The Pentagon uses the tests to determine whether a system
will go into production. Minneapolis-based Alliant Techsystems
has said it may see as much as $1.1 billion in  revenue  from
missile sales over a decade if the Navy decides to go ahead with
orders.  The “minor delay” will have no lasting effect on the
program, Captain Brian Corey, the Navy’s manager for the
program, said in an e-mail. Three “minor” software updates are
planned, he said.  “We have flown the first set of corrections and have had
positive results,” Corey said. “At this point, there is no
significant hardware rework expected.”  ‘Substantial’ Shock  The test glitches included one that gave a pilot a
“substantial electrical shock” during a post-flight
inspection, according to the Pentagon’s test office.  “There are going to be challenges when you develop a new
breakthrough technology,”  Bryce Hallowell , a spokesman for
Alliant Techsystems, said in an e-mail. “We are confident that
the corrective actions will mitigate the known anomalies. We are
clearly making progress.”  The Navy has spent $98.1 million to date on the project.
Production may total $1.2 billion for as many as 1,879
supersonic, medium-range missiles to equip Navy, Marine Corps
and Italian Air Force aircraft. The weapon is designed to home
in on enemy air-defense radar and weapons.  The Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided  Missile  is intended as
an upgrade to the existing  Harm  missile made by Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon Co. The Alliant Techsystems version
is equipped with a more modern homing receiver and navigation
systems that let it detect the radar signals of stationary and
mobile air defense systems.  The missiles will be equipped with a transmitter that
transfers target images just before impact for improved
reconnaissance and intelligence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  