-- Neiman Marcus Joins Borrowers Tapping Rally to Extend Loans at Higher Rate
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2010-11-04T19:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/neiman-marcus-joins-borrowers-tapping-rally-to-extend-loans-at-higher-rate.html
Neiman Marcus Group Inc. , the luxury
retailer owned by private-equity firms, is offering to pay
lenders more interest to extend maturities by three years on a
term loan as it works to refinance $2.88 billion of  debt .  The company is proposing to increase the interest rate by
1.25 percentage points to 3.25 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, according to a person familiar
with the negotiations. Lenders would also get a 0.1 percent fee.  Neiman Marcus joins Community Health Systems Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. hospital operator, and private-equity owned
 Univision Communications Inc.  and Travelport Ltd. in tapping
demand for leveraged loans to gain more time to repay debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk-rated borrowers
repaid or extended due dates this year on $95.6 billion of loans
maturing through 2014, when the so-called maturity wall peaks at
$324.5 billion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “The fact that the loan market has reopened, and a modest
restoration of optimism for the luxury retail market, allows
them to get this done,” said  James Goldstein , an analyst at
research firm CreditSights Inc. in New York. “If you look at
the expiration date of the term loan, obviously they weren’t
going to be able to generate enough organic free cash flow to
pay down the debt.”  Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are
arranging an amendment that will extend some or all of Neiman
Marcus’s term loans and allow the retailer to issue more debt to
refinance non-extended loans, the Dallas-based company said
today in a statement.  Libor Floor  The banks scheduled a lender call at 2:30 p.m. in New York,
the person familiar with the amendment said.  Neiman Marcus should offer more for the amendment,  Thomas Ferguson , an analyst for high-yield research firm KDP Investment
Advisors Inc., wrote in a report today ahead of the call. The
company should include a floor on Libor, the rate banks charge
to lend to each other, he said.  The amendment should also add soft-call protection of 101
cents, Ferguson said, meaning that the company would have to pay
a premium of 1 cent to refinance the debt in its first year.  Chief Financial Officer  James Skinner  and Treasurer  Stacie Shirley  didn’t return telephone messages left at their offices.
Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG Capital bought Neiman Marcus for $5
billion in 2005, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Plenty More’ Deals  Neiman Marcus’s $1.98 billion term loan maturing April
2013, with $1.51 billion outstanding, rose 0.875 cent to 99
cents on the dollar on the amendment news today, according to
three people familiar with the trades, who declined to be
identified because the transactions are private. The  S&P/LSTA US
Leveraged Loan 100 Index  gained 8.04 percent this year.  “The robust new-issue market and a healthy investor base
that’s happy to consider amend-to-extend transactions have given
existing issuers the opportunity to address their financing
needs now,” said  Leland Hart , portfolio manager at New York-
based BlackRock Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in
leveraged-finance assets. “There are plenty more of these deals
to come given the amount of debt placed during 2005 and 2007.”  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
 Krista Giovacco  in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 