-- New Generation Group Seeks More Time to Pay $750 Milion Nitel Installment
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-04T18:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/new-generation-group-seeks-more-time-to-pay-750-milion-nitel-installment.html
The New Generation group, the
preferred bidder for Nigerian Telecommunications Ltd., asked for
more time to pay the government $750 million, the first
installment of its $2.5 billion bid.  “We’ve submitted a request for a 30-day extension,” Usman
Gumi, a spokesman for the investors, said in a telephone
interview today from Nigeria’s capital, Abuja. The eight-month
delay in concluding the transaction had “sent doubt to our
financial backers,” he said.  The government had given the group, which includes China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., until today to make the payment. The
balance of $1.75 billion should be paid within 60 days of the
receipt of an offer letter, which will be issued when the first
payment is made, Chukwuma Nwokoh, spokesman for the Bureau of
Public Enterprises, said in a Nov. 2 statement. Gumi said today
that the group will be able to meet the 60-day deadline.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  suspended the sale of Nitel on
March 12, a month after New Generation made the highest bid in
an auction for the stake, and told a committee to conduct
further due diligence on the bidders. The sale was approved on
Oct. 12. Minerva Group of Dubai and Nigeria’s GiCell Wireless
Ltd. are the other members of the group.  Jonathan ordered the review after China Unicom, China’s
second-biggest mobile-phone company, denied any involvement in
the winning group. It later said one of its units was interested
in “providing technical and managerial support.”  Sent to Jonathan  New Generation sent its request for the extension to
Jonathan; his deputy,  Namadi Sambo , whose office supervises the
country’s privatization program; and the Bureau of Public
Enterprises, Gumi said. Calls to presidential spokesman Ima
Niboro’s mobile phone didn’t connect.  Omen International Ltd. came second in February’s auction
for Nitel with an offer of $956.9 million, according to the
bureau.  A previous attempt in 2006 to sell Nitel and MTel, its
mobile unit, to Transnational Corp. Plc was canceled after the
Lagos-based investment company failed to comply with the sale
conditions. Nitel has lost market share to rivals including MTN
Nigeria Ltd., a unit of MTN Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest mobile-
phone company.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, is the continent’s
top oil producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 