-- Nissan Raises Annual Forecast on Strong Sales in Asia
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-11-04T10:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/nissan-raises-2010-profit-forecast-after-second-quarter-net-tops-estimates.html
Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-
largest automaker, raised its profit and global unit-sales
forecasts after boosting net income by almost four times in the
last quarter.  Nissan expects 270 billion yen ($3.3 billion) profit in the
year ending March, compared with an earlier forecast of 150
billion yen, the Yokohama-based company said in a statement
today. The carmaker posted 102 billion yen in  net income  for the
three months ended Sept. 30 as sales rose to 2.27 trillion yen
from 1.87 trillion yen a year earlier.  “Nissan’s forecasts exceed the market’s consensus and its
own guidance,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , an analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “Amid concerns about the global auto
industry, investors may react positively to Nissan’s
performance.”  The maker of the Juke compact crossover follows  Honda Motor
Co.  in raising its profit outlook even as the yen trades near a
15-year high against the dollar, reducing the value of overseas
earnings. While Nissan expects to benefit from trimming
purchasing costs and the introduction of new cars such as its
all-electric Leaf compact, the yen will weigh on earnings during
the second half, the company said.  Nissan rose 3.9 percent to 721 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
 trading  on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, before the earnings
announcement. The shares have fallen 10 percent this year.  Leaf, Micra, Juke  The automaker raised its full-year vehicle sales target and
now expects to sell 4.1 million units from an earlier target of
3.8 million.  Nissan will also benefit from introducing 10 new models
this fiscal year including the Leaf, Micra and Juke compact
cars, Chief Operating Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga , told reporters in
Yokohama.  Even so, the company estimates net income growth may slow
during the remainder of the fiscal year. Based on today’s
revised forecast, Nissan may post  profit  of 62 billion yen
during the six months through March 30. That estimate would be
more than two-thirds lower than the fiscal first-half profit of
208 billion yen, according to its statement today.  Second-Half Earnings  The strength of the yen which reduced first-half operating
profit by 55 billion yen, may cut earnings by 130 billion yen
during the second, Nissan said today.  The company today revised its full-year exchange-rate
assumption to 84.4 yen to the dollar from an earlier forecast of
90 yen. The company expects the yen to average 80 yen against
the dollar in the fiscal second-half, it said.  The dollar traded at 80.97 yen as of 5:07 p.m. in Tokyo
after strengthening to 80.22 yen on Nov. 1, the lowest level
since April 1995.  Nissan also faces a demand drop in Japan after a government
subsidy program ended and an unclear outlook in the U.S., where
near 10 percent unemployment forced the Federal Reserve to buy
an additional $600 billion of Treasuries.  “Nissan faces a very difficult situation at home,” said
 Yuuki Sakurai , who helps oversee the equivalent of $8.7 billion
as chief executive officer and president at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in Tokyo. In the U.S., “quantitative easing
won’t necessarily lead to an improved economy if people are
hesitating to borrow because they’re worried they won’t be able
to repay.”  After Japan’s government subsidy program for fuel-efficient
cars ended Sept. 8, Nissan’s deliveries in October plunged 31
percent. Sales in its domestic market rose 15.3 percent in the
fiscal first half.  Leaf Electric Car  To boost sales, Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
started selling an updated March compact this year. Nissan has
shifted Japan production of the model to Thailand, which helps
the company reduce impact of the strong yen on exports to other
countries in the region.  Nissan’s Shiga today said the automaker also plans to cut
purchasing costs by 185 billion yen to offset the yen.  The company will begin selling its Leaf electric car next
month in Japan, U.S. and some countries in Europe. Nissan and
partner  Renault SA  plan to have capacity to build 500,000
electric cars a year by 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  