-- China Communists Say Nobel Peace Prize `Political Tool' After Liu's Award
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-05T06:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/nobel-peace-prize-is-a-political-tool-people-s-daily-commentary-says.html
China’s flagship Communist Party
newspaper attacked the Nobel Peace Prize as a “political tool”
that is “in tune with U.S. global strategy,” maintaining its
criticism of last month’s award to an imprisoned dissident.  In a commentary, the People’s Daily said Western countries
were using the prize to undermine China’s ruling party and the
country’s model of economic development.  Liu Xiaobo , a democracy
activist imprisoned in China, was awarded the honor on Oct. 8.
The commentary was attributed to Guo Shu, who wasn’t identified.  “Clearly, the West does not want a strong China,” the
article said. “Awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Liu Xiaobo
explicitly reveals Western countries’ attempts to back anti-
socialism forces and utilize them to disrupt China’s
development.”  The commentary illustrates the anger China’s rulers feel
toward the U.S. and its allies over the awarding of the prize
and comes days before President  Hu Jintao  is due to meet
President  Barack Obama , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
other leaders at a summit in South Korea. China has warned
countries not to come out in support of the award ahead of next
month’s ceremony in Oslo or risk damaging diplomatic ties.  The People’s Daily article traced the history of the prize,
going so far as to condemn its awarding to Soviet-era physicist
and human rights-activist Andrei Sakharov “known for his
hostility to his own country” and to former Soviet President
 Mikhail Gorbachev  who “spearheaded” the country’s collapse, it
said. The  Dalai Lama  also won the prize previously, which was
part of the plan to split up China, the commentary said.  December Ceremony  The awarding of the prize to Liu, which will be formally
presented in  Oslo  on Dec. 10, is part of a series of actions by
the U.S., its allies and companies to undermine China, the
commentary said. It cited 2009 riots in western China’s
Xinjiang, which the government blames on foreign provocateurs,
Google Inc.’s move earlier this year to stop censoring its
Chinese Web site, 2008 riots in Tibet, and an ongoing
territorial dispute with Japan.  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai , speaking to
reporters today in Beijing, said any nation supporting Liu’s
award risked damaging relations with China.  “So the choice before some European countries and others
is clear and simple,” Cui said. “Do they want to be part of
the political games, and do they want to be part of the effort
to challenge the Chinese judicial system, or do they want to
want to develop friendly relations with the Chinese government
and people.”  “If they make the wrong choice, they will have to bear the
consequences,” Cui said.  -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from Huang Zhe in Beijing.
Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Bill Austin   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  