-- Northrop Said to Favor Spinoff of Ship Unit Rather Than Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-11-05T20:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/northrop-grumman-is-said-to-favor-spinoff-of-shipbuilding-unit-over-a-sale.html
Northrop Grumman Corp.  told private-
equity firms it is scrapping a plan to sell its shipbuilding
business and will instead pursue a spinoff of the unit, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Bids weren’t high enough to keep pursuing an auction, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. A sale might have raised $2.5 billion to $3
billion before taxes, while a spinoff may be valued at about $2
billion, the person said. Bain Capital LLC, KKR & Co., TPG
Capital and Carlyle Group had been bidding, people had said.  Chief Executive Officer  Wes Bush  said in July he was
studying the future of the shipbuilding unit to focus on defense
electronics, drones and surveillance technologies. Northrop
began acquisitions in 2001 that built the company into the
Navy’s largest supplier of ships.  “Shipyards require a lot of management focus and
attention, so Northrop would be better served if the ship unit
is under a dedicated management team,” said  David Rowlett , a
Baltimore-based analyst at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which owns
3.1 million Northrop  shares .  After separating the ship unit, Northrop would be left with
four divisions -- Aerospace Systems, Electronic Systems,
Information Systems and Technical Services -- whose products
include the Global Hawk high-altitude drone, radar for the F-35
and F-22 jet fighters, cyber security systems and the James Webb
Space Telescope expected to be launched in 2014.  Northrop rose 7 cents to $65.34 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained
17 percent this year.  Northrop Comment  “We continue to explore strategic alternatives,”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Northrop, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We don’t comment on
specifics.”  The private-equity firms that had bid on the unit are now
trying to determine whether it’s final, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
The firms were informed of the decision this week, the people
said.  Northrop filed documents with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission on Oct. 15 to start the process of spinning
off the ship unit as an independent company, which would avoid a
tax bill and wouldn’t generate cash. Shipbuilding sales in 2009
were $6.21 billion, or 17 percent of Northrop’s $33.8 billion in
total revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 