-- Norway's Fund Invests $722 Million in Property in London's Regent Street
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-11-04T17:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/norway-fund-invests-722-million-in-properties-in-london-s-regent-street.html
Norway agreed to pay about 448
million pounds ($722 million) for 25 percent of London’s Regent
Street, the first real-estate investment by the oil-rich
country’s sovereign wealth fund.  The Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global will buy a
share of 113 buildings on the West End street from the Crown
Estate, the British monarchy’s property manager, according to a
 statement  today. In March, the $520 billion fund was given
government approval to invest as much as 5 percent of its assets
in real estate.  “A move into real estate will strengthen the fund, which
today is solely invested in stocks and bonds,” said  Yngve Slyngstad , chief executive officer of Norges Bank Investment
Management, which manages the Oslo-based fund.  Sovereign wealth funds from countries including Qatar and
China have invested in London real estate to take advantage of
the market’s resilience and the pound’s weakness. Barwa Real
Estate Co., controlled by Qatar’s wealth fund, agreed to buy
Park House for 250 million pounds in June. The office and retail
project is the biggest development in about 40 years on London’s
Oxford Street.  Shops and offices in the West End have better prospects in
the next five years than any other type of U.K. commercial real
estate, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a September report.  ‘Trophy Asset’  “It’s a great thing for them to be buying,” Osmaan Malik,
a JPMorgan Chase real estate analyst, said today regarding the
Norwegian purchase. “It’s like a trophy asset and you are going
to get good returns.”  The transaction will probably be completed by the end of
March, NBIM said today. The wealth fund will then receive a
quarter of all income generated by the properties, mostly in the
form of rent.  The Regent Street real estate is the Crown Estate’s biggest
asset, with a value of 1.6 billion pounds on March 31. The deal
values the buildings, spread over 39 blocks, at 12 percent more
than that. Norway will acquire a 150-year lease and the
buildings will still be managed by the estate.  The Crown Estate has been seeking a partner to help finance
a 750 million-pound investment plan on Regent Street. Located
between Piccadilly Circus and Oxford Street, Regent Street is in
London’s busiest shopping district and has retailers including
Apple Inc. and Burberry Group Plc. The Apple store is the U.S.
company’s most profitable in the world.  Investment Capital  “The deal sees the Crown Estate for the first time
directly manage assets on behalf of a third party investor, and
funds raised from the sale will be used for investment across
the Crown Estate’s diverse assets including Regent Street,” the
company said in a statement.  The Norwegian fund, Europe’s biggest equity investor, is
built from oil and gas revenue and invests abroad to avoid
overheating the domestic economy. It allocates 60 percent to
stocks and 35 percent to bonds. Only Abu Dhabi has a larger
fund, according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute  in
California.  “It will take several years to build up a property
portfolio that represents 5 percent of the fund’s total
capital,”  Sigbjoern Johnsen , Norway’s finance minister, said in
a statement today. “It is planned that the investments will
eventually be expanded into many markets and different types of
commercial property.”  The wealth fund plans to make more acquisitions in the U.K.
and is also looking at potential investments in Germany and
France, Slyngstad of Norges Bank Investment Management said at a
briefing in Oslo today. The fund may also purchase assets in the
U.S., though probably not before 2012, he said.  The Crown Estate owned properties valued at 6 billion
pounds as of March 31, out of total assets of 6.6 billion
pounds. It owns 4.2 million square feet (390,000 square meters)
of retail space and 10.6 million square feet of offices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 