-- Obama Courts Chamber's India Partner After Blasting Foreign Cash
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-11-04T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/obama-courts-chamber-s-india-partner-after-blasting-foreign-campaign-cash.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to meet
in India tomorrow with one of the groups his administration
branded as a villain during the election campaign: a foreign
affiliate of the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce .  Democrats seized on reports this year that the Chamber, the
biggest lobbying group for U.S. business, had used overseas
members to help pay for attack ads during the campaign. Obama
called undisclosed corporate funding “a threat to our
democracy.”  Obama is set to speak to the  U.S.-India Business Council  in
Mumbai tomorrow. The council, representing companies such as
 Intel Corp .,  Citigroup Inc. ,  Boeing Co . and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc ., has organized a group of 250 executives to visit India on
what it calls the largest-ever U.S. trade mission.  The U.S. Chamber, which pledged to spend $75 million for
commercials ahead of the Nov. 2 election, dismissed a report
from the Center for American Progress, founded by former Clinton
administration chief of staff  John Podesta , and television
commercials by the Democratic National Committee that money from
foreign sources was supporting its political campaign.  “The allegations were baseless,”  Ron Somers , the head of
the U.S.-India Business Council, said in an interview from
Mumbai. “Our funds are only used for advocating U.S.-India
ties.”  The council, based at the U.S. Chamber’s Washington office,
is a separate entity from the Chamber that shares many of the
same corporate members. Membership dues are paid directly to the
U.S. Chamber, according to an application on its website.  Donor Information  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to the president, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” broadcast Oct. 10 that the Chamber
hasn’t released information to refute the reports that money
from foreign affiliates is being used on U.S. campaigns.  Foreign companies are allowed to join the 115 overseas
affiliates of the U.S. Chamber.  ThinkProgress , part of the
Center for American Progress in Washington, said it’s possible
those companies’ funds were commingled and went into the
Chamber’s political efforts.  “The problem isn’t that they exist, it’s that they don’t
disclose,” Lee Fang, who wrote a ThinkProgress  report  on Oct.
5, said in an interview. Fang’s report criticized the U.S.-India
Business Council and said it directed more than $200,000 to the
U.S. Chamber. The White House used that report to challenge the
Chamber during the election campaign.  “Just this week, we learned that one of the largest groups
paying for these ads regularly takes in money from foreign
sources,” Obama said on Oct. 7 in Illinois.  ‘Should Disclose’  The Obama administration is pressing the Chamber to
disclose all political contributions, whether from insurers, oil
companies or its foreign affiliates. That doesn’t mean Obama
opposes the goals of the Chamber or the U.S.-India Business
Council, said  Josh Earnest , a deputy White House spokesman.  “The president doesn’t have a problem with the Chamber of
Commerce,” Earnest said in an interview. “His only beef is
that they should disclose where they are getting their money.”  Obama speaks to the India council three days after pledging
to do a better job of “making absolutely clear that the only
way America succeeds is if businesses are succeeding.”  “The most important thing we can do is to boost and
encourage our business sector,” Obama said during his post-
election press conference. The president said he had specific
plans for more outreach to business.  Obama administration officials met with Chamber affiliates
from nations such as the United Arab Emirates, Singapore and
China in the past year. Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  went to the Chamber’s offices in Washington last June,
and both pledged to accelerate work on getting Russia into the
World Trade Organization. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
spoke to the Chamber’s affiliate in Malaysia this week.  The  American Chambers of Commerce  abroad “are the voice of
American business in that country,” said John Murphy, the
Chamber’s vice president for international affairs. If a cabinet
official visits a foreign country “they typically visit with
the AmCham as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 