-- Obama Moves Away From `Cap and Trade,' Seeks New Tools
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-11-04T21:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/obama-calls-cap-and-trade-just-one-way-northeast-carbon-market-falls.html
President  Barack Obama  distanced
himself from the “cap-and-trade” program he once backed as the
best tool to limit global warming, saying he wants to work with
Republicans to find other ways to curb carbon emissions.  “Cap-and-trade was just one way of skinning the cat,”
Obama said at a White House news conference yesterday, referring
to a system in which companies buy and sell a declining number
of pollution allowances. “It was a means, not an end,” he
said. “I’m going to be looking for other means to address this
problem.”  Futures contracts in the U.S. Northeast’s carbon market
fell to their lowest level in six weeks yesterday after Obama’s
remarks.  Obama spoke the day after Republicans won control of the
House of Representatives and gained at least six seats in the
Senate after a campaign in which Republican candidates and some
Democrats denounced cap-and-trade as a disguised energy tax. A
cap-and-trade bill backed by Obama passed the House last year,
then stalled in the Senate this year.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
today there is no reason Republicans and the Obama
administration can’t work together on issues including energy.  Clean-Coal Technology  “The president has said he’s for nuclear power, we’re for
nuclear power,” McConnell told reporters on Capitol Hill in
Washington. “The president has said he’s for clean-coal
technology, we’re for clean-coal technology.”  Carbon dioxide from power plants, cars and other man-made
sources is a primary greenhouse gas blamed by scientists for
global warming.  Prospects for a U.S. carbon market are more remote than
before the election because “the vast majority of Republicans
have opposed cap-and-trade proposals to date,”  Peter Shattuck ,
a carbon-markets policy analyst at Environment Northeast, an
advocacy group based in Rockport, Maine, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Permits from the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative for
December delivery fell 2 cents, or 1.1 percent, yesterday to
$1.88 on the  Chicago Climate Futures Exchange , matching a record
low closing price set on Sept. 22. They retraced the decline
today to close at $1.90 each. Each permit, also called an
allowance, gives a power plant the right to emit one ton of
carbon dioxide. The state-run carbon trading program covers
plants from Maryland to Maine.  Carbon Prices  U.S. Northeast carbon prices have fallen 18 percent this
year as the cap-and-trade bill faltered after narrowly passing
the Democrat-controlled House in June 2009.  Democrats from coal-producing states joined in campaign
attacks on cap-and-trade. Governor  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia
literally shot a hole through legislation labeled “cap-and-
trade” in a television commercial for his successful Senate
campaign.  Republicans in the next Congress are likely to increase
pressure on Obama to delay or scrap his plan to regulate carbon
through the Environmental Protection Agency, said  Kevin Book ,
managing director of ClearView Energy Partners LLC in
Washington.  Business groups such the American Petroleum Institute, the
largest U.S. lobbying group for the oil industry, have opposed
EPA regulation. Democratic Senator  Jay Rockefeller  of West
Virginia has sponsored legislation that would impose a two-year
delay.  EPA Regulation  The EPA is preparing to start regulating greenhouse gases
from power plants and oil refineries on Jan. 2. A  U.S. Supreme
Court  decision in 2007 said the EPA had the power to regulate
carbon as a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. Obama and EPA
Administrator  Lisa Jackson  have said they would prefer to tackle
the issue mainly through Congress.  Obama repeated this preference yesterday, saying the EPA
“wants help from the legislature on this.”  “I don’t think that the desire is to somehow be protective
of their powers here,” he said.  Obama also touted natural gas yesterday, saying there are
“terrific natural=-gas resources” in the U.S. “Are we doing
everything we can to develop those?” he asked. Gas can produce
electricity with about half the greenhouse-gas emissions of
coal, the EPA has said.  Obama may be signaling a willingness to find an alternative
to EPA action, said  Scott Segal , a Washington lawyer at
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  “The president didn’t seem 100 percent resolute that the
agency has to regulate and regulate quickly,” Segal, who
lobbies for coal-fired utilities such as  Southern Co . and  Duke
Energy Corp ., said in an interview yesterday. “That may be a
sign that the administration is willing to sit down and discuss
a more reasonable path forward.”  Bingaman Measure  An alternative to cap-and-trade legislation offered by
lawmakers such as Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat,
would set a national standard requiring the use of renewable
fuel such as solar and wind power. Senator  Richard Lugar , an
Indiana Republican, has said he plans to introduce renewable-
energy legislation that would add nuclear and “clean-coal”
plants to the sources of alternative energy.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski , who is from Alaska and the senior
Republican on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee,
said today that she’d be happy to work with Obama on energy
issues, though EPA’s plans to regulate carbon must be halted so
lawmakers can proceed.  “If the president wants to start with the work the Energy
Committee has already done, I would be happy to work with him,”
she said in an e-mailed statement, referring to legislation that
includes Bingaman’s measure. “But I also believe we must first
preempt the EPA from meddling in the work of Congress when it
comes to setting climate policies.”  Common-Sense Regulation  Murkowski earlier this year led an unsuccessful effort to
block EPA’s authority to regulate greenhouse gases.  Any attempt by Congress to take away the EPA’s power would
be vetoed by the president, Jackson said in an August interview.  The president remains committed to moving ahead with
“common-sense” EPA regulation of greenhouse gases,  Heather Zichal , deputy assistant to the president for energy and climate
change, said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  Obama has pledged as part of United Nations-led climate
treaty talks to cut U.S. emissions about 17 percent by 2020. The
administration will stand by its target when countries meet to
negotiate in Mexico next month,  Todd Stern , Obama’s top climate
negotiator, has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 Kchipman@bloomberg.net ; or
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 