-- Gibbs Says Obama `Open' to Talks on Renewing Tax Cuts
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-11-04T19:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/obama-administration-is-open-to-talks-on-extending-tax-cuts-gibbs-says.html
The Obama administration is “open”
to negotiations on temporarily extending tax cuts for upper-
income individuals to win extensions for middle-income families,
White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said.  While President  Barack Obama  is “open to listen” to
Republican ideas on a one- or two-year extension of the existing
top rates, he still opposes making them permanent, Gibbs said.  Obama “would not accept permanently extending the upper
income tax cuts,” Gibbs said at a briefing today.  The administration’s “first priority” is extending the
current rates for middle-income taxpayers, Gibbs said.  Obama wants “a compromise that moves this issue forward,”
Gibbs said, and the administration will work toward “coming up
with a plan that works for both sides.”  The remarks by Gibbs reinforce statements made by Obama
yesterday following midterm elections in which Republicans
gained control of the House and narrowed the Democratic majority
in the Senate. Obama earlier today announced he has invited the
top eight Republican and Democratic congressional leaders to a
White House meeting on Nov. 18, after he returns from an
overseas trip, to talk about the legislative agenda.  During the campaign, Obama repeatedly criticized Republican
insistence on extending all Bush-era income tax cuts. He said
the U.S. can’t afford to lose the $700 billion in revenue that
would be brought in by letting rates rise for the top 3 percent
of taxpayers as the government faces a  deficit  of more than $1
trillion.  Lame-Duck Session  The lawmakers elected Nov. 2 take office in January after
the current Congress returns for a lame-duck session in mid-
November. Reaching an accord on taxes is a crucial item on the
lame-duck agenda because the Bush-era tax cuts of 2001 and 2003
expire Dec. 31. If no action is taken, rates will rise for all
U.S. taxpayers.  “When this year ends, tax rates are going to go up for the
middle class,” Gibbs said. “This is an issue that must and has
to be dealt with” this year and is likely to take a “big
chunk” of time, he said.  Obama has opposed retaining tax breaks for individuals
earning $200,000 a year or married couples making more than
$250,000. Republicans want tax cuts extended for everyone.  “We continue to believe that extending all of the current
tax rates for all Americans is the right policy for our economy
at this time,”  John Boehner  of Ohio, the House Republican
leader who is in line to become speaker in the next Congress,
said yesterday.  Rate Changes  If Congress takes no action, individual income tax rates
will increase to 15, 28, 31, 36, and 39.6 percent from 10, 15,
25, 33, and 36 percent now. Reinstated limits on certain
deductions and exemptions would push rates even higher for
taxpayers in the top two brackets.  Many married couples would pay more in income tax than if
they were single. The child tax credit would be reduced to $500.
Rates on capital gains would revert to 20 percent, and dividends
would again be taxed at ordinary income rates.  The estate tax, repealed for this year only, would affect
estates exceeding $1 million and would have a top rate of 55
percent.  Lawmakers also must decide whether to renew a “patch” for
the alternative minimum tax. Without it, millions of middle-
income people will face a tax increase because the law wasn’t
indexed for inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net  