-- Obama's Election Losses Won't Hurt Middle East Peace Talks, Erakat Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-04T16:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/obama-s-election-losses-won-t-hurt-middle-east-peace-talks-erakat-says.html
Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat 
said he doesn’t expect defeats suffered by President  Barack Obama ’s Democratic Party in the Nov. 2 midterm elections to hurt
the Middle East peace process.  “I do not see this,” Erakat, who leads the Palestinian
negotiating team, said in an interview with National Public
Radio broadcast today. “I think Americans will help.”  Obama, who yesterday described Democrats’ loss of at least
60 seats in the House of Representatives as a “shellacking,”
leaves tomorrow for a nine-day trip to Asia. He’ll be in India
when Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  travels Nov. 7 to
the U.S. for meetings with Vice President  Joe Biden  in New
Orleans and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in New York.  “We are working on a nonstop basis with our Israeli and
Palestinian friends to design a way forward in the
negotiations,” Clinton, traveling in Wellington, New Zealand,
said today. “I am very involved in finding the way forward, and
think we will do so.”  Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  agreed with Erakat that the
outcome of elections, which gave Republicans control of the
House, won’t affect talks. Former Democratic President  Bill Clinton ’s efforts in the Middle East intensified during a
Republican Congress, which “didn’t make any difference,” he
told NPR a phone interview from Jerusalem.  Settlements Dispute  The U.S. has urged Netanyahu to renew a 10-month partial
moratorium on settlement construction that expired Sept. 26.
Different formulas to renew the talks, including a 60-day
cessation of settlement building, haven’t been successful.  The Palestinians say they will continue with the talks only
if Israel stops construction in its West Bank settlements.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  plans to meet
in Cairo on Nov. 9 with representatives of the Arab League,
which at its last meeting on Oct. 9 gave Obama a month to
resurrect the negotiations.  The U.S. administration had persuaded Abbas and Netanyahu
at the beginning of September to hold the first direct Israeli-
Palestinian peace talks in 20 months, only to watch them stall
less than four weeks later when the freeze lapsed.  If the talks aren’t renewed before the Arab League meeting,
Abbas said he’ll seek alternatives. These include going to the
United Nations General Assembly and ask for its symbolic
recognition of a Palestinian state.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says that settlements are illegal.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  