-- Lockheed CEO Supports Navy Strategy on Littoral Ships
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2010-11-04T17:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lockheed-ceo-supports-navy-strategy-on-littoral-ships-update1-.html
Lockheed Martin Corp . Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Stevens  said he supports the U.S. Navy’s proposal
to buy Littoral Combat Ships from two teams of contractors
instead of a winner-take-all competition.  “It’s a very creative approach,” Stevens said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We are waiting to look at the
details of how we would configure our offering,” he said. “We
have the conceptual framework now.”  The U.S. Navy yesterday formally sought approval from
lawmakers to buy 20 of the warships, split between the teams.
Lockheed Martin and  Marinette Marine Corp.  offered one ship
model, while the other was advanced by  General Dynamics Corp .
and the U.S. unit of Australia’s  Austal Ltd .  If approved by Congress and supported by the companies,
buying vessels from both groups would reverse the Navy’s
September 2009 plan to pick only one of the two ship designs.
The strategy is still in place to select a single winner next
month if Congress doesn’t approve the new proposal.  Any congressional action probably would come on the fiscal
2011 defense appropriations bills during this month’s lame-duck
session of Congress. Neither the House of Representatives nor
the Senate has passed its measure.  The Littoral Combat Ships are designed to operate closer to
coastlines than existing  surface vessels  such as destroyers,
providing missions that include mine clearance, submarine
hunting and humanitarian relief.  Requirements ‘Stabilized’  Requirements for the 55-ship program have been
“stabilized,” helping Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed  offer
lower prices than on the first two vessels built in the class,
Stevens said.  Lockheed has been able to train and qualify enough
personnel for the systems integration role it plays on the LCS,
so with stability in the funding from Congress, “you can put
together a package here that has many advantages,” he said.
“You get more ships sooner, at a lesser cost.”  Lockheed  gained 89 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $71.82 at 1:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, while Falls
Church, Virginia-based  General Dynamics  rose 90 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $68.85.  Austal , based in Perth, Australia, jumped 18 percent to
A$2.95 for the biggest advance in almost two years. Marinette,
Wisconsin-based Marinette Marine is a unit of Italian
shipbuilder Fincantieri Cantieri Navali Italiani SpA, whose
parent company is state-owned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Cook in Washington at 
 Pcook6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  