-- Lockheed's Stevens Says F-35 May Need `More Time, More Dollars'
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-11-04T22:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lockheed-s-stevens-says-f-35-may-need-more-time-more-dollars-.html
The development phase of  Lockheed
Martin Corp. ’s F-35 jet fighter, the most expensive U.S. weapon
program, will likely take longer and more money than expected to
complete, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said.  The U.S. Defense Department and the company are “probably
going to examine the need for more time, more people and more
dollars,” Stevens said in an interview today in Washington.  The Pentagon is conducting a so-called Technical Baseline
Review, led by F-35 program manager Vice Admiral  David Venlet ,
in time for a scheduled Nov. 22 Defense Acquisition Board
evaluation. The review may disclose broad ranges of potential
cost increases and schedule delays on top of changes unveiled
this year by the Pentagon, two government officials with
knowledge of the program said this week.  The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter model being designed for the
U.S. Marine Corps, with a short-takeoff and vertical-landing
capability, is behind schedule, Stevens said.  “We have to improve the performance of that airframe,” he
said. “The software has been performing well when it’s on the
aircraft, but it’s going to take some more resources.”  The Pentagon has already mandated a 13-month extension to
the current development phase to November 2015, shifting $2.8
billion in production funds for continued research and delaying
the purchase of 122 jets to beyond 2015. The weapon program is
estimated to cost $382 billion.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, advanced $1.03, or
1.5 percent, to $71.96 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have declined 4.5 percent this
year.  Marine Corps Model  The Marine Corps model is the most complex of the three
versions being developed and has fallen short of flight-test
goals. As of Oct. 31, it has flown 168 times compared with a
target of 209 tests,  John Kent , a Lockheed spokesman, said in a
statement today. Including flight tests of the Navy’s carrier-
variant and the conventional-takeoff model, the plane has
completed 321 flights, 28 more than planned by October, he said.  The model’s basic flying characteristics, propulsion system
and structural integrity “are performing well,” Stevens said.
By contrast, “supplier-provided components” such as cooling
fans “are not demonstrating early reliability,” he said.  As a result, Lockheed is focusing more attention than
planned on correcting supplier deficiencies. “That takes time,
and that means we’re going to have to re-examine the flight-test
schedule and program,” he said.  ‘Reallocate Resources’  The Pentagon review led by Venlet is looking at program
changes in the past year and asking, “how has performance
unfolded, are we doing that which we expected on plan, are we
better than planned, are we behind and, importantly, how do we
reallocate resources to assure this program is successful,”
Stevens said.  The $50 billion development phase may cost as much as $5
billion more, according to preliminary estimates in Venlet’s
review, the two government officials said on condition of
anonymity because the review hasn’t been made public yet.  Separately, Pentagon cost analysts now estimate the JSF may
be as much as 1 1/2 times more expensive to maintain than the
warplanes it will replace.  Slippage in the JSF’s timetable may be as much as one year
for the Air Force and Navy versions, and two to three years for
the Marine Corps model, the officials said.  Leaks Regretted  Pentagon spokesman  Geoff Morrell  today criticized release
of the information, noting “the department regrets that someone
chose to provide unauthorized and incomplete information to the
press.”  “Admiral Venlet has been doing a soup-to-nuts review of
the JSF program,” Morrell said. “It is the most thorough, the
most extensive, the deepest dive yet we have done into the F-35
program.”  “But that assessment is not yet complete,” he said.
“Therefore, what has been leaked to the press is premature, and
I would suggest to you that in some respects it’s inaccurate.”  Stevens and  Joseph Dellavedova , a U.S. Air Force F-35
program spokesman, said separately that the first two production
aircraft, which were supposed to be delivered this month to
Edwards Air Force Base, California, are undergoing modifications
and will be delivered in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net 
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  