-- Oil Rises a Fourth Day After Fed Move Weakens Dollar, Fuel Supplies Drop
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-11-04T06:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/oil-rises-a-fourth-day-after-fed-move-weakens-dollar-fuel-supplies-drop.html
Oil rose to the highest in six months
after the Federal Reserve said it will expand record measures to
spur the economy in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude
consumer.  Prices climbed for a fourth day, the longest rising streak
since September, on speculation the Fed’s steps will weaken the
dollar, boosting investor demand for commodities. The central
bank yesterday said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June. U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  fell last week
to the lowest in almost a year, according to a report.  “The Fed is pumping money into the economy and the money
doesn’t have that many places to go,” said  John Vautrain ,
senior vice-president at U.S. energy consultants Purvin & Gertz
Inc. in Singapore. “That’s pumping up the value of
commodities.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as 68 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $85.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest intra-day price
since May 4. The contract was at $85.31 at 1:56 p.m. Singapore
time. Prices are in the longest rally since a four-day run
through Sept. 27.  The dollar yesterday traded at $1.4179 against the 16-
nation euro, the lowest since Jan. 26. A decline in the U.S.
currency bolsters the investment appeal of commodities as a
hedge against inflation.  Record Stimulus  Oil has advanced almost 3 percent this week as investors
bet that record stimulus, aimed at reducing unemployment and
averting deflation, will weaken the dollar.  Fed policy makers, after a two-day meeting in Washington
yesterday, said progress has been “disappointingly slow” in
bringing down joblessness from a 26-year high. The central bank
left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates near zero for
an “extended period.”  “The quantitative easing was strong,” said  Anthony Nunan ,
an assistant general manager for risk management at Mitsubishi
Corp. in Tokyo. “The reason that we haven’t gone higher is that
a fair bit of the move has been built into the market.”  Brent crude for December settlement rose as much as 67
cents, or 0.8 percent, to $87.05 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract gained 1.1
percent to $86.38, the highest settlement since May 4.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories fell 2.69 million barrels in the
week ended Oct. 29 to 212.3 million, according to an Energy
Department report yesterday. That’s the lowest level since Nov.
20 last year, leaving supplies 6 percent above the  five-year 
average.  Distillate-fuel stockpiles , including heating oil and
diesel, fell for a sixth week on a drop in imports, declining
3.57 million barrels to 164.9 million, the Energy Department
said. That’s the biggest drawdown since the week to April 3,
2009.  “It is still accurate to say that inventories appear to
have peaked,”  Peter Beutel , president of energy adviser Cameron
Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in a note. The
data “showed larger-than-expected drawdowns in distillate and
gasoline stocks.”  Commercially held  crude  inventories rose 1.95 million
barrels last week to 368.2 million, as refiners cut  operating
rates  to the lowest since March, the report showed. Supplies
were forecast to increase 1.5 million, according to the median
estimate from 17 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  