-- Oil Rises a Fourth Day After Fed Move Weakens Dollar, Fuel Supplies Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-04T12:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/oil-rises-to-a-six-month-high-on-u-s-stimulus-bets-fuel-supply-forecast.html
Oil rose to a six-month high in New
York after the Federal Reserve said it will expand record
measures to spur the economy in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude consumer.  Prices climbed for a fourth day, the longest rising streak
since September, as the Fed’s measures weakened the dollar and
boosted investor demand for commodities. The central bank
yesterday said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June. U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  fell last week
to the lowest in almost a year, according to government data.  “The rally will go on a little bit; there’s certainly the
potential to go above $90,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader at
Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “Of course it’s a reaction to
the Fed decision to flood the market with liquidity. It was more
than the market was expecting, so everything is positive.”  Crude for December delivery rose as much as $1.82, or 2.2
percent, to $86.51 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. That’s the highest price since May 3.
The contract was at $86.28 at 12:32 p.m. London time. Brent
crude for December settlement rose as much as $1.64, or 1.9
percent, to $88.02 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  New York prices are in the longest rally since a four-day
run through Sept. 27. Futures are up 8.8 percent this year. The
dollar reached $1.4264 against the 16-nation euro today, the
lowest since Jan. 20. The U.S. currency’s decline bolsters the
appeal of commodities as an inflation hedge.  Record Stimulus  Oil has advanced 5.3 percent this week as investors bet
that the record stimulus, aimed at reducing unemployment and
averting deflation, will weaken the dollar. Yesterday, the
contract gained 1.1 percent to $86.38, the highest settlement
since May 4.  Fed policy makers, after a two-day meeting in Washington
yesterday, said progress has been “disappointingly slow” in
bringing down joblessness from a 26-year high. The central bank
left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates near zero for
an “extended period.”  Oil may soar to more than $100 a barrel as nations turn to
commodities as a refuge from the currency markets, according to
analysts at Inenco Group Ltd., a London-based energy consultant.  “The falling value of the currency means that producing
nations need to see the price per barrel rising just so they can
stand still in terms of revenue,”  Ian Parrett , an Inenco
analyst, said today. “If more nations turn to oil as a refuge
from the currency markets, whilst the value of the dollar
continues to slide under monetary policy, it’s hard to
accurately peg how high the price of oil could rise.”  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories dropped 2.69 million barrels in
the week ended Oct. 29 to 212.3 million, the Energy Department
reported yesterday. That’s the lowest level since Nov. 20 last
year, leaving supplies 6 percent above the  five-year  average.  Distillate-fuel stockpiles , including heating oil and
diesel, fell for a sixth week as imports declined 3.57 million
barrels to 164.9 million, the Energy Department said. That’s the
biggest drawdown since the week to April 3, 2009.  “It is still accurate to say that inventories appear to
have peaked,”  Peter Beutel , president of energy adviser Cameron
Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in a note. The
data “showed larger-than-expected drawdowns in distillate and
gasoline stocks.”  Commercially held  crude  inventories increased 1.95 million
barrels last week to 368.2 million, as refiners cut  operating
rates  to the lowest since March, the report showed. Supplies
were forecast to gain 1.5 million, according to the median
estimate from 17 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  