-- Oil Rises a Fourth Day After Fed Move Weakens Dollar, Fuel Supplies Drop
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-11-04T20:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/oil-climbs-to-six-month-high-in-new-york-as-dollar-tumbles-on-fed-stimulus.html
Oil rose to the highest level in six
months in New York as the dollar tumbled after the Federal
Reserve expanded bond purchases to spur the economy in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Prices climbed for a fourth day, the longest move higher
since September, as the dollar fell to a nine-month low against
the euro, boosting the appeal of commodities as an alternative
investment. The Fed said yesterday it will buy an additional
$600 billion of Treasuries through June.  “We continue to be completely dominated by views of the
dollar,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy, a Stamford, Connecticut-based broker. “We’re
breaking through to some new highs here, and the bulls have a
lot of ammunition to test the upside.”  Oil for December delivery rose $1.80, or 2.1 percent, to
settle at $86.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
the highest price since April 6. Futures have gained 7.6 percent
in the past year. Brent crude for December settlement advanced
$1.62, or 1.9 percent, to $88 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London, the highest level since May 3.  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.4197 per euro at 3:32
p.m. in New York. Earlier, it touched $1.4282, the lowest level
since Jan. 20.  Oil has increased 6.2 percent in New York this week as
investors bet that the Fed stimulus, aimed at reducing
unemployment and averting deflation, will weaken the dollar.  Stimulus Reaction  “The markets have taken off like bottle rockets,” said
 Richard Soultanian , co-president of NUS Consulting Group, a Park
Ridge, New Jersey-based energy procurement adviser. “The Fed
action is going to create commodity inflation. A weak dollar is
providing impetus to all the commodity trades.”  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
advanced 2.3 percent to 312.16, the strongest level in more than
two years. Seventeen of the commodities increased.  Fed policy makers, after a two-day meeting in Washington
that ended yesterday, said progress has been “disappointingly
slow” in bringing down joblessness from a 26-year high. The
central bank left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates
near zero for an “extended period.”  “The rally will go on a little bit; there’s certainly the
potential to go above $90,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader at
Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “Of course it’s a reaction to
the Fed decision to flood the market with liquidity. It was more
than the market was expecting, so everything is positive.”  OPEC Forecast  Oil may rally to three digits next year for the first time
since the 2008 financial crisis as central banks pump cash into
their economies to revive growth, according to  JPMorgan Chase  &
Co. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  OPEC doesn’t see prices rising to $100 next year,
Secretary-General  Abdulla El-Badri  said today at a press
conference in Vienna. The group is happy with prices between $70
and $85, though an increase to $90 wouldn’t impede economic
growth, he said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of worldwide crude production, today
boosted its estimates for global oil demand through 2014, citing
growth in Asia. Oil consumption will increase 5.1 percent to
89.9 million barrels a day by 2014 from this year, 800,000
barrels a day more than in last year’s forecast, it said.  OPEC is increasing crude loadings in response to strong
demand from Asia which is helping push up shipping rates,
according to a report today from tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The group, excluding Ecuador and Angola, will ship 23.51
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Nov. 20, 1.6 percent
more than the 23.14 million barrels transported in the four
weeks to Oct. 23, the Halifax, England-based consultant said.  U.S. Economy  Productivity in the U.S. rose more than economists
estimated in the third quarter and initial unemployment claims
increased more than forecast last week, government reports
showed today, signals that companies are focusing on cost-
cutting as the economy slowly expands.  Jobless claims rose by 20,000 to 457,000 in the week ended
Oct. 30 from a revised 437,000 the prior week, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. Employment levels can
influence fuel demand by commuters.  Gasoline consumption  fell
3.7 percent last week to 9.02 million barrels a day, snapping
two weeks of increases.  A measure of employee output per hour increased at a 1.9
percent annual rate after falling 1.8 percent in the previous
three months, Labor Department figures showed. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 1
percent gain.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 571,267
contracts as of 3:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 717,828
contracts yesterday, 2.7 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.47 million contracts, the
highest level since Oct. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 