-- Swiss Stocks Rise to Six-Month High; Swiss Re and Holcim Shares Lead Gains
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-04T16:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/holcim-logitech-nobel-biocare-panalpina-petroplus-swiss-stock-preview.html
Swiss stocks rose to the highest
level in six months after the Federal Reserve announced an
additional $600 billion of bond purchases to bolster the world’s
largest economy.  Swiss Reinsurance Co. Ltd. climbed after the company said
it will repay  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Holcim
Ltd.  advanced as Germany’s HeidelbergCement AG said third-
quarter profit more than doubled.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG  rose
as UBS AG lifted its recommendation on the world’s biggest
dental-implant maker.  Xstrata Plc  rallied as metal prices
surged. Zurich Financial Services AG dropped after reporting
quarterly earnings.  The  Swiss Market Index  rose 1.3 percent to 6,595.64 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, the biggest gain since Sept. 1 and
the highest level since May. The gauge has advanced 4.8 percent
since September amid speculation policy makers in the U.S. and
elsewhere will step up efforts to stimulate economic growth
through bond purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing.
The broader  Swiss Performance Index  advanced 1.2 percent today.  “Now the Fed is out the way we probably need a new impetus
for markets to remain strong,”  Jim Reid , a strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a report today.
“Fortunately for the bulls the data has subtly improved of
late.”  Record Stimulus  The Fed will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June, expanding record stimulus and risking its
credibility in a bid to reduce unemployment and avert deflation.  Policy makers, setting a pace of about $75 billion of
purchases a month, “will adjust the program as needed,” the
Fed’s Open Market Committee said yesterday in a statement in
Washington. The central bank left unchanged its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period’ after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said it could be modified in some way.  Swiss Re  surged 6.4 percent to 50.50 Swiss francs. The
world’s second-largest reinsurer agreed to repay the capital
injected last year by Berkshire Hathaway as quarterly profit
doubled.  Net income rose to $618 million from $314 million a year
earlier, the reinsurer said today in a statement. That beat the
$484 million average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Swiss Re was raised to ‘‘buy” from “hold” at Vontobel
AG. The brokerage said in a note that “the good news in today’s
announcement is the early redemption of Berkshire, which in our
view improves financial flexibility and will re-position Swiss
Re as a leading independent reinsurance company.”  Holcim, Nobel       Holcim , the world’s second-biggest cement maker, advanced
2.5 percent to 65.65 francs. Its German competitor
HeidelbergCement said third-quarter profit more than doubled as
sales rose and cost cuts took hold.  Nobel Biocare rose 2.8 percent to 16.25 francs as UBS
lifted its rating to “neutral” from “sell,” saying in a note
that “with management being very clear on future cost structure
we would expect consensus to move to a more realistic level and
thus reduce the risk of further disappointment.”  Xstrata, the world’s fourth-largest copper producer, gained
6 percent to 21.2 francs as metal prices advanced.  Copper futures for December delivery rose to the highest
price for a most-active contract since July 2008 on the Comex in
New York.  Clariant AG  climbed 4.1 percent to 17.96 francs as
brokerages including BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research and
Exane BNP Paribas lifted their price estimates on the world’s
biggest maker of printing-ink chemicals.  Zurich, UBS  Zurich Financial lost 1.5 percent to 238.2 francs.
Switzerland’s largest insurer said third-quarter profit dropped
22 percent after the firm settled a U.S. class-action lawsuit.  Net income fell to $751 million from a restated $968
million a year earlier. That missed the $777 million average
estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , the country’s biggest
banks, gained 2.4 percent to 17.09 francs and 2.1 percent to
41.61 francs, respectively, as banking shares were among the
best performers in Europe today.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the
120-year-old Swiss private bank, advanced 2.5 percent to 41.27
francs.  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG  dropped 4.1 percent to
123.2 francs, ending an eight-day increase.  LifeWatch AG  sank the most in six months, losing 25 percent
to 7.95 francs after the chief executive officer left and the
wireless remote cardiac and medical patient monitoring service
provider cut its forecast for the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 