-- Old Mutual’s Third-Quarter Sales Rise on Market Gains
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-04T15:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/old-mutual-says-funds-under-management-climbed-by-8-during-third-quarter.html
Old Mutual Plc , the third-biggest
insurer in the U.K., said revenue in the third quarter increased
8 percent, helped by gains in equity markets and improved
consumer spending.  Life insurance sales advanced to 351 million pounds ($566
million) from 326 million pounds a year earlier, the London-
based company said in a statement today. That missed the 372
million-pound estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by the company.
Group funds under management rose 8 percent to 307 billion
pounds in the period.  “We have made good progress so far this year, with rising
funds under management, strong sales and excellent net client
cash flows from our long-term savings business,” Chief
Executive Officer  Julian Roberts  said in the statement. “Sales
of unit trusts have been particularly strong.”  Old Mutual, which was founded in Cape Town in 1845, has to
start selling assets to repay 1.5 billion pounds of debt by 2012
after the company was hurt by writedowns and losses during the
global financial crisis. The insurer’s attempt to sell its South
African banking unit,  Nedbank Group Ltd. , failed when  HSBC
Holdings Plc  abandoned its bid to buy controlling a stake on
Oct. 15 without an explanation.  Debt Plans  The company’s results were a “positive update,” research
analysts at  Deutsche Securities  said in a note today, adding
that Old Mutual remains “vague” on Nedbank.  Old Mutual  rose as much as 4.3 percent and was up 2.7
percent to 132.6 pence as of 3:12 p.m. in London trading.  Since HSBC called Old Mutual to say it was withdrawing from
the bid, the insurer has not heard from the lender again,
according to Chief Financial Officer  Philip Broadley . While debt
wasn’t reduced in the third quarter because no payments came
due, Old Mutual will meet its obligations in 2012 without
selling Nedbank and even should its planned initial public offer
for its U.S. asset-management business be delayed, he said.  “By autumn of next year all of the IPO process should be
in place,” Broadley said, adding that it had been a “brutal
time” for asset managers in the U.S. because of cash outflows.
“If it’s a weak period in the markets, we would be ill-advised
to proceed. We’ll take that decision at a later time.”  Currency Effect  With Old Mutual’s business stretching across regions like
the U.S., the U.K., Europe and South Africa, the currencies and
economies it operates in are being affected by the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s decision to pledge $600 billion for bond purchases.
The rand in South Africa, where Old Mutual makes the largest
percentage of its profit, strengthened as much as 2.1 percent to
6.7683 against the dollar today after the Fed’s announcement.  “A weak pound is good for us in terms of reporting,”
Broadley said. “The strength of the rand helps group earnings.
If quantitative easing works and stimulates the U.S. economy,
then it’s good for our business.”  Old Mutual agreed on Aug. 6 to sell its U.S. life-insurance
unit to Harbinger Capital Partners, the hedge fund run by
billionaire  Philip Falcone , for $350 million to cut debt.  “We are well-advanced in the completion of the sale of the
U.S. life business,” Roberts said. “We remain on track to
achieve our cost-savings and return-on-equity targets by 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  