-- London Tube Network Returns to Normal After 24-Hour Strike on Jobs, Safety
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/london-subway-service-to-return-to-normal-after-24-hour-walkout-by-workers.html
Londoners should see the city’s
subway network return to full service today following a 24-hour
walkout by  London Underground  workers yesterday.  “The service should be back to normal in the morning,”
Candice Jones, a spokeswoman for Transport for London, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “All lines and stations should be
open as usual.”  The travel plans of 3.5 million daily users of the subway,
known as the Tube, were disrupted this week by a 24-hour walkout
over safety and staffing levels that began at 7:00 p.m. on Nov.
2. The industrial action was the third of four scheduled by the
 Rail, Maritime and Transport Union  and  Transport Salaried
Staffs’ Association  in protest against 800 planned job cuts.  TfL laid on 100 extra buses and capacity for around 10,000
extra river journeys during the strike period. About 50 percent
of the Tube’s trains were running, according to an e-mailed
statement from TfL yesterday.  The stoppage was the sixth to shut London Underground since
2002. A fourth 24-hour walkout is planned for Nov. 28, and union
leaders said it was for members to decide whether to take any
further strike action.  “The talks we’ve had with TfL so far aren’t making much
progress,” RMT general secretary  Bob Crow  said at a press
conference at the TSSA’s offices yesterday. “If there are
further job cuts and they involve RMT members, we’ll ballot for
strike action.”  The Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service, the
U.K.’s state-sponsored mediator,  said Nov. 2  that more talks are
planned for today. The discussions will only involve the RMT,
the Press Association reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  