-- Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index Advances to Two-Year High on Fed Stimulus Plan
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-11-04T08:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/hong-kong-stocks-climb-on-fed-plan-evergreen-advances-on-debut.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, extending the
benchmark index’s gain to its highest level in more than two
years, after the Federal Reserve expanded measures to boost the
U.S. economy.  HSBC Holdings Plc., which counts North America as its
second-biggest market, gained 3.6 percent. Techtronic Industries
Co., maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners and Ryobi power tools,
jumped 7.3 percent. Sino Land Co., controlled by billionaire
 Robert Ng , surged 6.1 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended buying property developers.  Evergreen International
Holdings Ltd. , a menswear retailer, soared 26 percent on its
debut.  The  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1.6 percent to 24,535.63 at the
close of trading, extending its gain this week to 6.2 percent.
The gauge closed at its highest level since June 2008. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese
companies advanced 0.9 percent to 13,948.49.  “People perceive that the Fed’s decision will support
valuations of risk assets,” said  Tim Leung , who helps manage
about $1.5 billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The
Fed’s purchasing will allow liquidity to stay in the market, and
higher liquidity will have the effect of supporting risk
assets.”  HSBC, the largest bank in Europe which also receives 20
percent of its revenue from North America, climbed 3.6 percent
to HK$85.50 and was the  biggest contributor  to the Hang Seng
Index’s advance. Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., a contract
maker of mobile-phones that receives about 16 percent of its
revenue from the Americas, rose 1.4 percent to HK$5.94.  U.S. Federal Reserve  The Federal Reserve will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June, setting a pace of about $75 billion of
purchases a month and “will adjust the program as needed,” the
Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a statement in Washington.
The central bank also left unchanged its pledge to keep interest
rates low for an “extended period.”  Techtronic Industries jumped 7.3 percent to HK$8.70. The
company had its share-price target raised to HK$11.50 from
HK$8.80 by Citigroup Inc., which has a “buy” rating on the
stock.  Property stocks posted the biggest gain among the Hang Seng
Index’s four industry groups, with Sino Land jumping 6.1 percent
to HK$18.10, the  steepest gain  on the Hang Seng Index. The
developer is among the top picks of Goldman Sachs, which
forecast “another round of strong property sales to boost
developers’ performance,” according to a research report today.  Property Gains  New World Development Co. , the Hong Kong developer
controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , jumped 4.7 percent to
HK$16.98. Henderson Land Development Company Ltd., the Hong Kong
builder controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee , rose 2.2 percent
to HK$58.80.  Evergreen International soared 26 percent to HK$5.80 on its
first trading day after the Chinese menswear maker’s initial
public offering was 1,231 times subscribed.  “Equity managers are scrambling to get exposure to Asia,”
said  Tey Tze Ming , a market strategist at Saxo Capital Markets
Pte in Singapore. “Since the market is doing very well, the
IPOs tend to be oversubscribed and a lot of that is driven by
the hot flows coming into Asia with so much liquidity awash in
the U.S.”  Futures on the Hang Seng Index increased 1.9 percent to
24,533. Six stocks rose for each that fell of the measure’s 45
constituents.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 