-- Hooters Shows Why Deflation May Never Go Away: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-11-04T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/hooters-shows-why-deflation-may-never-go-away-william-pesek.html
Japan’s newest sensation is one of
the world’s oldest: scantily clad women serving cheap booze.  Yes, Hooters Inc. has made its way to Tokyo. Normally when
hundreds of Japanese men huddle in line it’s for a new iPhone or
video game. These days, it’s to be served beer and chicken wings
by waitresses in white tank tops and orange short-shorts. The
American  chain  is gaining popularity in Japan.  It’s also an unlikely sign that deflation will be with
Japan for a long, long time.  Anyone who still thinks falling prices are a cyclical
phenomenon isn’t looking closely. It’s secular, and the sudden
ubiquity of discount outfits shows how Japanese consumption has
become a race to the bottom of the pricing spectrum.  Japan used to be an automated-teller machine for brands
like Prada, Gucci and Louis Vuitton. Women thought little of
plopping down $2,000 for the latest fashions from Milan and
Paris. Men didn’t blink at paying $200 for a tie. That’s all
fashion-industry history now. Sliding wages and rising job
insecurity brought budget-shopping into vogue.  No matter how much yen the Bank of Japan pumps into the
economy, deflation deepens. It’s all about confidence, of which
there is virtually none. Companies don’t trust that growth will
return and so they avoid investing and hiring and trim salaries.
Households fret about the future.  Sclerotic Politics  Japan’s sclerotic  politics  are a key part of the problem.
Dealing with a new prime minister every eight months or so
doesn’t instill hope. Politicians who spend more time debating
how to raise taxes than protecting living standards don’t help,
either.  It’s telling that the hottest company in Japan is a bargain
clothier. In fact, Fast Retailing Co.’s Uniqlo chain was the
only Japanese name in  Fast Company  magazine’s 2010 story about
the world’s most innovative companies. That’s quite a comedown
for a nation famed for the Walkman and other world-changing
technologies. Its headline-grabbing exports these days are
bargain-price T-shirts and underwear made in China.  The buzz that used to surround Chanel Inc. and Dolce &
Gabbana stores has shifted to far less swanky ones: Inditex SA’s
Zara, Hennes & Mauritz AB’s H&M brands, Forever 21 Inc. and Gap
Inc. Sweden’s  Ikea  is all the rage. And throughout the nation of
126 million, 100 yen shops, Japan’s answer to $1 stores, are
doing brisk business.  Bubble Years  It’s all a far cry from the bubble years when fat expense
accounts and surging wages supported a thriving entertainment
industry. A group of businessmen could easily drop $2,000 at a
hostess club in Ginza, Akasaka or Roppongi. The gloom of the
1990s and deflation of the 2000s dented Japan’s so-called water
trade in a way few could have imagined in the 1980s.  Hooters is the latest step of this trend. Getting
households to spend more of the roughly $15 trillion of savings
sitting under tatami mats is the key to ending deflation. That’s
not going to happen with workers increasingly referring to
themselves as “precariats” -- a word combining precarious and
proletariat.  “With a growing precariat and a younger generation who are
more inclined to save than splurge, second-tier retailers
definitely feel they have a niche to fill here,”  Jeff Kingston ,
author of the recently published “ Contemporary Japan ,” said.
“There does seem to be room for the next wave that can cash in
on the foreign cache while also appealing to frugality.”  Social Changes  Hooters’s expansion brought it to China, the Philippines,
Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan ahead of Japan. Deflation may
explain why. It delivered businessmen to a place where 680 yen
($8.40) beers and 780 yen chicken wings at orange counters are
preferable to leather sofas and single-malt scotch.  Kingston’s book brims with insights about how that happened.
It explores the social changes that swept Japan since the 1980s,
and not always for the better.  Quietly, shifts in the underlying dynamics of Japan Inc.
undermined households’ sense of security and caused greater
disparities in a society that once viewed itself as egalitarian.
Among the most troubling side effects is a slumping birthrate.  Japan’s waning stature is manifesting itself geopolitically.
China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy in
the second quarter. Spats since then show how little time
officials in Beijing seem to have for their peers in Tokyo. A
dispute over a fishing-boat captain in September drew a tantrum
from China. Japan quickly backed down.  Dissing Japan  Russia got into the dissing-Japan act this week. President
 Dmitry Medvedev  visited disputed islands claimed by both
countries, prompting Japan to recall its ambassador to Russia.
All we need now is a row with India to complete the Asian-giant
trifecta.  Yet Japan’s main focus has to be shoring up its flat-lining
economy. It’s easier said than done with public debt at 200
percent of gross domestic product, interest rates at zero and
the yen rising.  Deflation is deepening because no one believes it will be
defeated over the next several years. That mindset has morphed
the once free-spending Japanese into yen-pinchers. It also has
many a politician, corporate executive and investor needing a
drink. Perhaps even at Hooters.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  