-- Oracle Ex-President Says SAP Ducked $5 Billion in Fees
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-04T20:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/oracle-would-have-priced-software-access-at-5-billion-phillips-testifies.html
Oracle Corp.  ex-President  Charles Phillips , who resigned in September, told a jury the company
would have sought at least $5 billion in licensing fees from  SAP
AG  for access to its software.  Phillips, manager of marketing and large-customer relations
during more than seven years at  Oracle , testified today at the
company’s trial over the amount of damages SAP should pay
because a now-defunct software maintenance unit illegally
downloaded Oracle’s copyrighted programs.  Oracle claims  SAP  downloaded the software to avoid paying
licensing fees and to steal Oracle customers. Phillips said if
Oracle were negotiating with SAP over fees, the company would
seek at least $5 billion for software from companies it had
acquired whose customers SAP unit TomorrowNow would be
interested in obtaining.  “We compete fiercely but we don’t take each other’s
software,” Phillips said.  Oracle, the  second-largest maker  of software for business
applications behind SAP, sued its competitor in 2007. It seeks
at least $2.3 billion in damages for what a former SAP unit
acknowledges were fraudulent downloads of software that
infringed Oracle copyrights.  Larry Ellison , Oracle’s chief executive officer, will
testify Nov. 8, a company attorney said today.  Legality Concerns  Former SAP executive  Shai Agassi , testifying after
Phillips, said the Walldorf-Germany-based company had concerns
about the legality of TomorrowNow’s operations and knew Oracle
might sue.  “There’s always a risk Oracle would sue,” he said. Agassi
said he led the evaluation of the TomorrowNow acquisition, while
the “the sales effort” and a program called “Safe Passage”
were managed by  Leo Apotheker , then an SAP executive. Safe
Passage was a program to lure customers from Oracle acquisitions
including PeopleSoft Inc. and J.D. Edwards & Co. by providing
software support.  Apotheker later became SAP’s sole CEO. Videotaped testimony
by Apotheker, who began work as Hewlett-Packard Co.’s CEO on
Nov. 1, is scheduled to be played for the jury in the federal
court trial in Oakland, California.  Phillips was named CEO at Infor Global Solutions, a maker
of business software for midsize companies, on Oct. 25.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, announced
Phillips’s resignation Sept. 6, the same day it said it was
hiring former Hewlett-Packard CEO  Mark Hurd  as its president.  Phillips said in January that he had a “serious
relationship” with a woman who wasn’t his wife for 8 1/2 years,
through the middle of 2009, and that the affair had since ended.
The statement came after billboards in New York carried images
of Phillips and the woman, YaVaughnie Wilkins.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 