-- Orbitz Shares Drop on American Airlines Ticket Threat
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-04T19:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/orbitz-falls-most-since-may-after-amr-s-american-says-contract-may-be-cut.html
Orbitz Worldwide Inc.  fell the most
since February after American Airlines said it would stop
providing fare data to the online travel agency, blocking it
from selling tickets after Dec. 1 unless a new contract is
reached.  For now, customers may continue to buy the airline’s
tickets on Orbitz and Orbitz-powered sites,  Mary Sanderson , a
spokeswoman for American, said in an e-mail. Orbitz disclosed
the plan by American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission  filing .  American is pushing for online travel agencies such as
 Orbitz  to obtain flight and fare information directly from the
airline, instead of through a global distribution system such as
 Sabre Holdings Corp.  or Travelport LLC’s Galileo and Worldspan,
said  Barney Harford , Orbitz chief executive officer. There is no
indication that other airlines will follow American’s lead, he
said in an interview today.  “This is a broad attack by American on the travel
distribution landscape,” Harford said on a conference call with
analysts and investors. “Clearly our announcement today is the
first salvo here.”  Orbitz  dropped $1.16, or 17 percent, to $5.66 at 3:12 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares fell as
much as 19 percent earlier, the biggest intraday decline since
Feb. 23.  AMR , based in Fort Worth, Texas, increased 6 cents to
$8.43.  ‘Call American’s Bluff’  American can’t afford to pull its content off all the
global distribution systems, and its conflict with Orbitz is a
“private negotiation that suddenly became public,” said  Jay Sorensen , president of aviation consultant  Ideaworks  and a
former marketing director at Midwest Airlines.  “I don’t see an agenda here for American to remake the
travel industry,” Sorensen said in an interview. “American is
doing what’s smart in terms of negotiating. You threaten to do
something that you in fact are willing to do. Orbitz may call
American’s bluff.”  American will seek to “negotiate mutually beneficial
contracts” with other agencies as existing ones expire, the
airline said in an e-mailed statement.  Travelocity.com Inc. has not been contacted by American on
the issue, said Joel Frey, a spokesman for the Fort Worth,
Texas-based travel agency. Priceline.com Inc., Kayak.com and
Expedia Inc. didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  ‘Range of Issues’  A “range of issues” are being negotiated by Orbitz and
American, Sanderson said. She declined to comment on specifics
because negotiations continue. The airline doesn’t agree with
Harford’s characterization of the dispute, she said.  “We continue to negotiate in good faith to reach a viable,
mutually beneficial agreement with Orbitz,” Sanderson said.
“We believe it is important that our distribution channels be
cost-effective and efficient.”  Orbitz is among a number of online travel agencies that
allow customers to book airline tickets, rent cars and hotels.
Consumers are able to compare prices and schedules of various
airlines before making a choice.  American, which has said it pays “hundreds of millions of
dollars annually” to global distribution systems such as Sabre
and Galileo, has developed its Direct Connect service to provide
information on fares and options directly to larger online
travel agencies. Smaller companies still may use a content
aggregator to obtain their data.  ‘Completely Inefficient’  Global distribution systems “ensure travel agents can
offer consumers a comprehensive choice of airlines,” Harford
said. “It is completely inefficient for each travel agency to
have to connect to hundreds of airlines. We are actively working
to resolve this issue.”  Travelport , based in Atlanta, said in a statement that an
attempt by American to force a move to a more restrictive
distribution system may violate the airline’s contract. The
company said it was “taking a number of steps” in response,
without providing specifics.  American declined to provide a figure for ticket sales
through Orbitz or other online agencies. Orbitz also declined to
break out income from American sales.  Orbitz said today third-quarter gross bookings rose 12
percent from a year ago to $2.81 billion.  Net income  more than
doubled to $15.3 million. Airline-ticket sales provide about 38
percent of Orbitz’s total revenue, Harford said.  Orbitz and AMR entered into an agreement in December 2003,
according to the SEC filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  