-- Morgan Stanley, 3i Will Purchase HSBC Eversholt Rail Unit for $3.3 Billion
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2010-11-04T17:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/morgan-stanley-3i-will-purchase-hsbc-eversholt-rail-unit-for-3-3-billion.html
Morgan Stanley , 3i Infrastructure Plc
and Star Capital Partners Ltd. agreed to buy HSBC Holdings Plc’s
U.K. train-leasing business for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.4
billion).  The deal is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter,
HSBC said today in a Regulatory News Service statement. The unit
owns about 29 percent of the British rail fleet, comprising 19
fleets of vehicles leased to seven operators.  The group raised about 1.4 billion pounds from loans
maturing in four and six years, and 300 million pounds of short-
term funding to be refinanced by bonds, people with knowledge of
the matter said today. The borrowing is being arranged by Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, Credit Agricole CIB, HSBC, ING Groep NV, Societe Generale
SA and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the people said.  HSBC bought the U.K. train-leasing company Eversholt
Holdings Ltd., one of three rolling-stock leasing companies
created in 1994 when Britain’s state-run railway was privatized,
in 1997 for 726.5 million pounds. Its sale means that all three
companies have changed hands in the past two years.  Angel Trains was sold by RBS in 2008 to a unit of Babcock &
Brown Ltd. and partners for 3.6 billion pounds. Following the
Australian asset-management firm’s collapse, Angel is held by a
group of private-equity investors and funds.  Porterbrook Leasing Co. was sold for an undisclosed sum
last year by Banco Santander SA to Antin Infrastructure
Partners, a fund backed by BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and
Lloyds Banking Group, after the Spanish bank inherited the
company with its purchase of U.K.-based Abbey National Plc.  The consortium was advised by Macquarie Capital Advisers,
BNP Paribas SA and Wyvern Partners while HSBC used its own
advisers and N.M. Rothschild & Son Ltd.  Star Capital is a London-based investment-fund manager and
Jersey, Channel Islands-based 3i Infrastructure invests in toll
roads, bridges, ports, airports and utilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 