-- Osborne Vows to Stick to Budget Plan as Skepticism Grows on Spending Cuts
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-11-04T13:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/osborne-vows-to-stick-to-budget-plan-as-skepticism-grows-on-spending-cuts.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  stressed his commitment to virtually wiping out
the budget deficit over the next four years after lawmakers and
former civil servants said he’ll struggle to stick to the plan.  Osborne told a parliamentary panel he expects departments
to find ways of operating more efficiently and said he is
looking at ways to control welfare and debt-interest costs.  “I have done everything I can to move Britain out of the
financial danger zone,” Osborne told the cross-party Treasury
Committee in London today. “We are not on negative watch with
the credit rating agencies. The question mark they will always
have is, can we see the measures through, and I believe that we
can.”  Rachel Lomax  and  John Gieve , both former permanent
secretaries at government departments, said this week that
Osborne may find it hard to reduce spending by 81 billion pounds
($130 billion) a year by 2015 amid opposition to the cuts from
voters and some politicians in the coalition government.  Further doubts were expressed today by Parliament’s Public
Accounts Committee, which said in a report that officials had
proved incapable of cutting government waste in recent years.  “Now that much more radical cost-cutting measures are
required across government, my committee is gravely concerned
about the ability of government to make efficiency improvements
on the scale needed,” said Chairwoman  Margaret Hodge , an
opposition Labour Party lawmaker. “There is a serious risk that
to reduce costs departments will rely solely on cutting
frontline services.”  Efficiency Savings  Asked how he intended to achieve more efficiency gains,
Osborne said he left it to departments to find the cuts in their
administrative costs outlined in the Oct. 20 spending review.  “I have not set out with every dot and comma what every
department needs to do with every pound of its budget,” Osborne
said. “I want them to take responsibility for the delivery of
their budgets.”  Departments face cuts of 19 percent on average over the
next four years as the government seeks to narrow the deficit to
2 percent of economic output by 2015 from more than 10 percent
today. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has asked ministers to step
up the search for savings to minimize the impact on services.  With the economy facing a “choppy outlook,” Osborne
argued his austerity program is providing a spur to growth by
removing the threat to Britain’s credit rating and keeping
interest rates low.  Labour lawmaker  John Mann  suggested Osborne’s plan is
driven by an ideological desire to shrink the state given that
Britain’s debt stock will be below that of the U.S. and France
after five years.  Osborne said he is looking at “a new framework” for
annually managed expenditure, the part of the budget the
Treasury is least able to control. It includes debt-interest and
social-security costs and accounts for almost half of Britain’s
700 billion pounds of annual spending.  “That’s one of the big challenges facing the Treasury, the
annually managed expenditure,” he said. “We are looking at a
new framework for that in the budget,” which, Osborne said,
will be published on March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  