-- Tottenham's Bale Is Target for Barcelona, Real Madrid, Sun Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-04T11:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/tottenham-s-bale-is-target-for-barcelona-real-madrid-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bale’s Bond  Tottenham winger  Gareth Bale  is being targeted by Real
Madrid and Barcelona after his play against Inter Milan in the
Champions League,  the Sun said.   Although the teams are willing to pay 50 million pounds
($81 million) for the Welshman, Bale wants to stay at the London
club, the newspaper said. Coach  Harry Redknapp  says he won’t
sell Bale, who signed a four-year contract this year.  Upson Out?  West Ham United officials realize the club will likely lose
defender  Matt Upson  for nothing when his contract expires at the
end of the season,  the Mirror said.   The player has refused to extend his 60,000 pound-a-week
contract with the London club, and will consider his options in
January, the newspaper said.  Villa, Liverpool Fight  Aston Villa and Liverpool are ready to bid for Preston
defender Sean St. Ledger,  the Mail said .  Villa scouts and Liverpool assistant  Sammy Lee  have watched
the 25-year-old Irish national team member play, the newspaper
said. Preston may be willing to accept 4 million pounds for St.
Ledger, the Mail said.  Wenger’s Wrath?  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will be angered by striker
 Robin van Persie ’s call up for the Holland national squad, the
Mail said.  The 27-year-old, who hasn’t appeared for Arsenal since Aug.
28 because of an ankle injury, has been named to the preliminary
team for an exhibition match against Turkey, the newspaper said.  Holland coach  Bert van Marwijk  has left out Manchester City
midfielder  Nigel de Jong , who has been criticized for his rough
tackling, the newspaper said.  Mancini’s Confident  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  said he’s confident
that his players are backing him despite media reports that some
of the squad want him fired,  the Sun said.   Mancini didn’t bring brothers  Yaya Toure  and  Kolo Toure  to
play in tonight’s Europa League match against Poznan in Poland,
the newspaper said. The coach said they were left behind because
they need work, not because of a dispute with the pair, the Sun
said.  Comolli’s Place  Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  says he’s willing to work
with new director of football strategy  Damien Comolli , but
insists that the final say on transfers and team selection rests
with the manager,  the Mirror said.   Hodgson said the club’s new owners, New England Sports
Ventures Llp, are trying to make sure no one person has total
control at the team, which rests in 13th place in the Premier
League, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 