-- Palestinian Negotiator Signals Flexibility on Middle East Talks Timetable
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-04T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/palestinian-negotiator-signals-flexibility-on-middle-east-talks-timetable.html
Palestinians will wait “two to three
weeks” for the U.S. to pursue efforts to save peace talks with
Israel, chief negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said today.  Erakat met this morning with U.S. special envoy to the
Middle East  George Mitchell  and other U.S. officials. Asked
afterward about how much time Palestinians were willing to give
the U.S. to work with Israel, he said the officials “spoke of
two, three weeks today for finishing their work.”  Erakat’s comments suggest the Palestinians are willing to
give the U.S. more time to find a way to resurrect the direct
talks, which stalled after a 10-month partial moratorium on
settlement construction expired Sept. 26. The Palestinians
insist discussions can resume only if Israel stops construction
in its West Bank settlements.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  meets in
Cairo on Nov. 9 with representatives of the Arab League, which
at its Oct. 9 meeting gave President  Barack Obama  a month to
revive negotiations.  Obama, who yesterday described Democrats’ loss of at least
60 seats in the House of Representatives as a “shellacking,”
leaves tomorrow for a nine-day trip to Asia. He’ll be in India
when Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  travels Nov. 7 to
the U.S. for meetings with Vice President  Joe Biden  and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Working ‘Nonstop’  “We are working on a nonstop basis with our Israeli and
Palestinian friends to design a way forward in the
negotiations,” Clinton, traveling in Wellington, New Zealand,
said today. “I am very involved in finding the way forward, and
think we will do so.”  Prince Turki al-Faisal , Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to the
U.S. from 2005 until 2007, called for the Obama administration
to put more pressure on Israel to stop construction of
settlements, which he calls colonies, and accept a 2002 Arab
peace plan.  “Asking the Palestinians to ignore ongoing colony
construction is tantamount to asking them to accept subjugation
from the start,” Turki told an audience at the  Carnegie
Endowment  for International Peace in Washington today.  So far, U.S. formulas to renew the talks, including a 60-
day cessation of settlement building, haven’t been successful.  Pitch to UN  Should U.S. efforts fail, Palestinians will pursue a bid to
gain recognition of statehood by the United Nations Security
Council, Erakat told reporters today in Washington at a
conference organized by the  Middle East Institute .  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  -- With assistance from Viola Gienger in Washington. Editors:
 Robin Meszoly ,  Bob Drummond .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  