-- Tesla Rises After Panasonic Buys Stake in Carmaker
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-11-04T20:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/panasonic-pays-30-million-for-stake-in-electric-carmaker-tesla.html
Tesla Motors Inc.  rose 14 percent in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading after  Panasonic Corp. , the largest
maker of rechargeable batteries, bought a $30 million stake in
the electric-car maker.  Tesla jumped $3.13 to $24.90 at 4 p.m. New York time, its
highest level since the company first sold shares to the public
in June. Panasonic paid $21.15 a share yesterday in a private
placement for its holding in the Silicon Valley startup, which
also counts  Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Daimler AG  among investors.
The investment expands on a battery collaboration the companies
announced this year, Tesla said in statement.  The move is “a powerful endorsement of our technology,”
 Elon Musk , Tesla’s chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “We believe our partnership with them will enable us
to further improve our battery pack while reducing cost.”  Tesla, maker of the $109,000 electric Roadster sports car,
has set a goal of becoming the auto industry’s leader in
battery-powered cars, aided by supply agreements with Toyota and
Daimler. The Palo Alto, California-based company is revamping a
former Toyota joint-venture factory in the state that is to
begin making its $57,400 Model S in 2012.  Panasonic and Tesla in January agreed to jointly develop
next-generation lithium-ion batteries for electric cars. While
Osaka, Japan-based Panasonic is Tesla’s “preferred” battery
cell supplier, the agreement doesn’t prevent the carmaker from
also using cells from other battery makers, said  Ricardo Reyes ,
a Tesla spokesman.  1.42 Million Shares  Panasonic likely bought 1.42 million Tesla shares, based on
the purchase price disclosed by the company. Toyota bought a $50
million stake in Tesla this year and Daimler invested a similar
amount in 2009.  Panasonic’s  American depositary receipts , each representing
one ordinary share, rose 29 cents, or 2 percent, to $14.49 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have risen 1 percent this year.  Tesla, which has jumped about 46 percent since its IPO, is
scheduled to report third-quarter results Nov. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net . 