-- Apax Partners, Carlyle Said to Vie for Control of India's Patni Computer
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-15T08:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/patni-computer-s-founding-family-said-to-consider-selling-entire-stake.html
Apax Partners LLP is vying with
Carlyle Group as the two buyout funds lead competing bids to buy
control of  Patni Computer Systems Ltd. , the Indian software
company backed by General Atlantic LLC, five people with direct
knowledge of the transaction said.  Apax and  IGate Corp.  are jointly bidding for the 45.9
percent stake held by the founding family, with a decision
expected as early as this month, three of the people said.
Carlyle, the world’s second-largest buyout firm, is bidding with
Advent International Corp., two people said. The shares may be
sold at about 500 rupees each, two of the people said.  Patni rose as much as 5.6 percent, the biggest intraday
gain in a month, to 487 rupees on mounting speculation a deal is
imminent. A sale would allow Chairman  Narendra Patni , 68, and
his family to exit the company as demand for computer services
helped the stock more than double since its initial public
offering six years ago.  “Once Patni’s prospective clients have clarity on
ownership, doing business for Patni’s sales force will become
easier,” said  Pralay Kumar Das , an analyst with Elara
Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “They face a lot of questions
on these fronts as to what the ownership structure is going to
be.”  General Atlantic Sale  Selling the shares at 500 rupees apiece would be 8.5
percent higher than yesterday’s closing  price  and value the
acquisition at about 42 billion rupees ($924 million), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oracle Corp.’s $1.06 billion investment in 2006 to increase
its stake in its Indian unit, now called Oracle Financial
Services Software, ranks as the biggest acquisition of Indian
technology assets, followed by KKR & Co.’s $900 million buyout
of a  Flextronics International Ltd . unit the same year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  General Atlantic, based in Greenwich, Connecticut, may also
sell its holding, two of the people said. General Atlantic holds
a 2.1 percent stake in Patni through the company’s Mumbai-traded
shares, as of Sept. 30, and a 15.4 percent stake through its
holdings in its American depositary receipts, according to  data 
posted on the Bombay Stock Exchange’s website.  Patni, which provides computer services and back-office
support for clients in the U.S., Europe and Asia, rose 3.2
percent to 475.75 rupees at 2:22 p.m. in Mumbai trading.  Patni would give the winning bidder entry into the
recovering market for outsourced technology services, an
industry that  Forrester Research Inc . estimates will grow 7.6
percent to $253 billion next year after rising 2.7 percent this
year.  Japanese Bidders  Patni, India’s fifth-largest software-services provider by
market value, relies on customers in the U.S. for the majority
of its business and competes there with  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd ., which announced record North American sales in
October.  Patni doesn’t comment on market speculation as a matter of
company policy, it said in an e-mailed statement. Narendra Patni
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and call to his Mumbai
office.  Japan’s  NTT Data  Corp.,  Fujitsu Ltd . and  Hitachi Ltd . had
earlier considered deals involving Patni, the Times News Network
reported Dec. 15.  The bidders want the founding family to sign a non-compete
agreement and a representation-and-warranties contract that
would help the buyers in case of future liabilities, one of the
people said.  Patni Family  The Patni family may be wanting to cash out of their
investments in the company, said  Aniruddha Mehta , an analyst
with  India Infoline Ltd . in Mumbai. He has a “buy” rating on
Patni’s shares.  Apax, based in London, may buy shares in Fremont,
California-based  IGate , which would then acquire Patni, three of
the people said. The buyout firm is also considering forming a
joint venture with the U.S. software-services provider to bid
for the assets, one of the people said.  IGate Chief Executive Officer  Phaneesh Murthy  didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment.
 Sandeep Naik , co-head and managing director of Apax Partners in
India, also didn’t reply to an e-mail.  Carlyle Bid  Washington-based Carlyle, the largest private equity firm
after  Blackstone Group LP , and Boston-based Advent will be equal
partners in their bid for Patni, one of the people said. Ex-TPG
Inc. partner  Vivek Paul  is advising the Carlyle group and may
join Patni’s board if they win, the person said.  Christopher Ullman , a spokesman for Carlyle, declined to
comment.  Georg Stratenwerth , a Mumbai-based managing director
for Advent, didn’t respond to a call to his office or an e-mail.  Paul, who quit TPG about two years ago, didn’t reply to two
e-mails seeking comment from him that were sent to Meeta
Malhotra, who co-founded Bangalore-based  KineticGlue Online
Communities Pvt.  with him in 2008. The 52-year-old also didn’t
return a call to his U.S. phone. Paul quit as vice chairman of
Bangalore-based  Wipro Ltd . in 2005 to join TPG.  Patricia Hedley, a spokeswoman for General Atlantic,
declined to comment on any of the firm’s portfolio companies.  IGate  IGate may raise as much as $182.6 million from selling
shares and $100 million through debt, according to a Nov. 29
filing to the Securities & Exchange Commission.  Carlyle, which started with $5 million in seed capital, now
manages $98 billion in 78 funds with holdings in 19 countries.
Advent raised more than $26 billion in cumulative capital
through the end of last year, according to its website, while
Apax oversees 11.2 billion euros ($14.8 billion) in funds raised
in 2007 for buyouts.  IGate in 2009 teamed up with a private equity fund in a
failed bid to acquire Hyderabad-based  Satyam Computer Services
Ltd ., the technology-services provider embroiled in a fraud
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net  