-- Pelosi May Lack Support as Leader, Two Democrats Say
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pelosi-may-lack-support-for-leader-role-two-democrats-say.html
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  is
consulting with her Democratic colleagues about her political
future after their party suffered the biggest loss of seats in
more than 70 years and Republicans won control of the chamber.  “She’ll make an announcement when she’s ready,” her
spokesman,  Brendan Daly , said yesterday, as two House Democrats
called on Pelosi to prepare to leave the leadership.  “We need to shake things up,” Democratic Representative
 Jim Matheson , co-chairman of the fiscally conservative  House
Blue Dog Coalition , said in an interview yesterday. Matheson of
Utah and Democratic Representative  Heath Shuler  of North
Carolina said the loss of at least 60 House seats is too steep
to keep Pelosi, of California, at the helm as minority leader
when a new session of Congress starts in January.  “I’m convinced she realizes this” and will leave, said
Shuler. He said House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland
has the inside track to replace her as top leader should she
decide to step aside.  Pelosi, the highest-ranking woman in U.S. politics, hasn’t
announced whether she will run for minority leader. She said on
ABC’s “World News Tonight” Nov. 3 that she has “no regrets”
and is considering her options. She became the first female
House speaker four years ago.  Support for Pelosi  Representative  Lynn Woolsey , a California Democrat,
defended Pelosi, saying that although the speaker hasn’t given
her any indication of what she might do, Pelosi could count on
her support if she runs for minority leader.  The Republican Party’s gain in the House is its biggest
since the 1938 election, when Democrats lost 72 seats.
Republicans, who lost the majority of the House and Senate in
the 2006 elections, also picked up at least six seats in the
Senate, short of the 10 needed for a majority.  Woolsey said Pelosi deserves credit for pushing through
landmark legislation like this year’s health-care overhaul and
the 2009 economic stimulus.  “What we achieved the first 19 months of Obama’s
administration wouldn’t have happened without her,” Woolsey
said.  Election ‘Nationalized’  Texas Democrat  Gene Green  said Pelosi “was an issue in
everybody’s campaign” because  Republicans “nationalized the
election.”  Pelosi sent members a “non-definitive” letter yesterday
recounting the Democratic Congress’s achievements without
signaling what she might do, Green said in a telephone interview
last night.  “I really don’t know,” what she should do, said Green,
who wants to talk to other members before forming his
preference. Pelosi’s comments in the ABC interview were a
solicitation of members’ views on what she should do, he said.
The speaker’s letter didn’t invite members’ input, he said.  Her decision may not be made until after Democrats caucus
the week after next, Green said.  “It might be better if she made the decision” herself
“so we don’t have a battle” for leadership, he said.  Doug Schoen , a Democratic strategist, said he thinks it
unlikely Pelosi will want or be able to continue as Democratic
leader in a House dominated by Republicans.  ‘Ideology and Sentiment’  Hoyer, if he  emerges as minority leader, would be better
suited “by ideology and sentiment” to strike a more
conciliatory tone, said Schoen, who advised President  Bill Clinton  when he ran for re-election in 1996.  Shuler, who last week said he would run against Pelosi if
the party held its majority to provide a more moderate leader,
said she’s a “phenomenal” party fundraiser. Still, he said
she’s too much of a lightning rod with voters in swing
districts.  “Republicans kept trying to tie everyone to her, and that
makes it very difficult to go into these moderate districts and
recruit candidates,” Shuler said.  Matheson said that while Pelosi isn’t completely to blame
for Democrats’ losses, she ignored party moderates’ pleas to
make changes in the agenda. He cited the House debate last year
over legislation to curb greenhouse-gas emissions, saying the
economy should have been at the forefront.  “A lot of us were warning about that for two years,”
Matheson said.  The House Democratic losses, described by President  Barack Obama  as a “shellacking,” particularly hit Democrats from
Republican-leaning districts, including House Budget Committee
Chairman  John Spratt  of South Carolina and House Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Ike Skelton  of Missouri. Almost two dozen of
the 53 members of the Blue Dog Coalition were defeated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 