-- Penn Evaded Harvard Losses With `Defensive' Fund, Marks Says
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/penn-skipped-harvard-losses-with-defensive-fund-ex-chairman-marks-says.html
The University of Pennsylvania, the
Ivy League school founded by  Benjamin Franklin , outperformed its
wealthiest peers by avoiding many hard-to-sell assets such as
real estate, according to </a> Howard Marks, former chairman of the the investment committee.   Penn held less in private equity and property, more in
stocks and owned a “defensive” mix of hedge funds, as well as
“substantial” cash and short-term U.S. Treasuries, Marks wrote
in an Oct. 20 memo to trustees, obtained by Bloomberg News. The
Philadelphia school’s investments fell 16 percent in the year
ended June 2009, versus the 27 percent and 25 percent declines
of Harvard and Yale, the two richest U.S. universities.  “Most things in investing are two-edged swords: if you do
more of them, you’ll make more if they work but lose more if
they don’t,” wrote Marks, chairman of  Oaktree Capital
Management LP  in Los Angeles, who left his endowment post on
June 30. “Two prominent examples are (1) using borrowed money,
or ‘leverage,’ to magnify results and (2) investing in illiquid
assets that can’t always be sold on demand other than at a
substantial discount from their fair value.”  The $5.7 billion fund outperformed Harvard in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Yale in New Haven, Connecticut, again in the
past year, while still trailing them over the last decade.
Yale’s  David Swensen  pioneered the strategy of using private
equity, real estate and commodities to beat stocks and bonds.
These infrequently traded stakes ballooned as a percentage of
big endowments when markets tumbled after the September 2008
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.   5.6% a Year  Penn averaged annual increases of 5.6 percent in the past
decade, compared with the 7 percent and 8.9 percent returns at
Harvard and Yale, and its own target of 8.25 percent. In the
year ended June 30, Penn gained 13 percent on investments, tied
for third-best in the Ivy League, while Harvard’s $27.6 billion
endowment climbed 11 percent and Yale’s $16.7 billion fund
advanced 8.9 percent.  Columbia University’s $6.5 billion fund in New York led
with a 17 percent gain, followed by Princeton University’s $14.4
billion endowment in New Jersey, which increased 15 percent.
Cornell University’s $4.4 billion endowment in Ithaca, New York,
matched Penn last year.  Yale was the worst performer among the eight Ivy League
schools, while Harvard ranked fifth.  Marks, 64, started Oaktree after leaving TCW Group Inc. in
1995. The firm managed $75.1 billion, as of June 30, in
investments including distressed debt, high-yield and
convertible bonds, private equity and real estate. Marks, who
graduated from the Wharton school in 1967, served on Penn’s
investment committee for 13 years and established the  Marks
Family Writing Center  in 2003 on campus.  Not ‘Superhuman’  “As I wrote last year, ‘everyone had regrettable
investments in his or her portfolio -- given the climate, you’d
have to be superhuman not to,’” Marks said in his final letter
to trustees after 10 years as the head of Penn’s investment
board. “What matters is how many, how big and how bad
Endowments in general had more of these than other investors in
2007-08, and thus they experienced bigger problems.”  Robert Levy , chairman and chief investment officer at money
manager Harris Associates LP in Chicago, has taken over the
chairman role at Penn, Marks said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “Investors have a choice between trying to maximize and
trying to build in security,” Marks said in the interview.
“There isn’t a right over wrong. Everybody has to make that
choice for themselves. I think the events of these recent years
demonstrate that choice and action.”  Stressing Stability  Penn’s investment committee emphasized stability over
maximizing returns and achieved “a respectable return and
minimized disappointment and difficulty in bad times,” Marks
said.  In the past decade, the endowment added holdings of non-
U.S. equities and hedge funds, lessened its preference for value
stocks over growth companies, diversified its mix of investment
managers and added venture capital and buyout firms, albeit to a
smaller extent than its peers, Marks wrote. In 2004, the school
appointed  Kristin Gilbertson  as CIO, growing its internal
endowment management capabilities, he wrote.  The Ivy League schools are private institutions in the
northeastern U.S. None has recouped the record losses incurred
in the year ended in June 2009. As investments tumbled,
universities cut jobs, froze salaries and postponed building
projects.  Penn dodged the hundreds of layoffs, construction delays,
discounted sales of illiquid investments and debt issuance of
several of its peer institutions because the university was less
dependent on its fund, getting 10 percent of its budget from
endowment earnings, Marks said. In comparison, Harvard and Yale
get more than one-third of their budgets from endowment income.  “Never forget the 6-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the
stream that was 5 feet deep on average,” Marks said. “Prudent
financial management doesn’t get you through ‘on average’ --
rather, it enables you to survive the low points.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 