-- Peso Becoming Top Carry-Trade Currency as Exports Soar: Argentina Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-04T22:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/peso-becoming-top-carry-trade-currency-as-exports-soar-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s peso is becoming the most
attractive carry-trade currency in the world.  The peso’s so-called Sharpe ratio, a gauge that measures
the reward for the risk investors take, tripled to 10.1 over the
past month through yesterday, the highest among 35 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The peso also posted the biggest drop in
volatility among emerging currencies this year, making it more
appealing to investors who buy higher-yielding currencies with
funds borrowed in countries with lower interest rates.  Argentina’s  overnight rate  of 10.13 percent compares with
key benchmarks of 1 percent or lower in the U.S., Japan and
Europe. Surging soybean exports are fueling the fastest economic
growth since 2005 and prompting analysts to boost their currency
forecast to the strongest level in two years.  “Capital is returning to Argentina, pointing to a stable
currency,” said  Nick Chamie , the global head of emerging
markets at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. “Combined with the
yields, it is the most attractive currency in the universe we
watch.”  The peso gained 0.1 percent in October, ending a nine-month
slide and paring its decline this year to 4 percent. The
currency will slide by 2 percent to 4.04 per dollar by year-end
and drop to 4.3 by December 2011, according to the median
forecast of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In August, the
analysts predicted a decline to 4.2 per dollar by yearend and
4.65 by the end of 2011.  Trade Surplus  A record soybean harvest and growing exports to Brazil and
China will push growth in South America’s second-largest economy
to 9 percent this year after a 0.9 percent expansion in 2009,
according to the central bank. Argentina’s trade surplus widened
to $1.07 billion in September, the highest in three months.  Buying the peso with dollar loans returned 0.8 percent
since Oct. 1, including interest-rate payments, the third-most
in six major Latin American currencies after the Mexican peso
and the Brazilian real, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a pretty nice trade,” said  Alejandro Urbina , who
owns peso-denominated bonds as an emerging-market debt portfolio
manager at Chicago-based Silva Capital Management, which has
about $800 million in advisory and management. “It’s all about
that large yield differential. The currency is very stable and
the growth picture is constructive.”  Implied volatility of one-month options for the peso
dropped to 4.4 percent, from 5.5 percent at the end of last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar gauges
for the South African rand stand at 15 percent, 12 percent for
the Brazilian real and 11.8 percent for the Colombian peso.  Peso Forwards  The implied yield on one-year non-deliverable forwards for
the Argentine peso is 10.1 percent, compared with 2.7 percent
for the Chilean peso and 3.4 percent for the Mexican currency,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yields that Argentine assets offer are insufficient to
compensate investors for the risk that the peso may tumble,
according to  Guillermo Mondino , head of Latin America research
at Barclays Plc in New York. The peso has lost 23 percent since
2007 and 75 percent since Argentina defaulted on its debt in
2001, the third-biggest drop in the world after the Venezuelan
bolivar and Iranian rial.  Barclays and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimate inflation is
more than double the government’s 11.1 percent rate. Economists
have questioned the accuracy of inflation data since 2007, when
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ’s late husband and
predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , changed personnel at the agency
that measures consumer prices. Fernandez has said the data is
accurate.  “It’s a lot riskier than people acknowledge,” Mondino
said. “The headline risk in Argentina is very high. When the
market turns, people can get hurt very much.”  Total Return  The Argentine peso is also “illiquid,” making it more
difficult for investors to sell the currency when they want to
exit the trade, Mondino said.  Investing in the peso-denominated money-market instruments
delivered a total return of 3.7 percent this year, trailing the
15.1 percent gain in the South African rand and 14.4 percent
advance in the Colombian peso, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We don’t see much value in the peso relative to other
currencies in the region,” said  Vitali Meschoulam , a strategist
at Morgan Stanley in New York.  The peso fell 0.1 percent today to 3.9594 per dollar.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 31 basis points,
or 0.31 percentage point, today to 601, according to data
compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Presidential Elections  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 32 basis points today
to 486, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The gap is down from
846 on July 1.  Fernandez’s government will seek to keep the peso stable
ahead of presidential elections next year, said RBC’s Chamie.
Kirchner said in July that either he or Fernandez would run for
president next year.  “They want to show stability,” said Chamie, who
recommends his clients buy the peso in non-deliverable forwards
to pick up yield.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  