-- Petrobras Bonds Beat Hess After Crude Discovery: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-11-04T02:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/petrobras-bonds-beat-hess-after-biggest-oil-find-in-decades-brazil-credit.html
Bonds of Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the
world’s third-largest oil company by market value, are
outperforming those of Hess Corp. and Exxon Mobil Corp. by the
most since March after Brazil made the biggest crude discovery
in the Americas in 34 years.  Dollar debt issued by Petrobras, as the state-controlled
company is called, due in 2014 returned 1.5 percent in October,
the best performance versus Hess and Exxon in seven months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds issued by Hess,
which has the same credit rating from Fitch Ratings Ltd. as
Petrobras, gained 0.6 percent last month while debt sold by
Exxon, the world’s largest company by value, rose 0.9 percent.  Citigroup Inc. recommends investors buy Petrobras notes and
sell Hess, the ninth-largest U.S. oil company, as the Brazilian
company’s capital expansion plan and new laws may allow it to
dominate all new deepwater projects. Petrobras’s production may
exceed  Exxon’s  in 10 years, according to BGC Partners LP, a
brokerage in New York.  “You’re better off being in a company that has better
prospects,” said  Mikhail Foux , a credit strategist at Citigroup
in New York. “They have the capex plan in place and down the
line dividends will be paid on that.”  The yield gap between bonds from Rio de Janeiro-based
Petrobras and Hess narrowed to 115 basis points, or 1.15
percentage points, last month from a record 160 on Sept. 27,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Petrobras and Hess are
rated BBB by Fitch. Exxon is rated AAA. Petrobras ranks behind
Irving, Texas-based Exxon and Petrochina Co Ltd. in market
value.  ‘Gigantic’ Reserves  The yield on the 7.75 percent Petrobras notes fell 37 basis
points in October, the biggest decline since April 2009, to 2.98
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 7 percent Hess notes maturing the same year fell 14 basis
points to 1.70 percent.  Brazil on Oct. 29 said its Libra field may hold
“gigantic” reserves of as much as 15 billion barrels,
according to an e-mail sent by the national petroleum regulator.
That estimate was almost twice initial forecasts, which would
make it the biggest find in the Americas since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976.  A deposit of that magnitude would be almost twice the size
of Petrobras’s nearby Tupi field. Legislation likely to be
passed this year or in 2011 will give Petrobras at least a 30
percent stake in all new so-called pre-salt projects in the
nation,  Marco Antonio Almeida , the Energy Ministry’s oil and gas
secretary, told reporters on Oct. 27.  Libra Field  Libra and Tupi, both in Brazil’s Santos Basin, are located
in a region known as the pre-salt, which runs 800 kilometers
(500 miles) off the coast, holding oil deposits beneath a layer
of salt resting as deep as 3,000 meters beneath the ocean
surface and another 5,000 meters below the seabed.  At the end of 2009, Hess had 1.44 billion barrels in
recoverable reserves of oil and natural gas, Petrobras had 12.1
billion and Exxon Mobil had 23 billion, according to the annual
reports from each company. While Hess said it plans to find
enough reserves each year to replace production, Petrobras aims
to boost output over the next decade to 5.4 million barrels a
day.  “Hess doesn’t have that kind of growth profile,” said
 Michael Purves , chief market strategist at BGC in New York, who
follows Petrobras’s securities. “They’re a lower growth
machine.”  More Output  Jon Pepper , a spokesman for New York-based Hess, declined
to comment as did a Petrobras official, who asked not to be
identified in accordance with company policy.  Cynthia White , a
spokeswoman for Exxon, said the company plans to increase output
2 percent to 3 percent a year through 2013. Exxon declined to
comment on the performance of its debt.  Petrobras has doubled  output  in the past 10 years and will
surpass Exxon’s current production by 2017 if it meets targets
set in its current business plan, according to the Brazilian
company’s official production metrics.  Exxon  has increased
output 4.7 percent over the past decade to 4.45 million barrels
a day in the third quarter, according to figures on the
company’s website.  The rally in Petrobras bonds is a reversal from the decline
in the run-up to the company’s $70 billion share sale on Sept
24. The notes due in 2014 rose 4.6 percent from the end of last
year through the offering date, compared with 8.5 percent for
Hess and 8 percent for Exxon. The 2014 bonds were issued by XTO
Energy, which Exxon acquired on June 28.  Petrobras Share Sale  At the end of September, Petrobras raised $27.5 billion in
cash from the share sale, the largest in history, to help fund
deepwater drilling projects. The company plans to invest $224
billion through 2014.  Petrobras hasn’t issued bonds this year after selling $6.75
billion in international markets in 2009, more than the $5.55
billion the company raised over the previous 10 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds sold by Petrobras may become less attractive to
investors as the company returns to the debt market to complete
its capital expenditure plan, said  Jack Deino , who oversees
about $1.6 billion of emerging-market debt at Invesco Inc.  “Petrobras has very positive growth, but you have to take
into account that growth increases risks and increases the
costs,” Deino said in a telephone interview from New York.
“They’ll have to become very aggressive in the bond market.”  Credit Default Swaps  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell two
basis points to 173, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  The real rose 0.8 percent to 1.6898 per dollar yesterday.
The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 gained one basis point to 11.33 percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years declined two basis points to 95, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Petrobras bonds are attractive given the company’s
prospects, Citigroup’s Foux said.  Hess  produced 413,000 barrels
a day of oil and natural gas in the third quarter, about 16
percent of Petrobras’s total output, according to production
figures from each company.  “You have this bellwether U.S. corporate which is traded
very tight, and with very little value,” Foux said of Hess.
Petrobras has “more room to outperform and it’s a more
interesting trade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  