-- Pfizer Bone Drug Reduces Breast Cancer Risk in Older Women
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-11-04T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pfizer-bone-drug-reduces-breast-cancer-risk-in-older-women.html
Pfizer Inc.’s  Fablyn, the bone drug
that failed to win U.S. approval amid safety questions, reduced
the risk of breast cancer and fractures in postmenopausal women
with osteoporosis, a company-sponsored study found.  Women taking the medicine, also known as lasofoxifene, had
a 79 percent lower chance of breast cancer compared with those
on placebo, researchers said today in the  Journal  of the
National Cancer Institute. Pfizer is “exploring strategic
options” that include licensing out Fablyn or selling the
rights Pfizer now holds, in line with plans disclosed last year,
Victoria Davis, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Pfizer failed last year to win approval from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to sell Fablyn as an osteoporosis
treatment, after the medicine was linked to an increase in total
deaths from all causes. The company said in a regulatory filing
in May that it was withdrawing its requests for U.S. clearance
of the medicine in osteoporosis and in vulvar and vaginal
atrophy. The medicine may yet find a use, said  Victor Vogel , a
physician not connected with the drug or the study.  “We shall have to wait and see what the FDA decides to
do,’’ said Vogel, director of cancer services at Geisinger
Health System in Danville, Pennsylvania, in a telephone
interview on Nov. 2. He said the FDA should reexamine the drug
in light of today’s study. Vogel wrote an editorial about the
drug for the journal.  Blood Clots  The research showed that for patients taking a higher dose
of Fablyn there was an increased risk of blood clots in the
lungs, leg cramps and hot flushes, the researchers said. There
was no statistically significant increase in deaths of all
causes in those taking the higher dose compared with placebo.
There was an “observed” increased risk in death of all causes
in those taking a lower dose of Fablyn after five years of
follow up, the researchers said.  The study “sheds new light on the breast cancer benefit,’’
said the lead author, Andrea LaCroix, in a telephone interview
today. ‘The benefits appear to outweigh the risks pretty
substantially.’’  LaCroix is a professor of epidemiology at the Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. Davis declined to
say whether Pfizer will seek clearance of the drug as a breast-
cancer treatment.  Fablyn is part of a class of drugs, called selective
estrogen receptor modulators, that also includes Evista from
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly  & Co.  Fracture Risk  The medicines bind to estrogen receptors in the body, Vogel
said. That helps bone quality improve, lowering  fracture risk .
It’s unclear how the drugs prevent breast cancer, he said.  Pfizer holds worldwide marketing rights for lasofoxifene
under a license from San Diego-based  Ligand Pharmaceuticals
Inc. , which developed the drug.  Fablyn was rejected by the FDA in September 2005 as a
medicine to prevent osteoporosis because the agency had concerns
it may cause cancer in the lining of the uterus, according to
Pfizer. The drug also was rejected in January 2006 as a
treatment for vaginal atrophy. Pfizer resubmitted the drug
application to the FDA in 2007, including interim three-year
data on participants included in today’s study.  The FDA reviewers found that a low dose of Fablyn was
linked to more deaths from cancer and stroke, though Pfizer said
the drug wasn’t likely to be the cause. Pfizer was seeking
approval to sell a higher, 0.5-milligram dose that wasn’t linked
to a statistically significant increase in mortality.  There was no increase in uterine cancer, although at the
lower dose of 0.25 milligrams there was a rise in combined
fatalities from all forms of cancer.  FDA Reviewers  The FDA reviewers found there were 38 percent more deaths in
the group taking the lowest dose of Fablyn in the study compared
with those on a placebo, with a total of 228 deaths among all
patients taking the drug. There were 14 more cancer deaths, a 70
percent increase, in those on low-dose Fablyn compared with a
placebo.  In September 2008, an FDA advisory panel had voted 9-3 that
the drug’s benefits outweighed risks. While the agency generally
follows the recommendations of its advisory panels, it isn’t
required to do so.  While Fablyn was approved in Europe in February 2009 for
women at a higher risk of fractures, Pfizer isn’t selling the
product there.  Bone Density  For the new report, the authors looked at a previous study
of 8,556 postmenopausal women, ages 59 to 80, who had low bone
density. They were randomly assigned to receive 0.5 milligrams
of Fablyn or else 0.25 milligrams of Fablyn or a placebo, and
followed for five years.  During that time, 49 women developed breast cancer,
including five in the 0.5 milligram Fablyn group and 24 in the
placebo group, according to the research published today.  The researchers found that women taking the 0.5 milligrams
of Fablyn reduced their risk of developing a more common type of
breast cancer, called  estrogen receptor-positive , by 83 percent
compared with placebo. Those on the higher dose of Fablyn also
had a 24 percent reduction in nonspine fractures and a 42
percent lowering of spinal fractures, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  