-- PG&E Beats Estimates, Reports $238 Million Cost from California Pipe Blast
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-11-04T20:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pg-e-beats-estimates-reports-238-million-cost-from-california-pipe-blast.html
PG&E Corp ., owner of California’s
largest utility, said third-quarter profit beat analysts’
estimates, excluding costs related to a pipeline explosion in a
San Francisco suburb.  Net income fell 19 percent to $261 million, or 66 cents a
share, from $321 million, or 83 cents, a year earlier, the San
Francisco-based company said in a statement today. Per-share
profit, excluding pipeline blast costs, was 7 cents more than
the average of 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “It looks like the numbers for the quarter were pretty
good and that is why the stock is up a little bit,” said  Paul Franzen , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, in a
telephone interview. Franzen rates PG&E a “hold” doesn’t own
any shares.  PG&E rose 63 cents to $48.51 at 4:08 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The stock, which has 13 buy and six
hold  recommendations  from analysts, has risen 9 percent this
year.  PG&E said last month it found and repaired 38 gas-pipeline
leaks in a state-mandated survey after a Sept. 9 explosion on
one of its lines in San Bruno, California. Federal and state
investigators have yet to determine a cause for the blast that
killed eight and destroyed 37 homes.  Explosion Costs  Costs from the pipeline explosion were $238 million,
including $220 million for property damage, personal injury and
other legal claims and $18 million for inspection of its gas
pipelines, financial assistance to the affected neighborhood and
other activities, the company said.  The estimated expenses from the incident “appear to be
well below investors’ worst fears,”  Andrew Smith , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote today in a research note to
investors.  Total costs from property, personal injury and other legal
claims may be as much as $400 million before accounting for
insurance payments, which may not be collected until after 2011,
the company said.  PG&E’s $992 million fire-insurance policy should cover most
third-party claims and would cover the company even if it was
found to be in gross negligence, Chief Financial Officer  Kent Harvey  said today in a conference call with investors.  Pipeline inspections, repairs and associated legal costs
could total $100 million to $150 million through the end of
2011, the company said. The company does not plan to recover
most of those expenses through customer bill increases, Harvey
said.  Sales Rise  Sales rose 8.6 percent to $3.51 billion. The company
narrowed its adjusted per-share 2011 forecast to $3.65 to $3.80
a share, reducing by 5 cents the upper range of its forecast.  The company’s Pacific Gas and Electric utility is allowed
by California regulators to collect $90 million this year in
increased rates to pay for improvements to its distribution
network. The utility provides electricity to about 5.1 million
homes and businesses and natural gas to 4.3 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 