-- Philippine Telephone to Eliminate 1,100 Jobs to Revive Growth in Earnings
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-11-04T07:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/philippine-telephone-to-eliminate-1-100-jobs-to-revive-growth-in-earnings.html
Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Co. , the nation’s largest company by market value, plans to cut
more than 1,100 jobs after intensifying competition led the
phone operator to its slowest profit growth in six quarters.  As many as 1,200 jobs may be eliminated, Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  said at a briefing in Manila today. PLDT, which
employs 13,000 workers, will book a charge of 2 billion pesos
($47 million) because of the cuts, he said.  Sales fell for a fourth straight quarter as phone companies
in the Southeast Asian nation offer cheaper packages to compete
in a saturating market where four out of five people already own
a mobile phone. The growing popularity of Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. has also trimmed revenue phone companies derive
from text-messaging.  “The industry is slowing down because of competition,”
said  Erwin Balita , research head at Manila-based SB Equities
Inc. “Competition in technology is now catching up on pricing
and has reached a point where margins are not as abnormal as
five years ago.”  The reduction was announced after PLDT reported 10.3
billion pesos in third-quarter  net income , little changed from a
year earlier and lower than the 11 billion pesos JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst Vishesh Gupta had estimated.  The smaller workforce may yearly save the company as much
as 1 billion pesos annually, President  Napoleon Nazareno  told
reporters today.  Sales  decreased 2 percent to 35.1 billion pesos while
expenses fell 3 percent to 21.6 billion pesos, PLDT said.  “The operating environment is becoming increasingly price-
competitive and market-share sensitive,” Pangilinan said. “We
expect to reduce headcount by a significant number by year-
end.”  New hires will limit the reduction in the workforce to
about 850 positions, he said.  PLDT  fell 1 percent to close at a one-month low of 2,652
pesos in Manila before the company reported earnings. The stock
has risen 3.7 percent this year, the fourth worst performer
among the 31 components of the benchmark  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  