-- Philippine Air Says Return to Profit Hinges on `Survival Plan,' Job Cuts
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2010-11-04T02:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/philippine-air-says-return-to-profit-hinges-on-survival-plan-job-cuts.html
Philippine Airlines Inc. said
attempts to make a first profit in three years hinge on a
“survival plan” including 2,600 job cuts that have drawn
opposition from unions.  “We will have a small profit this year only if we can
outsource our ground-handling, catering and call-center
services, and get rid of 2,600 employees,” President  Jaime Bautista  said in a phone interview late yesterday. “I am
hopeful that I may be able to do this before the end of
December.”  Bautista needs to overcome protests from ground-handling
workers to complete outsourcing plans, while also tackling a
separate labor row with cabin crew. The carrier, Asia’s oldest,
has posted losses of $312 million over the past two fiscal years
because of wrong-way bets on  fuel prices , the global recession
and rising competition from Cebu Air Inc.  Bautista declined to say how much savings the survival plan
will generate. The carrier’s net losses shrank to $14.3 million
in the year ended March, from $297.8 million a year earlier.
Bautista said in August that the carrier may miss its profit
target this year after 25 pilots quit for jobs elsewhere.  Philippine Air’s ground-crew union said this week it will
appeal a decision by the labor department allowing the carrier
to terminate employees and outsource their jobs to service
providers that would hire them. The government has intervened in
the cabin-crew dispute, which centers on pay and benefits, to
prevent a strike.  Air Philippines  Operations at Philippine Air’s low-fare affiliate, Air
Philippines, are “starting to gain ground,” with around 80
percent of total available seats filled, Bautista said. The
budget carrier, which operates four  Airbus SAS  A320s, will take
delivery of two more by year-end. Next year, six more planes
will join the fleet followed by another six in 2012, he said.  Philippine Air’s parent  PAL Holdings Inc.  gained 1 percent
to 4.95 pesos at 10:23 a.m. in Manila trading. The company has
jumped 75 percent this year.  Philippine Air’s long-haul plans have been disrupted by
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration restrictions that prevented
it from adding flights and a European Union blacklisting of all
Philippine carriers. The government has said it will take steps
to improve standards.  The airline has postponed delivery of four twin-aisle
 Boeing Co . 777-300ERs to 2012 and 2013 because it would “lose
money” operating those planes on regional routes, Bautista
said. The carrier has a fleet of 39 planes currently, he said.  Philippine Air, along with its discount unit, controls
about 47 percent of the domestic market, Bautista said. Cebu
Air, which has a fleet of 29 jets, has said its share of the
domestic market is almost 50 percent.  The EU this year banned all airlines based in the
Philippines from flying in the bloc, citing “serious safety
deficiencies” in the regulation of carriers. The U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  in 2008 lowered the Southeast Asian
nation’s aviation safety rating to Category 2 from Category 1
“due to serious concerns” about local regulation of airlines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  