-- Pinehurst No. 2 Golf Course to Close Over Winter to Complete Renovations
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-11-04T21:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pinehurst-no-2-golf-course-to-close-over-winter-to-complete-renovations.html
Pinehurst Resort  will close its  No. 2
course , which hosted the U.S. Open in 1999 and 2005, for four
months as part of a renovation aimed at more closely reflecting
the original design.  Ben Crenshaw  and Bill Coore’s  design company  will strip all
26 acres of rough, leaving No. 2 with two lengths of grass --
fairway and green. The course will close Nov. 16 until March.  The changes are being made with the help of photographs
from the 1940s and are intended to restore the golf course to
Donald Ross’s “natural” design, according to a news release
from the resort. The redesign will bring back “some of the shot
values and strategic play that have been lost over time.”  “We’ve never wanted to radically change the golf course,”
Coore said in a statement. “We’re just trying to uncover some
of the character that had faded.”  The removal of about 550 sprinkler heads will reduce
irrigation by about 30 percent, the resort said, without
revealing how much money that will save.  Natural bunker edges that have become “too rigid and
defined” over the years will be re-established, said Crenshaw,
the 1995  Masters Tournament  winner.  The signature turtleback-shaped greens will be re-sodded
with bent grass, though their size, shape and slopes won’t be
altered.  Other changes since work began in February have included
making fairways wider and harder to allow for more strategic
playing options. With firmer ground, offline shots will roll
into distressed areas of pine straw and native grasses, which
were part of the course’s original topography.  Eight new tee boxes have been added and the layout will be
lengthened by less than 100 yards (91.4 meters).  Pinehurst No. 2 is scheduled to host the 2014 men’s and
women’s U.S. Opens.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Buteau  in
Atlanta at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  