-- PNC Sales of Bad Loans Hampered by `Foreclosure Dilemma,' CFO Johnson Says
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-04T20:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pnc-sales-of-bad-loans-hampered-by-foreclosure-dilemma-cfo-johnson-says.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. ,
the sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, said investors are less
interested in acquiring mortgage assets because of concern that
foreclosures may have been mishandled.  “Investors are a little bit nervous until we work our way
through the foreclosure dilemma,” Chief Financial Officer
 Richard J. Johnson  said today during a presentation at the
BancAnalysts Association of Boston Conference.  Attorneys general in all 50 states are investigating
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
finance-company employees have signed papers without ensuring
their accuracy. Johnson was asked whether PNC will sell more
loans after disposing of about $2 billion of assets, including
around 8,000 properties, in the second quarter.  “That went well, but we had to pay a price,” Johnson
said. “If you’re out working on a transaction right now, people
may back off a little until this gets clarified.”  PNC, based in Pittsburgh, rose $1.87, or 3.5 percent, to
$55.93 at 4:07 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The lender has climbed  6 percent  this year.  “We are on track to report good fourth quarter and full-
year results in January,” Johnson said at the conference. PNC
may have fourth-quarter profit of  $1.32 a share , the average
estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors who buy assets from banks should pay less because
it will take them longer to seize and sell homes, Shawn Miller,
chief executive officer of Arch Bay Capital LLC, said on Oct. 26
during a mortgage industry conference in Atlanta.  “The scrutiny that the documents are going to come under
going forward is going to be much more significant,” Miller
said. Arch Bay is an Irvine, California-based buyer of
distressed home loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  