-- Poland May Suspend Pension Transfers to Private Managers to Control Debt
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-11-04T14:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/poland-may-suspend-pension-transfers-to-private-managers-to-control-debt.html
 Polish Labor Minister  Jolanta Fedak 
is calling for a suspension of transfers to private pension
funds to keep public debt from exceeding the legal limit and
triggering austerity measures.  “I’m consulting with the Finance Ministry the option of
suspending pension contribution transfers from the state budget
to private funds as some other countries have done,” Fedak told
reporters in Warsaw. She is working on a draft law to be
submitted to the Cabinet. “The 2011 budget plan will be
difficult to fulfil so we need to find a source of deficit
financing and it should be seriously considered as these
transfers are huge amounts of money.”  Fedak’s proposal came after Hungary and Bulgaria said they
will freeze temporarily transfers to private funds to keep their
budget deficits from swelling. Hungary will free up 30 billion
forint ($160 million) a month.  Doing so will help the country narrow the shortfall to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product this year and below 3 percent
in 2011 and avoid budget scrutiny by the  European Commission .  Poland estimates the  general government deficit  will
balloon this year to 7.8 percent of GDP from 7.2 percent in 2009
and it has already said it won’t be able to meet the EU
requirement of lowering the gap to the 3 percent limit by 2012.  At the same time, the 2010  public debt  will reach 53.2
percent of GDP. Breaching the 55 percent level would trigger
spending cuts, according to public finance law.  The government plans it will transfer 24 billion zloty
($8.77 billion) to pension funds next year. At the same time, it
needs to borrow money on the market to refund lower revenue from
contributions at the state social insurance agency that pays out
pensions to people born before 1949.  Finance Ministry  estimates that Poland’s debt would be as
low as 40 percent of GDP without the transfers.  “I proposed earlier to reduce transfers by the amount of
public money that pension funds invest into Treasury bonds, but
now it’s not enough,” said Fedak. “Poland can’t afford this
system. The later we withdraw from it, the more radical moves
will be needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  