-- Poland Debt Rating May Be Cut, Czech Upgrade Looms, Nomura's Montalto Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-11-04T14:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/poland-debt-rating-may-be-cut-czech-upgrade-looms-nomura-s-montalto-says.html
Poland’s credit rating may be under
threat unless the country outlines measures to overhaul public
finances after general elections due in October 2011, Nomura
International Plc said.  “Poland does not have a sustainable budget in the short
run, especially considering the strong growth and lack of
recession last year,” said  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist
at Nomura International in London, in an e-mailed note today.
“The risks to the country’s rating are on the downside if there
is no reform after the Sejm election in October next year.”  Poland is under pressure from the  European Union  to reduce
its budget gap to the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of economic
output by 2012. The government said in August it won’t meet the
target before 2013. The  general government deficit  this year is
set to widen beyond the target of 6.9 percent of gross domestic
product to 7.9 percent, the Finance Ministry said last month.  The Czech Republic’s ratings may be raised as Prime
Minister  Petr Necas  aims to halve the  deficit  in three years
from an estimated 5.3 percent this year, Montalto wrote. The
government initiated a fast-track legislative process to approve
bills needed for the overhaul.  Poland has an A- rating from Fitch Ratings and Standard &
Poor’s, the fourth-lowest investment grade, while Moody’s rates
the country one step higher at A2. A change to the rating may
come in the last quarter of 2011 or through 2012, Nomura
predicted.  Four-Year Plan  The government in Warsaw adopted a four-year fiscal plan
this year to keep public debt below 55 percent of GDP, the level
that triggers automatic spending cuts, through 2013.  The Cabinet expects asset sales, economic growth and a
higher value-added tax to boost revenue. It also capped ministry
spending and wants to cut 10 percent of government jobs.  To cut the deficit, the Czech government plans to reduce
spending on public wages by 10 percent next year and reduce
investment by 5 percent and lower social spending by eliminating
some tax breaks and subsidies.  “The speed of fiscal consolidation in the Czech Republic
should be enough to convince the agencies of room for an upgrade
and the country’s underlying dynamics and low debt put it in a
strong position,” Montalto wrote. The risks to the Czech
ratings are “skewed to the upside over the medium term.”  S&P has an A rating on the Czech Republic, five steps from
the top, while Fitch rates it one level higher at A+. The rating
at Moody’s is A1, the same level as Fitch. S&P in August revised
its outlook on the rating to “positive” from “stable.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  