-- BHP Buyout Offer Confused Potash Corp. Investors, CEO Testifies
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/potash-corp-u-s-bhp-court-case-to-proceed-as-deal-stalls-judge-rules.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s hostile bid for
 Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  has confused the fertilizer
producer’s investors “since day one,” the Canadian company’s
chief executive officer told a U.S. judge.  CEO  Bill Doyle  was the first witness in a federal court
hearing in Chicago yesterday in which Potash Corp., the world’s
largest producer of fertilizer, seeks an order blocking BHP’s
$40 billion takeover plan.  The hearing came a day after the Canadian government said
 BHP ’s $130-a-share buyout wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to
Canada and stopped the sale, giving BHP 30 days to appeal. U.S.
District Judge  David H. Coar  in Chicago allowed the hearing to
go forward while Melbourne-based BHP seeks to overturn the
Canadian decision.  BHP, the world’s  biggest mining company , has denied
Saskatoon-based Potash Corp.’s allegations that it made
misleading public  statements  about plans to develop a rival
potash mine near Jansen, Saskatchewan, and asked Coar to dismiss
the case.  BHP  said it has complied with U.S. disclosure
requirements and that  investors , not the courts, should resolve
the dispute.  Saskatchewan’s provincial government opposes the
transaction, saying it would cost the province jobs and tax
revenue.  Potash Reserves  About 93 percent of the world’s potash production is
dedicated to creating water-soluble potassium fertilizer, and
about 80 percent of the world’s reserves are in Russia, Belarus
and Canada.  With a projected production capacity of 8 million tons a
year by 2025, the Jansen mine, if completed, would be the
largest single source of the potassium-based mineral. Potash
Corp.’s six mines produce about 12 million tons a year, Doyle
said.  Potash Corp. has suggested that BHP is using the threat of
the mine to drive down Potash Corp.’s  share price .  Doyle called the scale of the Jansen plan “illogical”
because there isn’t demand for so much potash. He said Jansen,
as described, “made no economic sense” because it would cost
as much as $10 billion to develop and would flood the market,
depressing the mineral’s price.  “I would say our shareholders have been confused since day
one,” about BHP’s intentions, Doyle told  Thomas Moloney , an
attorney for the Australian company during cross-examination.
“I think it’s a smoke screen.”  BHP Chief  Andrew Mackenzie , BHP’s chief for the unit that produces
diamonds, coal, aluminum and potash, testified that his company
was fully behind the project.  Mackenzie recounted for Coar how his company had started
acquiring land for potash production, first in joint ventures
with companies in Manitoba and Saskatchewan in 2006, then by
acquiring Saskatchewan’s Anglo Potash Ltd. and with it the
Jansen lands in 2008.  “The strategy has always been build and buy, not one or
the other, Mackenzie told Potash Corp. attorney  Daniel Reidy 
under cross-examination.  Reidy confronted the  BHP  executive with copies of intra-
company e-mail messages showing that CEO  Marius Kloppers 
questioned the cost of the mine plans and that the company had
scaled down the project so that the initial production goal was
only 2 million tons a year, with provisions for first doubling
production capacity, then doubling it again.  ‘Normal Debate’  “This is normal debate between a CEO and his direct
reports,” Mackenzie said. “We challenge each other.”  Doyle told the court of an Aug. 12 meeting with Kloppers at
the Four Seasons hotel in Chicago at which the BHP CEO first
related the plan to acquire a controlling interest in Potash
Corp. for $130 a share and gave the Canadian company four days
to respond.  “It was a totally unacceptable offer,” Doyle said.  Moloney confronted Doyle about statements he has made about
the worldwide need to develop new sources of Potash by about
2020.  The timeframe was only an approximation, Doyle replied.
“It’s very hard to predict the future,” he said. Creating new
mines is less costly if the developer can make use of existing
infrastructure, he said.  “BHP is the largest mining company in the world,” Moloney
reminded the CEO.  “They are, but they’re not in the potash business,” Doyle
replied.  Two economists, testifying for BHP, said the alleged
misstatements had had no demonstrable effect on the price of
Potash stock.  Coar said will hear final arguments on Nov. 8.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. v. BHP
Billiton Ltd., 10-cv-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 