-- Pound Climbs as BOE Keeps Bond Buys Unchanged, House Prices Rise
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-11-04T17:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/pound-climbs-gilts-decline-after-boe-keeps-bond-plan-unchanged.html
The pound climbed above $1.62 for the
first time since January after the Bank of England kept its
bond-purchase program unchanged and held its benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Sterling appreciated against 15 of its 16 most active peers
as a report showed that house prices rose by more than
economists had estimated. All but two of 38 economists in a
Bloomberg survey predicted central bank Governor  Mervyn King 
would keep the quantitative-easing program unchanged today.
Thirty-year gilts underperformed two- and 10-year bonds after
the U.S. Federal Reserve resumed its asset-purchase program
yesterday, targeting medium-maturity Treasuries.  “The Bank of England is obviously taking a wait-and-see
stance, given the way things are with the local and global
economies,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist at UBS AG
in London. “There is still downside risk to growth, but on the
other hand things are probably much better than previously
expected in their view.”  Sterling jumped 1.1 percent to $1.6250 as of 4:53 p.m. in
London, after climbing to $1.6299, the strongest level since
Jan. 21. It appreciated 0.5 percent to 87.48 pence per euro.  U.K. house prices climbed in October, erasing half of the
record drop posted the previous month, according to Halifax, a
unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc. The average cost of a home
increased 1.8 percent from September, the mortgage-lender said
in a statement today.  The currency has gained 2.5 percent against the dollar and
1.6 percent against the yen since the Oct. 26 release of data
showing the economy grew faster in the third quarter than
economists had forecast. That prompted some investors to trim
bets the central bank will expand quantitative easing today.  Gilts Underperform  The pound may climb to its strongest level this year
against the dollar should it end this week above $1.6320,
according to  Ashraf Laidi , chief market strategist at CMC
Markets in London. The currency rose to $1.6458 on Jan. 19,
according to Bloomberg data.  The Fed said yesterday it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June in a bid to reduce
unemployment and boost consumer-price growth.  The yield on 30-year gilts was little changed at 4.08
percent after rising as much as 8 basis points to 4.17 percent
earlier. Ten-year note yields declined five basis points to 2.94
percent. The yield difference between the two securities widened
to 113 basis points, the most since Oct. 22.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said today the
government’s plan to cut the U.K.’s budget deficit will give the
central bank more flexibility in its monetary policy.  ‘Wide of the Mark’  Investors haven’t ruled out the prospect of further bond
purchases by the bank.  “We think expectations of extended QE in the U.K. are wide
of the mark,” said  Steven Mansell , a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “However, we think the shape of the
U.K. yield curve still reflects some anticipation of future
quantitative easing.”  Gilts underperformed U.S. Treasuries today, widening the
yield difference between the 10-year securities by three basis
points to 45 basis points. U.K. government debt handed investors
9.1 percent this year, compared with 8.70 percent from German
bonds and 8.9 percent from Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  Inflation expectations have increased as investors raised
bets that the economic recovery will be strong enough to fuel
price growth. The 10-year breakeven rate, a gauge of market
expectation of inflation derived from the yield difference
between nominal and index-linked bonds, rose two basis points to
2.82 percentage points, compared with 2.69 percentage points at
the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at  