-- Productivity in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in Third Quarter
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-04T21:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/productivity-in-u-s-rose-more-than-economists-estimated-in-third-quarter.html
Employers in the U.S. squeezed more
productivity from workers in the third quarter, leading to an
unexpected drop in costs that signals inflation will remain low.  Employee  output per hour  rose at a 1.9 percent annual rate,
more than forecast, after falling 1.8 percent in the previous
three months, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington.  Worker costs  fell for the fifth time in the past
seven quarters.  Companies remain focused on cutting expenses to boost
profits more than a year into the economic recovery, indicating
why the  Federal Reserve  yesterday said progress toward cutting
unemployment and boosting growth was “disappointingly slow.”
Another report showed more Americans filed claims for jobless
benefits last week, reinforcing expectations the labor market
will take time to improve.  “Corporate America is running extremely lean,” said  Ellen Zentner , a senior economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York, who correctly forecast the drop in costs. “They’ve
only been hiring the bare minimum. That’s part and parcel behind
what is driving the Fed at this feverish pace to try to bring
unemployment down.”  Stocks rose on improved earnings at companies from Gap Inc.
to Time Warner Cable and on expectations the Fed’s latest
initiatives will revive the world’s largest economy. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  climbed 1.9 percent to 1,221.06 at
the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities jumped,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 2.49
percent from 2.57 percent late yesterday, as the report
confirmed the central bank’s inflation outlook.  Fed Initiative  The Fed yesterday said it would buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding its record
stimulus of $1.7 trillion in asset purchases, in a bid to lower
borrowing costs, boost growth and prevent prices from dropping.  The  median forecast  of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected productivity would rise at a 1 percent pace.
Estimates ranged from no change to a 2.6 percent gain.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
dropped at a 0.1 percent rate last quarter after increasing 1.3
percent in the previous three months. They were  projected  to
rise 0.6 percent, according to the survey median.  Employee compensation per hour adjusted for inflation fell
0.8 percent in the third quarter from the same time last year.  “We could be in for a period of wage deflation, which
would be a serious problem for the Fed,” said Zentner.  More Claims  Another Labor Department report showed the number of  claims 
for unemployment insurance payments rose by 20,000 to 457,000 in
the week ended Oct. 30, exceeding the median forecast of
economists surveyed. The increase more than offset an 18,000
decrease the prior week, dashing hopes firings were abating.  A lack of jobs shows why productivity “ is a double-edged
sword,” said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed income strategist at
State Street Global Markets in Boston. “On one hand, it slows
the pace of hiring” in the near-term, he said, “but it’s a
strong plus for business operating results, which in the long
run translates into job growth.”  Republicans on Nov. 2 gained at least 60 seats in the House
of Representatives, capitalizing on concern about unemployment
and government spending and delivering a rebuke to President
 Barack Obama ’s domestic agenda. Democrats retained control of
the Senate by a slimmer margin then they previously had.  Hours, Output  The productivity report showed the number of hours worked
rose at a slower pace last quarter even as output accelerated,
showing companies were focused on streamlining operations
through new technologies rather than on increasing staff. Hours
climbed at a 1.1 percent pace after increasing at a 3.5 percent
pace from April through June. Output rose at a 3 percent pace,
up from 1.6 percent the prior quarter.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. , which makes and markets a range of
products including housewares and tools, is among companies
focusing on improving efficiency rather than raising prices to
make up for increasing material expenses.  “We’re looking to productivity to offset most of the
inflation in raw materials and input costs,”  Juan Figuereo ,
chief financial officer at the Atlanta-based company said on an
Oct. 29 teleconference. “We haven’t really had to rely on
pricing.”  Corporate profits climbed 37 percent in the second quarter
from the same time a year earlier, according to figures from the
Commerce Department. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict an
average 28 percent gain in third-quarter profit from a year
earlier for all Standard & Poor’s 500 companies, and a 36
percent advance for all of 2010.  Job Cuts  United Technologies Corp ., the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Carrier air conditioners, is among companies still
cutting jobs while trying to sustain output. The Hartford,
Connecticut-based company plans to cut about 3,300 jobs through
2011 as part of cost-reduction efforts previously announced.  The Labor Department may report tomorrow that the
unemployment rate held at 9.6 percent in October for a third
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Private payrolls, which exclude government
agencies, rose by 80,000, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  