-- Productivity of U.S. Workers Probably Climbed in Third Quarter
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/productivity-probably-rose-as-u-s-employers-renewed-efforts-to-cut-costs.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
probably rose in the third quarter as companies redoubled
efforts to rein in costs amid signs the recovery was cooling,
economists said before a report today.  A  measure  of employee output per hour rose at a 1 percent
annual rate after dropping at a 1.8 percent pace in the previous
three months, according to the  median estimate  of 65 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report may also show labor costs
climbed at a 0.6 percent pace after increasing 1.1 percent in
the second quarter.  Employers sought to protect profits last quarter by curbing
payrolls and squeezing more output from existing staff. Waning
labor expenses, which account for about two-thirds of the cost
of producing a good or service, may help keep inflation below
the  Federal Reserve’s  long-term forecast, one reason why central
bankers yesterday announced a new round of asset purchases.  “Aggressive labor-market adjustment has delivered striking
gains in productivity,” said  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. Restrained
costs are “contributing to continued strength in profits.”  The Labor Department’s report is to be issued at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from no change to a
2.6 percent increase.  Another report at the same time may show the number of
Americans seeking jobless benefits rose last week while holding
in a range that indicates the labor market is on the mend.  Initial  jobless claims  rose by 8,000 to 442,000 in the week
ended Oct. 30, according to  economists  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Profit Outlook  Corporate profits climbed 37 percent in the second quarter
from the same time a year earlier, according to figures from the
Commerce Department. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict an
average 28 percent gain in third-quarter profit from a year
earlier for all Standard & Poor’s 500 companies, and a 36
percent advance for all of 2010.  The  S&P 500 Index  has gained 14 percent since Aug. 31 on
anticipation of further Fed easing.  The Fed yesterday said it would buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding its record
stimulus of $1.7 trillion in asset purchases while promising to
“adjust the program as needed” to boost job growth and foster
price stability.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. , which makes and markets a range of
products including housewares and tools, is among companies
focusing on improving efficiency rather than raising prices to
make up for increasing material expenses.  Boosting Efficiency  “We’re looking to productivity to offset most of the
inflation in raw materials and input costs,”  Juan Figuereo ,
chief financial officer at the Atlanta-based company said on an
Oct. 29 teleconference. “We haven’t really had to rely on
pricing.”  Others, like  United Technologies Corp ., the maker of Pratt
& Whitney jet engines and Carrier air conditioners, are cutting
jobs while trying to sustain output. The Hartford, Connecticut-
based company plans to cut about 3,300 jobs through 2011 as part
of cost-reduction efforts previously announced.  Republicans on Nov. 2 gained at least 60 seats in the House
of Representatives, capitalizing on concern about unemployment
and government spending and delivering a rebuke to President
 Barack Obama ’s domestic agenda. Democrats retained control of
the Senate.  The Labor Department may report tomorrow that the
unemployment rate was 9.6 percent in October for a third month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies,
rose by 80,000, the survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  