-- Qantas A380 Spitting Parts Spares `Incredibly Lucky' Passengers
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-11-04T23:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/qantas-a380-jumbo-spitting-debris-spares-440-incredibly-lucky-passengers.html
The 466 passengers and crew aboard a
 Qantas Airways Ltd.  Airbus A380 survived a mid-flight engine
blowout that aviation specialists said is both extremely rare
and potentially fatal.  One of the four  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  Trent 900 engines
blew up shortly after flight QF32 left Singapore for Sydney
yesterday, piercing the wing and charring the turbine’s casing,
with debris left scattered across an Indonesian island. The
pilot made an emergency landing in Singapore, and Qantas said it
will take its fleet of six A380 jets out of service for checks.  The strength of the blast, which ripped off part of the
nacelle that houses the engine, could have caused parts to smash
through the cabin or wing fuel tanks, bringing down the plane.
So-called uncontained failures occur about once a year on
average, while fatalities only happen once a decade, said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at aviation consulting firm Ascend.  “They were incredibly lucky,” said  Hans Weber , president
of Tecop International Inc., an aviation firm in San Diego, who
advises the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration on issues
including engine safety. “These were highly energetic fragments
that can penetrate structures easily as projectiles.”  Bird Strikes  In 1989, 111 people died when a McDonnell Douglas DC-10
flown by United Airlines suffered an uncontained failure and
crash-landed at Sioux City, Iowa. Seven years later, one of the
planemaker’s MD-88s flown by Delta Air Lines Inc. and fitted
with Pratt & Whitney JT8D-219 engines suffered an uncontained
failure on the runway in Pensacola, Florida. Fragments pierced
the fuselage and killed two passengers.  Engine failures from bird strikes, which are simulated
during factory testing, earned notoriety after a US Airways
Group Inc. Airbus SAS jet ditched in New York City’s Hudson
River in 2009. Canada geese ingested into the engines robbed the
plane of almost all its thrust.  There are about 30 million takeoffs each year, Ascend
estimates. The A380, the world’s largest passenger plane,
remains a rare sight, with only 38 in service at five airlines
to date. The Trent 900, built specifically for the A380, is one
of two engine options, with the Engine Alliance configuration by
 General Electric Co.  and Pratt & Whitney as the alternative.  Precautionary Checks  Rolls-Royce advised airlines using the A380 yesterday to
implement a “number of basic precautionary engine checks,”
according to a statement.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  delayed
service of its A380s to perform checks, while Deutsche Lufthansa
AG said its stable of four A380s is operating as usual.  “They need to work out why it happened, said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency Partners LP in London who has
covered the industry for 25 years. ‘‘If there’s a generic
problem with the engine that needs fixing, this will have
implications for the A380s in service.’’  The majority of A380s in operation use Rolls-Royce engines,
while Engine Alliance has more orders in total. GE, the world’s
largest maker of aircraft engines, and Pratt & Whitney, a unit
of  United Technologies Corp. , created alliance specifically for
the A380 aircraft. Like the Boeing 747 and the Airbus A340 wide-
body aircraft, the A380 runs on four engines and is capable of
landing safely even if some power plants malfunction.  Trent 900  ‘‘Luck is a factor, but it’s more a chain of events that
can accumulate into something serious,” said  Vaughn Cordle , who
flew Airbus and Boeing jets in his 30 years as United Airlines
pilot and is now retired. “A straight engine failure is really
no big deal for the pilot, especially on a modern four-engine
aircraft like the A380.”  The Trent 900 engine was specifically designed for the A380
and is only used on that aircraft. Out of the 14 operators who
have ordered the A380, nine have selected the variant with the
Trent 900, according to Rolls-Royce. The engine, which has a
takeoff thrust of 70,000 pounds, was first certified in 2004 and
powered the first-ever flight of an A380 a year later.  Each of the four engines weighs 14,190 pounds (6.4 tons)
and has a fan diameter of 116 inches (2.9 meters). The Trent 900
uses a so-called three-shaft design that is less common than the
two-shaft configuration, making the engine lighter and shorter.  Engine failures are described as “uncontained” when the
nacelle fails to hold in the debris. The Qantas aircraft 
involved in the incident was less than three years old and had 
logged 831 flight cycles until today, according to Airbus. While 
other Airbus A380 aircraft have experienced malfunctions of 
engines or other parts, none were as grave as on the Qantas jet.  “You can have a very catastrophic incident when there’s an
uncontained failure,” said  Fred Mirgle , who retired in 2009 as
chair of the aviation maintenance department at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University, Daytona Beach, Florida. “You could
lose 300 or 400 people when an engine lets go like that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ; 