-- Airbus Probes Rolls-Royce Engine Explosion on Qantas A380
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-11-04T17:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/qantas-airways-grounds-airbus-a380-fleet-after-engine-fault-forces-landing.html
Airbus SAS and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc 
began investigating why an engine on a  Qantas Airways Ltd.  A380
superjumbo exploded in mid flight, forcing an emergency landing
in the worst incident since the aircraft began service in 2007.  Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-biggest maker of jet
engines, urged airlines that operate its Trent 900 turbines to
conduct precautionary checks. The Sydney-bound Qantas plane,
carrying 433 passengers and 26 crew, returned to Singapore and
landed safely today after one of its four engines blew up,
scattering debris over an Indonesian island.  The failure, Qantas’s second in three months with Rolls-
Royce engines, prompted the Australian carrier to ground its six
A380s until the cause of the malfunction is known. Singapore
Airlines Ltd., which has 11 superjumbos with the same turbines
in service, will delay flights while it carries out inspections.  “The engine manufacturer is where we should look,”  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC Partners in London, said in
an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On
The Move.” “Rolls have to step up to the plate and ensure that
all procedures were carried out correctly. The manufacturer of
the aircraft will be very concerned.”  ‘As Long as It Takes’  The Qantas planes will be out of service for “as long as
it takes,” Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  said at a press
briefing in Sydney broadcast on Australian television. The
turbine suffered what appeared to be an “uncontained failure,”
where pieces of debris are flung out at high speed, piercing the
casing, or nacelle, the Australian company said.  “Something fairly big failed and damaged the nacelle,
causing some sort of fire,” said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at
Agency Partners LP in London who has covered the industry for 25
years. “If it was an uncontained failure in the core then
that’s pretty serious. A generic problem with the engine would
have implications for all A380s with Rolls-Royce engines.”  Rolls-Royce fell 5 percent in London, the most since April
20 last year. Airbus parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.  fell 4.1 percent in Paris, the biggest slide since July 15.  The European Aviation Safety Agency issued a so-called
airworthiness directive effective from Jan. 29 warning of
abnormal levels of wear to the Trent 900 during standard
operation. Qantas said it complied with the recommendations.  Los Angeles, London  France’s BEA aviation safety authority and the U.K. Air
Accidents Investigation Branch will join a probe led by the
Australian Transport Safety Bureau.  Qantas, which has never suffered a fatal jet accident,
stopped two flights leaving Los Angeles and one in Sydney, and
passengers will stay at the departure points until replacement
planes can be arranged, spokeswoman Emma Kearns said by phone.  On Sept. 1, the Australian airline said a Boeing Co. 747
bound for Sydney returned to San Francisco after an engine
failed and was shut off soon after take-off.  Qantas A380s fly daily services to Los Angeles from Sydney
and three times a week from Melbourne. The aircraft also carry
out twice-a-week services from Melbourne to London, and goes
five times a week between Sydney and London. The London flights
all have stopovers in Singapore.  Singapore Air, Lufthansa  Singapore Airlines and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  are the only
other carriers with superjumbos powered by the same Trent 900
engines. Singapore Air, the first carrier to fly the A380, said
in a statement that it would delay all services with the
aircraft following advice from Rolls-Royce and Airbus to conduct
precautionary technical checks.  Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa is using its four A380s as
normal and doesn’t expect any changes to its flight schedule as
it plans to perform the checks during regular ground time, said
spokesman  Peter Schneckenleitner .  Air France, which has four A380s powered by turbines from
the Engine Alliance, a venture between  General Electric Co.  and
United Technology Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney, will operate them as
normal, spokesman  Herve Erschler  said in an e-mailed statement.  Gulf carrier Emirates, the other A380 operator and the
model’s biggest customer, said it would keep its 13 Engine
Alliance-equipped planes flying.  “For Emirates it’s business as usual,” President  Tim Clark  said in a telephone interview. “We’re not concerned. It’s
not an issue that we’re looking into.”  Debris  Frankfurt resident Stephan Meier, speaking at the city’s
main airport after flying from Dubai with Emirates, said he’d be
happy to board an A380 using Rolls-Royce engines.  “As long as an airline runs its regular maintenance
checks, things should turn out alright,” he said.  Photographs of the Qantas plane, which rained down debris
over Indonesia before landing at 11:46 a.m. after returning to
Singapore, show parts of the engine housing missing, with areas
blackened by fire. The incident could have been fatal if debris
had hit the fuselage or wing, Cunningham said.  “The engine is designed to contain any fan blade failure,
but not a failure of the core,” he said. “You can see from the
photos that the damage appears to be to the outer facing of the
engine -- in which case it was just a bit lucky.”  Toulouse, France-based Airbus is working with concerned
parties, spokesman  Justin Dubon  said. The manufacturer has no
information yet on what caused the incident, spokesman  Sean Lee 
said by phone from Singapore. The planemaker has sold a total of
234 A380s, according to data on its website.  Korean Air, China Southern  While the incident on the Qantas flight is the gravest to
date on the world’s largest passenger plane, it is not the first
to hobble carriers. Two tires burst on landing by an A380 at
Sydney airport on May 31. Emirates had to delay a South Korea to
Dubai flight in January after fuel system glitches.  Incidents with 38 A380s in service draw more publicity than
do other jets because airlines tout the double-decker plane as
their flagship model. Korean Air Lines Co. and China Southern
Airlines Co. will take delivery of their first A380s next year.  The majority of A380s in operation today use Rolls-Royce
engines. GE, the world’s largest maker of aircraft engines,
created its alliance with Pratt specifically for the superjumbo.
Like the Boeing 747 and the Airbus A340 wide-bodies, the A380
runs on four engines and is capable of landing safely even if
some powerplants malfunction.  Test Site  In August, London-based Rolls-Royce closed a test site
after damage caused by the uncontained failure of a Trent 1000
engine, which powers Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner model and forced an
additional delay to the introduction to Boeing’s latest jet.  The Qantas A380 landed in Singapore at about 11:45 a.m.
local time with an engine that had scorch marks and part of its
cover blown off. Indonesia’s Metro TV showed images from Batam
Island of plane pieces, some requiring two people to carry.  The debris will be collected to help with the
investigation, Transport Minister  Freddy Numberi  said today in
Jakarta. Passengers and crew will stay overnight in Singapore
before being placed on a Boeing 747 flight to Sydney tomorrow.
Qantas is organizing hotels for those affected.  “I was on the plane right next to engine two, which
exploded with a loud bang,” passenger Lars Sandberg told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “I thought that something had fallen
down in cargo underneath the plane, but the plane started
shaking. I travel a lot and this is the first big scare.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  