-- Qantas A380 Lands Safely in Singapore After Engine Failure
-- B y   R o b   F e n n e r   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-11-04T05:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/qantas-says-a380-returns-to-singapore-after-engine-failure-lands-safely.html
A  Qantas Airways Ltd.  Airbus SAS A380
made an emergency landing in Singapore after one of its four
Rolls-Royce Group Plc engines failed.  The inside left engine had scorch marks and part of the
cover was blown off, according to TV footage. The flight, QF32,
was headed to Sydney from Singapore with 433 passengers and 26
crew onboard, according to a statement from the carrier. It
landed at 11:45 a.m.  An explosion occurred while the aircraft was flying over
Indonesia’s Batam island,  Bambang Ervan , a spokesman at the
nation’s transport ministry, said by telephone from Jakarta.
Qantas  shares  tumbled in Sydney following media reports that the
plane had crashed. The stock rebounded after the airline denied
this.  It wasn’t immediately clear what caused the engine problem,
Qantas spokeswoman  Sophia Connelly  said by phone. Rolls-Royce’s
Singapore-based spokesman Jonathan Webster wasn’t immediately
available for comment when called by Bloomberg News.  Qantas, which has never suffered a fatal crash, tumbled
from A$2.97 to A$2.82 in three minutes in Sydney trading. It
later closed at A$2.89, up 0.7 percent from yesterday.  The plane was parked in an isolated area at Singapore’s
Changi Airport, with at least four fire trucks in attendance.
The damaged engine was sprayed with water as passengers
disembarked.  Indonesia’s Metro TV showed images of debris from an engine
cowling painted in the Qantas design and other airplane parts on
the ground near buildings on Batam island. Civilians and men in
officials’ uniforms carried pieces, some requiring two people to
maneuver, into a nearby building.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 