-- Randy Moss Isn’t to Blame for Latest NFL Fiasco: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-04T18:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/randy-moss-isn-t-to-blame-for-latest-nfl-fiasco-scott-soshnick.html
It’s just so convenient to demonize
 Randy Moss , whose history of hubris makes the wide receiver an
easy target for sports fans fed up with coach killers. Not this
time, though, and not with this team.  Blame for the trade-and-release debacle, the kind of front-
office mismanagement that should prompt every patron in purple
to question his or her allegiance, falls squarely -- and solely
-- on the Minnesota Vikings. Blame the where-have-you-been
owner, who still hasn’t given his side of the story. Blame the
executive staff. And blame the coach.  “It was a poor decision,” said  Brad Childress , the
Vikings head coach, referring to the Oct. 6 trade in which
Minnesota sent a third-round draft pick to the New England
Patriots for Moss, who was waived this week after four games.
Moss wasn’t worth the headache. The Vikings, we’re told, want
good football players and good people. We know Moss is a good
football player.  Let’s not forget, however, it was the team that wrote the
rules, or lack thereof, for how things would operate this
season. It was the Vikings that created an atmosphere whereby a
me-first athlete like Moss was absolutely right to assume that
his needs, wants and whims were more important than the
collective ambition of winning games.  It was the Vikings who long ago surrendered control of the
franchise to quarterback  Brett Favre , who was allowed to show up
when he wanted, if he wanted. It was the franchise who begged,
pleaded and put up even more millions. Favre, in essence, became
the de facto leader. Whatever Favre wanted Favre got. And the
Vikings allowed it to happen. Players talk, you know.  Learning From Cleveland  It’s as if the  owner ,  Zygi Wilf , and Childress weren’t
listening and learning from the  LeBron James  divorce from the
Cleveland Cavaliers.  The Cavs gave James, the franchise player, whatever he
wanted. Too much, really. Special rules for the so-called King.
They catered. They babied. They cajoled. Only in hindsight did
Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  come to the realization that he’d
created the atmosphere that made it easy for a player to trample
on supposed bosses who’d shown no backbone. Too late.  Maybe the Vikings brass should start a book club. The first
week’s offering should be Sun Tzu’s “ The Art of War ,” a copy
of which  Phil Jackson  gave to  Kobe Bryant  as a gift. The message
Jackson, the best coach in sports, wanted Bryant to digest was
that a leader has to become someone others want to follow. In
order for that to happen, the best player can’t enjoy perks that
aren’t offered to the last man on the roster.  Buying In  It’s obvious the Vikings weren’t paying attention any of
the times San Antonio Spurs coach  Gregg Popovich , a four-time
National Basketball Association champion, spoke about  Tim Duncan . If the team’s best player doesn’t buy into the system,
Popovich has said countless times, the coach can kiss his job
goodbye.  You can bet that Childress, whose team has two wins and
five losses, knows it now.  For the uninitiated, losing a third-round pick might not
seem like much. It is. The National Football League isn’t like
the NBA, where franchise-altering players are usually found in
the first few selections. New England’s  Tom Brady , for instance,
was a sixth-round pick. Giving away a pick is inexcusable.  As for Moss, he’s lucky that, in sports, talent still
trumps everything else.  He’s already found a new home with the Tennessee Titans,
who claimed the 6-foot-4 deep threat on waivers two days after
his release.  Better Without  “We think that he can help us,” Titans coach  Jeff Fisher ,
whose club is 5-3, a half-game behind the Indianapolis Colts in
the AFC South, told the Associated Press. “I’m looking forward
to seeing him run under those deep balls.”  Yes, we’ve heard that before. Heard it in Minnesota. Heard
it in Oakland. Heard it in New England, where one of the best
coaches in sports,  Bill Belichick , ultimately concluded that his
team was better without you know who.  This just might be the last stop for Moss, whose talent,
the Vikings found out, isn’t worth his temperament. Moss might
end up like former NBA Most Valuable Player Allen Iverson, who
was in New York last week to announce a two-year, $4 million
contract with a Turkish team. Iverson, you know, would’ve
preferred a spot in the NBA. Only he wasn’t wanted.  We’ll have to wait and see about Moss, who hasn’t changed,
who won’t change.  All those fans clad in purple had better hope the same
isn’t true of their team.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  