-- Redwood, PennyMac Plan Securitizations of Mortgages Without U.S. Backing
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-11-04T16:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/redwood-pennymac-target-mortgage-securitizations-in-first-quarter-of-2011.html
Redwood Trust Inc. , the jumbo-
mortgage specialist, and  PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust , the
buyer of troubled debt, each plan to complete securitizations
next quarter, showing a limited revival in the packaging of home
loans into bonds without government-backed guarantees.  Redwood, which in April conducted the only private
securitization of new U.S. mortgages in more than two years, had
accumulated $160 million of recent loans as of Oct. 31, the Mill
Valley, California-based company  said  in its quarterly
shareholder letter. PennyMac, run by former Countrywide
Financial Corp. executives, said in a statement that it agreed
this quarter to buy nonperforming loans valued at $222 million,
which would almost double its inventory.  “There are a lot of players” buying mortgages and
considering securitizations,  Sue Allon , founder of Denver-based
Allonhill LLC, which reviews the debt for buyers, said last
month. With new loans, “certainly the volume is not there yet,
or you’d be reading more about it.”  Issuance of so-called non-agency  securities  totaled $42
billion in this year’s first nine months, down from a record
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006, according to  newsletter 
Inside Mortgage Finance. Among those deals, only the transaction
in which Redwood bundled $237.8 million of jumbo mortgages from
Citigroup Inc. involved new loans, as the market’s collapse
leaves home buyers and  refinancers  relying on government-
supported lending.  Other Transactions  The rest of this year’s deals were mostly repackagings of
outstanding securities. They also included securitizations of
older mortgages and deals in which distressed-debt investors
including private-equity firm Loan Star Funds and a fund run by
PennyMac’s manager raised cash by selling part of the holdings.  Sales of new-mortgage bonds halted as the fallout from
risky lending, a  housing slump  and unemployment pushed the
amount of loans at least 60 days delinquent underlying
securities to a record 27.9 percent in February,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show. Bondholders including Pacific Investment
Management Co. last month stepped up efforts to get sellers to
repurchase mortgages they say were riskier than represented.  Gains in the value of existing bonds may help revive sales.
Typical prices for senior securities backed by fixed-rate jumbo
mortgages issued in 2006 and 2007 climbed to about 89 cents on
the dollar last week from a low of 63 cents in March 2009,
according to Barclays Capital Inc. data.  First-Quarter Sale  Redwood Chief Executive Officer  Martin S. Hughes  and Chief
Operating Officer  Brett D. Nicholas  said in the letter posted on
its website yesterday they expect to conduct a securitization in
the first quarter, “assuming market conditions are favorable”
and rating companies are willing to grade deals after the
expiration of a six-month delay created by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission to new rules that expand their potential
legal liability.  The company has been buying loans mostly on a one-by-one
basis, the executives wrote. Such purchases by Redwood began
this year and totaled $5 million on July 31, with commitments to
acquire additional loans totaling $138 million as of Oct. 31,
they said.  “We are open for business,” they said.  Jumbo mortgages exceed the limits for government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, currently from $417,000 in most
places to as much as $729,750 in high-cost areas. Lawmakers’
latest extension of higher limits for the companies reduces
opportunities for private firms, Redwood said.  Stanford Kurland  PennyMac Mortgage Investment Trust is managed by Private
National Mortgage Acceptance Co. The CEO of both is  Stanford Kurland , the former president of Countrywide, who left that
company in 2006. Both are based in Calabasas, California, where
Countrywide was headquartered as it grew to the largest U.S.
home lender before being bought in 2008 by Bank of America Corp.
after nearly collapsing.  PennyMac ended last quarter holding loans valued at $245
million. This quarter, it also reached an agreement with an
unidentified lender in which it can borrow up to $100 million to
invest in nonperforming loans and seized properties, the company
said yesterday in its statement.  The company, which hopes to complete its first
securitization “in the beginning of 2011,” is also
“developing”  operations  in which it will buy new jumbo
mortgages to package into securities.  “While we see the current opportunity for distressed whole
loans being very attractive in the near term, we recognize the
need to prepare for a revitalized market,” Kurland said in the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  