-- Renault in `Last-Chance Saloon' in Growth Markets With AvtoVAZ
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-05T10:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/renault-in-last-chance-saloon-in-emerging-markets-as-putin-backs-avtovaz.html
Carlos Ghosn ’s negotiations to take
control of  OAO AvtoVAZ  may be the Renault-Nissan alliance’s
final opportunity to grab the leading position in one of the
four largest growth markets.  “It’s their last-chance saloon for getting into emerging
markets in a meaningful fashion,”, said  Erich Hauser , an
analyst with Credit Suisse in London. “If they get Russia
right, they’ll be starting from a position of strength.”  Ghosn, who heads  Renault SA  and  Nissan Motor Co. , needs
Russia because mature markets are stagnating and the remaining
three biggest emerging markets already have dominant overseas
carmakers. Volkswagen AG is the biggest in China, Fiat SpA is
largest in Brazil and  Suzuki Motor Corp.  leads in India.  The CEO estimates Russian auto sales will reach 4 million
by 2015 and he aims for 40 percent of those deliveries by taking
over AvtoVAZ and expanding production by 700,000 vehicles. Nine-
month sales gained 18 percent to 1.32 million, according to data
from the country’s  Association of European Businesses .  Renault-Nissan is in talks with Moscow brokerage Troika
Dialog and state-owned Russian Technologies Corp., which each
hold 25 percent of AvtoVAZ, to take a controlling stake in
Russia’s largest carmaker at the urging of Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , Ghosn said this week. Renault-Nissan
currently owns 25 percent, valued at 12.4 billion rubles ($410
million) at yesterday’s close.  ‘Russian Roulette’  “Renault-Nissan gets political backing, a strong Russian
brand and arguably a license to dominate the market,” said  Max Warburton , a London-based Sanford C. Bernstein analyst who has
an “outperform” recommendation on Renault. “Ghosn’s
investment looked like Russian roulette in 2009 but could prove
pretty lucrative in coming years.”  The Russian auto market, after plunging 50 percent last
year, is recovering with the help of government incentives and
may overtake Germany to become Europe’s biggest by 2015,
analysts predict. Renault-Nissan is in pole position to harness
that growth in tandem with  AvtoVAZ , whose Lada badge adorns one
in every four cars sold in Russia today.  Boulogne Billancourt, France-based Renault’s plan to
dominate Russian sales after receiving the government’s blessing
follows a playbook rivals used to gain leading footprints in
other emerging markets.  China, Brazil  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW owes its lead in China to a
successful encounter with a visiting Chinese delegation in the
1970s, said  Christoph Stuermer , a Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS
Automotive. Europe’s biggest carmaker now claims more than 11
percent of Chinese vehicle sales, according to IHS data. Suzuki,
once invited to rescue Indian carmaker Maruti, now dominates
that market with a 36 percent share.  Renault plant investments in Brazil and Argentina have not
loosened  Fiat SpA ’s grip on the Latin American market, with a 24
percent market share, compared with less than 5 percent for
Renault-Nissan, according to IHS. The alliance is the sixth-
biggest carmaker in China and 10th largest in India.  AvtoVAZ leads the Russian market with a 28 percent share,
while Renault-Nissan has 9 percent. Ghosn’s potential empire
would have a commanding 37 percent of sales.  “Renault hasn’t done very well in India, and Brazil is
dominated by VW and Fiat,” said  Philippe Houchois , an analyst
at UBS AG in London, who has a “buy” rating on Renault. “That
leaves Russia as the only large emerging market where they still
have potential to do something big.”  New Lada  Renault and its 43 percent-owned Japanese affiliate are
already upgrading AvtoVAZ’s sprawling Togliatti plant with a new
production line that will raise capacity to 900,000 cars and
begin assembling a new Lada model in 2012, based on Renault’s
no-frills Logan range.  Renault  and Nissan vehicles will follow
later that year.  The AvtoVAZ revamp “could easily deliver operating margins
in excess of 10 percent” on revenue of 5.2 billion euros ($7.4
billion), lifting Renault’s earnings by 50 cents per share on
the basis of its current 25 percent stake, Warburton estimated.  Renault rose as much as 1.32 euros, or 3.3 percent, to
41.10 euros in Paris and was up 2.5 percent as of 11:11 a.m. The
stock has gained 9.9 percent this year. Fiat added 23 percent,
while Volkswagen jumped 65 percent.  The investment also brings risks, as Renault pushes to
improve efficiency at AvtoVAZ. The French carmaker’s managers
were marginalized once before, until the sales collapse led to
the ouster of its last Russian CEO. Russia’s sales subsidies may
also mask AvtoVAZ’s urgent need for new models across the board.  “How it will look after incentives run out is anyone’s
guess,” Hauser at Credit Suisse said. “I struggle to see how
they can continue to sell any of the current Lada product for
another five years.”  Early Resistance  Ghosn until recently resisted Putin’s calls to increase the
AvtoVAZ stake Renault bought for $1 billion in 2008. Instead of
providing more cash, the French carmaker contributed equipment
and technology worth more than $300 million. Renault also
declined to raise its holding even as the Russian government
injected 40 billion rubles ($1.3 billion) into AvtoVAZ to pay
off debt accrued during the 2009 crisis.  Renault spokeswoman  Axelle de Ladonchamps  declined to
comment on the details of the negotiations. French daily
 Liberation  reported Nov. 2 Russia threatened to dilute Renault’s
existing stake unless Ghosn bought a bigger holding. Most of
AvtoVAZ’s crisis debt is held by Moscow in the form of notes
that can be converted into stock.  The proposal to raise the alliance’s holding to 50 percent
plus one share came from Putin, Ghosn said after talks between
the two men in Moscow this week.  “A government invitation like this one cannot be
ignored,” Stuermer said. Doing business with a sovereign state
“might make things more complicated early on, but when it’s
firmly bedded down it can be the start of a very long and
profitable relationship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  