-- Highway Spending Measure Won't Bring Higher U.S. Taxes in 2011, Mica Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-11-05T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/republican-led-house-may-act-next-year-on-highway-bill-panel-s-mica-says.html
Raising taxes “is off the table”
when the U.S. House votes on a six-year plan for funding
highways, perhaps early next year, said Representative  John Mica , senior Republican on the Transportation committee.  The plan will use public-private partnerships, unspent
federal dollars and accelerated release of aid to states to
generate cash for projects, said Mica of Florida, in line to
lead the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee as a
result of Republicans gaining control in the Nov. 2 election.  “We don’t have to spend a huge amount of more money, but
we can leverage the money that we have, or better move the funds
that we have, and get things done,” Mica said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Congress, which hasn’t enacted long-term highway
legislation since 2005, has been struggling to pass a law that
would let states and construction companies plan for projects
based on specific levels of federal spending.  A $286.5 billion law passed during the administration of
President  George W. Bush  expired more than a year ago, and
transportation programs are operating on temporary extensions.
Representative  James Oberstar , a Minnesota Democrat and chairman
of the committee, failed to win backing last year for his
proposal to spend $500 billion over six years.  Oberstar, who was defeated in his re-election bid, never
specified how the money would be raised.  Mica said he hasn’t determined a spending level for his
proposed measure. He said he is a “strong advocate” of public-
private partnerships and that he aims to set federal policy and
standards under which projects can be pursued.  ‘Explosive Amount’  “Once we set the parameters, you’re looking at an
explosive amount of investment,” Mica said. South Carolina
raises $7 or $8 in private investment for each tax dollar, he
said. “We don’t do that at the federal level,” Mica said  Reliance on partnerships would benefit companies including
Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s largest
investment bank,  Morgan Stanley  of New York and Carlyle Group,
the Washington-based private-equity company, which all are
seeking infrastructure projects for possible investment.  Federal accounts have unspent funds, Mica said. A railroad-
infrastructure finance fund has $34 billion available and a
harbor maintenance trust has $5 billion to $6 billion, he said.  Speeding grants to states also will boost effectiveness by
meeting pent-up demand, Mica said. Florida can award projects at
a 20 percent to 30 percent discount because of the slow economy,
he said. “People are hungry for work,” Mica said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 liebert@bloomberg.net . 