-- Republican McConnell Calls for Votes to Repeal New Health-Care Overhaul
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-04T14:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/republican-mcconnell-calls-for-votes-to-repeal-new-health-care-overhaul.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said Republicans in Congress should “repeatedly”
seek votes on “straight repeal” of Democrats’ health-care
overhaul.  “We can’t expect the president to sign it,” he said in
excerpts released by his office from a speech he will give to
the Heritage Foundation today in Washington. “So we’ll also
have to work, in the House, on denying funds for implementation,
and, in the Senate, on votes against its most egregious
provisions.”  Republicans won the House majority from Democrats and
gained at least six seats in the Senate in the Nov. 2 midterm
congressional elections. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday
he takes the blame for the “shellacking” Democrats suffered
and said he will work to find a new consensus with Republicans
on boosting the economy and American businesses.  As speaker, House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio
will be able to hold votes on a health-care repeal. McConnell,
as Senate minority leader, can offer amendments to legislation
though he would need 60 votes in the 100-member Senate to force
a vote.  McConnell of Kentucky also defended his prior statement
that his top political priority was to deny Obama a second term
in office. He said the only way to accomplish Republicans’
policy goals “is to put someone in the White House who won’t
veto any of these things.”  “We can hope the president will start listening to the
electorate after Tuesday’s election,” McConnell said. “But we
can’t plan on it.”  “On health care, that means we can - and should - propose
and vote on straight repeal, repeatedly,” the minority leader
said.  McConnell said Republicans plan on “sticking ever more
closely to the conservative principles that got us here.”  Republicans will “vote to freeze and cut discretionary
spending,” he said, and “push to bring up and vote for House-
passed spending rescission bills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  