-- Republican Reliance on White Voters Holds Risks: Henry Olsen
-- B y   H e n r y   O l s e n
-- 2010-11-04T01:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/republican-reliance-on-white-voters-holds-risks-commentary-by-henry-olsen.html
There’s only one word for this week’s
Republican landslide: historic. Beyond the positive headlines,
though, are warnings that the victors would be wise to heed if
they want to build on their win for 2012 and beyond.  The rout should give Republicans hope. They look to have
gained 60 to 65 House seats, the most by one party in an
election since 1948. If they reach the top of that range,
Republicans will have 244 seats, the most they have held since
1947 and their second-highest total since the Great Depression.  The party didn’t win this election because of any
enthusiasm gap between their backers and Democratic supporters,
as had been long predicted. In 2008, 38 percent of voters were
Democrats, 36 percent Republicans and 26 percent independents.
This year, each party held 36 percent of the electorate and
independents comprised 28 percent, according to preliminary exit
poll data.  The election results were instead due to a massive swing
among independents, particularly those in rural and exurban
counties. Exit polls showed that independents favored
Republicans by 16 points, a turnabout from 2008 when they
favored Democrats by about the same margin.  Exit polls identified the primary source of the landslide:
white working-class voters. This group, defined as whites who
aren’t college graduates, has voted Republican in presidential
contests but often split tickets to elect Democratic
congressmen. This time they supported Republicans for Congress
by a record 29 points, more than for any of the party’s recent
presidential nominees.  Ousting Incumbents  This working-class anger drew in even those who normally
vote Democratic, as we can see by looking at the specific
districts Republicans won.  Congressional districts that are solidly behind Democrats
for president, including Minnesota’s 8th -- a seat held for 18
terms by House Transportation Committee Chairman  Jim Oberstar  --
plus Pennsylvania’s 11th and Illinois’ 17th, kicked out
incumbents in favor of conservative Republican challengers.  This crop of new Republican backers presents the party with
unique challenges, if it wants to hold on to them.  While an  AP-Gfk poll  in September showed these voters
distrust government, historically many have supported welfare-
state programs and restrictions on trade and finance that
Republicans traditionally oppose. Republican members of Congress
and presidential candidates will have to find a way to thread
the needle on these differences or risk having many of these
voters revert back to their historic Democratic loyalty.  Obama Versus Nixon  Republicans need to take this challenge seriously. Working-
class whites voted Republican primarily because they intensely
dislike  President Obama . Polls of the white working class
electorate this year put Obama’s approval rating at close to 30
percent, or just a few points higher than President  Richard Nixon ’s in the days before his resignation.  Republicans will need every one of those votes because
other, worrisome trends in the electorate continued this year.
Polls showed that, even with the depth of the recession,
Republicans captured only about 10 percent of blacks’ support
and a third of Hispanics’, no better than in other years.  The Latino share of the electorate reached 8 percent, a
record high for a mid-term election, while black turnout dropped
from its high of 13 percent in 2008 to its historic 10 percent
level this year. If Latinos continue to grow as a group, and
blacks turn out in droves again to re-elect Obama, the
Republican nominee in 2012 will be hard-pressed to win without
retaining the record share of white working-class voters the
party garnered this week.  Educated Voters  Republican weakness among educated residents of cities and
inner suburbs also continued this year. The party gained least
among holders of post-graduate degrees, who now comprise 20
percent of the electorate. Even in high-income suburbs rocked by
the recession, such as California’s Silicon Valley, Democrats
retained their massive majorities.  The combination of these trends explains the two big
Republican disappointments on election night: the failure of
 Sharron Angle  and  Ken Buck  to win Senate seats in Nevada and
Colorado. The conservative Tea Party favorites swept the rural
and exurban parts of their states, but lost big in the Las Vegas
and Denver areas, where highly educated whites and most Latinos
live.  The same goes for the too-close-to-call race in Washington
state. If  Dino Rossi  loses to Democratic incumbent  Patty Murray ,
it will be because he failed to persuade Seattle suburbanites to
back him.  Another Republican Senate disappointment shows how hard it
will be to retain white working-class support.  Less-Educated Voters  West Virginia is the capital of the white working class.
Fifty-eight percent of the state’s voters were whites without a
college degree, 19 points higher than the national average.
Ninety-five percent are white and 69 percent say they disapprove
of Obama’s job performance.  Despite this, the Democratic governor,  Joe Manchin , swept
to an easy 10-point victory over Republican  John Raese , a
wealthy businessman who owns mansions in Florida and expressed
doubts about the minimum wage.  It’s been said that when  Ben Franklin  emerged from the
Constitutional Convention, an American asked him what form of
government he had given us. “A republic,” the sage replied,
“if you can keep it.” So it is for Republicans. Americans have
granted them a majority in the House. It remains to be seen if
they can keep it.  ( Henry Olsen  is a vice president of the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Henry Olsen  at  holsen@aei.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  