-- Top Brazilian Hedge Funds Selling Retailer Stocks After Valuations Surge
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-11-04T21:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/retailers-at-triple-bovespa-valuation-signal-sell-to-bny-mellon.html
The rally in Brazil’s retailers this
year has pushed their valuations to triple the Bovespa’s, a sign
to hedge fund managers at BNY Mellon Arx Investimentos and JGP
SA that it’s time to sell even as economic growth accelerates.  The six largest retailers by sales trade at an average 50.5
times 2010 earnings, compared with 14.4 for the  Bovespa  index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lojas Renner SA , the
best performer in the benchmark gauge, fetches 28 times profit,
the highest  premium  to the Bovespa since January 2008.  Retail stocks climbed an average 67 percent this year after
Brazil’s economy grew the most in more than two decades, credit
expansion quickened and  unemployment  fell to a record low. While
prospects for the industry are positive as consumer spending
rises, the stocks are overvalued, said  Bruno Garcia , a money
manager at BNY Mellon Arx who runs the nation’s fourth-best
performing hedge fund this year.  “We see a great end-of-the-year and strong 2011, but much
of the good news is priced in,” said Garcia, who pared holdings
of the shares in the past two months in the  BNY Mellon ARX Long
Short Master FI Multimercado , a hedge fund that’s up 19 percent
this year. “Retailers are trading at a fair value only in the
best scenario, but when you look at them in a more conservative
light, they’re expensive.”  Economic Expansion  Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.5 percent
this year, compared with 2.7 percent growth in industrialized
nations, according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.
Brazil’s gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent last year, the
first  decline  since 1992.  Retail sales in greater Sao Paulo, Brazil’s most populous
city, may reach 11 billion reais ($6.51 billion) in December, up
12 percent from a year earlier and the most since the city’s
Federation of Commerce began compiling the data in 2000, the
agency known as Fecomercio estimates. Brazil’s six largest
retailers are forecast to post an average 12.2 billion reais in
sales next year, according to Bloomberg data.  “Higher-flying” retailers and consumer stocks will be
eclipsed by commodity and banking shares,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  said in an Oct. 13 note to clients.  Hypermarcas SA , which
owns brands ranging from shampoos to over-the-counter
medications, was removed from New York-based Goldman Sachs’s
recommended stocks list after surging 44 percent this year. The
company, based in Vila Olimpia, trades at 63 times earnings.  Selling Retailers  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index rose today, led by commodity
producers, on speculation the Federal Reserve’s steps to boost
the world’s largest economy will bolster demand for raw-
materials exports. Lojas Renner contrasted the gauge’s 1.5
percent advance, sinking 1.1 percent.  Lojas Americanas SA ,
Brazil’s biggest discount retailer, dropped 1.2 percent.
Hypermarcas rose 0.2 percent.  Marcio Roberto Correia , who helps manage the equivalent of
$3 billion at Rio de Janeiro-based JGP, sold all the retailers
in his  JGP Equity FIC FI Multimercado fund . The fund is up 19
percent this year, outperforming 96 percent of competitors.  “Retail is a good story, but the stocks have gotten too
expensive,” Correia said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro. “If you buy expensive things, it’s really hard to make
money.”  Lojas Renner, the Porto Alegre-based operator of 132
clothing stores in Brazil, surged 67 percent this year after 2.2
million jobs were created through September and consumer
 confidence  rose to a record in October.  Renner’s Profit  Third-quarter profit at  Renner , Brazil’s sixth-largest
retailer by revenue, rose 86 percent to 57 million reais on
sales of 644 million reais, beating the mean estimate of 606
million reais in a Bloomberg survey. On a recent Saturday,
shoppers lined up at the company’s store in Rio de Janeiro’s
Leblon shopping mall, waiting to buy bright-colored summer t-
shirts, bathing suits and jeans.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar ,
Brazil’s biggest retailer by sales, rose 1.7 percent this year
through yesterday. The shares lagged behind competitors on
concern financial costs and debt would rise after the company
agreed in December to buy electronics and furniture chain Casas
Bahia Comercial Ltda. Pao de Acucar  trades  at 30 times reported
earnings.  “It’s still digesting the acquisition, but now’s a good
time to buy,” says  Roni Lacerda , who helps manage 2.8 billion
reais at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Mercatto Gestao de
Recursos.  Correia and Garcia have looked beyond consumer companies to
find value. In the past two months they’ve both bought shares of
Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore miner, as an alternative.  Buying Vale  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, has surged 21 percent from a
one-month low on Aug. 26, boosted by a rebound in commodity
prices on speculation the Federal Reserve and policy makers
around the world will take more measures to bolster the economic
recovery. The company  reported  third-quarter profit more than
tripled to a record $6.04 billion as iron-ore prices soared.  Vale  trades  at 14 times reported profit, less than one-
fourth the price-to-earnings ratio of 67 at  Lojas Americanas SA ,
Brazil’s second-biggest retailer.  The high valuations for consumer stocks reflect growth
potential, said  Roberto Lampl , head of Latin American equities
at Baring Asset Management in London, which manages $45 billion.  “If the company’s strategies are strong and growth is
sustainable, we have no problem holding expensive stocks,” he
said, declining to mention specific companies. “With domestic
growth, you have some companies that are growing fast and can
sustain it for two years.”  Garcia said he hasn’t sold all his positions in retailers
and has added to his holdings of Brazilian  banks .  “Now you just have to be more picky with consumer
stocks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  