-- Trichet's Exit Faces Fed Roadblock as Bernanke Clouds Outlook
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-11-04T07:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/trichet-faces-600-billion-roadblock-as-bernanke-clouds-currency-outlook.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is making it harder for  Jean-Claude Trichet  to lead the
European Central Bank out of crisis mode.  Last night’s decision by the Fed to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June to bolster the U.S. economy
may force the ECB to delay the withdrawal of its own stimulus
measures, economists said. The Fed’s second round of so-called
quantitative easing risks driving the euro higher, threatening
Europe’s export-led recovery.  “It’s complicating the ECB’s exit and council members
really need to think hard about their strategy,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London.
“They may have to reconsider their plans.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank has said it intends to
continue withdrawing its emergency measures, with some policy
makers voicing concern about the risks of leaving them in place
too long. At the same time, economic divergences within the 16-
nation euro region are growing as Germany outpaces debt-strapped
nations such as Portugal, Ireland and Greece.  The Fed’s move, which pushed the euro to a nine-month high
against the dollar, may have added another headwind.  “The Fed is diluting its currency,” said  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The ECB
won’t be too delighted about a rising euro.”  33-Hour Marathon  The single currency climbed as high as $1.4179 immediately
after yesterday’s Fed announcement, which kick-started a 33-hour
central banking marathon. The euro has risen about 18 percent
against the dollar since early June and Citigroup predicts it
will appreciate to $1.44 by the end of the year. It traded at
$1.4132 at 8:44 a.m. in Frankfurt.  The ECB will leave its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 1 percent today, according to all 55 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . The decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes later.
The Bank of England will release its policy decision at noon in
London and the Bank of Japan makes its announcement at about
noon in Tokyo tomorrow.  The ECB meets after Executive Board member  Juergen Stark 
said on Oct. 27 that the bank’s emergency policy settings “will
absolutely not be kept longer than necessary.”  While the ECB’s tightening bias sets it apart from the
world’s other major central banks, it is still more cautious
than those in India and Australia, which this week raised
interest rates to stem inflation pressures.  Weakening Economy  The euro-region economy is showing signs of weakening after
expanding at the fastest pace in four years in the second
quarter. Growth in the manufacturing industry has slowed from a
peak in April and  unemployment  climbed to a 12-year high of 10.1
percent in September. Exports from Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, declined for a second month in August.  A “persistently strong” euro is hurting manufacturers’
price competitiveness,  Thomas Lindner , president of Germany’s
VDMA machine makers’ association, said this week.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts euro-area growth
will slow from 1.7 percent this year to 1.5 percent in 2011,
while U.S. expansion will cool from 2.6 percent to 2.3 percent.  “The economies are not performing too differently and
still the Fed and the ECB are going in almost exactly opposite
directions,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN
Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “That reflects a deep-seated
difference in central bank philosophies. The ECB is happy with
moderate growth and moderate inflation; the Fed finds it totally
unacceptable.”  Looking to Exit  The Fed’s decision came as voter anxiety over the U.S.
economy and unemployment, as well as concerns about President
 Barack Obama ’s fiscal stimulus, helped Republicans seize control
of the House of Representatives in mid-term elections.  In Europe, ECB policy makers from Germany, Luxembourg,
Belgium, Austria, Italy and the Netherlands have warned against
keeping interest rates too low for too long and said further
exit steps may be taken in the first quarter of next year.  Up for discussion is when the ECB will return to a bidding
process in its lending procedures. It has committed to provide
banks with unlimited liquidity in its weekly, monthly and three-
month refinancing operations until the end of the year after
abandoning its six- and 12-month loans.  Money markets are normalizing, with the rate banks charge
each other for three-month loans, or Euribor, rising to 1.049
percent from 0.63 percent in March.  That’s a good reason for the ECB to stop offering banks
three-month cash at its benchmark rate of 1 percent because it
discourages interbank lending, said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.  Widening Spreads  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  has also called for an end
to the ECB’s bond-purchase program, arguing its risks outweigh
any benefits.  Investors have continued to dump Irish, Portuguese and
Greek government bonds even after the ECB started buying them on
the secondary market in May to ease tensions. The  premium  on
Irish 10-year bonds over German bunds stood at 505 basis points
at 8:53 a.m. in Frankfurt, Portugal’s  spread  was at 386 basis
points and  Greece’s  reached 838 basis points.  “Weber has a point but it’s too early for the ECB to adopt
the line and embark on an official tightening policy,” said
 Karsten Junius , senior economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “If
the euro gains considerably and tensions on bond markets
persist, the ECB may have to extend its support for the banking
system well into 2011 and keep rates at a record low into
2012.”  Inflation Pressure  Still, a stronger euro may not fully shield Europe from
rising inflation pressures. The Fed’s monetary easing may spur
investors to seek higher-yielding assets such as commodities,
boosting prices that are already rising due to stronger demand
in emerging economies.  Crude oil prices denominated in dollars have jumped 17
percent since Aug. 31 and are up 6.3 percent in euro terms. That
pushed euro-area  inflation  to 1.9 percent in October, the
highest level in almost two years. The ECB aims to keep the rate
just below 2 percent.  “The time will come for the ECB to look at inflation
again,” said  Laurent Bilke , global head of inflation strategy
at Nomura in London, who expects a breach of 2 percent at the
beginning of next year. “It doesn’t mean they’ll raise rates in
the next three months, but we’re approaching levels the ECB will
pay attention to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  