-- Ringgit Hits 13-Year High After Fed Steps Up Dollar-Printing, Exports Cool
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-04T00:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ringgit-hits-13-year-high-after-fed-steps-up-dollar-printing-exports-cool.html
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced to a 13-
year high on speculation additional U.S. monetary stimulus will
weaken the dollar and stoke demand for emerging-market assets.  The ringgit headed for a weekly gain after the Federal
Reserve yesterday said it will buy an extra $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to spur growth in the world’s biggest
economy and left unchanged its pledge to keep interest rates low
for an “extended period.” Appreciation may be restrained after
a government report showed Malaysia’s exports grew in September
at the slowest pace since November 2009.  “The Fed program reinforces the market expectations for
further weakness in the dollar,” said  Akira Banno , a treasury
adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.
“This should continue to favor Asian currencies, especially
where central banks have been raising rates. The ringgit can
gradually appreciate.”  The ringgit traded at 3.083 per dollar as of 8:44 a.m. in
Kuala Lumpur, little changed on the day and 1.1 percent stronger
than at the end of last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier touched 3.0780, the highest level since
October 1997, and may reach 3.05 by month-end, Banno said. Local
financial markets are closed tomorrow for a public holiday.  Global investors bought $129 million more Malaysian stocks
than they sold in September, boosting their share of the local
market to a two-year high of 22 percent, CIMB Investment Bank
Bhd. said on Oct. 27, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.
Overseas funds owned a record 68 billion ringgit ($22 billion)
of  government bonds  at the end of September, 66 percent more
than at the start of the year, according to central bank figures.  Rate Increase  Bank Negara Malaysia has raised its  overnight rate  three
times this year to 2.75 percent from 2 percent, and will hold
its final policy meeting of the year on Nov. 12. China,
Australia and India have all increased borrowing costs in the
past month.  Malaysia’s  exports  grew 6.9 percent in September from a
year earlier following a 10.6 percent increase in August, the
trade ministry said after the close of local-market trading
yesterday. Growth in shipments has decelerated every month since
March.  The nation’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose yesterday by the
most in three weeks, bringing yields down from near their
highest level since July. They haven’t traded today.  The yield on the 4.378 percent note due November 2019 was
3.90 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia. The yield has
declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, from Oct.
29.  The treasury is scheduled to auction Shariah-compliant
notes maturity in 2020 later this month. It hasn’t disclosed the
date and amount of the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 