-- Romania Central Bank Raises Inflation Forecast on Effects of VAT Increase
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-11-04T09:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/romania-central-bank-raises-inflation-forecast-on-effects-of-vat-increase.html
Romania’s  central bank  raised its
inflation prediction for this year and next because of the
effects of the government’s increase of a value-added tax to
meet the terms of an international bailout loan.  The inflation rate will end the year at 8.2 percent and 3.4
percent in 2011, Governor  Mugur Isarescu  told reporters in
Bucharest today. In August, the central bank forecast annual
inflation of 7.8 percent in December and 3.1 percent at the end
of 2011.  “We aren’t changing the inflation target, there’s no
reason to do that for this year,” he said. The central bank’s
consumer-price growth target is 3.5 percent, plus or minus 1
percentage point, this year, 3 percent in 2011 and 2012 and 2.5
percent from 2013 as it seeks to meet euro-entry criteria.
Romania aims to adopt the currency from Jan. 1, 2015.  The bank left its  monetary-policy rate  unchanged at a
record-low 6.25 on Nov. 2 for a fourth meeting as policy makers
stuck to a “prudent stance” because of inflation concerns
triggered by the VAT increase and the government’s plan to cut
the budget deficit and fire state workers.  ‘Feasible’  Isarescu said he is “confident” inflation will slow to
the 2012 target which he called “feasible.” Reaching the
target is “essential” for the central bank’s credibility, he
added.  The government , which took a 20 billion-euro ($28 billion)
loan from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union
to stay afloat, increased the value-added tax to 24 percent from
19 percent and cut public wages by 25 percent from July until
the end of this year to narrow the budget deficit to 6.8 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 4.4 percent next year.
The VAT increase boosted inflation to 7.8 percent in September,
the fastest pace in more than two years.  “We estimated the impact of the increase in the VAT at 2.4
percentage points, but there are certain elements such as
heating prices which will produce an impact probably in October
or November,” Isarescu said. “We cannot say exactly, and
that’s why we think the impact of the increase in the VAT could
be even larger than 2.4 percentage points.”  Inflation will probably accelerate beyond 8 percent by the
end of this year, IMF Mission Chief to Romania  Jeffrey Franks 
said on Nov. 1 after a two-week review of the country’s progress
under the bailout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  