-- Romania Sells 3-Year Bonds First Time Since April at 7.1% Average Yield
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-11-04T15:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/romania-sells-3-year-bonds-first-time-since-april-at-7-1-average-yield.html
Romania sold three-year bonds for the
first time in seven months on the domestic market after it
dropped a self-imposed yield cap amid higher inflation
expectations and rising political tensions.  The  Finance Ministry  sold 120 million lei ($40 million) of
three-year Treasury bonds at an auction in Bucharest today from
the planned 300 million lei. Average yield was 7.1 percent, more
than the 7 percent yield it paid since July for both Treasury
bills and bonds, the central bank said on its website.  Romania, which relies on a 20 billion-euro ($28.5 billion)
bailout led by the  International Monetary Fund , struggled over
the past four months to find buyers for leu-denominated debt to
cover its budget deficit after an increase in a value-added tax
boosted consumer prices. The  central bank  raised its inflation
prediction for this year and next today because of the effects
of the government’s VAT increase.  “It seems like the ministry dropped the yield cap because
there’s a lot of short-term debt accumulating,” ING Bank
Romania SA economist  Vlad Muscalu  said by phone. “I think there
is pressure for higher yields on one-, three- and five-year
maturities, while a 7 percent yield for the six-month bills is
enough at this point.”  The inflation rate will end the year at 8.2 percent and at
3.4 percent in 2011, Governor  Mugur Isarescu  told reporters in
Bucharest. In August, the central bank forecast annual inflation
of 7.8 percent in December and 3.1 percent at the end of 2011.  The government, which survived two no-confidence votes in
parliament this year over unpopular wage cuts and the VAT
increase, is struggling to get next year’s budget and pension
laws approved to meet the terms of its international bailout, as
the opposition and unions try to persuade the ruling coalition
lawmakers to bring down Prime Minister  Emil Boc ’s cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  