-- Rubber Gains Most Since Sept. 21 as Floods Raise Supply Shortage Concerns
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-11-04T07:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/rubber-gains-most-since-oct-12-as-floods-raise-supply-shortage-concerns.html
Rubber in Tokyo climbed to a 27-month
high, while futures in Shanghai and Thailand gained to records,
after flooding in major growing nations raised concerns that a
supply shortage will worsen, fueling a price rally.  The April-delivery contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
rose as much as 4.1 percent to 345.5 yen per kilogram ($4,274 a
metric ton), the highest intraday level since July 14, 2008,
before settling at 345 yen.  “Reports of floods in Thailand and Malaysia raised
concerns over supply shortages, supporting prices,” Gu Jiong,
an analyst at commodity broker Yutaka Shoji Co. said from Tokyo.
“Supplies are unlikely to increase in the short term.”  Cyclones and monsoon rains have swamped parts of Southeast
Asia in the past month, killing hundreds of people in Thailand,
Vietnam and Malaysia and damaging agricultural land.  Eleven provinces in Thailand’s south, a major plantation
area, have been inundated since Nov. 1, bringing total affected
area to 50 provinces and leaving 122 dead, Thailand’s Department
of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said on its website today.  Floods and blackouts forced the cash-rubber center in
Thailand’s Songkhla province to close since Nov. 2. Two other
cash-rubber markets in Thailand’s south remained open, according
to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .  “Farmers can’t go out tapping amid heavy rains and floods,
which reduces production, while floods can also damage rubber
stocks,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at DS Futures Co.  Futures in Shanghai gained for a fourth day, rising as much
as 4.6 percent to a record 34,150 yuan ($5,112) a ton before
closing at 34,130 yuan. The most-active contract on the
Agricultural Futures Exchange of Thailand rose 2.2 percent to an
all-time high of 127.70 baht ($4.30) per kilogram at 2:03 p.m.
Bangkok time, according to the  exchange .  Indonesia Record  Rubber in Indonesia, the second-largest producer and
exporter, climbed to a record after heavy rains and floods in
the country hurt supplies, according to an industry association.  “The price rose to a record after heavy rains and floods
hit Thailand, Malaysia and Sumatra,”  Asril Sutan Amir , chairman
of the Rubber Association of Indonesia, said in a phone
interview today. Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia represent a
combined 70 percent of global natural-rubber production.  The free-on-board price, or cost without freight and
insurance, for Indonesia’s benchmark SIR-20 grade climbed to an
all-time high of $4.06 a kilogram today, Amir said. The price
was quoted at $3.99 yesterday and was about $2.87 at the start
of the year, according to  data  compiled by International Rubber
Consortium.  Fed Measures  Production this year will probably drop 5 percent, Amir
said. The association earlier forecast output this year of about
2.4 million tons. “Factories can’t fulfill contracts,” he
said.  “The Fed’s measures to bolster the economy also helped
boost rallies in commodities and stocks,” Navarat Kaewpratarn,
senior marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co., said by
phone from Bangkok.  Asian stocks climbed, pushing a regional  benchmark index  to
the highest in more than two years after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said it will expand record measures to boost the world’s
largest economy.  The Fed expanded asset buying by $600 billion after near-
zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion in securities purchases
helped pull the economy out of recession, without reviving the
labor market. A revival of U.S. demand would support growth in
the Asia-Pacific region, where government reports showed
employers added more jobs than economists estimated in New
Zealand and a seventh straight month of gains in Australian
retail sales.  “The move to inject more money into the system is a
massively important thing,” said  James Holt , who helps manage
about A$40 billion ($40.2 billion) at BlackRock Investment
Management (Australia) Ltd. “Every asset class gets a kick
along. The recovery looks like it’s happening, but the
overwhelming evidence is that it’s a weaker-than-expected
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  