-- PhosAgro May Join Potash Bid After Talks With Russian Government, Bankers
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-11-04T13:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/russia-s-phosagro-considering-joining-bid-for-potash-corp-of-saskatchewan.html
OAO PhosAgro, Russia’s largest maker
of phosphate fertilizers, is studying a joint bid with domestic
competitors for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  after Canada
blocked a $40 billion unsolicited offer by BHP Billiton Ltd.  PhosAgro is in “intensive consultations” with the Russian
government, and local and foreign banks on a possible deal, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. The producer will
announce its plans after Nov. 15, according to the statement.  The government asked domestic producers to consider a bid,
according to OAO Acron, the nation’s third-largest producer of
nitrogen soil nutrients. Russian fertilizer companies, including
OAO Silvinit, the largest potash-maker, and OAO Uralkali, have
been studying merging to expand output as shrinking arable land
and rising world food demand spur consumption of their products.  Acron won’t join a bid for Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based
Potash Corp. after receiving an Industry and Trade Ministry
proposal Nov. 1, Chairman  Alexander Popov  said yesterday. Artur
Gimatdinov, a ministry spokesman, said the same day the state
was “ready to support” any Russian company in buying foreign
assets. Government offices are closed for a holiday today.  PhosAgro asked the state to help fund a Potash Corp. deal,
 Vedomosti  reported yesterday, citing an Oct. 20 letter from
Chairman  Vladimir Litvinenko  to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  Canadian Opposition  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government said
yesterday a sale of the world’s largest fertilizer company to
BHP, which faced opposition from politicians and investors,
wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. Melbourne-based
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, has 30 days to appeal.  “PhosAgro is considering the possibility of participating
in a deal to buy shares of Potash Corp.,” the company said in
the statement today. “At the present time PhosAgro is
conducting intensive consultations with the Russian government,
Russian and foreign banks on a possible deal.”  A PhosAgro offer isn’t viable because the Russian company
is much smaller than Potash, Troika Dialog said.  “We struggle to find the proposed transaction as
plausible, simply given the startling difference in size between
PhosAgro and Potash Corp.,” Moscow-based Troika Dialog wrote in
a research note yesterday. PhosAgro, a closely held company, is
worth about $7 billion to $9 billion, Troika said, in comparison
with  Potash Corp. ’s market capitalization of $43 billion.  Only if PhosAgro merged with Russian potash producers
Uralkali and Silvinit to form a single company worth $25 billion
to $30 billion “would the remote potential to make a bid for
Potash Corp. appear,” analysts at Troika wrote.  Letter to Putin  In his letter to Putin, Litvinenko said Canadian banks had
agreed to provide half the funding for a takeover and Russian
banks should provide the remainder, according to Vedomosti.  While there has been reported interest from Chinese and
Indian companies in making a counterbid for Potash Corp.,
nothing has materialized so far, Troika said.  “It’s absolutely senseless for Russia to spend $40 billion
on acquiring Potash Corp.,” Popov said by phone yesterday from
Moscow. “If the country has a spare $40 billion, it would be
much more effective to put it into the Russian economy.”  Putin passed PhosAgro’s request to Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Sechin , who contacted ministries and state banks, Vedomosti
said, without citing anyone. A state official said yesterday he
couldn’t speak about private correspondence, while Putin’s
spokesman  Dmitry Peskov  didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  Silvinit and Uralkali are both controlled by billionaire
 Suleiman Kerimov  and his partners, who plan to merge them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  