-- Sam Zell Says High-Quality Commercial Real Estate Will Fill at Lower Rents
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2010-11-04T18:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sam-zell-says-high-quality-commercial-real-estate-will-fill-at-lower-rents.html
Billionaire property investor  Sam Zell  said high-quality buildings will fill at lower rents over
the next year and a half amid a slump in commercial real estate
construction.  “Over the next 18 months I think we’re going to see little
or no new construction and we’re going to see all the
institutional-quality assets be full,” Zell said today at the
Real Estate Briefing hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York. “The
bad news is they’re going to be full at 20 or 30 percent rates
less than the peak.”  Zell, the chairman of Chicago-based  Equity Residential ,
sold his Equity Office Properties Trust in 2007 for $39 billion
as the commercial real estate market was peaking. Property
prices have plunged as credit contracted and the economic slump
boosted the unemployment rate and employers cut jobs.  Zell said demand is strong among investors for fully leased
buildings, and that there is little distressed commercial real
estate on the market as lenders extend mortgage terms. Demand
for such properties is outstripping supply, he said.  For fully occupied buildings, demand from investors is
similar to what it was at the peak of the market, with bidding
competitive for those properties, Zell said.  Zell, 69, said demand for multifamily housing is strong and
occupancies are high. Equity Residential is the largest publicly
traded apartment landlord.  Tribune Investment  Zell said he doesn’t regret his investment in Tribune Co.,
which filed for bankruptcy in 2008. In 2007, Zell and other
investors took the media company private in a leveraged buyout.
Zell said that, in the first quarter after the takeover, revenue
fell 25 percent.  “The original decision I made, which was like every
decision I make on an investment, is a risk-reward decision,”
Zell said. “The risk and the reward were appropriate.”  Zell, through  Equity International , which he co-founded
with  Gary Garrabrant  in 1999, has invested in real estate-
related companies around the world, including Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 