-- HSBC Italy Chief Perrelli Sees `Window' for European Share Sales in Asia
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-11-04T13:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/hsbc-italy-chief-perrelli-sees-window-for-europe-ipos-in-asia.html
European companies are considering
initial public offerings in Asia where demand is higher, said
 Marzio Perrelli , who oversees HSBC Holdings Plc’s business in
Italy.  “There’s an important window,” Perrelli said in an
interview in Milan today. “For Italian companies, the
opportunities are greater for those with a recognized brand.”  HSBC , Europe’s biggest bank, joins Hong Kong Stock
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., which runs the local market, in
forecasting that more European firms will list shares in Asia.
Prada SpA, the Italian owner of the eponymous fashion label, is
studying an IPO for the first half of 2011 and is considering
listing its stock in Hong Kong.  More than 80 businesses have applied to list shares in Hong
Kong over coming months, Hong Kong Exchanges Chairman  Ronald Arculli  said last month. Businesses from “several new
jurisdictions” plan IPOs there, he said.  Hong Kong, a market where companies raised more money from
IPOs than the U.S. and U.K. combined this year, is luring
European companies with higher investor demand.  United Co. Rusal
Ltd. , the world’s largest aluminum producer, raised HK$17.4
billion ($2.2 billion) in the city’s first IPO by a Russian
company. French perfume-maker L’Occitane International SA sold
HK$5.49 billion of shares in its Hong Kong IPO in May.  Initial offerings in Hong Kong have raised a record $41
billion this year, compared with $29.8 billion from Europe,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
 Zijing Wu  in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  