-- Serbia May Increase Europe's Highest Interest Rate Next Week on Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-11-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/serbia-may-increase-europe-s-highest-interest-rate-next-week-on-inflation.html
Serbia’s central bank may raise
interest rates for the fourth time since August next week
because mounting price pressures and a weaker dinar threaten its
inflation targets.  The Narodna Banka Srbije will increase its  two-week
repurchase rate  by as much as 1 percentage point on Nov. 11 from
9.5 percent, according to 12 of 22 respondents in a Bloomberg
surveyed. Ten see the rate unchanged.  The central bank has raised rates by 1.5 percentage points
since August as inflation exceeded its 2010 target band of 4
percent to 8 percent. Serbia’s benchmark rate is the highest in
Europe as the country struggles to curb rising food prices,
which account for 40 percent consumer prices.  “‘The NBS should probably tighten sooner rather than later
if they want to keep 2011 inflation on track,” said  Hrvoje Stojic , an economist at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank d.d. in Zagreb.  Retail-prices inflation accelerated to an annual 9.9
percent in October, and the central bank says the consumer-price
index probably rose to more than 9 percent. The bank pledged to
stick with its inflation target of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
1.5 percentage point, at the end of 2011.  Inflation may accelerate to 9 percent this month from 8.6
percent in October and slow to 7.2 percent in November 2011,
according to the survey. Stronger economic growth, driven by
consumer spending, is fueling expectations for faster inflation,
Hypo Alpe-Adria said in a Nov. 4 research note to clients.  Currency Falls  Policy makers may also be more inclined to raise rates to
strengthen the dinar, which has lost 11 percent since January
and about 40 percent since the start of the global financial
crisis in 2008. The central bank has spent 2.2 billion euros
($3.1 billion) to prop up the currency this year.  The dinar traded at 107.63 to the euro at 6:36 p.m. in
Belgrade yesterday and the survey’s participants expect the
central bank to sell more euro to curb its decline. Investors
are betting that the dinar will fall to 108 to the euro this
month and 109 in late December, the survey showed.  “They must do something about the exchange rate because of
its impact on inflation,” said  Dusko Vasiljevic , an economist at
the Ceves economic research institute in Belgrade. “It’s now
affecting expectations.”  The central bank won’t “tighten too severely without real
justification,” Governor  Dejan Soskic  said Oct. 27, when asked
if policy makers were preparing new price-control measures.  The government should have a bigger role in controlling
food prices, said Aleksandar Jaredic, head of treasury at
Volksbank International AG’s Serbian unit, who expects the rate
to remain unchanged next week.  “Even if they raised the rate again, the dinar wouldn’t
stop falling,” he said. “November and December are
traditionally months of strong corporate demand for hard
currencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  