-- Vukovar Dead Honored by Tadic as Serbs, Croats Build Relations in EU Drive
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-11-04T13:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/serbia-s-tadic-to-visit-croatian-town-razed-by-serbs-as-relations-improve.html
Serbian President Boris Tadic today
laid a wreath at a grave in the Croatian town of  Vukovar,  where
Serb forces executed 200 prisoners of war and civilians in 1991,
as the nations repair ties and seek to join the European Union.  Tadic, accompanied by Croatian counterpart  Ivo Josipovic ,
became the first Serb leader to pay respects to Croats slain by
Serb forces during the wars that followed the disintegration of
Yugoslavia. After the ceremony in Vukovar, the two presidents
honored 18 Serbs killed by Croats in the nearby village of
Paulin Dvor, Josipovic’s office said in a statement.  “I’m here to bow down to the victims, and apologize one
more time,” Tadic, 52, said at the mass grave at the former pig 
farm outside Vukovar in eastern Croatia. “I hope we can now 
open a new page in our relations and turn to the future.”  Vukovar fell to the Serb-led Yugoslav army on Nov. 18,
1991, after a three-month siege. Croatia regained its territory
in 1995. More than 1,000 people from the Vukovar area are still
missing on the Croatian side.  “We are also here to show that we are capable of pursuing
different politics of peace and friendship,” said Josipovic, 53.
“Today’s events will motivate us to further develop our
neighborly ties, and continue to investigate the fate of the
missing persons.”  Croatia seeks to join the European Union in 2012, making it
the second former Yugoslav republic to enter the bloc. Serbia
must prove its commitment to regional cooperation, one of the
EU’s key requirements, as it too pursues membership. Slovenia
joined the EU in 2004 and adopted the euro in 2007.  ‘Most Painful Place’  Tadic is also expected to meet with Croatian Premier
 Jadranka Kosor  today, her office said in a statement.  The Serbian president previously recognized that crimes
were committed by Serbs during the Balkan wars that started in
Slovenia in 1991 and ended in the former Yugoslav republic of
Macedonia in 2001.  In a 2007 interview with Croatian TV, Tadic apologized to
Croatia for crimes committed by Serbs. In April of this year he
apologized to Bosnia’s Muslims for the 1995 massacre in
Srebrenica, where 8,000 men were killed by Serb forces who
overran the town designated as a United Nations “safe area.”  “This apology carries a huge significance as Tadic came to
symbolically the most painful place,” Damir Grubisa, director
of the  European Studies Center  in Zagreb, said of today’s
ceremony in Vukovar. “With this gesture, Tadic has opened the
door to reconciliation built on permanent foundation.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Jasmina
Kuzmanovic at   jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James M. Gomez
at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  