-- Brunei Prince Fights to Keep Sex Statues Out of New York Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-11-04T02:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sex-statues-evidence-in-dispute-as-brunei-prince-s-lawsuit-goes-to-trial.html
A Brunei prince’s lawyers said
details about his multiple wives and statues of him having sex
shouldn’t be presented to a New York jury when his lawsuit
against his former legal advisers goes to court next week.  Prince Jefri Bolkiah , the younger brother of the Sultan of
Brunei, accused the advisers in a 2007 New York lawsuit of
engineering a scheme to control his assets and cheat him out of
millions of dollars.  Jefri asked a state court judge in Manhattan to exclude
evidence that he says could be prejudicial, including photos of
“erotic statues” that were once stored on the prince’s 28-acre
estate on Long Island east of New York City, according to court
papers.  The statues were sculpted by artist J. Seward Johnson and
depict Jefri having sex, said  Mark Cymrot , a lawyer for one of
the defendants in the lawsuit.  “They make me blush,” Cymrot said during a break in
yesterday’s hearing on evidence to be used at the trial, which
is scheduled to begin next week.  Geoffrey Stewart, a lawyer for the prince, declined to
comment. One of the defendants, Faith Zaman, obtained the photos
“in order to embarrass” the prince, his lawyers said in court
papers on Nov. 1.  Jefri also seeks to exclude details of his ongoing
litigation with the Brunei Investment Agency, which manages the
foreign reserves of Brunei, an oil-rich state on the island of
Borneo. Jefri said in court filings he was accused of stealing
billions from the government. The prince reached a settlement
with the agency in 2000 that required him to transfer most of
his assets to it, according to court papers.  The agency is the ultimate parent of several companies that
are also plaintiffs in the lawsuit.  Love Life  The prince also is seeking to keep out of the trial
discussion of his love life.  “As a Moslem, Prince Jefri was entitled to have multiple
wives and families, and he did so,” Jefri’s lawyers said in
court papers. “Under Islamic law and practice this was
legitimate and proper. However, polygamy is offensive to many
Americans, and trial testimony about Prince Jefri’s personal
life may be prejudicial to him.”  The ex-legal advisers Zaman and her husband, Thomas
Derbyshire, used their position as the prince’s personal legal
counsel to control his assets and enrich themselves, according
to the complaint. About $7 million is in dispute, Justice  Ira Gammerman  said at yesterday’s hearing.  “They stole nothing,” Cymrot said in e-mailed comments.
“Jefri is trying to blame them for his own conduct in
connection with his dispute with the sultan, as he has done to
other advisers.”  The case is Casa De Meadows Inc. v. Faith F. Zaman, 601685-
2007, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 