-- Shirakawa Says Asset Fund Shows BOJ's Resolve to Support Economic Recovery
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-11-04T04:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/shirakawa-says-asset-fund-shows-boj-s-resolve-to-support-economic-recovery.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the central bank’s 5 trillion-yen asset fund ($62
billion) shows its resolve to support the nation’s expansion.  The program “suggests that we stand ready to counter
downside risks for the economy and that can provide relief to
financial markets and have a positive effect on corporate
sentiment,” Shirakawa said at an economic forum in Tokyo today.
“We need to continue to take appropriate policy action.”  Shirakawa and his policy board are meeting today and
tomorrow to decide how it will purchase exchange-traded funds
and real-estate investment trusts, part of plans unveiled last
month to help stem deflation and shelter the nation’s expansion
from a yen trading year a 15-year high against the dollar. He
said today the purchases of such assets are “extraordinary” and
“unprecedented” for a central bank.  The governor said monetary tightening in emerging nations
has been needed to respond to surging inflation and housing
prices that have resulted from rapid economic expansions.  “These measures are necessary to avert overheating of
their economies and asset prices and sustain their economic
expansions,” Shirakawa said. “Should these measures ensure
sustainable growth in those emerging economies, they could also
have a favorable effect on the global economy in the long run.”  The governor said monetary easing in advanced economies has
failed to spark more bank lending and stimulate domestic demand.
Some people argue that easing in developed nations can encourage
more risk taking in emerging economies and also reduce the
effectiveness of policy tightening there, he said.  ‘Disappointingly Slow’  The BOJ’s deliberations come a day after the Federal
Reserve decided to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June, saying that progress has been “disappointingly
slow” in bringing down joblessness close to a 26-year high.
Shirakawa has said the Fed meeting wasn’t a factor in changing
the BOJ’s schedule.  The asset-purchase program will also buy government bonds
and corporate debt. Shirakawa said on Oct. 28 that increasing
the fund will be a “probable option” should the economy’s
outlook worsen and the bank needs to provide additional monetary
stimulus. The BOJ brought forward its November meeting date by
more than a week to speed up deciding details of the purchases.  The bank will buy 3.5 trillion yen in government debt, 1
trillion yen in corporate debt, 450 billion yen in exchange-
traded funds and 50 billion yen in J-REITs. It plans to buy
lower-rated corporate debt than its purchases in 2009, a step to
make it easier for companies to borrow funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  