-- Siemens Eurostar Contract Comes Under EU Commission Scrutiny
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-04T16:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/siemens-eurostar-contract-comes-under-scrutiny-from-european-commission.html
Eurostar Group Ltd.’s plan to buy
trains from  Siemens AG  has come under scrutiny from the European
Commission, though any probe the EU’s executive arm initiated
couldn’t block the deal.  The European Commission sent a letter on Oct. 26 to the
U.K. government asking for clarification of “alleged
violations” of EU law in the contract bidding process that was
used by Eurostar, according to  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for
EU financial services chief  Michel Barnier .  “The commission will decide about next steps regarding the
complaint in the light of the reply to the questions raised in
the letter,” Hughes said.  Eurostar  said Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains from Siemens
through a contract valued at 600 million euros ($853 million) to
add routes and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn
AG , which plans services via the tunnel under the English
Channel beginning in 2013.  Siemens’s rival bidder Alstom SA argued in a London court
that its rights to transparency and non-discrimination under
European Union rules were violated by Eurostar’s bidding
process. The court dismissed those claims last week. The
Commission received a detailed complaint from Alstom on Oct. 19,
Hughes said.  “The commission can’t block the deal,”  Georg Berrisch , a
partner at the Brussels office of the law firm  Covington &
Burling LLP , said in a telephone interview. The Commission is
prevented from stopping the contract because the matter has been
heard by a U.K. court, Berrisch said.  “We are convinced that our bid is fully in line with legal
requirements,” Siemens said in an e-mailed statement.  Alstom representatives didn’t respond to calls seeking
comment. A Eurostar representative wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  