-- Gold Jumps to Record as Weakening Dollar Boosts Demand for Precious Metal
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-11-04T20:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/silver-climbs-to-30-year-high-gold-advances-as-fed-boosts-debt-purchases.html
Gold surged to a record price in New
York as plans by the Federal Reserve to buy more debt drove the
dollar lower, boosting demand for precious metals as alternative
investments.  After settling at $1,383.10 an ounce on the Comex, gold
rallied to $1,393.40, the highest ever, in after-hours
electronic trading. The dollar fell to the lowest level in
almost 11 months against a basket of major currencies after the
Fed yesterday said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to spur growth. Gold futures are up 27
percent this year, heading for a 10th straight annual gain.  “The Fed gave the green light to just continue buying
gold,” said Matt Zeman, a metals trader at LaSalle Futures
Group in Chicago. “You can just short the dollar and go long on
commodities with impunity. Until the Fed mops up this liquidity,
the sky is the limit for gold.”  Gold futures for December delivery rose $45.50, or 3.4
percent, as of the 1:30 p.m. close on the Comex in New York, the
biggest gain for a most-active contract since March 19, 2009.
The metal traded at $1,391.90 as of 4:27 p.m. Gold for immediate
delivery in London rose to an all-time high of $1,393.55.  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that it
was compelled to act because “progress” toward objectives of
full employment and stable prices “has been disappointingly
slow.” The U.S. and other governments have kept interest rates
low and spent trillions of dollars to revive the global economy.  ‘Inflationary Threat’  “The Fed aims to weaken the dollar and create inflation,”
said  Peter Schiff , the president of Euro Pacific Capital in
Westport, Connecticut. “Gold and non-dollar investments should
benefit from their efforts.”  The dollar also fell to a nine-month low against the euro
as the European Central Bank kept its benchmark rate at 1
percent, signaling it will likely stick with its stimulus-exit
strategy. The federal-funds rate has been zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  “Investors are starting to think about the long-term
inflationary threat,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market
strategist at Lind-Waldock in Chicago. “The $600 billion in
bond purchases looks very friendly for buying anything tangible
like gold. Commodities are going to look undervalued.”  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose to a two-year high.  “Commodity prices are far more likely to rise than to
fall,” said  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the
Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter. The Fed has signaled
that “it will do what it must to assure that deflationary
pressures are dealt a death blow, that inflation is the better
choice.”  Inflation expectations, based on the 10-year U.S. Treasury
breakeven rate, have fallen to 2.17 percent from 2.4 percent at
the beginning of the year. Gold is traditionally a hedge against
accelerating consumer prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 