-- Singapore Tops World Bank Survey on Ease of Doing Business for Fifth Year
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/singapore-tops-world-bank-survey-on-ease-of-doing-business-for-fifth-year.html
Singapore, which is in the running to
be the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, is the nation
with the most business-friendly regulation, according to a World
Bank report.  The city-state, where a company can be started in three
days and where some women are taxed less on their personal
income than men, topped the bank’s “ Doing Business”  report for
the fifth year in a row, followed by Hong Kong, New Zealand and
the U.K., with the U.S. in fifth place. The study also showed
that East Asia and Pacific nations such as Vietnam were among
countries that took the most steps to make it easier for local
companies to operate.  The International Monetary Fund expects  growth  in Singapore
to reach 15 percent this year, trailing only Qatar by 1
percentage point, as its services industry continues to expand
even as overseas demand for manufactured goods weakens. The
government has said it will introduce additional tax incentives
for industries including legal services, finance, shipbroking
and maritime financing.  Singaporean authorities “have been one of the most
aggressive adopters of IT to post all of their business
processes on line”  Neil Gregory , one of the report’s authors,
said on a conference call yesterday. The country is a “global
leader” in that field and many developing countries have
followed, putting imports and exports details online, he said.  Deemed Easiest  Countries deemed the easiest to do business often have
electronic procedures, as in the U.K. where commercial court
filing can now be done online, according to the World Bank
report.  The report, which helps private investors decide where to
direct funds by looking at the ease of doing business for
domestic companies of small and medium size, showed some
emerging economies losing ground, with Brazil slipping to 127
from 124 and Russia sinking to 123 from 116.  China, which was 79 this year versus 78 a year ago, is
still among the countries that have improved the most over the
past five years, Gregory said.  The world’s second-largest economy introduced 14 policy
changes, such as the introduction of a credit registry that now
has 64 percent of adults covered, according to the report.  Of the 183 countries in the report, Chad was in last place.
The Central African Republic was next and Burundi was third to
the last. Afghanistan slipped to 167, from 165, and Iraq was
just above Afghanistan.  Most Active  East Asia and Pacific nations were for the first time in
the report’s eight-year history among the most “active” in
taking business-friendly measures, according to the report.  “Emerging-market economies such as Indonesia, Malaysia and
Vietnam took the lead, easing start-up, permitting and property
registration for small and medium-size firms and improving
credit information sharing,” it said.  The report rates countries on rules that affect starting a
business, dealing with construction permits, registering
property, getting credit, protecting investors, paying taxes,
trading across borders, enforcing contracts and closing a
business. It reviews regulations on employing workers and the
availability of reliable electricity connections, though they
are not criteria for the ranking.  At the same time, the report leaves out criteria such as
macroeconomic stability, corruption and regulations specific to
foreign investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  