-- Sinopec Will Refine Record Oil Volumes This Month to Ease Fuel Shortages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T03:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sinopec-to-increase-daily-processing-to-record-to-avert-diesel-shortage.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the
nation’s largest oil refiner, will increase daily oil processing
to a record this month in a bid to avert diesel shortages as
farmers and factories burn more of the fuel.  Oil processing will increase 10 percent from a year earlier
to 583,000 tons a day, exceeding the October record by 5,900
tons a day, parent China Petrochemical Corp. said in its online
 Sinopecnews  newsletter today.  China, the world’s biggest energy consuming-nation, is
accelerating power restrictions to meet efficiency targets,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That’s prompting some
manufacturers to turn to their own diesel generators at the same
time as use of fuel climbs during the autumn harvest, said  Qiu Xiaofeng , an oil analyst at China Merchants Securities Ltd.  “The diesel shortage is being deepened by exceptional
demand caused by increased use of diesel-fired power units, in
addition to seasonal demand from farmers,” Qiu said by phone in
Shanghai.  Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, will reward plants
that beat their diesel production targets and is limiting the
output of kerosene, according to the statement. The company
arranged immediate imports of 200,000 tons of diesel to ease
tight supplies in regions including Zhejiang, Gansu and Jiangxi.  The state-controlled oil refiner is “sparing no effort”
to ensure supplies to the market, the parent company said.
Sinopec won’t do maintenance at oil refineries in major centers
and has postponed work at plants including Gaoqiao in Shanghai
and in Guangzhou, it said.  Energy Target  The government has been shutting factories to help meet
Premier Wen Jiabao’s goal of cutting energy consumption per unit
of gross domestic product by 20 percent in the five years ending
2010.  “Factories are turning to small diesel generators after
some local governments rationed electricity to meet energy
conservation targets,” Qiu of China Merchants said. “This
exceptional demand will diminish from the start of next year,
after the government completes the five-year period ending this
year.”  Sinopec refineries  have operated at full capacity for four
months, according to the parent’s statement. Diesel output rose
by 8.3 percent in October and the yield of the product, used to
fuel power generation and trucks, increased to 2.16 times of
that of gasoline last month, higher than the average diesel
yield ratio so far this year, it said.  The Beijing-based refiner is also reducing production of
feedstock used to make ethylene in favor of diesel output, it
said.  Sinopec will keep oil-product stockpiles at current low
levels this month, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  