-- Sirius Still Seeking Howard Stern Deal as Contract's End Nears
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-11-04T20:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sirius-still-seeking-howard-stern-deal-as-contract-s-end-nears.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. , the U.S.
satellite radio broadcaster, said it’s continuing to negotiate a
new contract with talk-show host  Howard Stern  less than two
months before his existing contract expires.  Chief Executive Officer  Mel Karmazin  said in August that
the company hoped to have an announcement about Stern’s contract
before the release of third-quarter earnings, which came out
today. Karmazin said on a conference call today the company
still doesn’t have a deal with Stern, whose five-year, $500
million contract expires at the end of December.  “We do not have an update today, other than to say
negotiations continue,” Karmazin said.  Stern helped draw consumers to the emerging technology of
satellite radio as Sirius struggled with capital investments and
losses. Stern is responsible for adding about 2 million
subscribers to Sirius XM, or about 10 percent of the total,
since he moved to satellite radio in January 2006, according to
 Tuna Amobi , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York.  It “surprisingly seems like the negotiations are going
down to the wire, which creates lingering uncertainty for
investors,” said Amobi in an e-mail today.  In its earnings announcement today, Sirius, based in New
York, reported third-quarter profit of $67.6 million, or 1 cent
a share, compared with a loss $151.5 million, or 4 cents, a year
earlier. Nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected the
company to break even.  Revenue for the quarter rose 16 percent to $717.5 million.
Analysts had projected $719.1 million in revenue.  Save $100 Million  Sirius, which ended the quarter with 19.8 million
subscribers, had a net addition of 334,727 subscribers during
the quarter, compared with a gain of 102,295 a year earlier, the
company said.  “Today, we are stronger than ever,” Karmazin said on the
call. The company, he said, “is in a position to soon pass 20
million subscribers.”  In an interview last month, Karmazin declined to give an
estimate of how many Sirius XM subscribers would cancel the
service if Stern leaves. Without Stern, Sirius XM would “save
$100 million a year” and use the money to fill the programming
gap with various types of shows, Karmazin said at the time.  Sirius  fell  10 cents, or 6.4 percent, to $1.47 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
more than doubled this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 