-- Marcus Says `Loose' U.S., Japan Monetary Policy to Boost Capital Inflows
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-11-04T09:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/slower-economic-growth-in-europe-may-impact-on-south-africa-marcus-says.html
South African central bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said “loose” monetary policy in the U.S., Japan
and other developed countries may continue to encourage capital
inflows into emerging markets, boosting their currencies.  “Monetary policy is likely to remain loose for longer,
which has implications for emerging-market economies in
particular, where significant capital inflows have put pressure
on their currencies,” Marcus told a conference today at the
Reserve Bank’s head office in the capital, Pretoria.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro
region have spurred investor demand for higher-yielding assets
in countries such as South Africa, which has a  benchmark 
interest rate of 6 percent. That has fueled a 12 percent surge
in the rand against the dollar since June 1, easing price
pressures and enabling the central bank to cut its key rate in
September, the eighth reduction since December 2008.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it will buy $600
billion in Treasury securities through June in a bid to further
reduce long-term borrowing costs and boost the economy. The Fed
is aiming to push down a jobless rate that has been stuck above
9 percent since the recession ended in June 2009.  The rand gained as much as 1.1 percent to 6.8279 against
the dollar today and was trading at 6.8337 as of 11:06 a.m. in
Johannesburg.  Saving Jobs  South African policy makers are under pressure from labor
unions and exporters to do more to curb the currency’s gains to
boost exports and help save jobs in a country where one in four
people are unemployed.  The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa took out
a half-page advertisement in Johannesburg-based Business Day
newspaper today, saying the Reserve Bank and National Treasury
are “failing to manage our economy to promote growth and
development.” The union called for “much lower interest rates
and tighter exchange controls” to help curb the rand.  Marcus said pegging the rand at a lower level, a proposal
by the Congress of South African Trade Unions and other groups,
won’t necessarily improve the competitiveness of exports.  “Fixing a nominal exchange rate does not imply real
exchange-rate stability,” she said. “This is a well-known
fact, but forgotten by proponents of a fixed exchange rate,
including those in South Africa, who view it as the silver
bullet to solve the country’s problem of competitiveness.”  Slower economic growth in Europe also has “implications”
for South Africa, which sells about a third of its manufactured
exports to the region, Marcus said.  “There are obvious implications for South Africa from a
slow-growing region,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 