-- Small U.K. Banks Face Competition Challenge, OFT Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-11-04T17:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/small-banks-in-u-k-face-competition-challenges-financial-regulator-says.html
Small U.K. consumer banks face
significant challenges “attracting customers” the country’s
antitrust regulator said.  Banks have problems “expanding their market shares”
because of customers’ loyalty to established brands, capital
rules and a lack of credit-risk information, the  Office of Fair
Trading  said today in a  statement .  “While we found few barriers to setting up, new firms
trying to grow in this market face difficulties due to
customers’ low levels of switching,” Clive Maxwell, the
regulator’s executive director for goods, services and mergers,
said in the statement.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative party has
called for smaller banks following the previous government’s
2008 bailouts of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc, which were deemed too big to fail.  Richard Branson ’s financial-services business, Virgin Money Ltd., and
 Tesco Bank , owned by the U.K.’s largest retailer, are among
several companies seeking to expand retail-banking operations as
the economy improves.  The Office of Fair Trading’s findings follow a review of
barriers to entry in retail banking. Retail banks focus on
lending and providing deposit facilities to consumers and small
businesses.  ‘Nine Out of 10’  New entrants on the retail banking market “will take time
to build any real presence on the high street,”  Brian Mairs , a
spokesman for the  British Bankers’ Association , said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The OFT’s own survey found that over nine out of 10
customers did not switch from bank to bank because they were
either happy where they were or found their bank convenient,”
Mairs said.  The OFT said that it would submit the results of its review
to the  Independent Commission on Banking , which was set up by
the U.K. government in June to consider banking-sector reforms.  “Existing capital requirements may disproportionately
affect new entrants and smaller banks by requiring them to hold
proportionally more capital than incumbents,” the OFT said.  The review also found that some banks have encountered
problems getting authorization from the  Financial Services
Authority  to accept deposits. A recent overhaul by the FSA of
its procedures should lead to “greater transparency and
certainty,” the OFT said.  “Frankly the OFT is being over-optimistic if it thinks
there are no regulatory barriers to new entrants into the
banking sector,”  Paul Edmondson , a lawyer with  CMS Cameron
McKenna LLP  in London, said.  U.K. government plans to wind down the FSA and move its
enforcement role to other agencies mean new banks will have to
satisfy “potentially competing criteria,” Edmondson said.  To contact the reporter on this story
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 