-- SNB Ready to Act if Franc Fuels Risk of Deflation, Governor Danthine Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-11-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/snb-ready-to-act-if-franc-fuels-risk-of-deflation-governor-danthine-says.html
The Swiss National Bank is ready to
act if a stronger franc threatens to spark deflation risks,
Governing Board member Jean-Pierre Danthine said.  “We can’t exclude that inflation could temporarily turn
negative at the beginning of 2011,” Danthine said at an event
in Geneva today. “If the downside risks to the economy
materialized and then translated into a deflation risk, the SNB
would take all measures needed to ensure price stability.”  The SNB in June stopped purchasing foreign currencies to
weaken the franc, saying deflation risks have “largely
disappeared.” While the franc has depreciated against the euro
over the past months, it’s still up 8.5 percent this year,
threatening to undermine the country’s  export-led recovery  and
pushing down costs of imported goods.  The stronger franc along with a global slowdown may “act
as a strong brake’’ on the economy and spark a “marked
slowdown’’ in the second half of the year and into 2011,
Danthine said. The economy will show “weaker” growth in 2011
after expanding around 2.5 percent this year, he said.  Unlike the European Central Bank, which holds monthly rate
assessments, SNB policy makers led by  Philipp Hildebrand  only
publish their decision once every quarter. The Zurich-based SNB
in September kept its key rate at 0.25 percent and lowered its
 inflation projections  through early 2013.  Danthine said that while the bank’s currency purchases have
“significantly increased exchange-rate risks” and sparked a
loss in the first half, that’s “the costs which can be the
consequence” of the SNB mandate to maintain price stability.  “That’s why it’s futile to criticize interventions on the
basis of monthly losses or quarterly losses,” Danthine said.
“It’s clearly in the middle- and long-term where one can
correctly assess the financial consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  