-- Solar, Wind Companies Predict Projects Will Slow If U.S. Eliminates Grants
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-11-04T20:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/solar-wind-companies-predict-projects-will-slow-if-u-s-eliminates-grants.html
Solar, wind, geothermal and biomass
power companies predict a slowdown in renewable-energy projects
if Congress fails to extend a U.S. grant program during its
post-election session.  The American Wind Energy Association, the Solar Energy
Industries Association, the Biomass Power Association and the
Geothermal Energy Association sent letters on Nov. 2 to
lawmakers, pressing to extend the program that expires next
month. The groups are acting before Republicans take control of
the House next year after campaigning on a pledge to lower the
federal deficit.  The industry organizations said the credits, which are part
of the stimulus package, saved or created tens of thousands of
U.S. jobs. White House officials said in an Oct. 25 memo that
the grants had been “much more effective in promoting renewable
energy” than a program to provide renewable projects with
federal loan guarantees.  Letting the grants expire will lead to a “significant
slowdown in the renewable-energy industries, resulting in the
loss of jobs and further transfer of clean-energy leadership to
other countries,” the groups wrote to congressional leaders.  Legislation to extend the grants has been introduced in
Congress and may be tied to the debate over extending tax breaks
enacted during the Bush administration, which are to end this
year.  The Treasury Department has awarded more than $5.4 billion
to 1,387 renewable-energy projects. The program lets solar, wind
and renewable projects that would be eligible for production and
investment tax credits instead seek a one-time grant from the
Treasury covering 30 percent of costs.  Summers, Browner Memo  The White House memo, written by National Economic Council
Director  Lawrence Summers , special adviser on energy and
environment  Carol Browner , and Vice President  Joe Biden ’s chief
of staff,  Ron Klain , recommended that President  Barack Obama  ask
Congress to redirect $2.5 billion in loan guarantee funds to
extend the grants.  The advisers said opposition to the shift may come from
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, and Senate
Energy Committee Chairman  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat.
The memo was reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  Bill Burton , White House deputy press secretary, said today
in an e-mail that the administration supports the loan-guarantee
and grant programs.  The renewable-energy groups cited a Lawrence Berkeley
National Laboratory study from 2009 that found the grant program
saved more than 55,000 jobs in the wind-energy industry. The
report said most positions were short-term.  The Solar Foundation, a Washington-based non-profit group
that promotes using the sun for energy, reported 93,000
employees in the industry, double the number estimated for 2009.
The groups credited the grants for the increase.  Grants, Credits  The Treasury grants were added to the stimulus program at
the behest of renewable-energy companies that said investment
tax credits were failing to entice investors during the
recession.  The White House memo said 2009 was the best year for the
wind industry. Developers installed 10,000 megawatts of power
that year. The Lawrence Berkley report said one-third of that
capacity wouldn’t have been built without the grants.  U.S. wind-energy growth has slowed. The wind group reported
Oct. 29 that developers added 395 megawatts in the third
quarter, the slowest pace of growth since 2007.  AES Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Paul Hanrahan  said policy
uncertainty would result in a shift in investments by the
Arlington, Virginia-based company.  “We have scaled back our development efforts in the U.S.
wind market in the near term,” Hanrahan said on a conference
call today.  Renewable-energy companies also may have a more difficult
time next year seeking support for the program when Republicans
control the House. Lobbyists said subsidies for renewable
projects will face greater scrutiny.  Grants ‘Toast’  “The tax-grant program, that’s toast,” said  Michael McKenna , president of MWR Strategies, an oil-industry consulting
firm in Washington. “There’s no way they can extend it. It’s
going to be agenda item No. 1 for the wind and solar guys, but I
just don’t see how that will happen.”  Dan Lashof, director of the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council’s climate center in Washington,
disagreed, saying both parties supported renewable power.  “I don’t think it’s obvious what the new Congress will do
on renewable energy,” Lashof said. “Even Republicans that ran
opposed to cap-and-trade said they support renewable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .
Jim Efstathiou in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 