-- South Korea Proposes Sanctions Against Ex-Shinhan CEO Over Bank Accounts
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-11-04T09:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/south-korea-proposes-sanctions-against-ex-shinhan-ceo-over-bank-accounts.html
South Korea’s financial regulator
recommended sanctions against  Ra Eung Chan , the former chief
executive officer of  Shinhan Financial Group Co ., for opening
bank accounts in other people’s names.  The penalty committee of the regulator today decided to
impose a sanction equivalent to three months of suspension from
duty for Ra, the  Financial Supervisory Service ’s spokeswoman Kim
Soo Mi said by telephone following the committee’s meeting. A
final decision will be made following further review by a higher
committee, she said.  That would bar Ra, 71, from seeking an executive role at
Shinhan or any other financial company for the next four years.
He stepped down from his posts as chairman and CEO of Shinhan on
Oct. 30 amid the government probe while retaining his board seat
at South Korea’s biggest financial company.  Shinhan’s banking unit received an institutional warning by
the regulator, and 25 other officials at the lender were
punished over Ra’s violations, according to Kim.  Shinhan Bank spokesman Kim Young Gil in Seoul declined to
comment on the committee’s recommendations by telephone, and Ra
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comments.  South Korean prosecutors raided the office of the secretary
of Shinhan Bank’s CEO on Nov. 2, Shinhan Financial said in an e-
mail, confirming a Yonhap News report.  Prosecutors are investigating Shinhan Financial President
 Shin Sang Hoon  after Shinhan’s banking unit on Sept. 2 filed a
complaint to prosecutors that alleged breach of duty and
embezzlement. The president denied the allegations. Four Shinhan
shareholders filed a lawsuit in September, seeking dismissal of
Shinhan Bank CEO  Lee Baek Soon .  Shinhan Financial’s board on Oct. 30 elected director  Ryoo Shee Yul  as acting CEO. He will serve until a new management
team is appointed at a shareholder meeting in March.  The regulator also plans to conduct regular inspection of
Shinhan Financial’s overall businesses later this month,
Governor  Kim Jong Chang  told lawmakers on Oct. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  