-- South African Power Utility Eskom to Submit New Tariff Request Before June
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-04T11:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/south-african-power-utility-eskom-to-submit-new-tariff-request-before-june.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., the utility
supplying 95 percent of South Africa’s power, said it aims to
submit its latest tariff request to the energy regulator by June
as it tries to fund its multi-billion dollar expansion.  “We’re looking at next year,” Chief Financial Officer
 Paul O’Flaherty  said in an interview in Johannesburg today. “I
want it as soon as possible so we can get this behind us.”  Eskom is spending 485 billion-rand ($71.2 billion) building
plants to boost electricity supply in Africa’s biggest economy
and prevent a repeat of outages that shut some of the country’s
gold and platinum mines in early 2008. In addition to loans and
government guarantees, Eskom relies on tariffs set by the energy
regulator to secure funds for its expansion.  In February, the National Energy Regulator of South Africa
ruled that Eskom could raise electricity tariffs 24.8 percent in
the 12 months through April. Prices could then be increased 25.8
percent in the year through March 2012 and 25.9 percent the year
after that, it said.  Eskom now needs clarity on tariffs in the two-years beyond
2013 to “get certainty” on the utility’s likely cash situation
over the five-year period, O’Flaherty said. While Nersa, as the
regulator is known, hasn’t made a decision on future price
increases, Eskom expects to be allowed to increase tariffs by
about 25 percent each year, he said.  The largest plants in Eskom’s expansion are the Medupi and
Kusile coal-fired power plants.  ‘Very Strong Position’  The first unit of Medupi, the most-advanced project, is
scheduled to start generating power in the fourth quarter of
2012, while a lack of funds means Kusile is now expected to
start production at the beginning of 2015, compared with an
earlier forecast of June 2013.  Eskom has secured $3.75 billion from the World Bank to
partly finance Medupi, while the Development Bank of Southern
Africa today signed 15 billion-rand loan with Eskom, which
reduces the company’s three-year funding gap to about 65 billion
rand, O’Flaherty said.  “The loan places us in a very strong position,” to access
additional funding, he said.  Eskom will start an “urgent” program over the next 24 to
36 months to secure further funds, Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dames , said in a presentation in Johannesburg today. This is
likely to begin by approaching the U.S. debt markets early next
year, he said.  South Africa’s government said on Oct. 28 that it will
guarantee an additional 176 billion-rand of debt held by Eskom,
bringing total guarantees by the state to 350 billion rand. That
is in addition to a loan of 60 billion rand, it said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Xstrata Plc and ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. are amongst South Africa’s largest power users. The
country is the world’s biggest platinum producer and the third-
largest miner of gold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  