-- Spanish Auction Misses Maximum Goal as Demand Falls for Peripheral Bonds
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-04T10:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/spanish-auction-misses-maximum-goal-as-demand-for-peripheral-bonds-falls.html
Spain sold 3.4 billion euros ($4.9
billion) of five-year bonds, less than the Treasury’s maximum
target, as demand for peripheral euro-region debt declined.  The April 30, 2016 bonds, issued for the first time,
yielded an average 3.576 percent, compared with 3.531 percent
for bonds of similar maturity on the secondary market before the
sale. Demand was 1.6 times the amount sold, the Treasury said.
The Treasury targeted a maximum of 4 billion euros for the sale.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Irish bonds over
German equivalents surged to a euro-era record today and
Portugal’s borrowing costs gained at a bond sale yesterday after
German politicians stepped up calls for bondholders to share the
cost of future debt restructurings. European leaders are
debating how a permanent European debt-crisis mechanism will
work, with Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero
saying on Oct. 29 he is cautious about involving the private
sector.  “From the point of view of the amount sold and the bid-to-
cover, it’s not a stellar auction,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a
fixed income strategist at UniCredit Bank AG in London. She
estimates Spain still has to issue 12 billion euros over the
next three bond auctions, unless the Treasury changes its
borrowing plans.  The  yield  on Spanish 10-year bonds rose after the auction
to 4.322 percent, from 4.288 percent yesterday. Bonds due in
January 2016 fell, with the yield rising to 3.544 percent from
3.487 percent yesterday.  Yield Spreads  Debt issued by Ireland, Portugal and Spain came under
renewed pressure this week after German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said bondholders should share the cost of any restructuring,
rather than leaving taxpayers “on the hook.” Her finance
minister, Wolfgang Schaeuble, stepped up the calls yesterday,
saying the euro’s stability depends on making investors
responsible and that private-sector participation is a “central
element” of the proposed mechanism.  The spread on Irish debt surged to 518 basis points, while
Portugal’s risk premium rose to 395 basis points, a three-week
high. Spain’s extra borrowing costs, at 184 basis points, have
risen less those of the other two as the country’s fiscal
consolidation is progressing more quickly than in Portugal,
Greece or Ireland.  Spain’s  central government  trimmed the deficit by 42
percent in the first nine months, compared with 31 percent in
Greece and a widening budget gap in Portugal. Ireland’s overall
deficit is expected to swell to 32 percent of gross domestic
product this year, including the cost of rescuing its financial
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  