-- Sri Lanka May Cut Rupee Debt Amount Foreigners Can Buy, Central Bank Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2010-11-04T04:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sri-lanka-may-cut-rupee-debt-amount-foreigners-can-buy-central-bank-says.html
Sri Lanka may reduce the amount of
government rupee debt available to foreign buyers to channel
more overseas funds into private companies, Central Bank Deputy
Governor Dharma Dheerasinghe said.  “We want there to be a shift from government debt to
corporates issuing debt and subscriptions coming from outside,”
Dheerasinghe said in an interview in Colombo yesterday. “We are
also now more focused on foreign direct investment and trade
inflows.”  Sri Lanka will soon announce easier foreign-exchange rules,
to help spur economic  growth  after the end of the island’s civil
war, central bank Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  said last month.
The move will enable foreign investors to buy corporate debt in
Sri Lanka, Cabraal said in January.  The easier foreign-exchange rules, together with rising
credit demand and imports, will help absorb liquidity in the
local money market that has reached 100 billion rupees ($895
million), Dheerasinghe said.  “Much of the liquidity is due to buying foreign currency
in the market,” Dheerasinghe said.  The authorities doubled the maximum amount of outstanding
treasury debt foreigners can buy to 10 percent in November 2007.
They allowed purchases of rupee-denominated treasury bills for
the first time in May 2008.  Sri Lanka plans to allow local residents to buy shares of
foreign companies and to let Sri Lankan companies list abroad,
Cabraal said earlier this year.  Accelerating economic growth and the end of almost three
decades of war against separatist rebels in May 2009 has
attracted foreign funds to Sri Lanka. The South Asian nation
received bids worth $6.3 billion for a global sale of $1 billion
in bonds to help repay debt and rebuild after the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  