-- Starbucks Leaves Stores Unfixed as McDonald's Perks Up
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-11-04T13:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/starbucks-leaves-many-stores-unrenovated-as-mcdonald-s-perks-up.html
Less is more at  Starbucks Corp.   The Seattle-based coffee chain is betting it can increase
sales by spending the same amount of money as usual, about $250
million a year, to renovate only about half the approximately
1,900 shops due for a facelift in 2011.  Emphasizing stores in precincts like Manhattan’s Soho
district, and employing such eco-friendly touches as reclaimed
furniture, will lift the whole brand,  Arthur Rubinfeld ,
Starbucks’ global development chief, said in an interview.  Starbucks is trying to caffeinate sales growth, which may
have topped 10 percent in the most recent quarter for the first
time since March 2008, while paying investors dividends. The
strategy risks alienating customers at the unimproved stores as
 McDonald’s Corp ., now pushing its own coffee drinks, plans to
pump $1.2 billion into restaurant renovations this year.  “I have concern over Starbucks setting expectations that
don’t get fulfilled by a visit to a typical store,” Julius
Dorsey, the president of the Cleveland-based management
consultant Dorsey & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Starbucks, led by Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz ,
is scheduled to announce its fourth quarter and full-year
earnings today. Quarterly sales are projected to rise 14
percent, with adjusted earnings per share increasing 33 percent
according to an average of analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is also expected to announce a dividend
of 13 cents a share, according to a Bloomberg forecast, the
third in the company’s history.  Shares Doubled  Starbucks rose 57 cents to $29.67 at 9:30 a.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Before today the shares had
advanced 26 percent this year. While that about matches the
return for McDonald’s, shares of the world’s largest hamburger
chain have more than doubled in five years while Starbucks
declined 1.1 percent.  Starbucks refurbishes its stores after five years and then
again after 10. Since 2008, the number of stores turning 5 and
10 has doubled and as many as 1,900, or about a quarter of the
company’s 8,800 stores, are due for upgrades in 2011. The
company has closed about 900 stores since 2008. It declined to
say how many 5- or 10-year-old shops were among the closures.  Many of the coffee shops feature the same earth tones and
blond wood Starbucks has used since the 1990s.  Rehabbing all of them would cost as much as $475 million.
Like other restaurant chains, Starbucks has cut capital spending
since the recession. In the past 12 months Starbucks spent about
$450 million and used about half for renovations, according to
company filings. It will renovate the same number of stores,
about 1,000, again in the next year, Chief Financial Officer
 Troy Alstead  said in a July conference call.  Reclaimed Materials  Starbucks hired architect Kambiz Hemati from BCBG Max Azria
Group Inc., the Vernon, California-based fashion retailer, to
design the new stores. They feature reclaimed materials, low-
flow faucets and energy-efficient air conditioning. As the
company gradually remodels the rest of its coffee shops, it will
borrow from the flagship stores, Hemati said.  Every time Starbucks opens a new location, the company
makes sure the media hears about it -- part of a campaign to
burnish the overall brand. After a new store opened in Seattle
three weeks ago, it was mentioned 357 times in traditional media
outlets, according the news tracking firm Vocus. USA Today wrote
a story, which began: “The Starbucks of the future arrived
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 