-- Starbucks Profit Rises 86% on Higher Store Traffic, Via Sales
-- B y   B u r t   H e l m
-- 2010-11-04T21:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/starbucks-profit-increases-86-on-store-traffic-via-instant-coffee-sales.html
Starbucks Corp ., the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, said fourth-quarter profit rose 86 percent
on higher foot traffic and Via instant coffee sales.  Net income was $278.9 million, or 37 cents a share, the
Seattle, Washington-based chain said today in a statement.
Revenue increased 17 percent to $2.84 billion. Excluding some
items, earnings exceeded analysts’ average estimates by 5 cents.  The company raised its per-share earnings forecast for
fiscal 2011 to as much as $1.47 compared with the previous top
forecast of $1.41.  Sales will increase as much as 20 percent next year even as
U.S. unemployment remains “stubbornly high,” Chief Financial
Officer  Troy Alstead  said in a telephone interview following the
announcement.  “We have a cautious outlook for the economy and a very
bullish outlook for our business,” Alstead said.  Sales at stores open more than a year rose 8 percent,
beating the 6 percent average estimate in a Bloomberg analysts’
survey. Customizable frappuccinos and the Starbucks Gold loyalty
program boosted foot traffic most, Alstead said.  Led by Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz , the company
expanded distribution of Via instant coffee to about 55,000
locations around the world, including grocery stores in Japan,
the U.K. and Canada. In July Starbucks launched free Wi-Fi Web
service in North America to help lure consumers into stores.  Boost Spending  Starbucks will boost capital spending by as much as $100
million to as much as $600 million in the next 12 months to pay
for more store renovations. Previously the company had said it
would keep spending steady and focus on a few eco-friendly
stores in cities like New York and Paris.  “We’ll be spending more on bringing some of these new
designs into our portfolio than we initially anticipated,”
Alstead said in the interview. “The reaction to our new designs
has been so powerful and we have a chance to impact our store
more holistically.”  Starbucks, which declared its first dividend in March, said
it will award one of 13 cents a share.  Starbucks rose 81 cents to $30.56 at 4:30 p.m. New York
time in after-hours trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have increased 29 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 