-- Statoil Puts Should Be Sold Because Shares Will Rise, RBS Strategists Say
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-04T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/statoil-puts-should-be-sold-because-shares-will-rise-rbs-says.html
Investors should sell bearish Statoil
ASA options because Norway’s largest oil and natural-gas
producer will rebound after falling yesterday because of lower-
than-estimated  profit , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Stephen Einchcomb  and  Bhavin Patel  recommended selling January 110 kroner puts on the stock,
which fell 5.4 percent to 122.4 kroner in Oslo yesterday for the
biggest loss since May. Selling puts, which give the right to
sell shares, is a bet that the stock won’t fall below the strike
price, allowing the seller to keep what the buyer paid.  The strategists cited  Barry MacCarthy , an RBS oil industry
 analyst , who says Statoil probably won’t extend losses because
it rises along with crude prices and will rally on the Federal
Reserve’s stimulus measures. Put selling is favorable because
prices for the contracts have remained high relative to calls
that give the right to buy shares, the London-based strategists
said.  “This makes Statoil options appear more expensive at
present, thus selling options seems an attractive strategy in
this environment,” they said. “Although near-term upside may
be limited (due to negative sentiment regarding the government
intervention), Barry believes that the downside should be well
supported.”  Implied volatility , the key gauge of options prices, for
Statoil puts that are 10 percent below the stock price is 1.27
times higher than bullish contracts priced the same amount above
the last closing level. That’s the highest premium for put
options since August.  Lower Production Forecast  The strategy makes the most profit if the stock remains
above 110 kroner at expiration on Jan. 20, and it breaks even if
the shares are above 108.5 kroner. Statoil hasn’t closed below
110 kroner since March 2009.  The Stavanger-based company cut its full-year production
forecast because of halts at fields and missing analysts’
estimates for adjusted profit. The output projection for this
year was cut to 1.9 million barrels of oil equivalent a day,
from 1.925 million to 1.975 million a day. Adjusted net income
fell 8 percent to 8.5 billion kroner ($1.4 billion), missing the
9.2 billion-krone average estimate in a survey of analysts.  Oil rose to the highest level in six months after a U.S.
government report showed that fuel supplies tumbled and the
Federal Reserve said it will buy an additional $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to boost the economy. Futures have risen
6.4 percent in New York during the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 