-- Embryonic Stem-Cell Funding Should Be Allowed, U.S. Tells Appeals Court
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-11-04T19:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/stem-cell-funding-should-be-allowed-to-proceed-u-s-tells-appeals-court.html
A judge’s ban on funding for
embryonic stem cell research misconstrues the law, the federal
government told a U.S. appeals court in an effort to restore
funding for the research to proceed.  The  National Institutes of Health  has interpreted
guidelines as allowing funding for the research, while Congress
has been “making plain that it allows funding” for the
research, government lawyers wrote in a brief filed today with
the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington.  “Plaintiffs argue that this court should ignore the clear
intent of Congress,” the U.S. wrote in the filing.  The appeals court in September put on hold a lower-court
ruling that cut off funding for embryonic stem-cell research
after the government argued that it would harm researchers,
taxpayers and scientific progress. The appellate court said the
funding could continue during the appeal.  Lifting the ban allowed the government to temporarily
continue directing tens of millions of dollars to scientists
seeking cures for diseases such as Parkinson’s, spinal cord
injuries and genetic conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow
into any kind of tissue. Adult stem cells, found in mature
tissue, are more limited in their ability to differentiate into
other cell types.  ‘Illegal Competition’  A group of scientists who oppose the funding filed papers
Oct. 28 claiming it is illegal and should be barred. The
opponents, researchers who work with adult stem cells, are
“suffering irreparable harm from the illegal competition” and
permanent loss of federal funds, according to a brief they
filed.  In their filing, the opponents cited the still-in-force
1996 Dickey-Wicker Amendment, saying that Congress prohibited
funding any research in which a human embryo was destroyed. By
implication, that included all embryonic stem-cell research,
they argued.  The appeals court scheduled arguments on the dispute for
Dec. 6  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 