-- Strengthening Storm Tomas Triggers Hurricane Warnings for Haiti, Bahamas
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-04T15:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/strengthening-storm-tomas-triggers-hurricane-warnings-for-haiti-bahamas.html
Tropical Storm Tomas turned to the
north on a path that would take it just east of Jamaica today
and across eastern Cuba tomorrow, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center.  The Cuban government issued a hurricane warning for the
province of Guantanamo. Warnings also were in effect for the
southeastern Bahamas, Haiti and the Turks and Caicos islands,
and businesses in Kingston were urged to close early today in
advance of expected heavy rain, according to the nation’s office
of disaster preparedness.  The system, with maximum sustained winds of 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour, is forecast to strengthen tomorrow into a
hurricane with winds of at least 74 mph, the center said on its
website shortly before 11 a.m. Miami time.  “Haiti is still under the gun,” said  Jim Rouiller , a
senior energy meteorologist with Planalytics Inc. in Wayne,
Pennsylvania. “The only saving grace I can see coming out of
this is that Tomas should not intensify much.”  As much as 15 inches (38 centimeters) of rain was forecast
for Haiti and the Dominican Republic, with up to 3 inches
predicted in Jamaica, the center said.  ‘Dangerous’ Surge  “A dangerous storm surge will raise water levels by as
much as 1 to 3 feet above normal tide levels in the warning area
in areas of onshore winds,” the center said. “Near the coast,
the surge will be accompanied by large and destructive waves.”  Mudslides and flash floods are likely.  “I’m worried that if Tomas slows up any more, it’s just
going to add more rainfall,” Rouiller said.  Tomas was 125 miles south-southeast of Kingston and 295
miles southwest of the Haitian capital, moving north at 8 mph,
 according to the U.S. center .  The system has been erratic since it developed, reaching
Category 2 hurricane status over the weekend and then weakening
to a tropical depression yesterday. The center said yesterday it
was unlikely that Tomas would regain hurricane strength.  The hurricane center yesterday was forecasting a direct hit
on Haiti, where more than 1 million people have lived in camps
since an earthquake in January that killed 300,000 people and a
cholera outbreak has infected thousands and killed hundreds.  Haiti Prepares  Haitian President  Rene Preval  and Prime Minister  Jean-Max Bellerive  two days ago held an emergency cabinet meeting with
aid officials to prepare for floods and mobilize shelter and
food.  Silvie Louchez, the Haiti country director for the American
Refugee Committee, said yesterday people were “very, very
reluctant to move” from camps, including Corail, which houses
7,000 quake victims and poses a high risk as it was built on a
desert flood plain north of Port-au-Prince.  In the eastern Caribbean, nations cleaned up after Tomas,
which Saint Lucia’s government called its “worst-ever natural
disaster,” killing seven people.  Tomas swept through the Windward Islands as a hurricane
Oct. 29 to 31, damaging 500 homes in Barbados and 1,200 in Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, and wiping out Saint Lucia’s banana
crop, the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency said
yesterday in a situation report.  Tomas is the 19th named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. This year is the
third-most-active on record, tied with 1995 and 1887, according
to  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center. In
2005, a record 28 storms formed in the Atlantic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  