-- Sugar May Gain on Brazil Crop, India Export Limit Concerns, Survey Shows
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-11-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/sugar-may-gain-on-brazil-crop-india-export-limit-concerns-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may rise after adverse
weather damaged crops in Brazil and on concerns that India may
limit exports, according to a survey.  Seven of 11 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will advance
next week. Three predicted that prices will fall and one
estimated little change. Raw sugar has gained 8.7 percent this
week on ICE Futures U.S., reaching 31.81 cents yesterday, the
highest price for a most-active contract since January 1981.  There’s “a lack of supply to meet demand that’s ongoing in
a growing economy,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior-market
strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in Chicago.  Prices have gained 17 percent this year on growing concern
that supplies from Brazil and India, the two biggest producers,
won’t meet global demand.  Seven of 11 survey respondents said white sugar traded on
London’s Liffe exchange will gain, two forecast it will drop and
two predicted little change. Yesterday, refined sugar rose as
much as 3.8 percent to $777.40 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe, the
highest level since at least 1989.  White sugar’s premium over raw sweetener most likely will
narrow or be unchanged, according to eight of 11 people
surveyed. Three said it will widen.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  