-- Suspended Kenyan Minister Ruto Will Hold Talks With ICC's Chief Prosecutor
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-11-04T07:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/suspended-kenyan-minister-ruto-will-hold-talks-with-icc-s-chief-prosecutor.html
William Ruto , the suspended Kenyan
higher education minister, said he will meet the chief
prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, which is
investigating post-election violence in the country.  Ruto left Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, last night for the
meeting in The Hague. “I asked for an appointment” with  Luis Moreno-Ocampo,  he said in remarks aired on NTV, a broadcaster
owned by  Nation Media Group . He didn’t elaborate.  Ruto is among 10 individuals Moreno-Ocampo wrote to
requesting a meeting because their names are mentioned in
statements by witnesses about clashes in the East African nation
between December 2007 and February 2008, the Nairobi-based  Daily
Nation  newspaper reported today.  The fighting was triggered by a December 2007 vote that
returned President  Mwai Kibaki  to office and which his political
rival,  Raila Odinga , said was rigged. The bloodshed ended with
the signing of a power-sharing accord, brokered by former United
Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan , that left Kibaki as
president and installed Odinga as prime minister.  In May, Moreno-Ocampo said he would present cases against
six Kenyans by the end of the year. On March 31, the court’s
pre-trial chamber authorized Moreno-Ocampo to pursue
investigations into crimes against humanity allegedly committed
during the conflict.  Ruto temporarily relinquished his post on Oct. 19 pending
the conclusion of a fraud case involving the sale of land to a
state-owned company. He denies any involvement.  Ruto plans to form a new political party for which he’ll
run for the Kenyan presidency in elections scheduled for 2012,
the Standard reported on Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  