-- Swiss Re Jumps After Agreeing to Early Repayment of Buffett
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-04T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/swiss-re-agrees-to-repay-buffett-s-capital-injection-after-profit-doubles.html
Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the world’s
second-largest reinsurer, rose the most in almost six months in
Zurich trading after quarterly  profit  doubled and it agreed to
repay the capital injected last year by  Warren Buffett .  While Swiss Re will post a charge of about $1 billion in
the fourth quarter, the reinsurer won’t incur a penalty for
repaying Berkshire Hathaway Inc. early, the Zurich-based company
said today in a statement. Swiss Re previously said it would
incur a premium if it repaid Buffett before March 2011.  Swiss Re is bidding to regain its AA credit rating, which
Standard & Poor’s cut in February 2009 after record losses
forced the company to raise 3 billion Swiss francs ($3.1
billion) of capital from Buffett. S&P revised the reinsurer’s
 rating  outlook to positive last month, saying that may lead to
an upgrade should Swiss Re’s “financial profile” improve.  “The early repayment removes any residual uncertainty
about Swiss Re,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based analyst with
Helvea SA. “The bulls will point to capital strength today and
the very strong performance in the non-life business.”  Swiss Re climbed as much as 7.3 percent, the biggest gain
since May 10, and closed 6.4 percent higher at 50.5 francs. That
made the stock the best performer on the 29-member Bloomberg
Europe 500 Insurance Index today and boosted the company’s
market value to 18.7 billion Swiss francs.  Excess Capital  Swiss Re turned to Buffett the week before replacing
 Jacques Aigrain  as chief executive officer and abandoning his
strategy of trading risky securities such as credit-default
swaps to boost earnings. The reinsurer reported record
writedowns and losses of $8.3 billion in 2008.  Swiss Re said it will still hold “significant” excess
capital above the AA level after repaying Berkshire Hathaway.
Chief Financial Officer  George Quinn  said in September that the
reinsurer aims to hold between $3 billion and $5 billion of
reserves above the amount required by S&P for the AA rating.  “Our improved capital position allowed us to reach an
agreement to repay Berkshire Hathaway, with no additional charge
for bringing forward the repayment date,” CEO  Stefan Lippe  said
in a statement.  The company said in May that repaying Berkshire Hathaway
will cost a “bit less” than $3.5 billion.  “The repayment announcement concerning the Berkshire
Hathaway convertible is an extremely positive surprise,” said
 Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Silvia Quandt
& Cie. “We expected repayment in March. The stock will fly
today.”  Buffett Stake  Swiss Re hasn’t been notified of whether Buffett has
increased his stake of about 3 percent in the reinsurer, CFO
Quinn said today on a conference call. Billionaire Buffett
raised his stake in larger rival Munich Re to more than 10
percent last month.  Third-quarter  net income  rose to $618 million from $314
million a year earlier, Swiss Re said. That beat the $484
million average  estimate  of 12  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Operating income at Swiss Re’s asset management unit rose
68 percent to $1.17 billion after fewer impairments.  “Asset management definitely will be more positive in the
quarter as most asset classes had positive performance,”  Stefan Schuermann , a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG,
said before the results were announced.  Spending on claims and costs as a percentage of premiums,
the so-called combined ratio, improved to 76.4 percent from 84.5
percent a year earlier. The Sept. 4 earthquake in New Zealand,
the nation’s worst in eight decades, cut Swiss Re’s operating
income by $160 million.  Life Business  Operating income at the property and casualty unit, which
provides natural disaster reinsurance coverage, increased to
$1.1 billion from $938 million.  The life and health unit reported operating income dropped
to $119 million from $363 million the year before.  Earnings at reinsurers including Munich Re and Swiss Re
will fall this year as the highest levels of reserves on record
prompt firms to compete for business, driving down premium
rates, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  