-- U.K. Plans Entrepreneur Visa to Ease Concern Over Migration Cap
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-11-04T15:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-k-plans-entrepreneur-visa-to-ease-business-concern-over-migration-cap.html
Britain is introducing an
“entrepreneur visa” to encourage those who have the backing of
investors to settle in the country.  “If you’ve got an idea, if you want to create jobs, and if
you have the ambition to build a world beating company here in
the U.K., we want you,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a
speech in east London today. “With our new entrepreneur visa we
want the whole world to know that Britain wants to become the
home of enterprise and the land of opportunity.”  The move is designed to allay business concerns over a
planned cap on immigration from next year. Companies say a
temporary limit currently in force is preventing them from
bringing in staff. Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal
Democrat in the Conservative-led government, has warned the
limit will hamper economic growth.  Entrepreneurs will have to have “serious investment from a
leading investor” to qualify for the visa, Cameron said.
Further details of how the visa will work will be announced next
year, Cameron’s office said. The Conservatives fought the May
election on a pledge to introduce a limit on immigration, while
the Liberal Democrats opposed the plan.  Cameron said yesterday that intra-company transfers, which
in 2009 accounted for 60 percent of “tier 2” visas for skilled
workers, will not be included in the cap.  “It will not be difficult to achieve much better
immigration control without disadvantaging business,” he said
in the House of Commons. “For example, things such as inter-
company transfers should not be included in what we are looking
at.”  Internet Rules  Cameron today also announced a review of the U.K.’s
intellectual property laws to make them “fit for the Internet
age.”  “The founders of  Google  have said they could never have
started their company in Britain,” Cameron said. “The service
they provide depends on taking a snapshot of all the content on
the internet at any one time and they feel our copyright system
is not as friendly to this sort of innovation as it is in the
United States.”  Cameron wants eastern London, including the areas around
Old Street, Shoreditch and the Olympic Park, to be developed as
a “technology city,” he said. He said that  Google Inc. ,
Facebook Inc.,  Intel Corp. , McKinsey & Co Inc. and  Cisco Systems
Inc.  have committed to investing in projects in the area.  Cameron also said more needs to be done to provide funding
to small and mid-sized enterprises setting up in the capital.  “For Christ’s sake, this is London, this is a capital of
international finance,” Cameron said. “If we can’t do better
getting money into the businesses of the future then we’re not
succeeding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  