-- U.K. October House Prices Rise 1.8% to Erase Half September's Record Drop
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-04T08:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-k-october-house-prices-rise-1-8-on-month-halifax-says.html
U.K. house prices  climbed in October,
erasing almost half of the record drop posted the previous month
as the government readies the biggest spending cuts since World
War II.  The average cost of a home increased 1.8 percent to 164,919
pounds ($266,000) from September, when it declined 3.7 percent,
Halifax said in an e-mailed statement today. Property values
were unchanged from the same month a year earlier.  Data are painting a mixed picture about the health of the
U.K. recovery before the Bank of England decides today whether
to add more stimulus to the economy. While gross domestic
product expanded twice as fast as economists had forecast in the
third quarter, jobless claims rose the most in eight months in
September and retail sales unexpectedly fell.  “An increase in the number of properties available for
sale in recent months, together with a decline in demand, has
put some downward pressure on prices in recent months,” Halifax
economist  Martin Ellis  said in the statement. Still, “we do not
believe that prices are set to fall sharply over a sustained
period.”  The Bank of England will probably today keep its  main
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent and maintain the
size of its bond stimulus plan at 200 billion pounds, according
to Bloomberg News surveys of economists. It will announce its
decision at noon in London.  ‘Moderately Negative’  The average price in the three months through October fell
1.2 percent compared with the previous three months. Halifax
said the “underlying pace of house price growth has turned
moderately negative in recent months.”  House prices are falling as more properties are put on sale
and buyers’ appetite is hurt by the budget squeeze, which will
wipe out half a million public-sector jobs.  Rightmove Plc, the operator of Britain’s biggest property
website, said in October that home sellers raised asking prices
3.1 percent that month. Nevertheless, a survey by the company
published Oct. 25 showed that the number of Britons who expect
house prices to fall outnumbers those forecasting an increase.
Some 32 percent of the 25,584 people surveyed said prices will
be lower in a year.  Housing market activity “is softening,” Halifax said
today. Banks approved 47,474 mortgages in September, less than
half of the total at the peak of the 2007 property boom.  Still, “interest rates are likely to remain very low for an
extended period, which will continue to support the improved
mortgage affordability position for homeowners,” Halifax’s
Ellis said. “Low rates and stable employment levels are
benefiting homeowners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  