-- U.K. Investigates Rupert Murdoch's BSkyB Takeover, May Delay Transaction
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-04T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-k-investigates-rupert-murdoch-s-bskyb-takeover-may-delay-transaction.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
called for a review of  Rupert Murdoch -led  News Corp.’s  proposed
7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid for the rest of  British
Sky Broadcasting Group Plc , potentially delaying the deal.  Cable has asked regulator Ofcom to investigate “the public
interest consideration of media plurality,” the U.K. Department
for Business, Innovation and Skills said today in a statement.
The media regulator will report back by Dec. 31.  Cable’s decision shows the dilemma of the coalition
government of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative
Party was backed by Murdoch’s newspaper the Sun -- the U.K.’s
biggest tabloid -- in Britain’s May general election. Objection
to the News Corp. bid mounted after U.K. newspapers, the British
Broadcasting Corp. and BT Group Plc, last month sent a joint
letter to Cable calling for the deal to be challenged.  Cable would face “a political liability” if he did not
refer the case to Ofcom,  Will Smith , an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. said yesterday.  “On the basis of the information and submissions available
to me, I have decided that it is appropriate to issue an
intervention notice in this particular case,” Cable said today.  News Corp., which yesterday formally asked the European
Union to approve the bid, is seeking to gain from the steady
subscription business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator.
BSkyB in June rejected an initial bid of 700 pence a share, or
7.8 billion pounds, for the 61 percent of the company that News
Corp. doesn’t already own, saying it was too low.  Subscriptions  “The proposed investment will not adversely affect media
plurality in the United Kingdom,” News Corp. said in a
statement, adding that it “looks forward to discussing any
substantive issues with the relevant authorities.”  BSkyB shares rose 0.4 percent to 708.5 pence in London
trading as of 11:06 p.m.  The bid for the remainder of BSkyB reflects Murdoch’s
ambitions to generate more money from subscriptions at a time
when many newspapers, magazines and TV shows are free online and
films and music can easily be downloaded illegally. News Corp.
already charges for online access to The Wall Street Journal and
the websites of U.K. newspapers The Times and The Sunday Times.  BSkyB will give its independent directors the final
recommendation on the offer because four out of BSkyB’s 14 board
members are linked to News Corp., including Chairman  James Murdoch . A committee compromising the independent directors and
the management will exercise “all powers of the board in
relation to the possible offer and any matters” relevant to the
proposal, the company has said.  Higher Bid?  BSkyB’s independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson ,
chairman of SVG Capital, have said they may accept an offer of
more than 800 pence a share.  There is a “significant gap” between News Corp.’s
proposal and the company’s value, Ferguson said.  Analysts at Citigroup Inc., Investec, Macquarie Securities,
Numis Securities, Sanford C. Bernstein and Singer Capital
Markets have named figures between 750 pence to 860 pence as a
potentially acceptable price per share for shareholders.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones division in providing financial
news and data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 