-- U.S. Commercial Real Estate Rents to Rise in 2011, Cushman's Mosler Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-11-04T15:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-commercial-real-estate-rents-to-rise-in-2011-cushman-s-mosler-says.html
Commercial real estate rents are
poised to rise in 2011 after reaching a low this year, according
to  Bruce Mosler , co-chairman of Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the
largest closely held property services company.  “The market has bottomed,” Mosler said today at the Real
Estate Briefing hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York. “We can
expect to see rental appreciation next year.”  U.S. economic growth is beginning to stimulate demand for
office space,  Daniel Neidich , chief executive officer of New
York-based Dune Real Estate Partners, said during a panel
discussion that also featured  Howard Michaels , chairman of the
Carlton Group Ltd. Manhattan office leasing by square footage
increased 66 percent in the first nine months from a year
earlier, though rents have fallen for eight straight quarters,
New York-based Cushman & Wakefield reported last month.  “Real estate market fundamentals are improving,” Neidich
said.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent rate in the three
months ended in September, the fifth consecutive quarterly
increase. The growth followed 12 months of contraction as the
economy weathered the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  805 Third Ave.  Office vacancies in U.S. central business districts
declined for the second straight time in the third quarter as
tenants signed leases for additional space, according to Cushman
& Wakefield. The average vacancy rate fell to 14.7 percent from
14.8 percent in the second quarter, the broker said Oct. 14.
Vacancies dropped in half of the 30 cities tracked by Cushman.  “About a year ago we were going one mile an hour,”
Charles S. Cohen, chief executive of Cohen Brothers Realty Corp.
in New York, said during a separate panel discussion. “Six
months ago we were going five miles an hour. Maybe we’re going
about 15 to 20 miles an hour now.”  Cohen said today that his New York-based firm signed a
lease with  Meredith Corp.  for nine floors comprising 212,594
square feet of space for its new corporate headquarters at 805
Third Ave. in Manhattan. He declined to disclose terms.  Meredith, the publisher whose magazines include Better
Homes and Gardens, plans to consolidate its 125 Park Ave. and
375 Lexington Ave. offices in the new space.  New York, Washington  The New York and Washington markets are in most demand from
real estate investors, said Jonathan L. Mechanic, a partner at
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP in New York.  “Capital feels safest investing in New York and D.C.,” he
said.  Mechanic doesn’t expect the changes in Congress from the
election will have big impact on vacancies in Washington.  “I don’t think people are concerned that the Washington
market is going to fall off a cliff because the Republicans have
come back.”  Dune’s Neidich said there is a lot of pressure on landlords
to keep rents down even though the number of deals has
increased.  “It’s clearly a little bit of a race to the bottom,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 