-- Gap, Limited Brands Post October Sales Gains After Discounts
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-11-04T20:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-retailers-gap-limited-brands-post-october-sales-gains-on-discounts.html
Sales at retailer chains rose for a
14th straight month in October, led by  Limited Brands Inc.  and
 Gap Inc. , as discounting to clear inventory for the holiday
season brought out consumers.  Limited, owner of the Victoria’s Secret brand, said today
that sales at stores open at least a year rose 9 percent,
exceeding the 6.3 percent average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. Gap, based in San Francisco,
said so-called same-store sales rose 2 percent, while analysts
projected a decline of 2.8 percent.  Retailers beat predictions in August and September as
discounts boosted back-to-school shopping. Promotions lured
consumers last month as well, helping some chains such as Gap
that had weekly sales, said  Brian Sozzi , a retail analyst for
Wall Street Strategies Inc. in New York.  “The consumer is responding more to promotions,” Sozzi
said. “If you had the right promotions, you got the sales.”  Overall, sales at the more than 30 chains Retail Metrics
tracks trailed estimates last month, rising 1.5 percent,
compared with a prediction of 1.7 percent. Same-store sales, a
key indicator of a retailer’s growth because new and closed
locations are excluded, have increased every month since
September 2009.  Retail Stocks Rise  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index  rose 1.7 percent
to 481.26, the highest level since May 3.  Gap jumped $1.17, or 6.1 percent, to $20.43 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading  for the biggest gain
since May 10. The retailer also said third-quarter profit
probably rose to as much as 48 cents a share, exceeding the
average analysts’ projection of 44 cents in a  Bloomberg survey .
Limited, based in Columbus, Ohio, increased $1.59, or 5.3
percent, to $31.43.  Luxury sales grew after wealthy shoppers gained confidence
as stock markets neared two-year highs.  Saks Inc.  sales jumped
8.1 percent, exceeding the 3.6 percent Retail Metrics estimate.
Shares of the New York-based retailer rose 3.9 percent.  Nordstrom Inc. said its sales increased 3.4 percent after
analysts estimated a 3 percent climb. Closely held Neiman Marcus
Group Inc. reported a 12 percent spurt, compared with a 1
percent prediction.  Warmer Temperatures  Several department store chains said higher temperatures
hurt revenue in the first half of the month. The weather
depressed total retail sales by about 1 percentage point during
the month, said the International Council of Shopping Centers, a
New York-based trade group.  Bon-Ton Stores Inc., Dillard’s Inc., J.C. Penney Co. and
Kohl’s Corp. reported sales declines, while  Macy’s Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. department store chain, posted a 2.5 percent
gain for October, shy of the 2.8 percent average estimate.  “While we experienced some softness in sales early in
October given the unseasonably warm weather, we ended the month
with a strong trend going into the holiday selling season,”
Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in a statement.  Teen apparel retailers also missed estimates.  Aeropostale
Inc.  said same-store sales declined 2 percent, while analysts
predicted a rise of 3.2 percent.  Retailers faced the toughest year-over-year comparisons in
more than two years after sales rose 2.2 percent in October
2009, according to  Ken Perkins , president of Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics. Analysts’ estimates declined
during the month on concern the warmer weather would limit
shopping, Perkins said.  Rising Consumer Confidence  Consumer confidence rose last month from a seven-month low
in September, according to the Conference Board’s sentiment
index. The measure increased to 50.2 in October, the third-
lowest reading of the year.  Spending on Halloween may have increased to $5.8 billion in
the U.S. from last year, according to the National Retail
Federation. Holiday shopping by comparison may rise 2.3 percent
to $447.1 billion, the Washington-based association said.  October’s results don’t give much guidance on the holiday
shopping season because stores chase sales with discounts and
there isn’t an event driving shoppers, Perkins said.  “We’re more likely to see what we saw in back-to-school
this holiday, where consumers shop, but it will be late,”
Perkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  