-- Panalpina, Shell Settle Bribe Probe for $236 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-11-04T20:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-charges-panalpina-royal-dutch-shell-in-foreign-bribe-case.html
Panalpina World Transport Holding
Ltd. , a Swiss freight forwarding company,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
and five oil services companies will pay $236.5 million to
resolve a U.S. probe of overseas bribery.  Panalpina admitted today it paid thousands of bribes to
African, Asian and South American officials on behalf of its
customers in the oil and gas industry, according to a U.S.
 Justice Department  statement. A U.S. subsidiary, Panalpina Inc.,
agreed to plead guilty. The payments resolve investigations by
prosecutors and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The U.S. will collect $156.5 million in criminal penalties
and $80 million in civil sanctions for violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The payments follow the first U.S.
“sweep” of public companies and third parties in an industrial
sector for bribes paid abroad, according to the  SEC .  “These companies resorted to lucrative arrangements behind
the scenes to obtain phony paperwork and special favors, and
they landed themselves squarely in investigators’ crosshairs,”
 Robert Khuzami , the SEC director of enforcement, said in a
statement.  The other companies that settled with the U.S. were
 Transocean Ltd. , Tidewater Marine International Inc.,  Pride
International Inc. ,  GlobalSantaFe Corp.  and  Noble Corp. 
GlobalSantaFe merged with Transocean in 2007. Transocean is the
world’s largest offshore drilling contractor. Tidewater is the
world’s largest offshore energy support-services company.  ‘Steep Cost’  The Justice Department’s head of the criminal division,
Lanny Breuer, said companies have agreed to pay more than $1
billion to resolve foreign bribery allegations.  “As these fines show, foreign bribery has a steep cost -- a
cost that can be avoided through full compliance with the law,”
Breuer said.  To resolve the probes, Panalpina agreed to pay a total of
$81.9 million; Pride will pay $56.1 million; Shell will pay
$48.1 million; Transocean will pay $20.6 million; Tidewater will
pay $15.7 million; Noble will pay $8.1 million; and
GlobalSantaFe will pay $5.9 million, according to the Justice
Department.  Prosecutors filed criminal FCPA charges against units of
Panalpina, Pride, Shell, Tidewater, and Transocean, which they
will defer if the companies make required reforms during a
probationary period. The Justice Department entered a non-
prosecution agreement with Noble.  ‘Burdensome Chapter’  “The settlement of these claims marks the closing of an
extremely burdensome chapter in Panalpina’s history and the end
of a very demanding three-year effort to address and eliminate
serious concerns,” said Chief Executive Officer  Monika Ribar  in
a statement. The company, Ribar said, must “build on the strong
and sustainable compliance culture we have put in place.”  The bribes were paid to expedite imports of goods and
equipment, avoid customs duties on imported goods, extend
drilling contracts, and lower tax assessments, according to the
SEC.  Panalpina Inc. admitted that between 2002 and 2007, it paid
thousands of bribes totaling at least $27 million to officials
in Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Russia and
Turkmenistan, according to the Justice Department.  ‘Fully Cooperated’  Shell spokeswoman  Kirsten Smart  said in a statement:
“Shell fully cooperated with the U.S. Department of Justice and
the SEC throughout this investigation. Shell has enhanced its
compliance program and internal controls. Staff found to have
been in violation of policy were either disciplined or dismissed
from Shell.”  Pride spokeswoman  Kate Perez  said by phone that
neither of the company’s agreements requires a compliance
monitor.  In a suit filed today in federal court in Washington, the
SEC claims Transocean Inc, a Cayman Island unit of Transocean
Ltd., made payments to extend the temporary importation status
of its drilling rigs, obtain false paperwork associated with the
rigs and obtain clearances.  “We’re glad we’ve reached an agreement, and we’re moving
forward with our robust legal and ethics compliance program,”
Transocean spokesman  Guy Cantwell  said in an interview.  GlobalSantaFe’s merger with Transocean created the world’s
largest offshore contract drilling fleet, according to the
company’s website.  Tidewater spokesman  Joe Bennett  had no comment on today’s
agreement with the government, and he referred to a statement by
the company’s chief executive, who announced the bribery
settlement yesterday on an investors’ call.  ‘Better Company’  “While this has been a difficult period for Tidewater,
we’re glad to have the investigation completed and now behind
us,”  Dean Taylor , Tidewater Inc.’s chairman, president and CEO
told analysts and investors yesterday. “We’ve learned from it,
and we are a better company.”  Noble’s Chief Executive Officer David Williams said in a
statement that “ethical business conduct and strict compliance
with the law remain central to Noble’s operating philosophy. We
consistently and openly cooperated with the DOJ and SEC since
self-reporting in 2007 and have shared the results of our own
independent investigation.”  The cases are: SEC v. Noble Corp., 10-cv-4336; SEC v.
Panalpina Inc., 10-cv-4334; SEC v. Pride International, 10-cv-
4335, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston);
SEC v. Transocean Inc., 10-cv-1891, U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 