-- U.S. Banks Face $31 Billion in Loan-Buyback Losses, S&P Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-11-04T17:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-banks-may-face-31-billion-in-additional-loan-buyback-costs-s-p-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and four other U.S. lenders may face an additional $31
billion in costs beyond what they have already set aside for
buying back mortgages by 2012, Standard & Poor’s estimated.  Total losses from repurchases by the banks, which also
include  Wells Fargo & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. ,  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.  and  U.S. Bancorp , may amount to about $43
billion from 2009 to 2012,  Vandana Sharma , an S&P credit
analyst, wrote in a report today. The banks have accounted for
about $12.4 billion so far, she said.  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and bond insurers such as MBIA Inc.
are pressing lenders to honor promises to buy back mortgages if
they’re later found to be based on inaccurate data. Known as
representations and warranties, the promises cover defects such
as inflated appraisals or misstatements about borrowers.  “The current disruption creates additional uncertainty for
the banks at a time, when in our view, they were just beginning
the process of clearing up the growing other real estate owned
inventories on their balance sheet,” the report says.  The repurchases will only become “systemic” and affect
credit ratings if more so-called private-label mortgage
investors pursue the six lenders, according to the report.  A group of such investors, including  Bill Gross ’s Pacific
Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc., last month moved
to use Bank of America’s allegedly faulty mortgage servicing to
overcome hurdles blocking them from seeking repurchases.
Typically, mortgage bond trustees must make the claim on their
behalf.  Back to ‘Drawing Board’  “We don’t know if some of those broader issues might
become systemic,” Sharma said on a conference call. “If that
starts to happen, we as ratings analysts have to go back to the
drawing board.”  S&P and competitor Moody’s Investors Service have been
blamed by investors and policy makers, including members of a
Senate investigative panel, for helping cause the global
financial crisis by assigning top grades to mortgage-linked
securities that eventually defaulted.  -- With assistance from  Jody Shenn  in New York. Editors:  David Scheer ,  William Ahearn .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 