-- U.S. Commercial Property `Substantially' Off Bottom, Roth Says
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   R o b   U r b a n
-- 2010-11-04T21:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-commercial-property-prices-substantially-off-bottom-vornado-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices are
rising in desirable investment markets like New York and
Washington while office vacancies are beginning to fall more
broadly, according to top real estate executives.  Values are “substantially” off the bottom after more than
a year of decline, said  Steven Roth , chairman of Vornado Realty
Trust. Hotels and multifamily properties are leading the
rebound, with South American investors purchasing condominiums
in Miami, according to  Barry Sternlicht , chairman of Starwood
Capital Group LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut.  “The recovery has been more rapid than anybody expected,”
Roth, 68, said during a panel discussion at the Bloomberg Link
Real Estate Briefing today in New York. His New York-based
company hasn’t purchased as many properties as it would like.
“We’ve been trying, but apparently not hard enough,” Roth
said.  U.S. property deals probably will double next year and may
account for almost a quarter of global transactions, according
to a forecast by New York-based research firm Real Capital
Analytics Inc. Although high-quality buildings will be in
demand, they will be leased at lower rental rates than the 2007
peak, according to billionaire investor  Sam Zell .  “Over the next 18 months I think we’re going to see little
or no new construction and we’re going to see all the
institutional-quality assets be full,” Zell, 69, chairman of
Chicago-based Equity Residential, said on a separate panel.
“The bad news is they’re going to be full at 20 or 30 percent
rates less than the peak.”  Little Construction  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2 percent rate in the three
months ended in September, the fifth consecutive quarterly
increase. The growth followed 12 months of contraction as the
economy weathered the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression.  As the recovery builds, rents are poised to rise in 2011
after reaching a low this year,  Bruce Mosler , 53, co-chairman of
broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc., said at the conference.  Office vacancies in U.S. central business districts
declined for the second straight time in the third quarter as
tenants signed leases for additional space, according to Cushman
& Wakefield. The average vacancy rate fell to 14.7 percent from
14.8 percent in the second quarter, the broker said Oct. 14.
Vacancies dropped in half of the 30 cities tracked by Cushman.  ‘World Cities’  International investors seek real estate in “world
cities” such as New York, Washington and San Francisco, Roth
said. Rising office rents in New York and  Washington  helped
Vornado’s third-quarter revenue climb 5 percent from a year
earlier, the company said this week.  Those cities are “desperately important to investors”
outside the U.S., according to Roth. Foreign institutions would
rather invest in New York properties, with a 4 percent
capitalization rate, than in Cleveland buildings, where the cap
rate may be 8 percent, Sternlicht said. The cap rate, a measure
of a property’s investment yield, is calculated by dividing net
operating income by purchase price.  For fully occupied buildings, demand from investors is
similar to what it was at the peak of the market, with bidding
competitive for those properties, Zell said.  805 Third Ave.  “Capital feels safest investing in New York and D.C.,”
 Jonathan L. Mechanic , a partner at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver
& Jacobson LLP in New York, said during his panel with Mosler.  Investor capital available to purchase real estate in the
Americas rose by 54 percent since December, London-based broker
DTZ Group Plc said.  Charles S. Cohen, chief executive of Cohen Brothers Realty
Corp., said the pace of leasing has increased in the last six
month from “five miles an hour” to “15 to 20 miles” an hour.  Cohen’s New York-based firm signed a lease with publisher
Meredith Corp. for nine floors comprising 212,594 square feet of
space for its new corporate headquarters at 805 Third Ave. in
Manhattan, he said today without disclosing terms.  Manhattan’s East Side is benefiting from renewed leasing,
with Newsweek magazine, the New York Daily News and AT&T Inc.
announcing plans to relocate there,  William C. Rudin , co-
chairman of Rudin Management Co. in New York, said during the
panel with Roth and Sternlicht.  Miami condominiums acquired in Starwood’s purchase of Corus
Bankshares Inc. are “selling like hotcakes,” Sternlicht, 49,
said. Starwood in October 2009 led a group including TPG, Perry
Capital and WLR Lefrak that paid 60 cents on the dollar for the
failed Chicago-based lender.  “The whole country is being driven by a search for
yield,” Sternlicht said. “Real estate is a proxy for the bond
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
dlevy13bloomberg.net;
 Rob Urban  in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 