-- U.S. Stocks Rally on Earnings, Federal Reserve Stimulus
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-04T20:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-qualcomm-whole-foods-freeport-increase.html
U.S. stocks gained, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its highest level since September
2008, as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will succeed
in stoking growth and that banks will raise dividends.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Bank of America Corp. more than
5.2 percent after the Wall Street Journal said the Fed is
expected to let strong banks raise cash payouts.  Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.  and Monsanto Co. gained at least 5.5
percent as commodity prices surged.  Qualcomm Inc. , the biggest
maker of mobile-phone chips, rose 5.8 percent after its profit
and sales forecasts topped analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 rose 1.9 percent to 1,221.06 at 4 p.m. in New
York, finishing at the highest level since Sept. 19, less than a
week after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy sent the
economy into a tailspin. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained
219.71 points, or 2 percent, to 11,434.84. The Nasdaq-100 Index
jumped 1.4 percent to a three-year high.  “This rally has a little different feel to it,” said
 Warren Koontz , chief investment officer for large-cap value
stocks at Loomis Sayles & Co. in Boston, which oversees about
$150 billion. “It might have more staying power than the ‘risk-
on, risk-off’ trade. We have additional stimulus to the economy.
The pendulum is swinging back to people being comfortable with
the idea that we’re not going to see a double dip” recession.  Stocks extended yesterday’s advance that sent the Dow to a
two-year high after the Federal Open Market Committee said the
central bank will purchase as much as $600 billion of assets
through June. Equities also gained yesterday after midterm
elections resulted in divided control of Congress, making it
less likely lawmakers will pass any more major business reforms.  ‘Bernanke Put’  “It’s called the Bernanke put,” said  Stephen Wood , the
New York-based chief market strategist for Russell Investments,
which manages $140 billion. “The Fed wants to put a floor under
the employment market and asset prices. You’re seeing that being
reflected in both stock and commodities markets. Risk assets are
attractive. From a fundamental standpoint, things may not be
improving rapidly, but they are not deteriorating rapidly.”  Stock-index futures extended gains before the start of
trading as a Labor Department measure of worker productivity
increased at a 1.9 percent annual rate after falling 1.8 percent
in the previous three months. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 1 percent gain. Other
government data showed jobless  claims  increased more than
estimated to 457,000 last week, underscoring the need for the
Fed’s stimulus to bolster the job market.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department may say tomorrow that the unemployment
rate was 9.6 percent in October for a third month, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
jobless rate peaked at 10.1 percent a year ago, the highest
since 1983.  Earnings-per-share have topped estimates at 300, or 77
percent, of the 392 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported
earnings since Oct. 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial shares rose 3.4 percent as a group today, the
biggest gain in the S&P 500 among 10 industries. The Fed is
expected to start allowing healthy banks with strong capital
levels to increase dividend payments, the Wall Street Journal
reported today on its website, citing people familiar with the
matter.  JPMorgan gained 5.5 percent to $39.80, while Bank of
America rallied 5.3 percent to $12.13.  ‘Back to Normal’  “It looks like banks will be able to go back to normal
dividend payments sooner than what many people expected,” said
 John Carey , a Boston-based money manager at Pioneer Investments,
which oversees about $250 billion. “That’s quite supportive for
prices and could be taken as a sign that banks are in a more
financially secure condition.”  Gauges of raw-materials and energy producers rallied at
least 3 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
commodities rose to a two-year high after the Fed’s plan sent
the dollar lower and spurred demand for raw materials as a hedge
against inflation.  “The risk-on trade is clearly on,”  David Rosenberg , chief
economist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates in Toronto, wrote in a
note today. “Risk assets from equities, to credit, to emerging
markets have become correlated with a weaker dollar in an
unprecedented fashion. All one needs to do is follow the
greenback. Hard to believe it’s that easy, but this seems to be
the environment that  Ben Bernanke  et al have managed to create
in their quest to reflate the global economy.”  Dollar Slumps  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners
including the euro, dropped for a third day, losing 0.7 percent
to 75.92 and touched 75.631, the lowest since December.  The lockstep relationship between U.S. stocks and Treasury
yields has disappeared in the past 2 1/2 months, while equities
and the dollar last moved this much in opposite directions in
1991, following the Fed’s plan to purchase assets in a technique
known as quantitative easing.  The shift began after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
Aug. 27 that the central bank “will do all that it can” to
ensure a continuation of the economic recovery and that more
securities purchases may be warranted if growth slows. The $600
billion plan was announced on Nov. 3.  The  correlation  using 30 days of data for the S&P 500 and
the yield on 10-year Treasuries has plummeted to negative 0.05,
the lowest since July 2007, from 0.66 at the start of the fourth
quarter and a record 0.89 in June. The figure for the S&P 500
and Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those
of six trading partners, sank to negative 0.68.  No Relationship  Correlation readings of 1 signal assets are moving the same
amount in the same direction, while negative 1 means identical
moves in opposite directions. Zero shows there’s no relationship
at all.  “What you should see in a recovery is yields going up and
stock prices going up at the same time,” said  Walter Todd , co-
chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital, which oversees
about $900 million. “That correlation is breaking down because
you’ve got a third party, i.e. the Fed, manipulating the
Treasury market.”  Freeport, the largest publicly traded copper producer,
rallied 7 percent to $103.89. Monsanto, the world’s largest seed
company, gained 5.5 percent to $62.82. Schlumberger Ltd., the
largest oilfield services provider, rose 5 percent to $75.80.  Qualcomm  jumped 5.8 percent to $48.34. The phone chipmaker
predicted earnings in the current quarter of at least 58 cents a
share. That compares with the 52-cent average of projections
compiled by Bloomberg. Qualcomm forecast sales of $3.05 billion
to $3.35 billion, more than the $3 billion average analyst in a
Bloomberg survey.  Stock Buyback  Time Warner Cable Inc.  gained 4.5 percent to $62.33. The
second-largest U.S. cable operator reported third-quarter profit
excluding some items of $1.04 a share, beating the average
analyst estimate of 90 cents, and announced a $4 billion stock
buyback.  Industrial companies in the S&P 500 rallied 2.2 percent.
Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, rose 4.1 percent to $83.18.  Boeing Co.  advanced 2.8 percent to $70.85. The world’s
second-largest commercial-jet builder gained after Airbus SAS
and Rolls-Royce Group Plc began investigating why an engine on a
Qantas Airways Ltd. A380 superjumbo exploded in mid-flight,
forcing an emergency landing in the worst incident since the
aircraft began service in 2007.  Groceries  Whole Foods Market Inc.  soared 15 percent, the most since
August 2009 and the biggest gain in the S&P 500, to $47.27. The
largest U.S. natural-goods grocer raised its 2011 profit
forecast to as much as $1.71 a share, compared with an earlier
high of $1.64.  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, slumped 5.3 percent to 18.52. The index has
retreated almost 15 percent in three days.  “Although the market is still trying to decide if the size
and pace of quantitative easing is a disappointment or not, it
is relieved that the uncertainty is over,” said  Kathleen Brooks , research director at Gain Capital Group LLC. “The
removal of FOMC event risk is like a weight lifted from the
market’s shoulders, which makes risky assets more attractive.
The fall in the VIX may point to S&P gains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 