-- U.S. Is Top in Financial Index of Developed Markets as Hong Kong Advances
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-11-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/u-s-is-top-in-financial-index-of-developed-markets-as-hong-kong-advances.html
The U.S. won back its position at the
top of an index of the most developed financial markets from the
U.K., while Hong Kong rose in the rankings, benefiting from a
more stable financial system.  The U.S. led the 57 countries analyzed, with the U.K.
second and Hong Kong third, according to the World Economic
Forum  Financial Development Report 2010 . For Hong Kong and
Singapore, which ranked fourth for the second year, “robust
institutional and business environments” and a “high degree of
financial system stability,” were identified as strengths, the
group said.  The U.S. and U.K. received the top rankings because of
their dominance in non-banking financial services, such as
merger and acquisition transactions and securitization, and
financial markets. Their financial stability and business
environments were cited as weaknesses.  “While the U.S. and U.K. top the rankings due to their
deep and active wholesale markets, several ominous signs point
to their leadership being in jeopardy,” said  Kevin Steinberg ,
chief operating officer of the World Economic Forum USA. “Aside
from very low scores in financial stability, both showed
weakness in their business environments, in particular their tax
regimes, as well as the efficiency of their banks.”  In assessing financial stability, the researchers examined
the risk of currency crises, systemic banking crises and
sovereign debt crises.  Emerging market economies, forecast to account for more
than half of global economic growth, did well in the financial
stability part of the index. In the overall index they still
underperformed advanced economies on average, the World Economic
Forum said, raising the issue of how growth will be financed.  Many emerging markets need to improve local bond market
development and consumer access to financial services, said
James Bilodeau, the editor of the report.  Australia fell back to fifth from second place in the index
as a result of declining non-banking financial services
activity.  The report defines “financial development” as “the
factors, policies, and institutions that lead to effective
financial intermediation and markets, as well as deep and broad
access to capital and financial services.”  The following is a table of the first 10 countries ranked
in the World Economic Forum Financial Development Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  