-- UBS Says Australian Investors Seek to Expand Credit Default-Swap Index
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-04T07:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/ubs-says-australian-investors-seek-to-expand-credit-default-swap-index.html
A group of Australian investors
seeking more liquidity in the nation’s credit-default swaps
market is pushing for the benchmark bond risk index to be
expanded, according to UBS AG, which hosted talks today.  Asset managers want to increase the number of companies
whose swaps are traded in the Markit iTraxx Australia index and
possibly allow firms that aren’t listed on the local stock
exchange to be included,  Luke Fay , Sydney-based head of credit
trading at UBS’s Australian unit, said.  “Expanding the index will create more liquidity and
diversify risk,” Fay said in a telephone interview after the
meeting in Sydney. “With the buy-side driving the initiative,
it should create bigger trading volumes from them.”  BHP Billiton Ltd., Foster’s Group Ltd. and Tabcorp Holdings
Ltd. are among 25 companies whose swaps contracts are in the
Australian iTraxx index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.
The two main indexes tracking Japanese and Asian default swaps
both have 50 constituents, while the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index has 125.  Credit-default swap contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if a
borrower fails to meet its debt agreements. U.S. and European
regulators are reviewing ways to tighten oversight of the
derivatives, which have been blamed for exacerbating the global
financial crisis.  Increasing Diversity  “Anything that enhances the diversity of credit
derivatives I can take is a positive in my book,” said  Stuart Gray , a Sydney-based portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc who attended the meeting.  Investors discussed liaising more closely with the
committee, which is currently made up of broking firms, that
decides on the composition of the index, Gray said.  Investors’ recommendations will be passed on to index owner
Markit Group Ltd., Fay said. A Singapore-based official for the
London-based company said Markit couldn’t immediately provide a
comment.  New versions of the index are created every six months to
replace contracts that cease to be actively-traded or are
written on companies that no longer have investment-grade credit
ratings. The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates, has increased 22.1 basis points this year,
according to data provider CMA.  Banks, Property  The talks are “an important part of the development of
this market,” said  David Carruthers , a Sydney-based senior
money manager at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages A$30
billion ($30.2 billion) of fixed-income assets. AMP would like
to see the index’s concentration on banks and property companies
diluted, Carruthers said.  Of the 25 companies whose swaps are in the index, 10 are
property or financial companies, including Westpac Banking Corp.
and GPT Group.  Companies whose swaps may deserve inclusion in the index
due to the volume of debt they have outstanding are Santos Ltd.,
APA Group, Transurban Group, Asciano Group, Brambles Ltd.,
Origin Energy Ltd. and Stockland, Carruthers said.  Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
sold 700 million euros ($989 million) of hybrid notes in
September, and added another 300 million euros to the line last
month. APA Group, whose pipelines carry more than half
Australia’s natural gas, has Australian-dollar and U.S.-dollar
notes outstanding, including A$300 million of 10-year notes sold
in July.  “There’s broad-based support to increase the number of
names in the index, but we haven’t discussed how many or what
those names should be,” said UBS’s Fay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 