-- Singapore Air Halts A380 Flights to Vet Rolls Engines
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-04T09:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lufthansa-singapore-keep-rolls-powered-a380s-flying-after-qantas-failure.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG  and Singapore
Airlines Ltd. said they’ll keep their Airbus SAS A380s flying
after Qantas Airways Ltd. grounded its six-strong superjumbo
fleet following an engine explosion in mid-flight.  Lufthansa is operating its four A380s as normal, spokesman
 Boris Ogursky  said by telephone, as is  Singapore Airlines , which
has 11 of the planes, according to a statement. The pair are the
only other carriers with superjumbos powered by the same Rolls-
Royce Group Plc Trent 900 engines used on the Qantas jet.  Australia’s Qantas will keep its fleet out of service “as
long as it takes” after one of the four engines on an A380
failed en route from Singapore to Sydney, Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Joyce  said today. The pilots performed an emergency
landing at Singapore at 11:46 a.m. local time.  Singapore Airlines was the first carrier to operate the
A380 and has nine more on order, plus six options, according to
its website. All will be powered by Trent 900 turbines.  Lufthansa, based in Cologne, Germany, has ordered 15 A380s,
with those already delivered used for services to Tokyo, Beijing
and Johannesburg. The Rolls engine passed compulsory tests “with
flying colors” before delivery, the airline said in May.  Tests included water ingestion, detonation of an explosive
and a bombardment with bird carcasses, according to the carrier.  Emirates, Air France  Gulf carrier Emirates, the biggest A380 operator with 13 in
service and the next due to arrive tomorrow out of 90 on order,
and Air France-KLM Group, with four, both use an alternative
engine, the GP7000 from the Engine Alliance of General Electric
Co. and  United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  “All of our A380s are operating as scheduled,” the Dubai-
based company said in a statement. “The safety of our passengers
and crew is always of paramount importance.”  Air France will carry on operating its superjumbos as
normal, spokesman Herve Erschler said in an e-mailed statement.  China Southern Airlines Co., scheduled to be the sixth A380
operator, said it still plans to go ahead with deliveries of the
Rolls-Royce powered planes from the end of next year.  “It’s too early to say whether there are any technical
problems in the engine,” Yang Defeng, a spokesman for the
Guangzhou-based carrier, said today in a telephone interview.
“It has proven to be safe after so many years of flying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  