-- Unemployment Likely to Stay High Despite Fed, DeQuadros Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-11-04T16:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/unemployment-in-u-s-is-likely-to-remain-high-dequadros-says-tom-keene.html
The Federal Reserve’s plan to
purchase $600 billion in Treasury securities through June is
unlikely to bring down the unemployment rate, said  Conrad DeQuadros , a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.  “I think we probably still have an unemployment rate above
9 percent next summer,” DeQuadros said in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  The Fed announced the purchases yesterday in Washington in
a bid to “promote a stronger pace of economic recovery,”
according to the Fed’s statement. The central bank will purchase
Treasuries with an average duration of five to six years at a
pace of about $75 billion per month. The purchases of additional
bonds could boost the economy by lowering borrowing costs and
boosting asset prices.  “I just don’t think that it’s interest rates that are
holding back the recovery so I’m not sure what the Fed
purchasing a significant amount of Treasuries really does to
help the economy,” DeQuadros said.  The Labor Department tomorrow will announce that the
unemployment rate remained at 9.6 percent in October, the 18th
month in a row with unemployment of 9.4 percent or higher,
according to a Bloomberg Survey of economists. They forecast an
increase of 60,000 jobs for the economy, the first gain since
May, when the census began laying off temporary workers.  The additional liquidity provided by the Fed may not have
the desired effect of increasing the value of stocks either,
DeQuadros said.  “The Fed providing this accommodation has the potential to
boost prices, I just don’t think it’s necessarily equity
prices,” he said. “I think the Fed’s accommodation is more
boosting areas like emerging markets, commodity prices, much
more so than the equity market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  