-- Lung-Cancer Deaths Less Likely With CT Screening, U.S. Researchers Find
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-11-04T18:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/lung-cancer-deaths-less-likely-with-ct-screening-study-finds.html
Smokers who received computerized
tomography scans were 20 percent less likely to die of lung
cancer than smokers getting chest X-rays, a study found.  Researchers looked at 53,000 current and former smokers
ages 55 to 74, half of whom received annual CT scans for three
years while the others got X-rays instead, the  National
Institutes of Health  said today in a statement. The trial found
that 354 of the participants getting CT scans died of lung
cancer, as did 442 of the patients getting X-rays. NIH’s
National Cancer Institute sponsored the trial.  The eight-year study, known as the National Lung Screening
Trial, is the first to provide “clear evidence” of a
significant reduction in lung-cancer deaths with screening in a
randomized controlled trial, Christine Berg, the cancer
institute’s project officer for the study, said in the
statement.  The CT approach may have “the potential to spare very
significant numbers of people from the ravages of this
disease,” NCI director  Harold Varmus  said in the statement.
“But these findings should in no way distract us from continued
efforts to curtail the use of tobacco, which will remain the
major causative factor for lung cancer and several other
diseases.”  Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths,
Varmus said. The disease will kill an estimated 157,300 people
in the U.S. this year, according to the institute’s  website .  Patients in the study received screening from either chest
X-rays or low-dose helical CT scans, also known as spiral CT,
according to the NIH statement.  Participants were either current or former smokers. Each
had a smoking history of at least 30 pack-years, calculated by
multiplying the average number of cigarette packs smoked daily
by the years smoked.  Possible disadvantages of CT screening include the
cumulative radiation exposure that can increase the risk of
developing other cancers, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 