-- Unilever Third-Quarter Sales Growth Misses Estimates on Europe
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-11-04T10:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/unilever-says-third-quarter-underlying-sales-growth-was-3-6-volume-gains.html
Unilever , the world’s second-
biggest consumer products maker, reported third-quarter volume
growth that beat  estimates  as customers bought more deodorants
and ice cream in western Europe.  So-called underlying volume grew 4.8 percent, the London-
and Rotterdam-based company said today in a statement. That
compares with the 4.4 percent median estimate of seven
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg News. The shares rose as much
as 5.1 percent in Amsterdam trading.  “Europe was very good on the top-line and margins,”
 Warren Ackerman , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London,
wrote today in a note. “Emerging markets remain very robust
in volume terms, although pricing was slightly worse. Given
massive concerns going into the quarter, we’d expect the
shares to have a decent bounce.”  Unilever repeated it anticipates pricing growth to return
toward the end of the year and continue through 2011. The
company increased prices in western Europe compared with the
previous three months, even as it saw “difficult” conditions
in Greece, Spain and Ireland.  While the company is winning market share in a number of
areas in Europe, “the real aim for us is more consistent
performance,” Chief Financial Officer  Jean-Marc Huet  said
today on a conference call. “The consumer in Europe isn’t
well, and that will continue for a while.”  The amount of products sold in western Europe rose 0.6
percent compared with a decline in the second quarter.
Underlying sales dropped 0.3 percent in the region.  Doubling Sales  Unilever aims to double sales by expanding in higher-
growth areas including personal care and increasing its
presence in developing markets as weak consumer confidence in
markets including Europe and the U.S. restricts growth. The
company agreed to buy Alberto Culver Co. for $3.7 billion in
September, its biggest purchase in 10 years, to add hair-care
products including VO5 and Nexxus to its brands.  The company’s net income rose 19 percent to 1.25 billion
euros ($1.77 billion), beating the 1.18 billion-euro average 
estimate . Underlying sales advanced 3.6 percent, trailing the
3.8 percent estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Stock Surge  The stock  rose  as much as 1.10 euros to 22.40 euros in
Amsterdam, the biggest  gain  since May 10. Shares traded up 5
percent at 22.38 euros at 11:10 a.m. local time. They’ve
dropped 1.7 percent this year, giving the company a market
value of 67.7 billion euros.  Consumer companies are struggling in Europe as
government-spending cuts to reduce record budget deficits
impact confidence. Beiersdorf AG, the German maker of Nivea
skin creams, lowered its full-year forecast today as sales of
its products slid in Europe.  Unilever’s growth “at the regional level is
counterintuitive, with emerging markets below our estimates,
but developed markets better,”  Pablo Zuanic , an  analyst  at
Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote. Sales rose 6.7 percent in Asia,
Africa and central and eastern Europe, slowing from the second
quarter.  Emerging Market Slowdown  “There has been a slight slowdown in emerging markets,”
Huet said today, without giving more details. Unilever saw
growth in  markets  including the Philippines, Vietnam and
Chile, he said.  Sales growth in the Americas was 3.9 percent, aided by an
expansion of about 7 percent in Latin America, especially
Brazil, which “remains the key driver of volume growth in
Latin America,” the company said.  The underlying operating margin increased 0.2 percentage
point as saving programs in Europe offset increased costs for
raw materials including food ingredients and commodities, and
advertising and promotional spends in emerging markets.  “It looks like Unilever have done a good job bringing
down indirect costs, but they do allude to some favorable
phasing which will reverse in the fourth quarter,” Ackerman
wrote today. “The market will be focused on how significant
the phasing is.”  The maker of Knorr soup expects the cost of basic goods
to rise about 2 percent this year, with most of the gains in
the second half.  Pricing Returning  Underlying prices fell 1.2 percent in the third quarter,
a sequential improvement compared with the second quarter,
when they dropped 2 percent. The company is already increasing
prices on some products including tea, Huet said on a call
today.  Unilever  agreed to buy  Sara Lee’s shower gel and European
detergents unit more than a year ago to increase its personal
care offering. The European Commission extended its review of
the acquisition to Nov. 25, it said in October. The company is
“now in the latest stages of dialogue with Brussels” and
hopes to “come to a conclusion that is satisfactory for
everyone by year-end,” Huet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 