-- MTV Revives Golden Oldies as `Unplugged' Returns as Web Program
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-04T22:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/mtv-revives-golden-oldies-as-unplugged-is-reincarnated-as-internet-show.html
Viacom Inc. ’s MTV is considering
producing new Internet versions of “120 Minutes” and other
classic TV shows from the network’s past after testing the idea
with “Unplugged,” a program on the air since 1990.  “The Internet is providing us with a similar opportunity
to what happened at MTV in its early days,” said  Van Toffler ,
president of MTV Networks Music & Logo Group. “We can really
shine a light on the subversive subculture of music.”  The aim is to let fans interact with artists. The
popularity of “Unplugged” waned in the late 1990s and MTV has
produced a limited number of episodes for cable each year since
then, Toffler said in a telephone interview from the network’s
New York headquarters. A revival started online in 2009 and won
a daytime Emmy for innovative programming this year.  Toffler aims to convince  Prince  and  George Jones  to perform
on “Unplugged” to build online viewing. In the original
series, artists often performed acoustic versions of songs
before 100 or fewer fans. On the Web, MTV plans to harness
social media as it did this year using Facebook Inc. and Twitter
Inc. to boost the Video Music Awards audience by 27 percent.  Eight episodes of “Unplugged” have been ordered for next
year for both broadcast and the Web: three for MTV, three for
sister channel VH1 and two for CMT, also part of Viacom’s cable
group. Originally a rock show, “Unplugged” had been adapted
for the VH1, CMT and Palladia networks.  ‘Yo! MTV’  The heavy metal “Headbangers Ball” and “Yo! MTV Raps”
are also under consideration for a Web revival, Toffler said.
Such shows would provide on-demand material and be inexpensive
to produce, he said.  MTV already airs live performances  online  and plans to
webcast a concert by the rock band My Chemical Romance this
month, Toffler said.  The network would like to get  Kanye West , Radiohead,
 Beyonce  and Kings of Leon to perform on “Unplugged,” said Amy
Doyle, head of music and talent.  Starting next year, viewers can watch “Unplugged” shows
with friends at Web pages sponsored by Starburst candy, said
Chris Ficarra, who oversees marketing for MTV’s websites.  There’s a chance Internet fans will be able to influence
the artists’ set lists, Doyle said in an interview.  “We want to expand on the social media aspect,” Doyle
said. “2011 will be the year we bring in the next innovation
and iteration of ‘Unplugged,’ and push the show out further and
allow fans to engage in a bigger way.”  A similar Web formula would apply to “120 Minutes,” a
show about lesser-known acts that ended in 2000, where programs
would start online and spread to TV, Toffler said.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , gained 23
cents to $38.99 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The Class B shares have gained 31 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 