-- Vietnam Pledges to Hold Dong's Exchange Rate, Trading Band Until February
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T06:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/vietnam-pledges-to-hold-dong-s-exchange-rate-trading-band-until-february.html
Vietnam will not adjust the exchange
rate of its currency against the U.S. dollar or change the dong
trading band, Le Duc Thuy, Chairman of the National Financial
Supervisory Commission, said.  “That will be from now to the Lunar Tet holiday,” Thuy
told reporters in Hanoi today. “We will see how the market
situation with the dollar and consumer prices is during the Tet
and then will have suitable measures.” The Lunar Tet holiday is
in February.  The Southeast Asean nation is facing pressure to devalue
the currency as its trade deficit widens and the dollar surges
in the so-called black market, said Vu Anh Duc, an analyst at
 Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade .  The State Bank of Vietnam set the dong’s daily reference
rate at 18,932, unchanged since Aug. 18. The currency is allowed
to fluctuate by as much as 3 percent on either side of that rate.
The dong weakened to a record low of 21,070 per dollar at money
changers in Ho Chi Minh City as of 11.00 a.m., according to a
telephone directory information service, known as 1080, run by
state-owned Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications.  Devaluation, Deficit  The State Bank of Vietnam has devalued the dong three times
in the past year and allowed the currency to weaken 8.4 percent
against the dollar, amid concern the Southeast Asian nation
risks running short of the capital needed to fund the deficit.
The dong was trading at 19,495 in the spot market as of 12:03
a.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietnam’s trade deficit widened to $1.1 billion from a
revised $875 million in September, according to preliminary
figures released by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi on
Oct. 25.  Vietnamese companies also typically require more dollars at
year-end to repay foreign loans, pushing up demand for the
currency and boosting its value versus the dong on the
unofficial market, Duc said.  October’s inflation and trade figures highlighted concerns
that policy should be tightened to avert a foreign-exchange
crisis,  Kevin Grice , an economist at Capital Economics, said in
a Nov. 2 note. Consumer price growth increased to a 19-month
high of 9.66 percent in October, holding above the
administration’s target of no more than 8 percent for the ninth
straight month.  Vietnam’s trade deficit this year may be $12 billion, less
than the previous forecast of $13.5 billion, Minister of Trade
and Industry  Vu Huy Hoang  said earlier this week. The shortfall
will be equivalent to about 18 percent of exports in 2010, and
the government aims to curb this to 14 percent in 2015, he said.  The shortfall will probably reach $13.5 billion for the
full year and may widen to $14.6 billion in 2011,  Ha Van Hien ,
chairman of the National Assembly Committee for Economic Affairs,
told the assembly on Oct. 20.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 