-- Vitol Sells Two North Sea Forties Cargoes; Angola States Production Level
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-04T17:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/vitol-sells-two-north-sea-forties-cargoes-angola-states-production-level.html
Vitol Group sold two cargoes of North
Sea Forties crude to Trafigura Beheer BV. Angola said it is
producing 1.9 million barrels of oil a day.  Vitol sold two Forties shipment to Trafigura to load on
Nov. 16 to Nov. 19 at 55 cents below the cash cost of North Sea
oil in December, according to traders involved in North Sea
transactions. Yesterday Vitol sold a consignment to Total SA
loading Nov. 15 to Nov. 17 at a 25-cent discount to Dated Brent.  Statoil ASA and Total bid for cargoes without attracting
sellers, while Royal Dutch Shell Plc offered without concluding
a deal.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
a trading window that ends daily at 4:30 p.m. in London. Prior
to the window,  Forties  loading from 10 to 21 days in the future
cost 22 cents less than Dated Brent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Brent crude for December settlement traded at $87.69 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the
close of the window, up from $86.04 a barrel at the same time
yesterday. The January contract traded at $87.85 a barrel,
narrowing the contango between the two nearest-term contracts to
16 cents from 19 cents yesterday.  Angola is currently producing 1.9 million barrels of crude
a day, Adriano Paulo Sebastiao, chief geologist at state-owned
oil and gas explorer Sonangol SA, said at an energy conference
in Cape Town today.  Angola’s Minister of Petroleum Jose Maria Botelho de
Vasconcelos said in New Delhi this week that the country may
raise output to 1.9 million barrels a day next year from 1.8
million barrels.  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-largest state-run
oil refiner, is seeking to buy crude for loading in January,
according to documents received by Bloomberg News. It requested
supplies from West African, North African, Caspian and the North
Sea.  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company, is
seeking to buy low-sulfur crude for delivery in January,
according to two traders who received official notification.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  