-- Volcker Rule to Hurt Shareholders, Competitiveness, Bachus Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-11-04T18:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/volcker-rule-may-trigger-exodus-of-clients-from-u-s-banks-bachus-says.html
Hours after Republicans secured
control of the U.S. House, the council of federal regulators
studying how to implement the so-called Volcker rule received a
warning from the lawmaker in line to be their new overseer.  U.S. Representative  Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican
who may become chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee , said in a Nov. 3 comment letter to the new  Financial
Stability Oversight Council  that the rule barring bank holding
companies from trading on their own accounts will undermine U.S.
competitiveness and cut profits at the largest banks.  “Depending on how U.S. regulators choose to implement it,
the Volcker rule may spark a mass exodus of clients from U.S.
banks to banks based abroad,” wrote Bachus, who offered an
amendment during the legislative process that would have
disabled the rule until other countries established similar
regulation.  The Volcker rule, named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , who proposed it, is part of the Dodd-
Frank regulatory overhaul approved by Congress in July. The rule
aims to reduce the chance that banks will make risky investments
with their own capital that put their federally insured deposits
at risk.  Under Dodd-Frank, the stability council is charged with
studying how best to implement the Volcker rule and make its
recommendations by Jan. 22, to federal regulators, who are to
draft final rules by October. The council, which is headed by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , began its initial
comment period on the rule on Oct. 1.  ‘Hurt Shareholders’  The ban on proprietary trading “will hurt shareholders of
the banks that have been forced by the Volcker rule to divest
from profitable lines of business,” Bachus said in his letter
to the council.  He noted that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and Bank of America Corp. have taken steps to comply with
the new law by shedding trading units. “Shuttering these
operations will cause these firms to be less profitable,”
Bachus wrote.  Bachus, 62, has served as the top Republican on the
Financial Services Committee since Republicans lost the House
majority in 2007. The party retook the House Nov. 2 with a gain
of at least 60 seats, their biggest increase since 1938. Bachus
is being challenged by Representative  Ed Royce  of California to
replace Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
as the chairman of the panel.  Bachus and his colleagues say they will use their new power
on the committee to ensure that the new rules for Wall Street
signed into law in July are not written in a way that is too
restrictive on the banking industry.  Lawmakers return to Washington the week of Nov. 15 for the
last few weeks of the current Congress. The Republican Steering
Committee, the group of lawmakers who fill leadership positions,
will meet to decide the chairmanship that week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  