-- Wal-Mart Faces Opposition to Massmart Bid From South African Labor Unions
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-04T15:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/wal-mart-faces-opposition-to-massmart-bid-from-south-african-labor-unions.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s bid for
 Massmart Holdings Ltd.  faces opposition from South Africa’s
Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers’ Union, which has
started an anti-Wal-Mart coalition with other labor groups.  The union last month sent a list of demands to Massmart
Chief Executive Officer  Grant Pattison , covering pay, working
conditions and procurement practices, SACCAWU Deputy Secretary
General Mduduzi Mbongwe told reporters in Johannesburg today.
The union wants existing employment terms and conditions to be
extended to all Massmart’s operations in Africa in the event of
an acquisition, Mbongwe said.  Wal-Mart made a 32 billion-rand ($4.7 billion) non-binding
offer for Massmart on Sept. 27. The world’s largest retailer
said Oct. 28 that it may make a “partial offer” for a
controlling stake in Massmart. Wal-Mart isn’t interested in
owning less than 50 percent of the retailer,  Business Day 
reported today, citing International Chief Executive Officer
 Doug McMillon .  Wal-Mart “respects and honors pre-existing union
relationships,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
“We are committed to working constructively with the local
unions in South Africa.”  The union is concerned that goods Wal-Mart imports to sell
in South Africa will “destroy jobs” in the country’s
manufacturing sector, Mbongwe said.  SACCAWU has about 150,000 members and represents about 70
percent of the employees of Massmart, General Secretary Bones
Skulu said.  Discussing the union’s demands and concerns before a deal
with Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart would be “premature,”
Massmart said in a statement today. “The door remains open to
discussions with SACCAWU to the extent that they choose to
engage directly with management rather than only through the
media,” Pattison said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  