-- Buffett's Swiss Re Investment May Return More Than $1.3 Billion
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-11-04T16:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/warren-buffett-s-swiss-re-investment-may-return-more-than-1-3-billion.html
Warren Buffett ’s two-year return on
his  Swiss Reinsurance Co.  investment may exceed $1.3 billion, or
more than 40 percent of the funds he injected, when the
reinsurer repays his Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in January.  Berkshire will receive a “premium” of 600 million Swiss
francs ($623 million) on the 3 billion francs injected into the
world’s second-biggest reinsurer, the Zurich-based company said
today. Interest payments of 12 percent a year on the convertible
notes purchased in February 2009 add up to about 700 million
francs, Swiss Re Chief Financial Officer  George Quinn  said.  Buffett made the investment after Swiss Re’s strategy of
trading securities such as credit-default swaps led to record
writedowns and losses of $8.3 billion in 2008. Swiss Re is
repaying Berkshire ahead of schedule after profit almost doubled
in the third quarter and the reinsurer accumulated excess
capital of $10 billion by the end of June.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment left with
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Buffett built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire into a $200
billion company by investing premiums from insurance and
reinsurance operations while waiting for claims to emerge.
Buffett seized opportunities amid the global recession to make
investments in firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
 General Electric Co.   Buffett also receives 20 percent of Swiss Re’s property and
casualty premiums for five years in return for assuming the same
share of the risk, said Swiss Re spokeswoman  Simone Lauper .  “That wouldn’t have happened” if the economy was growing,
Buffett said in May 2009.  Tax Relief  Swiss Re’s total property and casualty premiums were $2.88
billion in the third quarter.  While Swiss Re will post a charge of about $1 billion in
the fourth quarter, the reinsurer won’t incur a penalty for
repaying Berkshire early. Swiss Re, which is bidding to regain
the AA credit rating that Standard & Poor’s cut in February
2009, previously said it would face a premium if it repaid
Buffett before March 2011.  “We get tax relief of about 25 percent, so the total cost
of the 3 billion that we borrowed is around 1 billion francs,”
said Quinn. Swiss Re is “well above” its target range for
surplus capital of $3 billion to $5 billion, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  