-- Wheat Rises Most in Three Weeks as Dollar Drop Boosts U.S. Export Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-04T17:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/wheat-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-dollar-drop-boosts-u-s-export-outlook.html
Wheat futures rose the most in almost
four weeks as the dollar tumbled, boosting prospects for U.S.
grain exports.  The  greenback  slumped to an 11-month low against a basket
of major currencies after the Federal Reserve said yesterday it
will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries to boost the
U.S. economy. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials rose to the highest level since October 2008.  “The grain markets are simply reacting to what the dollar
is doing,” said  Jim Hemminger , a risk-management specialist at
Top Third Ag Marketing in Chicago. “The Fed action, and the
response to it, is pushing all commodities up.”  Wheat futures for December delivery jumped 24.25 cents, or
3.5 percent, to $7.145 a bushel at 12:05 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade. A close at that price would mark the biggest
gain for a most-active contract since Oct. 8. Before today, the
grain climbed 44 percent since the end of June as drought harmed
crops in Russia.  In the four weeks ended Oct. 28, U.S. export sales rose 19
percent from a year earlier, the Department of Agriculture said
today.  Futures also gained on speculation that conditions of
winter crops will deteriorate as dry weather continues. As of
Oct. 31, about 46 percent of the wheat crop was in good or
excellent condition, down from 64 percent at the same time last
year, the USDA has said.  La Nina, a global-weather pattern caused by cooling of the
ocean surface, may bring “below-normal precipitation” to the
central U.S. Great Plains until January, the National Weather
Service said today.  Droughts  may develop or intensify in parts
of Kansas, the largest winter-wheat growing state, Colorado,
Nebraska and Oklahoma, the forecaster said.  ‘Not Conducive’  La Nina “is likely to give us a warm, dry fall and winter,
and that’s not conducive to growing wheat,” said  Jeff McReynolds , the owner of McReynolds Marketing & Investments in
Hays, Kansas. “It’s not like it’s catastrophic yet, but it’s a
lot worse than you’d like to see.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 