-- Wheat Climbs on Concern Russian Sowing Decline May Tighten Supply Further
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-11-04T04:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/wheat-advances-in-chicago-as-russian-planting-decline-spurs-demand-concern.html
Wheat futures advanced for the first
time in five sessions on concern smaller winter plantings in
Russia, the third-largest grower last year, may further tighten
global supplies.  The December-delivery contract advanced as much as 0.7
percent to $6.9525 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and
traded at $6.9475 at 12:21 p.m. Singapore time.  Farmers in Russia planted 14.6 million hectares of winter
grains as of Nov. 3, the nation’s farm ministry said yesterday.
That’s less than 17.5 million hectares from a year ago, Peter
Rizzo, managing director at FCStone Australia Pty. said by phone
from Sydney today.  “That’s a big driver,” he said. Wheat “is being driven
by supply-related issues.”  A smaller Russian crop may mean the exportable surplus in
Ukraine will go to Eastern European buyers, forcing millers in
Asia who have previously relied on cheaper grain from the Black
Sea to seek supplies from the U.S. and Australia, Rizzo said.  Ukraine is forecast to be this year’s second-biggest wheat
 exporter  in the former Soviet Union after Kazakhstan, according
to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  “Even if Russian farmers manage to increase spring-sown
area by 4 million hectares, the next year’s crop may not be high
enough to build up carry-over stocks and resume grain exports in
the marketing year 2011, the USDA Foreign Agricultural Service
said in a  report  on its website yesterday.  Russia declared a grain export ban from Aug. 15, which was
extended from December to July 2011, after the worst drought in
at least half a century slashed this year’s crop. Wheat harvest
may decline 34 percent to 40.8 million tons this year from 61.7
million tons last year, FAS said. That compares with the USDA’s
official estimate for 42.5 million tons, according to the report.  Milling Wheat  Algeria is seeking to buy at least 50,000 tons of optional-
origin milling wheat for January shipment, two traders involved
in the tender said yesterday.  The country, North Africa’s biggest wheat importer after
Egypt, is expected to buy 5.7 million tons this year, up from
4.9 million tons last year, according to the International
Grains Council.  Wheat available for export from the U.K. was estimated to
slump 46 percent to 1.3 million tons in the year through June
2011, as domestic demand rises, the country’s Home-Grown Cereals
authority said yesterday, citing government data.  Corn for December delivery rose for a second day, adding
0.3 percent to $5.8275 a bushel in Chicago.  “Corn is the bigger story,” FCStone’s Rizzo said. “The
balance sheet still looks tight.”  Global corn output was forecast to be 15.7 million tons
short of demand, the first deficit in four years, draining
global stockpiles to the lowest since the 2007-2008 marketing
year, according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  