-- Wind Hellas Bondholder Group Approved by Court as Turnaround Lead Bidder
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-11-04T13:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/wind-hellas-bondholder-group-approved-by-court-as-turnaround-lead-bidder.html
Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA’s
senior bondholders were approved by a London court as the
bidders that should decide the outcome of the Greek mobile-phone
operator’s second restructuring in a year.  The group, owed about 1.2 billion euros ($1.7 billion), was
picked as the preferred bidder for the company last month. Judge
 Guy Newey  at the High Court of Justice today approved that
choice and said the London court was the right one to oversee
the restructuring.  The decision paves the way for the senior secured floating-
rate noteholders to seek approval of  a plan  under which they
would inject 420 million euros and write off debt in exchange
for control of the company. Bondholders’ support for the
restructuring plan exceeds 76 percent, according to  Bingham
McCutchen LLP , the law firm representing them, Wind Hellas’s
lawyer, Robin Knowles, said at the hearing.  Under the bondholders’ proposal, Wind Hellas’s 250 million-
euro revolving credit line would be repaid in full, while the
company’s senior secured notes and 355 million euros of
subordinated bonds will be written off, according to a statement
Oct. 18.  Newey also said Wind Hellas could hire either  Alistair Beveridge  or  Simon Appell , from the restructuring firm  Zolfo
Cooper , to represent the company in U.S. court proceedings.  Wind Hellas’s parent Weather Finance III Sarl, the holding
company of Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , bought Wind
Hellas out of bankruptcy about a year ago. The company, under
the control of creditors, put itself up for sale a second time
after deferring a 17.5 million-euro interest payment on a
revolving credit line in June and missing a 23 million-euro
payment on its floating-rate notes.  The bondholder group includes Mount Kellett Capital
Partners (Ireland) Ltd., Taconic Capital Advisers UK LLP,
Providence Equity Capital Markets LLC, Anchorage Capital Group
LLC, Angelo Gordon & Co and Eton Park International LLP,
according to the statement.  The case is In the Matter of Hellas Telecommunications
(Luxembourg) V, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division
(London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London on 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 