-- Most-Accurate Forecaster Herrmann Sees 0.28% U.S. 2-Year Yield
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/two-year-yield-will-fall-below-0-3-in-u-s-most-accurate-forecaster-says.html
Two-year Treasury yields will
continue hitting record lows and drop to 0.28 percent by the end
of the year, according to  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC and that rate’s
most accurate forecaster in an analysis by Bloomberg Rankings.  “Central bank demand and investor demand should really
keep the two-year yield tracking toward our target,” Herrmann
said yesterday, after the  Federal Reserve  announced it will buy
an additional $600 billion of Treasuries through June to
stimulate growth. The yield fell about two basis points to 0.33
percent yesterday, just above its all-time low 0.3270 percent on
Oct. 12.  Bloomberg also ranked forecasters of three other key rates,
calculating the average difference between their predictions in
every January starting with 2007 for each of the coming year’s
quarters and the actual rate as of each period’s close.  Herrmann’s two-year-yield forecasts, covering 11 quarters
and issued before he joined State Street in February, were
within about 37 basis points of the mark on average. Herrmann,
who previously worked at his own consulting firm and Merrill
Lynch & Co., didn’t submit calls for four of 15 quarters covered
in the analysis.  As things stand now, his January prediction for this
quarter won’t be among his most accurate. With the two-year
yield at about 0.92 percent back then, Herrmann saw it hitting
1.5 percent by year-end. He had lowered his forecast to 0.70
percent by September and then cut that prediction by 42 basis
points on Oct. 13, making his the second lowest forecast among
54 compiled by Bloomberg.  “I’m going to stick with that,” Herrmann said after the
Fed’s announcement yesterday.  A summary of the rankings, which are based on forecasts
available via the Bloomberg’s BYFC function, is below. For the
complete list, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Meisler at   lmeisler@bloomberg.net  