-- World Bank Must Look at Energy Project Loans' Impact, Internal Audit Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-04T18:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/world-bank-must-look-at-energy-project-loans-impact-internal-audit-says.html
The  World Bank , which has increased
loans for renewable energies over the past decade, needs to
better assess the results of projects it finances, an internal
audit of the bank’s efforts to mitigate climate change says.  Between 2003 and 2008, the Washington-based agency
increased annual investment on renewable and energy efficiency
tenfold to $2 billion, according to the Independent Evaluation
Group, which reports directly to the bank’s board of directors.
At the same time, there haven’t been enough measures of impact
in areas such as forest management, according to the report
released today.  The World Bank “and the world at large need to learn
faster what works and what doesn’t and focus on results, not
just dollars committed,” Kenneth Chomitz, the report’s author,
said in a press release. “Most projects reviewed lack periodic,
reliable reporting on impacts, leading to lost opportunities for
learning.”  The bank is currently drafting a new energy strategy as it
seeks to reconcile its mandate to reduce poverty and help more
people gain access to electricity with growing concerns about
global warming. A $3.75 billion loan in April to South Africa to
help build one of the world’s largest coal-fired power plants
raised protests from environmental and civil rights groups and
prompted the U.S., the bank’s biggest shareholder, to abstain
from voting on it.  Coal Alternative  The independent evaluation recommended the bank help
clients “find domestically preferable alternatives to coal
power,” saying such a source of energy “should be a last
resort.”  The bank has no plans to finance any coal-fired power
plant, according to Roger Morier, a spokesman for the bank’s
sustainable development unit.  The report also said the bank should focus on sectors and
instruments with “high impact,” such as energy efficiency and
use long-duration loans.  The World Bank management in a written response said that
the report “does not recognize the significance of ongoing
changes that have been facilitated by the adoption” of a new
strategic framework on development and climate change.  It said that the recommendations in the report “largely
fit” with what the bank is currently doing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  