-- Myanmar Holds First Election Since 1990; Suu Kyi Still Detained
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-04T23:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/myanmar-holds-first-election-since-1990-suu-kyi-still-detained.html
Military-run Myanmar will hold its
first election in two decades on Nov. 7, a vote denounced by
Western nations as a sham and embraced by Asian neighbors eager
to gain access to natural resources.  Aung San Suu Kyi , who led her party to a landslide victory
in 1990 in a result nullified by the junta, is spearheading a
boycott of this ballot while under house arrest. The military
will retain 25 percent of parliamentary seats, with the rest
contested by 37 parties, including one formed by Prime Minister
 Thein Sein  that claims a third of the population as members.  “The election won’t change where central power lies, but
it’s the first time in 50 years in which there are likely to be
opposition voices in Parliament,” said David Steinberg,
director of Asian studies at  Georgetown University . “There’s
the possibility that more space between the individual and the
state can develop even under this controlled system.”  The ballot may lead to further divisions between western
nations and Asia in dealing with Southeast Asia’s  poorest
country . Myanmar’s strategic location on the Indian Ocean has
attracted investments in ports, railways and oil and gas
pipelines from China, India and Thailand, undercutting U.S. and
European efforts to pressure the regime with sanctions.  The country formerly known as Burma has been under military
rule since 1962. The government has banned overseas journalists
and diplomats from entering Myanmar to observe the election and
rejected United Nations assistance in organizing the vote.
Besides Suu Kyi, some 2,000 dissidents remain jailed.  ‘Climate of Fear’  The elections “are being conducted in a climate of fear,
intimidation, and resignation,” Elaine Pearson, deputy Asia
director at  Human Rights Watch , said in a Nov. 3 statement.
“These elections are about elite military transformation, not
democratic transition, and offer little change to Burma’s
deplorable human rights situation.”  Myanmar’s Foreign Minister  Nyan Win  told counterparts in
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that Suu Kyi may be
released soon after the election. The Nobel laureate has been
detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her latest house
arrest starting in 2003.  Several pro-democracy parties are running in the election,
including one created by former members of Suu Kyi’s National
League for Democracy, which was dissolved by law after it
declined to register for the election. They are fielding
candidates in less than half of the races,  according to  Human
Rights Watch.  ‘Virtually Inclusive’  The participation of 37 political parties makes the vote
“virtually inclusive,” Nyan Win told the UN General Assembly
on Sept. 28 in New York. “The people will exercise their
democratic right to elect the representatives of their own
choice who can serve their interest better.”  Junta leader  Than Shwe , 77, remains eligible for president
even though he’s not standing for office, according to the
constitution. Amendments require the votes of more than 75
percent of lawmakers, giving the military effective veto power.  The generals see the election as a “way of
institutionalizing succession without having their own people
fighting each other,” said Tin Maung Maung Than, a senior
fellow at the  Institute of Southeast Asian Studies  in Singapore.
“Practically, you have to manage it in order not to lose your
grip.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the election
“deeply flawed” on Oct. 29 and said the U.S. would tell the
new leaders “they must break from the policies of the past.”
China respects the vote and hopes it runs smoothly, the state-
run Xinhua news agency reported yesterday, citing Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei.  U.S. Sanctions  The U.S. maintains trade and financial sanctions against
the regime, and legislators are pushing President  Barack Obama 
to start targeting banks that hold offshore accounts for junta
leaders. Europe has similar restrictions in place.  Myanmar’s exports to the U.S. and European Union amounted
to less than 4 percent of total overseas sales last year,
according to European data. China, India and Thailand account
for about two-thirds of Myanmar’s commerce.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, signed an $8.6 billion contract this week
with Myanmar to build a deep-sea port and industrial estate.
Earlier this year,  China National Petroleum Corp.  started
building oil and gas pipelines across the country, and India
approved plans for  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and GAIL India Ltd.
to invest a combined $1.3 billion in a natural gas project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 