-- Dollar Near Nine-Month Low Versus Euro as Recovery Signs Spur Yield Demand
-- B y   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-11-04T04:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/yen-rises-on-speculation-japanese-exporters-purchased-currency-euro-falls.html
The dollar traded near a nine-month
low against the euro after a New Zealand report showed employers
added more jobs and before U.K. data that may show house prices
rebounded, sapping demand for safer assets.  The yen advanced for the first time in four days against
the dollar on speculation Japanese exporters bought the currency
after it touched a one-week low. Taiwan’s dollar jumped the most
in 18 months after the Federal Reserve said it will buy an
additional $600 billion of Treasuries, boosting the supply of
the U.S. currency and supporting flows of funds to emerging-
market assets.  “There should be a reasonable environment for riskier
assets with the U.S. loosening monetary policy, and some of the
economic data have been better,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.  The dollar traded at $1.4137 per euro as of 1:40 p.m. in
Tokyo from $1.4139 in New York yesterday, when it declined to
$1.4179, the lowest since Jan. 26. The greenback fell to 80.85
yen from 81.07 yen yesterday, when it climbed to 81.58 yen, the
strongest level since Oct. 28. The yen rose to 114.30 per euro
from 114.64.  Taiwan’s currency surged 1.2 percent to NT$30.283 against
its U.S. counterpart, the biggest advance since April 2009 and
the strongest since June 2008.  U.K.  house prices  rose 0.6 percent in October after a 3.6
percent drop in September, a Bloomberg News survey showed before
Halifax, the mortgage lending division of Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, releases the data today.  New Zealand’s Dollar  New Zealand’s dollar rose for a sixth day against the
greenback and the yen after a government report showed the
 jobless rate  dropped to a seasonally adjusted 6.4 percent in the
third quarter. That compared with the median estimate of 6.7
percent in a Bloomberg survey.  “The jobs number was strong across all measures and the
market will probably start pricing in a hike in March,” said
 Imre Speizer , a market strategist in Wellington with Westpac
Banking Corp. “The kiwi dollar will likely target 80 cents in
the next week or two and the Aussie should hold above parity now
with the dollar under pressure after the Fed’s announcement.”  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and
3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.7 percent to 78.53 U.S. cents.
It reached 78.86 cents, the most since June 2008. The kiwi
advanced 0.4 percent to 63.48 yen.  Japanese Exporters  Japan’s currency strengthened against the dollar and the
euro on speculation the nation’s exporters took advantage of the
currency’s weakness yesterday.  “It seems that exporters are selling foreign currencies
for yen,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior currency analyst at
Ueda Harlow Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s good timing after a holiday”
in Japan, he said.  The yen remains stronger than the 89.44 per dollar average
that large manufactures predicted for the six months to March
2011, according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey released in
September.  Taiwan’s dollar rose to a two-year high after overseas
investors yesterday added to their holdings of the island’s
shares for a 10th day. Global funds have bought $1.4 billion
more of the island’s shares than they sold in the last three
days, about the same amount as was pumped in during October,
exchange data show.  “The Taiwan dollar will continue to rise as the Fed’s
easing means growing optimism of more inflows into Asia,” said
 Tarsicio Tong , a currency trader at Union Bank of Taiwan in
Taipei. “The appreciation pressure is unprecedented. The
central bank may need to try harder to slow the pace of the
currency’s gains.”  Today’s currency advance in part reflects a market
correction after Taiwan’s central bank intervened yesterday to
curb gains, according to traders who declined to be identified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  