-- Your Wife Might Be Grateful for Fewer Games Too: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-04T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/your-wife-would-welcome-fewer-games-as-well-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Most sports fans want the National
Basketball Association and National Football League to avoid
work stoppages by reaching new labor contracts with their
players.  They have short memories.  Professional basketball was never better than during the
1998-99 season, which was shortened to 50 games from the usual
82 because owners and players couldn’t agree on revenue
distribution.  It was basketball bliss. Some observers would argue that
there’s no reason to watch the NBA until Christmas. Others say
the All-Star game. Some might even suggest the playoffs, which
start in April and include more than half of the league’s 30
teams.  All are affirmations of what many players and coaches say:
The season is too long. In all sports. Owners can’t have arenas
sitting empty. And there are only so many circuses, concerts and
 monster truck  exhibitions to go around.  “Fifty games,” says  Steve Kerr , who spent the 1998-99
season with the San Antonio Spurs, who won the title that year,
“is probably enough to determine who the best teams are.”  Isn’t that the point of playing?  The lockout-reduced  season  was a sprint, magnifying each
game’s importance on a team’s postseason aspirations. It was
engaging. It was fun. It was unpredictable.  It was the first time that the NBA had lost regular-season
games to a work stoppage. Here’s to hoping that we can do it
again. In all professional sports.  Let Them Bicker  Let the owners and players bicker. Let them trade barbs and
insults. Let them cancel some games, then kiss and make up.  The notion of less is more is timely because, once again, a
professional sports league commissioner is talking about adding
games.  This time it’s Major League Baseball and  Bud Selig , who
says owners will “seriously consider” whether to add another
two wild-card teams to the postseason schedule. Just don’t think
the Sox, red or white, or the Padres deserved a playoff spot
this season.  It’s worth noting that the World Series, won by the San
Francisco Giants in five games, ended in November. And you can
be sure that baseball owners won’t shorten the regular season
from its unending 162 games in order to accommodate more
postseason teams.  Selig, to his credit, backs a shorter season. But he works
for the owners. And this isn’t about competition. It’s about
cash.  “As global television ratings have gone up, you’re talking
about a lot of money,” Selig said.  Making Noise  And there you have it.  The NFL, as you’re probably aware, is making noise about
adding two games to the 16-game regular season. The league sells
this, in part, as a kind gesture to fans who for what seems like
forever have said they don’t want to pay for exhibition games.  This isn’t about the fans. It’s about the owners who’ve run
out of ideas on how to generate revenue.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association earlier this
year expanded its marquee postseason basketball tournament to 68
teams from 65. Why? Because the television networks were willing
to pay for more games, which eventually will backfire by
devaluing the product.  The NCAA’s announcement came after it reached agreement on
a 14-year, $10.8 billion TV deal with CBS Corp. and Time Warner
Inc.’s Turner Broadcasting, both of which require programming
that draws males ages 18-34, a group coveted by advertisers. Who
knows: maybe fewer games might even lead to marital bliss. More
time in the family room, less in the  man cave .  Desperate Networks  Professional sports teams generate the bulk of their
revenue from three sources: sponsorships, tickets and television
networks, whose spending habits usually trickle down to the
viewer at home. But that’s another column.  This more, more, more mentality is a reminder of what one
television executive told me about desperate networks and
ratings. Think  Shark Week . Whenever a network needs to bolster
its audience you can count on it showing a creature eating or
being eaten.  It’s the same with the sports world, where owners never
seem to tire of the more games equals more TV-money formula. Is
anyone out there clamoring for more teams in the baseball
playoffs?  As it stands, the three division winners in each league and
the team with next-best record qualify as the wild card. So, of
baseball’s 30 teams eight qualify for the postseason. The NBA
and National Hockey League already allow too many teams in the
playoffs. Making matters worse, basketball owners not long ago
changed the first-round series from best-of-five games to best-
of-seven. More meaningless mismatches in what’s already an
exhausting postseason.  New Owners  Kerr over lunch recently discussed why there might be a
lockout in the NBA. Gone are the days where an owner would
tolerate annual losses, knowing that franchise value growth
would more than offset the shortfall. Newer owners, though, paid
hundreds of millions for their franchises, often incurring debt.
If more games mean more money, so be it.  There is truth in too much of a good thing, which is why
lockouts and shortened seasons just might be something for fans
to embrace.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  