-- Dollar Loans Premium at 2-Year High as Yuan Rises: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-04T09:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/yuan-gains-drive-premium-on-dollar-loans-to-a-two-year-high-china-credit.html
The outlook for appreciation in the
yuan is leading Chinese banks to charge the highest premium for
U.S. dollar loans since the first quarter of 2008.  The  difference  between six-month interbank rates for
dollars in London and Shanghai was 3.16 percentage points as of
5:40 p.m. in Shanghai, 2.24 points more than at the start of the
year, according to prices from ICAP Plc. That reflects banks
extending $13.4 billion of foreign-currency  loans  in September,
while taking in  deposits  of $9.7 billion, central bank data show.  “The dollar shortage may worsen as the yuan continues to
rise,” said  Lu Zhengwei , an economist at Industrial Bank Co. in
Shanghai. “On the one hand, there is strong demand from Chinese
companies, which are eager to borrow money in dollars as the
yuan rises. On the other, the supply is limited because both
depositors and financial institutions are trying to curb growth
in dollar holdings to avoid exchange-rate risks.”  The scarcity of dollar financing at home has driven
borrowers such as  China Vanke Co.  to Hong Kong to obtain funds,
helping push lending in the city to a record this year. The U.S.
Federal Reserve’s reserve plan to print dollars to boost the
economy coupled with near-zero U.S. interest rates and an
improving perception of China’s creditworthiness are helping
keep borrowing costs down in the offshore market.  Borrowing Costs  Rates on six-month dollar loans between banks in China has
jumped 225 basis points, or 2.25 percentage points, this year to
3.6 percent, based on ICAP prices that Bloomberg began tracking
in May 2009. The London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , was
little changed at 0.45 percent. The gap between the two hasn’t
been bigger since the first quarter of 2008, according to
Tullett Prebon SITICO (China) Ltd.  The Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate, known as  Shibor , for
six-month loans in yuan has climbed 95 basis points this year to
2.87 percent, according to a daily fixing by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The yuan appreciated 7 percent against the dollar in both
2007 and the first half of 2008 before China curbed the gains to
help exporters weather a global recession. The currency has
strengthened 2.3 percent since June 19, when the People’s Bank
of China said it would pursue a more flexible exchange rate, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict a further 5.9 percent
advance by the end of next year.  Yuan Retreat  The currency closed at 6.6635 per dollar today in Shanghai,
having retreated 0.3 percent since reaching 6.6404 on Oct. 15,
the strongest level since the central bank unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993. In Hong Kong’s
offshore market, the yuan was 1.4 percent higher than the
onshore rate at 6.57.  China raised interest rates last month for the first time
since 2007 to help contain the fastest inflation in almost two
years. The Fed yesterday said it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June, expanding record stimulus
that has helped spur a flow of funds into economies offering
faster growth and higher returns.  China’s economy, which grew at a 9.6 percent rate in the
third-quarter, will probably expand 10.5 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6 that U.S. gross domestic
product will rise 2.6 percent in 2010, down from a 3.3 percent
estimate three months ago, the Washington-based fund said.  The People’s Bank of China reported a record $100 billion
jump in its foreign-exchange  reserves  to $2.65 trillion for
September, helping boost perceptions of Chinese issuers’ ability
to pay their debt.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on the government’s dollar
bonds slid four basis points this week to 56, following declines
of seven points in October and 19 in September, according to
data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service said Oct. 18 that it may raise
China’s A1 credit rating and the yield on the nation’s $1
billion of 4.75 percent notes due October 2013 dropped 30 basis
points last month, or 0.30 percentage point, to 1.46 percent,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  Offshore fund-raising is ballooning after policy makers
tightened constraints amid concern the prospect of yuan gains
was spurring speculative inflows. On April 29, China reduced the
nation’s quota for short-term overseas borrowings this year to
$32.4 billion, 1.5 percent less than in 2009.  “Because of the widening interest-rate gap, the Chinese
currency regulator has strengthened controls on foreign banks’
short-term borrowings from overseas to curb arbitrage
activities,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “Without the strict
capital controls, there would have been more carry trades taking
advantage of the interest-rate gap.”  China Vanke  Of the 86 loans arranged for Chinese companies in Hong Kong
dollars or greenbacks this year, about 75 percent were
denominated in the U.S. currency, Bloomberg data show.  China
Vanke , the nation’s biggest listed property developer, and a
Hong Kong unit of Beijing-based Citic Group, were among
borrowers that helped push loan volumes to more than three times
the $8.5 billion recorded in the same period of 2009.  “The one-way bet on yuan gains is driving the China
foreign-exchange loan growth,” said  Stanley Li , a research
analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd. “But the limited
domestic supply and the exchange-rate differentials make it more
attractive for Chinese companies to borrow in Hong Kong.”  Lending in the city rose to $27.2 billion this year,
topping a previous record of $23.6 billion set in the same
period of 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinochem Corp., China’s largest chemicals trader, and China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a developer controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, both plan to sell dollar-
denominated debt, people familiar with the sales told Bloomberg
News this week.  -- Belinda Cao ,  Judy Chen . With assistance from  Andrea Wong  in
Taipei and  Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore. Editors:  James Regan ,
 Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 