-- Manchester City Falls to Europa League Loss as Henry Watches Liverpool Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-05T00:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/zenit-cska-moscow-stuttgart-advance-to-last-32-in-europa-league-soccer.html
Manchester City fell to its first
Europa League soccer loss of the season as Russian duo Zenit St.
Petersburg and CSKA Moscow maintained their perfect records to
lead five teams into the last 32.  City, the bookmakers’ favorite to win Europe’s second-tier
club tournament, lost 3-1 to Polish team Lech Poznan last night
for its third straight defeat in all competitions.  Roberto Mancini ’s team allowed goals by Manuel Arboleda and
Mateusz Mozdzen in the final five minutes as Lech replaced City
atop their group on goal difference.  Emmanuel Adebayor  had
earlier canceled out Dimitrije Injac’s first-half opener.  “We have lost our last three games and I don’t feel we
deserved to lose any of them,” Mancini said in comments on
City’s website. “Sometimes these things happen, this is
football and it can be cruel sometimes.”  Lech and City have seven points in Group A, with three-time
winner Juventus three points back following a 0-0 draw with
Salzburg. The top two from each group advance to the round of
32, where they will be joined by the eight third-place teams
from the elite Champions League.  While City missed a chance to seal a berth with two games
to spare, Zenit, CSKA, Stuttgart and BATE Borisov advanced with
wins. Porto also secured a spot after drawing 1-1 with Besiktas.  Zenit, the 2008 champion, won 3-2 at Hajduk Split and CSKA
scored three goals in seven minutes at the start of the second
half -- two of them from Tomas Necid -- to beat Palermo 3-1.
CSKA has scored three goals in all four group matches.  Stuttgart defeated Getafe 3-0 to move six points clear atop
Group H, while Belarusian champion BATE reached the spring phase
of a UEFA club competition for the first time with a 3-1 win
over Sheriff Tiraspol.  Gerrard Delivers  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  came off the bench to lift
his team to a 3-1 comeback win over Napoli that moved the Reds
three points clear of Steaua Bucharest in Group K.  “In an ideal situation I would have stayed on the bench
and got a good rest but we were finding it hard and needed some
fresh legs and a bit of a lift,” Gerrard said in a televised
interview. “The manager ask me to do that and I delivered.”  With  John W. Henry , the club’s new owner, watching from the
stands at Anfield, Gerrard scored three goals in the last 15
minutes after replacing Milan Jovanovic at half time. Napoli had
taken the lead in the 28th minute when Ezequiel Lavezzi raced
clear to score.  Gerrard made it 1-1 in the 76th minute when he beat
goalkeeper  Morgan de Sanctis  to  Andrea Dossena ’s backpass. The
England midfielder added a goal from the penalty spot 12 minutes
later before dinking the ball over De Sanctis to complete his
hat trick.  “At half time I felt the best chance we had of winning the
game was to bring him on,” Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  said
of Gerrard. “I suppose had we been two or three up at half time
it would have been nice to wrap him up in cotton wool.”  The fifth round of group games is scheduled Dec. 1 and 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  