-- Zloty Advances to Six-Month High on Fed Expansion, Polish Rate-Rise Bets
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-11-04T14:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/zloty-in-longest-rally-since-july-on-fed-expansion-polish-rate-rise-bets.html
The zloty appreciated to the strongest
in more than six months after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it
will expand measures to boost the economy and investors
speculated interest rates may rise in Poland. Stocks headed for
the highest close in more than two years.  The zloty climbed as much as 1 percent to 3.8907 per euro,
the strongest since April 27, and traded at 3.8964 at 2:52 p.m.
in Warsaw. It has gained 2.1 percent in a five-day rally for the
biggest appreciation among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark  WIG20 Index 
jumped as much as 2 percent to 2,722.73 as commodity producers
and banks rallied.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of stocks rose to its
highest since June 2008 after the Fed said yesterday it will buy
an extra $600 billion of Treasuries, or $100 billion more than
economists predicted, through June. Policymakers kept their
pledge to maintain  low rates  for an “extended period.” The
decisions enhance the attraction of currencies in developing
nations where rates are higher and central banks face
accelerating inflation.  “The Polish central bank and Fed are working together to
strengthen the zloty,” ING Bank Slaski SA economists led by
 Mateusz Szczurek  in Warsaw wrote in a report to clients. The
nearest support level for the euro is at 3.89 zloty, they said.  Polish bond prices fell, pushing the yield on notes
maturing in April 2015 up 7 basis points to 5.32 percent, after
a third central banker in as many days publicly expressed
concern that inflation may be accelerating beyond acceptable
limits.  Andrzej Rzonca  was quoted as saying by PAP newswire
today that intensifying price “shocks” from food prices and
higher value-added taxes may push inflation to 3.5 percent
within the next few months. The bank’s target is 2.5 percent.  Polish Rates  Two Polish central bankers who previously voted against
lifting the borrowing costs said this week monetary policy
makers should consider raising the  main rate  from a record low
after the Finance Ministry estimated the annual inflation rate
in October at 2.9 percent.  “The combined effect of fresh rate hike speculation and
strong manufacturing data has propelled zloty gains against the
union currency,” Danske Bank AS emerging-market analysts led by
 Lars Christensen  wrote in a note to clients. The appreciation
has “opened the way” for the zloty to move toward a level of
3.8230 per euro, the analysts wrote.  Poland’s manufacturing industry expanded at the fastest
pace in more than six years, a survey by Markit Economics for
HSBC Holdings Plc showed on Nov. 2.  Industrial output  has been
growing at a pace faster than 10 percent for five months,
boosted by recovering consumer demand in the European Union.  Forwards, Stocks  Polish derivatives traders increased their bets that
borrowing costs may rise within a month, forward contracts show.
One month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on rates
within three months, increased 4 basis points to 4.10 percent.
The agreements are trading 25 basis points above the current
three-month  Warsaw interbank offered rate  of 3.85 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, rallied 5.2 zloty, or 4.1 percent, to
133.2 zloty, heading for the biggest gain in more than a week.
Copper in London rebounded after the Fed’s stimulus measures
boosted confidence that growth will be sustained in the world’s
largest economy.  PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s biggest oil company, added 1.8
zloty, or 4.3 percent, to 43.5 zloty, rising for a seventh day,
the longest winning streak in eight months, on higher oil.  Grupa Lotos SA , the second-largest refiner, increased for a
third day, up 1.42 zloty, or 4.6 percent, to 32.1 zloty. Third-
quarter net income rose to 1.05 billion zloty from 578.8 million
zloty a year earlier, beating analysts’ estimates, as a stronger
zloty cut the cost of its foreign-currency loans.  BRE Bank SA , majority-owned by Commerzbank AG, climbed 10.3
zloty, or 3.6 percent, to 298.3 zloty, a two-year high. Third-
quarter profit exceeded analysts’ estimates after the bank cut
bad-loan provisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  