-- Zurich Financial's Third-Quarter Net Income Declines 22% to $751 Million
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-11-04T16:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-04/zurich-financial-third-quarter-net-income-declines-22-to-751-million.html
Zurich Financial Services AG ,
Switzerland’s largest insurer, said third-quarter profit dropped
22 percent after the firm settled a U.S. class action lawsuit.  Net income  fell to $751 million from a restated $968
million a year earlier, the Zurich-based company said today in a
statement. That missed the $777 million  average estimate  of 10
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Zurich Financial last month said the settlement of the
lawsuit, related to its  Farmers Group  unit, would cut net income
by $295 million in the third quarter. When the company holds an
investor day on Dec. 2, general insurance head  Mario Greco  must
explain his strategy for boosting earnings after the unit’s
quarterly profit declined by 26 percent, said  Stefan Schuermann ,
an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG.  “ Mario Greco ’s challenge will be to elaborate on their
non-life strategy and give us an insight about how they’ll keep
improving the combined ratio toward the target of 3 to 4
percentage points better than their peers,” said Schuermann,
who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  The combined ratio, or spending on claims and costs as a
percentage of premiums in the general insurance business,
improved to 97.4 percent in the three months from 98.1 percent a
year earlier. A ratio under 100 indicates an underwriting
profit. The measure is the main target for Zurich’s biggest
business, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Senn  said in a June 22
presentation.  ‘Disappointing’  Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer, reported a combined
ratio of 96.3 percent for its property and casualty business in
the second quarter while second-ranked AXA SA had a first-half
ratio of 98.1 percent.  The unit wrote down $104 million of goodwill from an
automobile business in Russia where car sales aren’t recovering
and “profit margins are under pressure,” Chief Financial
Officer  Dieter Wemmer  said.  Zurich Financial fell 1.5 percent to 238.2 Swiss francs in
Swiss trading. That pared this year’s gain to 5.2 percent and
cut the company’s market value to 34.9 billion francs ($36.3
billion).  “I am absolutely aware that we are disappointing you
today, which is why we have described it as a mixed
performance,” Wemmer told analysts today on a conference call.  Operating profit at the general insurance unit dropped to
$584 million. The insurer is reviewing about 200 jobs at the
unit following price wars in Europe and will announce further
details Dec. 2, Wemmer said.  ‘Below Expectations’  Operating profit at the global life unit fell 27 percent in
the quarter to $378 million. Profit by that measure at the U.S.-
based Farmers business increased 10 percent to $450 million in
the period.  Zurich Financial restated profit in March after a change in
accounting procedures at its U.S. life business.  “While Zurich reported below expectations and the full-
year forecasts might come down somewhat, in general the company
is doing the right thing by looking at underwriting
profitability,” said  Christian Muschick , an analyst at Silvia
Quandt & Cie., who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  The insurer is “in the process of exiting” a joint
venture with Caixa d’Estalvis de Sabadell after Spain’s real-
estate crisis, Wemmer said. Zurich Financial will focus on its
business with Banco Sabadell in the country, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  