-- Vale Opens 450 Megawatt Hydro Station in Brazil
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2006-12-05T18:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-05/vale-opens-450-megawatt-hydro-station-in-brazil-update5-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
second-largest mining company, opened a 450 megawatt
hydroelectric complex in  Brazil  today, part of an effort to help
power an expansion of mines, ports and refineries.  
 Vale owns 48 percent of the Capim I and Capim II power
stations, which cost about 1 billion reais ($463 million) to
build. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale will run the power-generation
complex with  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais,  Brazil's largest
integrated power utility, pulp exporter  Suzano Papel e Celulose
SA (SUZB5)  and the zinc unit of Grupo Votorantim.  
 Roger Agnelli , 47, Vale's chief executive officer, has been
expanding iron-ore, nickel and alumina mines and refineries to
help meet soaring demand from  China . The expansion has increased
demand for energy from the company, Brazil's biggest industrial
power consumer. Vale is the world's largest iron-ore and second-
largest nickel producer.  
 ``Energy today is a problem for all of humanity,'' Agnelli
said at the opening of the complex, which is located in Brazil's
central highlands near the town of Uberaba. ``Countries that
don't have access to reasonably priced electricity will not be
competitive.''  
 360,000 Homes  
 Capim Branco I has the capacity to generate 240 megawatts
and Capim Branco II, which is about 90 percent complete, has the
capacity of 210 megawatts. Together, that's enough electricity
to power 360,000 average homes, based on U.S. Energy Department
estimates.  
 Construction on the two stations, which are located on the
Araguari River, began in 2003. Capim Branco II will start
producing electricity in January and will be fully operational
by May, according to Celso Castilho de Souza, president of the
joint venture between the companies built the complex.  
 Agnelli said Vale will be unable to meet its goal of
generating energy equal to half of its needs as environmental
legislation and court challenges delay the construction of new
dams and power plants.  
 Vale currently produces about 15 percent of the energy it
needs. The high cost of energy is hindering growth in  Latin
America 's biggest economy, Agnelli said. It costs about $80 per
megawatt hour to produce energy in Brazil compared with about
$43 dollars at a Vale plant in Dunkirk,  France , he said.  
 ``Brazil is losing competitiveness in a silent and
continuous way because of the cost of energy,'' Agnelli said,
adding that the company is seeking to build refineries and
smelters in countries where energy is cheaper.  
 Vale preferred  shares , its most-traded class of shares rose
1.12 reais, or 2.14 percent, to 53.35 reais in Sao Paulo trading
at 12:16  New York  time.  
 Votorantim, the nation's largest industrial group, has said
the project will help its zinc mining and processing unit expand
operations in Brazil. Votorantim owns a 13 percent stake in the
complex, Cemig owns 21 percent and Suzano controls 18 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jblount@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich in New York at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        