-- Italy econ minister sees global slowdown: report
-- 
-- Mon Dec 17, 2007 3:11am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/17/businesspro-padoaschioppa-report-dc-idUSL1748687720071217

 

 MILAN  (Reuters) - The global economy is likely to slow due 
to the impact of a big correction in the U.S. balance of 
payments deficit but should avoid recession, Italian Economy 
Minister Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa told the Financial Times. 

  "I see a period in which the sum of all debt leads to a 
likely slowdown in the growth of the world economy," he said in 
an interview published on Monday.  "For demographic and other reasons, I do not think Europe 
can grow fast enough to compensate completely for the slowing 
down in the U.S.," he said, and neither could Asia's emerging 
economies.  Padoa-Schioppa said there could be an increase in 
protectionism if there were a slowdown, adding that Europe 
could move to a trade deficit with the rest of the world.  The world economy should continue to grow, he said, but by 
"a few percentage points less than we have seen recently."  Lack of currency flexibility in Asia "makes it even more 
risky that Europe may suffer from the adjustment."  Turning to the issue of changing voting power of emerging 
economies in the International Monetary Fund, Padoa-Schioppa 
said he thought Europe would accept a reduction in its share.  "I think it will be accepted. Europe as a group must accept 
a reduction in its share if we want to be consistent with the 
idea that percentages must add up to 100 and not 110."  The overhaul of the IMF's voting system has been forced by 
the fast rise of emerging powers such as China and India, 
especially now as growth in the United States and Europe, which 
dominate the fund, is lagging.  In Italy, Padoa-Schioppa said, public spending needed to be 
improved in a range of sectors from transportation to 
education, and warned that could mean job losses.  "We cannot get finance from outside. We have to get it from 
within the budget by saving on the way we spend," he told the 
Financial Times.  "It is extremely difficult to bring about a reduction in 
spending, particularly in a highly unionized country such as 
Italy," Padoa-Schioppa said. "All these are services. All that 
means a reduction in employment."  (Reporting by Jo Winterbottom, editing by Mike Peacock)