-- Merrill hires ex-executive Kronthal to sort subprime woes
-- By  Tim McLaughlin
-- Mon Dec 17, 2007 5:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/17/businesspro-merrilllynch-subprime-dc-idUSN1743616120071217

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch & Co Inc MER.N has 
rehired Jeffrey Kronthal, a fixed-income executive who left the 
company last year, to help sort through its subprime mortgage 
problems, the brokerage told employees on Monday. 

  Merrill Lynch co-President Greg Fleming told employees in a 
letter that Kronthal had been hired as a consultant to advise 
on subprime and other mortgage-related portfolios, according to 
a copy of the memo obtained by Reuters. Kronthal and other 
executives left Merrill in the summer of 2006 amid a shake-up 
in the company's fixed-income operations.  Some current and former company executives have told 
Reuters in recent months that they believed Merrill could have 
avoided some of its subprime pain had Kronthal and other 
fixed-income veterans not left the company when they did.  Merrill Lynch faces huge potential write-downs on assets 
underpinned by risky subprime mortgages. The company's $8.4 
billion write-down in the third quarter cost Chairman and Chief 
Executive Stan O'Neal his job, leaving new Merrill leader John 
Thain with the task of cleaning up.  Analysts estimate Merrill could further slash the value of 
these subprime-related assets by an additional several billion 
dollars. Last month, the company said its total exposure to 
subprime mortgages and collateralized debt obligations was 
$27.2 billion.  Fleming said in the letter that one of Kronthal's main 
responsibilities will be to focus on Merrill Lynch's subprime 
mortgage and CDO inventories. Kronthal's role is expected to be 
a transitional one.  Kronthal will be assisting David Sobotka, Merrill's new 
global chief of fixed-income, currencies and commodities. 
Sobotka got that job in October when his predecessor, Osman 
Semerci, was ousted amid the first wave of subprime-related 
write-downs at Merrill.  Kronthal left Merrill in July 2006 when Semerci was 
promoted.  During his tenure at Merrill, which started in 1989, 
Kronthal ran a number of fixed-income businesses, including 
asset-backed finance, mortgages and CDOs.  "Jeff's deep experience in structured securities, credit 
and risk, and his long history with and knowledge of the 
company make him an especially valuable resource at this time 
for Merrill Lynch," Fleming said in his letter.  (Reporting by Tim McLaughlin; Editing by  Andre Grenon , Gary 
Hill)