-- UMG-BMG publishing deal earns EC approval
-- By Leo Cendrowicz
-- Wed May 23, 2007 4:25am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/05/23/industry-umg-dc-idUSN2348378520070523

 

  BRUSSELS, Belgium (Hollywood Reporter) - Universal Music 
Group was cleared on Tuesday to take over BMG Music Publishing 
when the European Commission gave the green light after a 
five-month investigation into the 1.6 billion euro ($2.1 
billion) music publishing merger. 

  The European Commission -- the European Union's antitrust 
authority -- said Tuesday that Universal had responded to 
initial "serious doubts" about the proposed merger by offering 
to sell off the rights of key labels in the music giant's 
roster. The eventual concessions would include the sale of 
Rondor U.K., Zomba U.K., BBC Music, 19 Songs, 19 Music as well 
as a European license for the Zomba U.S. catalog.  EU competition commissioner Neelie Kroes said the 
concessions were vital in an environment where digital music 
has the potential to change the face of the European music 
industry. "I am satisfied that the significant remedies will 
keep these markets competitive and ensure that consumers will 
not be harmed by the merger," she said.  The merged company will operate under the Universal Music 
Publishing Group brand.  Brussels-based independent-label trade group Impala 
welcomed the news that Universal was forced to make 
concessions. "The decision sends a clear message to all the 
majors that mergers without concessions will not be permitted," 
Impala said. But the trade association also threatened a legal 
challenge, saying it "reserves the right to seek a reversal and 
stay of the decision on both procedural and substantive grounds 
if, after consultation with its members, it concludes the 
remedies are insufficient."  EU clearance is the last regulatory hurdle for the 
takeover, which was cleared in November in the U.S. by the 
Federal Trade Commission. Vivendi beat rivals EMI Group and WMG 
in September to purchase BMG Music Publishing, where an archive 
of more than 1 million songs includes Coldplay, Britney Spears 
and Justin Timberlake. Universal's catalog includes such 
artists as U2 and Elton John.  Reuters/Hollywood Reporter