-- Cesp Gains on Speculation Utility May Be Privatized
-- Francisco Marcelino
-- 2009-04-01T20:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-01/cesp-gains-on-speculation-utility-may-be-privatized-update1-.html

          
          
             Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , the
Brazilian state utility whose sale was canceled last year, rose
the most in four months on speculation the company is closer to
being sold after writing down assets, Planner Corretora said.  
 Cesp, as the company is known, gained 7.1 percent to 13.92
reais in Sao Paulo  trading , the biggest gain since Dec. 12.  
 The company reduced the equity value of its Porto Primavera
dam by 2.47 billion reais because of new Brazilian accounting
rules, according to a statement posted yesterday on the Web site
of the country’s securities regulator. The writedown led Cesp to
report a  net loss  of 2.35 billion reais for 2008.  
 “This adjustment brings more transparency to the company
and insinuates a higher chance of a future sale going forward,”
said Ricardo Tadeu Martins, a senior analyst at Planner
Corretora in  Sao Paulo . “This write-off means they’re cleaning
up their assets and can be read as the preparation for a new
sale” when markets improve, he said.  
 Sao Paulo’s government canceled plans to sell a stake in
Cesp in March 2008 after no bidders posted the financial
guarantees needed to participate.  
 Merrill Lynch & Co., a unit of Bank of America Corp., said
that Cesp reported a fourth-quarter profit of 75 million reais
($32.5 million), excluding the 2.47 billion reais impairment,
compared with its estimated loss of 297 million reais. Cesp
didn’t break down fourth-quarter earnings when it reported 2008
results yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Paulo Winterstein in Sao Paulo at 
 pwinterstein@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        