-- Audi's $66,000 A7 to Challenge BMW, Daimler for Luxury Lead
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-09-07T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/audi-s-66-000-a7-to-challenge-bmw-mercedes-for-luxury-sales-leadership.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG ’s Audi brand will
target families looking for a sportier car with the new A7
Sportback as the automaker aims to leapfrog Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and Daimler AG in luxury car sales.  
 “We’re pushing into customer groups that are willing to pay
more for their car, and that’s where the A7 will play an
important role,” Chief Financial Officer  Axel Strotbek  told
reporters at an event on the island of Sardinia late yesterday.
“It’s clearly going to help us with our profitability.”  
 The A7, which goes on sale in western Europe at the end of
October for 51,650 euros ($66,000), will help  Audi  lift sales in
the compact and mid-size segments to 400,000 vehicles in 2015
from 250,000 this year, Strotbek said, declining to give the
A7’s sales target.  
 The five-door car, Audi’s first model in a new product
class combining sportiness with the top-end A8’s spaciousness,
will compete with BMW’s 5-Series Gran Turismo and  Daimler ’s
Mercedes-Benz CLS. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based carmaker has a
goal of toppling BMW as the biggest luxury-auto maker in 2015.  
 “This will be a highly profitable product that can lift up
Audi’s entire line-up,” said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt, who has a “sell” rating on VW
shares. “The mass production facilities offered by VW help on
the cost side and bring a big advantage against BMW and
Mercedes. Audi needs that because they don’t yet have the
pricing power of their two competitors.”  
 Eight-month deliveries rose 18 percent to 726,590 vehicles,
Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Stadler  said at yesterday’s
event. Sales through August are 8 percent above the 2008 level,
Audi’s previous best sales year, he added. August sales gained
22 percent, Strotbek said.  
 Filling Niches  
 Audi  is building cars aimed at more specific market
segments in order to appeal to a wider group of potential
customers. The A7 fills a niche for people who are looking to
take along their families and luggage, while at the same time
seeking athletic appeal, spokesman  Eric Felber  said.  
 The manufacturer is introducing a dozen models in 2010,
including the A7, an updated A6 and the A1, its smallest car, as
the automaker increases the lineup to 42 vehicles by 2015 from
34 in 2009.  The carmaker  is spending 7.3 billion euros to
upgrade factories and develop new cars through 2012.  
 “This car, together with the A1 and the coming A6, will
provide us with thrust for growth like we’ve never had before,”
Stadler said.  
 Audi forecasts record sales of more than 1.08 million cars
and sport-utility vehicles this year.  BMW  in July raised its
2010 sales forecast by 100,000 vehicles to at least 1.4 million,
while Mercedes is targeting sale growth in a “double-digit”
percentage in 2010 from last year’s 1.09 million cars and SUVs.  
 Lighter Model  
 Aluminum parts will make up 20 percent of the A7, reducing
its weight by 15 percent, Felber said. Some parts that aren’t
important for style or performance are shared with other Audi
and VW models, he said. The A7’s start dates in China and the
U.S., the world’s two biggest auto markets, haven’t been
determined yet, he added.  
 “You can never exclude the possibility that they’ll prey
on their own models,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who recommends investors buy VW
shares. “But at low marginal cost it’s better to prey on
yourself than have BMW or Mercedes do it.”  
 The car borrows features from the A8, including optional
on-board Wi-Fi which lets users connect devices like  Apple
Inc. ’s iPad tablet to the internet. Buyers can also upgrade to a
display which shows road information on the windshield. Interior
options include wood resembling ship planks.  
 “Finally, there’s a car where you stand in front of it and
can say nothing but ‘Wow,’” said Fabrice Kuebart, who’s in
charge of corporate customers at the Autoschmitt dealership in
Frankfurt. “At the same time, you’ll have no trouble fitting
two golf trolleys in the trunk and there’ll still be loads of
space.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Sardinia via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Audi's new A7 Sportback  
                       
                         
                           Audi via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The new A7 Sportback five-door car, seen here, Audi’s first model in a new product class combining sportiness with the top-end A8’s spaciousness, will compete with BMW’s 5-Series Gran Turismo and Daimler ’s Mercedes-Benz CLS. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The new A7 Sportback five-door car, seen here, Audi’s first model in a new product class combining sportiness with the top-end A8’s spaciousness, will compete with BMW’s 5-Series Gran Turismo and Daimler ’s Mercedes-Benz CLS. Source: Audi via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Audi's Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek  
                       
                         
                           Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Audi's Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek told reporters, “We’re pushing into customer groups that are willing to pay more for their car, and that’s where the A7 will play an important role.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Audi's Chief Financial Officer Axel Strotbek told reporters, “We’re pushing into customer groups that are willing to pay more for their car, and that’s where the A7 will play an important role.”  Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
