-- Australia Extends Rate Pause Following Global Growth Concern
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-09-07T07:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/australia-extends-rate-pause-following-global-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Australia’s central bank extended
its pause in raising interest rates “for the time being” as
concern that the global economic recovery may falter trumped
evidence of an accelerating expansion at home.  
 Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the  overnight cash rate target 
at 4.5 percent for a fourth month, matching all 25 economists’
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey , a Reserve Bank of
Australia statement showed in Adelaide.  
 Diminishing prospects for growth in the U.S., the world’s
largest economy, sent global stocks tumbling last month and
prompted the Federal Reserve to signal openness to adding
monetary stimulus. Today’s decision also avoids stirring
homeowners’ ire at a time when Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
needs to build support for her minority government, made
possible today through the support of two independent lawmakers.  
 “They’ve opened up their options a little more by adding
‘for the time being’” to their assessment of the rate, said
 David de Garis , a senior economist at National Australia Bank
Ltd. in Sydney. “I don’t think there is any sense they’re just
about to pull the pin, but if you were uncertain about which way
they were going to move, this makes it clear that it’s up.”  
 Local Currency  
 The  Australian dollar  traded at 91.27 U.S. cents at 4:18
p.m. in Sydney from 91.69 cents just before the decision was
announced. The currency declined after Gillard clinched a deal
with independent lawmakers  Rob Oakeshott  and  Tony Windsor , who
said they would back her Labor Party with the help of a Greens
party lawmaker over  Tony Abbott ’s opposition.  
 “The fiscal outlook looks worse under a minority
government and management of an economy growing at 10 percent in
nominal terms may increasingly rest on the RBA,” said  Michael Turner , a fixed-income strategist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney.  
 “With growth in the near term likely to be close to trend,
inflation close to target and with the global outlook remaining
somewhat uncertain, the board judged this setting of monetary
policy to be appropriate for the time being,” Stevens said in
today’s statement.  
 Rising spending, along with an intensifying mining boom
propelled by Chinese demand for Australian iron ore and coal,
has put pressure on Stevens to resume the most aggressive round
of rate increases by a Group of 20 member by early 2011.  
 Pessimism Waning  
 There are also signs that global investor pessimism may be
waning. A measure of world stocks rose to a four-week high and
industrial metals have rallied, while European bonds rebounded
from three days of losses. The MSCI World Index of shares in 24
developed markets climbed 0.4 percent at 5 p.m. in New York.  
 Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 was little changed after
gaining for four straight days. The index closed at 4573.20.  
 Australia’s expansion is unlikely to push underlying
inflation above the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to
3 percent before the middle of next year, Stevens said today.  
 The governor, who left borrowing costs unchanged five weeks
ago, today cited signs that the U.S. economy’s expansion during
the second half is “looking weaker,” while prospects for
Europe are for “slower growth.”  
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., has said growth around the world will
be below average during the next three to five years as
developed economies struggle with mounting deficits.  
 Asia, Europe  
 Policy makers in Asia and Europe left rates unchanged last
week to support growth, including the European Central Bank and
Malaysia, which held its overnight policy rate after three
straight increases.  
 Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board
expanded a bank-loan program by 10 trillion yen ($119 billion)
after an emergency meeting on Aug. 30. They left the facility,
along with the 0.1 percent benchmark rate, unchanged at a
scheduled meeting today. The government pledged to channel 920
billion yen to buttress domestic demand.  
 Stevens raised the benchmark rate in six quarter-point
steps to 4.5 percent in May from a half-century low of 3 percent
in October, boosting borrowing costs paid by households and
businesses to levels he has described as “average.” The
governor’s six rate moves added about A$3,600 ($3,300) a year to
loan repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  
 The rate moves have also helped stoke a 6.7 percent gain in
the nation’s currency against the U.S. dollar in the past 12
months, the third-best performer among the 16 most actively
traded currencies.  
 Inflation Pressures  
 Still, there are signs that inflation pressures may build
sooner than the RBA anticipates as Australia’s export-driven
expansion has shown signs of broadening, with the biggest jump
in gross domestic product since 2007 coming in part on stronger
domestic demand.  
 GDP rose 3.3 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
beating the median estimate of analysts for a 2.8 percent gain.
The increase was also larger than the 3 percent forecast by the
RBA on Aug. 6.  
 Last week’s GDP report suggests the economic expansion is
spreading from the mining industry to households that account
for more than half the economy.  
 “Recent information suggests that the Australian economy
has been growing at around trend pace,” Stevens said today.
“Indications are that business investment in particular could
increase strongly.”  
 Accelerating Growth  
 Policy makers expect Australia’s annual growth rate to
accelerate to 4 percent by the end of 2012, boosted by projects
such as  Chevron Corp. ’s A$43 billion Gorgon natural gas venture
in Western Australia.  
 China’s demand for raw materials such as coal and iron ore
also boosted Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of income
from exports, to a record last quarter.  
 Employers added 25,000 workers in August, the 11th month of
gains in the past year, according to the median forecast of 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of a Sept. 9 report.
The nation’s  jobless rate  was 5.2 percent, almost half the level
of the U.S, according to the poll.  
 “The demand for labor has firmed over the past year in
line with improving growth,” Stevens said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
