-- Berlusconi to Seek Ouster of House Speaker Fini; Ally Bossi Sees Election
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-09-07T06:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/berlusconi-to-seek-ouster-of-house-speaker-ally-presses-for-an-election.html

          
          
             Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’ll seek to oust  Gianfranco Fini  as speaker of
the lower house of parliament, as the premier’s key Northern
League ally pushed for elections before the end of the year.  
 Fini “is hostile to the majority and the government, which
is totally incompatible with the non-partisan role of president
of the Chamber of Deputies,” Berlusconi and  Umberto Bossi ,
leader of the Northern League party, said in a joint statement
after a meeting late yesterday near Milan. Berlusconi and Bossi
will meet with President  Giorgio Napolitano  in the coming days
to seek to depose Fini, Bossi said.  
 “In the end, elections will be necessary,” Bossi said in
comments broadcast by Sky TG24 television after the meeting. A
vote before Christmas is “technically possible.”  
 Berlusconi in July ejected Fini from the ruling People of
Liberty bloc, which the two political leaders founded by merging
their parties. Fini immediately formed a group in parliament
with enough votes to sink the government. The rift between the
two politicians comes as Berlusconi’s popularity has fallen to
its lowest since he came to power in May 2008.  
 Fini on Sept. 5 criticized Berlusconi for allowing no
dissent within his party and for seeking “impunity” through
laws aimed at ending his ongoing corruption trials. Fini also
said he’d support the government while seeking a pact with
Berlusconi and Bossi to complete the legislature’s term, which
expires in 2013.  
 Berlusconi and Fini first joined forces in 1994, when their
Forza Italia and National Alliance parties became coalition
allies. They have since won three elections together, the last
one in 2008, when they ran as a single formation.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Steve Scherer  at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        