-- Canadian Companies Plan to Increase Jobs in Fourth Quarter, Manpower Says
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/canadian-companies-plan-to-increase-jobs-in-fourth-quarter-manpower-says.html

          
          
             Canadian employers plan to increase
hiring in the fourth quarter, led by miners and durable goods
manufacturers, according to a survey by  Manpower Inc.   
 The net employment outlook, which subtracts the percentage
of companies planning to cut jobs from the percentage that say
they’ll hire, was positive for a fifth straight quarter. The
outlook posted a seasonally adjusted reading of 15, compared
with 11 in the third quarter, the survey by Milwaukee-based
employment-services firm Manpower showed.  
 The indicator is now at its highest level since the first
quarter of 2009 and signals companies may boost production
heading into next year. Canada has created about 299,000
positions since January, even after posting an unexpected loss
of 9,300 jobs in July, Statistics Canada said Aug. 6.  
 “There’s some good momentum behind us right now and we’re
seeing some steady growth,” John Cappelli, regional director
for central region at Manpower’s Canadian unit in Toronto, said
in an interview. “We have every reason to believe that we’re
going to continue on what we describe as an active hiring
pace.”  
 The country’s  unemployment rate  was 8 percent in July, down
from 8.3 percent in January, and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict it will fall to 7.7 percent by the end of
the year.  
 Mining companies are most likely to hire in the fourth
quarter with an employment reading of 25, the survey showed.
Durable-goods manufacturers will also add to payrolls, with a
reading of 21. Manufacturers showed the biggest rebound from
last year’s  recession , when they recorded a reading of negative
21 in the third quarter of 2009.  
 “The durable goods manufacturing was just so abysmal
during that period of second, third and fourth quarter of last
year,” Cappelli said. The rebound “is extremely encouraging.”  
 Governments, retailers and wholesalers and service
companies were least likely to hire, with an outlook of 12,
according to the report.  
 The survey of almost 1,900 employers has a margin of error
of 2.3 percentage points, and was taken July 15 to July 28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        