-- Carney Rate Decision Divides Market the Most in 17 Months: Canada Credit
-- Ilan Kolet
-- 2010-09-07T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/carney-rate-decision-divides-market-the-most-in-17-months-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
has investors and analysts divided by the most in 17 months on
whether the central bank will raise interest rates at tomorrow’s
policy meeting.  
 One-month overnight index swaps indicate that 65 percent of
investors expect policy makers to raise the  benchmark lending 
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest
amount since April 2009, just before Carney introduced a
conditional commitment to hold rates through June of this year.  
 Twelve of the 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
 expect  Carney to raise borrowing costs a quarter point to 1
percent, while the rest say he’ll stand pat. It’s the biggest
split since April 2009. For the June 1 announcement, by
comparison, all but two of 27 economists said he would raise
rates, and all 20 surveyed in July predicted an increase.  
 “For the last two weeks, the market has been almost
perfectly split in its expectations,” said  Mohammed Ahmed , a
rates strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
Toronto. “There’s this general consensus that the bank will be
forced to the sidelines at some point in the cycle, and that’s
what’s resulting in a lot of uncertainty and volatility.”  
 Canada’s economy is recovering from the recession faster
than its U.S. counterpart, having already returned to its pre-
recession  employment level , and Carney has said the bank’s
current 0.75 percent rate still provides “considerable monetary
stimulus.”  
 ‘Holding Up’  
 “The main reason to go would be that  real rates  are still
negative and the Canadian economy, especially on the domestic
front, is still showing signs of holding up relatively well,”
said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist with Bank of Montreal’s
BMO Capital Markets unit in Toronto. He predicts the central
bank will raise rates tomorrow and then pause until next year.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own Canadian corporate bonds rather than federal debt
narrowed to 148 basis points on Sept. 3, from 149 basis points
the day before, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. Spreads have been as wide as 154 basis points and as
narrow as 114 basis points this year. Yields rose to 3.8 percent
on Sept. 3, from 3.72 percent the day before.  
 The securities have returned 7.02 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, lagging behind the 7.06 percent
gain for the broader index.  
 Spreads on provincial and municipal bonds were unchanged at
59 basis points on Sept. 3, according to a separate Merrill
Lynch index. The yield on the bonds, which have returned 7.05
percent this year, ended Sept. 3 at 3.08 percent.  
 Slowing Growth  
 The Canadian  economy , after growing at an annualized 5.8
percent in the first quarter, slowed more than expected to 2
percent -- a full percentage point below the central bank’s July
prediction. As well,  employers shed  workers in July for the
first time this year and inflation, as measured by the bank’s
preferred  core rate , slowed to 1.6 percent in July, Statistics
Canada reported in August.  
 Carney’s rate decision is “a closer call, especially since
we did have the Fed slightly change tack in August and, perhaps
more importantly, the Canadian data have started to show some
cracks as well,” Porter said.  
 The gap between the central bank’s  policy rate  and the one-
month overnight index swap rate rose 5 basis points to 0.17
percent on Sept. 3.  The spread  , which tends to widen as traders
increase wagers on higher interest rates, stood at 0.25 percent
two days before the July decision and 0.18 percent before the
June 1 announcement. The swap rate measures what investors
predict the bank’s policy rate will average over that period.  
 Not Pre-Ordained  
 U.S. Federal Reserve officials said on Aug. 10 they will
maintain their holdings of securities to prevent money from
being drained out of the financial system in their first attempt
to bolster the economy in more than a year. The Fed also
retained a commitment to keep its benchmark interest rate close
to zero for an “extended period.”  
 While the Canadian bank’s outlook includes a “a gradual
reduction in monetary stimulus,” futures rate decisions aren’t
“pre-ordained,” as there are elevated risks around the
projections, Carney said on July 22.  
 “An issue is how far ahead of the Fed the Bank can run,”
said  Derek Holt , an economist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit in Toronto who predicts the central bank will raise
one more time before pausing for the remainder of the year.
“The Bank has probably the best case in its history of  parting
company  from the Fed,” because Carney hasn’t had the same
problems as the Fed in getting interest rates to boost growth.  
 Tomorrow’s policy statement “will be much the same as the
past couple of  statements  in terms of a relatively neutral bias
that keeps markets guessing right up until the very next one in
October,” Holt said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         
             Chart:  Chart of investor certainty for Bank of Canada desision
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
