-- China's Banking Regulator to Require 2.5% Loan-Loss Reserves, Guosen Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-07T04:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/china-s-banking-regulator-to-require-2-5-loan-loss-reserves-guosen-says.html

          
          
             China’s  banking regulator  is
drafting a plan requiring banks to maintain loan-loss reserves
equivalent to 2.5 percent of total lending, according to Guosen
Securities Co.  
 The regulation may go into effect next year, Guosen analyst
 Qiu Zhicheng  wrote in a note distributed to clients today,
citing an unidentified China Banking Regulatory Commission
official speaking at a financial conference hosted by the
securities firm.  
 China’s banking  stocks  fell today on concern that the move
will cut into lenders’  profit  and curb loan growth. The nation’s
policy makers are grappling with the risk imposed by last year’s
record $1.4 trillion  credit boom  that fueled the nation’s
comeback from the global recession.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  is the only one among the
nation’s five largest state-owned lenders that had loan-loss
reserves exceeding 2.5 percent of its total advances, according
to their semi-annual reports.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by market value, had
reserves of 2.4 percent of its loans, while  Bank of China Ltd. 
had a ratio of 2.26 percent.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission currently doesn’t
oblige banks to keep a ratio of their total loans as reserves.
Instead, it requires them to maintain reserves of at least 150
percent of non-performing loans. The nation’s lenders had an
average coverage ratio of 186 percent by the end of June,
according to the regulator.  
 ICBC fell 0.7 percent in Shanghai as of the 11:30 a.m.
break. China Construction Bank Corp. slid 0.6 percent, and
Agricultural Bank dropped 0.4 percent. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index  lost 0.4 percent.  
 -- Luo Jun ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Russell Ward ,  Chitra Somayaji   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        