-- China to Play Major Role in Foreign Direct Investment, Deloitte's CEO Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-07T05:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/china-to-play-major-role-in-foreign-direct-investment-deloitte-s-ceo-says.html

          
          
             China will become an increasingly
important source of foreign direct investment, according to
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.  
 “I think that’s where we are in the life cycle for China
as an economic engine for the global economy,”  James H. Quigley ,
the chief executive officer of the privately held auditor, said
in an interview at a trade fair in southern Xiamen city. “It’s
been an important target for inbound investment, now we see
China investing overseas. It is healthy for the world economy
and part of the rebalancing that is needed.”  
 China has invested in railways and hydroelectric power in
Africa and mining and oil in Latin America to feed its expanding
economy, which surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest in
the second quarter. The country increased commitments for
infrastructure in Africa to about $7 billion in 2007 from less
than $1 billion per year before 2003, the World Bank said.  
 China Railway Group Ltd. , the world’s second-largest
publicly traded heavy construction company, said on Aug. 24 it
was in talks with South Africa’s government for a $30 billion
high-speed rail link between Johannesburg and Durban. Standard
Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender, may be involved in the
project’s funding, China Railway Chairman Li Changjin said.  
 China’s outbound investment may exceed 100 billion yuan in
2013 and match foreign direct investment in the country in 2015,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported Aug. 31, citing Fan
Chunyong, executive vice-president of the China Industrial
Overseas Development and Planning Association.  
 China is committed to developing domestic companies into
multinationals and will encourage companies to expand globally,
Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping  said in a speech in Xiamen
today. The country will increase overseas infrastructure
construction cooperation, Xi said.  
 “The question facing us is can the superior GDP growth
that China has enjoyed in the recent years be sustained?”
Quigley said. “I believe the answer to that question is yes.
China is going to play a very significant role in outbound
foreign investment.”  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Xiamen. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Xiamen at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        