-- Contrafund's Danoff Stymied as Correlation Frustrates Top Stock Pickers
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-09-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/contrafund-s-danoff-stymied-as-correlation-frustrates-top-stock-pickers.html

          
          
             Fidelity Investments’  William Danoff , the stock picker who led the  Contrafund  to benchmark-
beating returns, isn’t looking very contrarian these days.  
 Danoff’s $62 billion Contrafund, which seeks to beat the
market by picking stocks whose value hasn’t been fully
recognized, has  tracked  the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index more
closely this year than in any year during its four-decade
history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s even as
the fund keeps 19 percent of assets in non-U.S. holdings and
almost twice as much in technology and consumer-discretionary
stocks as the S&P 500.  
 Danoff isn’t alone. Six of the 10 largest U.S. stock funds
show correlations of 0.99 this year, meaning they moved almost
completely in sync with the market. Managers are struggling to
stand out and attract new money as fear of another crisis
prompts investors to move in and out of markets without
discriminating between securities, industries or geographies.
 Robert Doll , BlackRock Inc.’s chief equity strategist, said
while stocks moved in lockstep before, this is the longest he
has seen correlation persist across markets.  
 For investors, “2008 was about get out and ask questions
later, while 2009 was all about get in and ask questions
later,” Doll said in an interview. “We were expecting 2010 to
be the year when stock selection would add value, but that
hasn’t been the case.”  
 Moving in Lockstep  
 Correlation between assets shot up during the 2008 credit
crisis, when stocks, commodities, real estate and riskier bonds
simultaneously plunged in value. All of those assets rose last
year in the biggest stock market rally since the 1930’s and a
record rebound in credit markets. Correlation has persisted in
2010 because of concerns over the European debt crisis and
weaker economic growth, Doll said.  
 The correlation between the U.S. equity benchmark and its
individual members was 0.81 in the 50 trading days through July
7 and has since remained close to that level, according to data
from Birinyi Associates Inc., a Westport, Connecticut-based
research and money management firm. That’s almost twice the
historical average of 0.45 over the past 30 years.  
 A higher number means moves in individual stocks are
increasingly related to the  direction  of the index as a whole. A
correlation of 1 means both are moving in complete lockstep,
while minus 1 describes exactly opposite movements.  
 Losing Assets  
 The increase in correlation is making it difficult for
actively managed funds to beat their benchmarks and produce
better returns than lower-cost index products. Investors pulled
$191 billion from U.S. stock mutual funds in 2008 and 2009, data
from the Investment Company Institute in Washington show. Fears
of a global economic slowdown and the European debt crisis
resulted in an additional $18 billion in redemptions this year.  
 Exchange-traded funds that track domestic stock indexes
attracted $44 billion in 2008 and 2009, according to the
Investment Company Institute.  
 “Investors are paying a lot of money to be performing
average and not that differently from their benchmarks,”  Todd Rosenbluth , a mutual-fund analyst with Standard & Poor’s in New
York, said in an interview. “You can’t pick any mutual fund,
even if has previously been a winner, and expect it to
outperform in this market.”  
 An index fund tracks market benchmarks such as the S&P 500,
charging lower fees than actively-managed funds, in which
portfolio managers use their judgment to pick stocks. Most
exchange-traded funds also mirror indexes and can be bought and
sold on exchanges like stocks. The average expense ratio for
ETFs was 0.57 percent of assets in 2009, compared with 0.99
percent for index funds and 1.41 percent for actively managed
U.S. stock mutual funds, data from Morningstar show.  
 ‘On/Off’ Attitude  
 Mohamed El-Erian , the chief executive officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., says
investors have a “risk-on/risk-off” attitude that leads to
sometimes “violent” swings, such as the sell-off in markets
worldwide on Aug. 11, after the Federal Reserve indicated that
the economic recovery had lost momentum.  
 The S&P 500 lost 2.8 percent that day, mirroring a 2.7
percent decline in the  MSCI World Index . The Dow Jones
Industrial Average fell 2.5 percent.  
 “We were particularly struck by the size and correlated
nature of the market moves,” El-Erian, who tracks stock and
bond markets on four computer screens on his desk, said in an
interview. “Top-down factors were overwhelming bottom-up
considerations during a particularly fluid time for the U.S. and
global economies.”  
 ‘Scratched Our Heads’  
 Doll says even the most high-quality stocks have been hurt
among a larger sell-off in risky assets. The oil spill in the
Gulf of Mexico, for instance, prompted a sale across energy
stocks this year, he said.  BP Plc,  the company which has been
held responsible for the accident, declined 33 percent this year
through Sept. 3, compared with a 14 percent drop for the 18-
member FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index.  
 “We’ve scratched our heads many times during this year as
the macro picture is driving everything,” Doll said. “It can
be frustrating along the way, but we’re just focusing on the
fundamentals and eventually we’ll get paid for it.”  
 Doll, who is responsible for about $500 billion in stock
assets at the world’s largest money management firm, is also the
lead portfolio manager for BlackRock’s large cap funds. His $2.4
billion  BlackRock Large Cap Core Fund , whose top 10 picks
include Exxon Mobil Corp. and Marathon Oil Corp., is down 4.8
percent this year through Sept. 2.  
 Driven by Fear  
 T. Rowe Price Group Inc.’s  Ned Notzon , who heads the
Baltimore-based firm’s asset-allocation committee that
distributes money across stocks and bonds, said correlation
between stocks around the world tends to rise during market
crises and usually recedes after the markets bounce back.  
 During the market crash following the technology bubble,
for instance, the correlation coefficient between the S&P 500
Index and the MSCI AC World Index rose to 0.93 in March 2001 and
stayed at those levels through the following year. The
correlation abated to 0.86 only in 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The common factor that’s moving the market is fear,”
Notzon said. “People’s fears are being exacerbated by weak
economic news.”  
 Notzon, whose unit oversees about $70 billion in assets, is
still putting more money in equities because he said he is
“nervous” about bonds as interest rates may start to increase
next year if economies around the world rebound. On average,
Notzon’s asset allocation funds have 63 percent of holdings in
equities, and the remainder in bonds.  
 ETF Impact  
 “We could see decent equity returns over the next 5 to 10
years,” Notzon said. “The global economy is holding together
well.”  
 In addition to fear, correlation may be linked to the
increased use of exchange-traded funds and index funds in the
stock market, especially those that focus on particular industry
groups, said  Brian James , co-director of equity research at
Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co. Assets in U.S. ETFs have grown
to more than $821 billion from $608 billion at the end of 2007,
according to Investment Company Institute.  
 “It is almost axiomatic that if you have an increased
presence of single-purpose ETFS and futures traders, it moves
stocks in one direction,” said James.  
 Correlation has been particularly pronounced for companies
with larger market capitalizations, and for the larger funds.
James said that 90 to 95 percent of large-capitalization stocks
have tended to move in the same direction this year, up from
about 70 percent prior to the 2008 financial crisis.  
 Lehman Bankruptcy  
 At  Eaton Vance Corp.  in Boston,  Duncan Richardson , the
chief equity investment officer, said investors haven’t been
differentiating between high-quality stocks, or those with
better cash flow, earnings and stability, and lower-quality
companies. That has hurt returns of the $16 billion  Eaton Vance
Large-Cap Value Fund  this year. The fund, which aims to beat the
Russell 1000 Value Index, has seen its correlation coefficient
rise to 0.99 this year from 0.87 prior to the crisis.  
 “The only thing that goes up in a crisis is correlation,”
Richardson said. “It does make it very hard for stock pickers
in an environment like this.”  
 Contrafund’s  correlation coefficient  is at 0.9864, close to
the record of 0.9907 reached in April 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with 0.8438 in the months before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September
2008.  
 ‘Closet Indexing’  
 The largest U.S. stock fund, the $148 billion  Growth Fund
of America , has seen correlation increase to 0.99 this year,
from 0.84 in mid-2008. The fund, managed by a team at Los
Angeles-based Capital Group Cos., has declined 3.4 percent this
year, 2.5 percentage points more than the S&P 500’s returns,
including reinvested dividends.  
 For the $37 billion  Dodge & Cox Stock Fund , run by San
Francisco-based Dodge & Cox, the correlation measure was also
0.99 this year, compared with low of 0.81 prior to the height of
the crisis in late 2008.  
 The correlation coefficients were calculated using
percentage changes on 120 days of Bloomberg data.  
 The largest mutual funds are already prone to what is known
as “closet indexing,” because the impact of individual
investment decisions on overall performance decreases as the
funds gain in size, said  James Lowell,  chief strategist at
Adviser Investments in Watertown, Massachusetts, in an
interview. “This market is exacerbating these traits.”  
 Contrafund  
 Contrafund , whose 15 percent return over the past 12 months
beat that of the S&P 500 by 3.6 percentage points, has seen its
lead over the benchmark narrow to about 1.3 percentage points
this year. The fund has 19 percent of its assets in non-U.S.
holdings. About 32 percent are in information technology stocks,
compared with an 18 percent weighting that the stocks have in
the S&P 500. Consumer-discretionary stocks in the fund account
for 18 percent, compared with 10 percent for the U.S. benchmark.  
 “Danoff usually finds ways to go against the grain, but
these days there isn’t much that’s contrarian relative to the
macro theme,” Adviser Investments’ Lowell said. “This is a
trendless market and it’s not providing him any room to break
away from the S&P 500.”  
 Contrafund’s R-squared or R2, another commonly used
statistical gauge that shows how much of a fund’s movement is
the result of an index movement, is at its all-time high of 0.97
this year. That means 97 percent of the fund’s movements are
explained by swings in the benchmark index. Contrafund in 1969
reported an R2 of 0.08, its lowest ever, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That year, the fund outperformed the S&P
500 index by 5.6 percentage points.  
 Danoff’s Track Record  
 Jennifer Engle , a spokeswoman for Boston-based Fidelity,
said in an e-mailed statement that Danoff has beaten the S&P 500
by  3.8 percent annually  over his 20-year tenure as manager of
the Contrafund and has “remained consistent in his approach to
active management.”  
 “Those results are not achieved by mirroring the index and
are indicative of the high quality of his active stock
picking,” Engle said. Danoff declined to be interviewed for
this story.  
 Investing abroad hasn’t helped stock pickers like Danoff
because correlation has shot up even between regions. The S&P
500 has climbed 0.4 percent this year, including reinvested
dividends, compared with a 0.7 percent drop in the  MSCI AC World
Index . The correlation coefficient between them is 0.89,
compared with 0.72 two years ago, just before the credit crisis
started unfolding.  
 ‘No Place to Hide’  
 Correlation between frontier-market stocks and U.S.
equities shot up to a record of 0.33 in July, signaling that
companies even in the smallest developing countries are more
linked than ever to events in major economies.  
 The synchronized markets have led to “a no place to hide
syndrome,” said Chris Thompson, a managing director at Darien,
Connecticut-based  Rogerscasey , a consulting firm that advises on
$265 billion in assets for institutional investors. That has led
to a flight into bonds, which have attracted $156 billion this
year, and exchange-traded funds, which have gathered about $48
billion.  
 Thompson says investors shouldn’t get out of actively
managed funds if they want a shot at beating the market. During
the market declines in 2000 to 2001, fund managers that avoided
technology stocks beat the Russell 3000 Index, as technology and
telecom stocks made up one-third of the index, Thompson said.  
 “In periods of extreme market volatility, individual
investors capitulate on passive management and lock in market
exposure at exactly the wrong time,” Thompson said. “Some
active managers can add value.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       William Danoff, of Fidelity Management & Research  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Staver/Bloomberg 
                         
                         William Danoff, vice president of Fidelity Management & Research. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     William Danoff, vice president of Fidelity Management & Research. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
