-- Credit Suisse Names Equities Head Abbasi as Chief of Asia-Pacific Business
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-09-07T08:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/credit-suisse-appoints-abbasi-to-succeed-nargolwala-as-ceo-of-asia-pacific.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, appointed  Osama Abbasi  as
chief executive officer of its Asia-Pacific business.  
 Abbasi, 42, will replace  Kai Nargolwala  on Oct. 1, the
Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed statement today. Abbasi,
who currently heads the equities department of Credit Suisse’s
investment bank in the region, will stay in Hong Kong.  
 “Osama has a strong track record as one of our most
talented business leaders and will bring great energy and focus
to his new role,” Credit Suisse CEO  Brady Dougan  said in the
statement. The region is a “key growth market,” he said.  
 Credit Suisse’s core pretax profit from Asia-Pacific
dropped 73 percent to 141 million francs ($140 million) in the
first half of this year. The  region’s contribution  to overall
revenue at the bank last year was smaller than at rivals
including UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Abbasi joined Credit Suisse Financial Products, the
investment bank’s former derivatives unit, in 1996 from Bankers
Trust and holds a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.  
 Nargolwala, 60, will become Asia-Pacific chairman and
relocate to Singapore, the bank said. He was the head of credit
risk at Standard Chartered Plc, before joining Credit Suisse in
2008.  
 Abbasi will be succeeded as head of regional equities by
 Ali Naqvi , who has been co-head of Asia Pacific cash equities
and head of sales for non-Japan Asia across all equity products,
according to an internal memo confirmed by  Adam Harper , a Credit
Suisse spokesman in Hong Kong. Naqvi, 43, who joined the bank in
1998 as a telecommunications research analyst, will report to
 Bob Jain  and  Tony Ehinger , and regionally to Abbasi.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        