-- Crude Oil Falls for a Second Day on Speculation U.S. Fuel Demand Will Drop
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-09-07T06:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/crude-oil-falls-for-a-second-day-on-speculation-u-s-fuel-demand-will-drop.html

          
          
             Oil dropped for a second day in New
York on speculation fuel demand will decline as the U.S. summer
peak consumption season ends.  
 Yesterday’s Labor Day holiday marked the end of the peak
driving season. Refiners often idle units for maintenance in
September and October as gasoline demand drops and before
heating-oil use increases. U.S. crude inventories last week rose
to the highest level since June, the Energy Department said.
Motor fuel supplies are about 10 percent higher than last year.  
 “The market is reflecting on the fundamentals, the
oversupply,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director at
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “The summer drive
time was a complete flop.”  
 Crude for October delivery fell as much as 93 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $73.67 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The contract was at $73.76 at 2:30 p.m.
Singapore time. Futures are down 7.1 percent so far this year.
Yesterday’s transactions will be booked with today’s for
settlement purposes as there was no floor trading on Labor Day.  
 Gasoline demand this summer, measured by the amount of
products supplied, averaged 9.36 million barrels a day in the
past four weeks through Aug. 27, the Energy Department said Sept.
1. That’s 1.9 percent higher than the same time last year and
0.7 percent less than the corresponding week in 2008.  
 U.S. motor fuel supplies have reached 225.4 million barrels,
the department said last week. That’s the  highest level  for this
time of year for the past five years.  
 U.S. Stockpiles  
 Crude also dropped as the dollar gained for a second day
against the 16-nation euro, reducing the appeal of commodities
as an alternative investment. The greenback was at $1.2798 to
the European currency, from $1.2876 yesterday in New York.  
 “There’s a quiet week in terms of fundamental news, so
keep an ear to equities and the dollar,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of energy consultants Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, said in a report today.  
 Weekly inventory data from the Energy Department will be
delayed until Sept. 9 because of the Labor Day holiday.  
 Tropical Storm Hermine, near the western end of the Gulf of
Mexico, made landfall about 30 miles south of Brownsville, Texas,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in a website advisory
just before 11 p.m. New York time. The weather system was
packing sustained winds of about 60 miles (95 kilometers) per
hour and is expected to move into southern Texas.  
 Brent crude for October settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe Exchange dropped as much as 37 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $76.50 a barrel. Yesterday, the contract gained 20
cents, or 0.3 percent, to settle at $76.87.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        