-- Dealmaker Salter to Bring Cage Fighting T-Shirts to the Masses
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/dealmaker-salter-breaks-cage-fight-brands-out-of-the-octagon-into-school.html

          
          
             In his last gig, Jamie Salter
snapped up Linens ‘n Things Inc., Polaroid Corp. and other
household names. With his new acquisition, he’ll peddle cage-
fighting T-shirts and “Expression of Combat” school folders.  
 Salter, 47, has agreed to buy three brands that cater to
fans of the Ultimate Fighting Championship, the mixed martial
arts network that attracts millions of viewers each year to pay-
per-view bouts that take place in a cage called the “Octagon.”  
 Salter’s Toronto-based  Authentic Brands Group LLC  is
betting the three labels -- TapouT, Silver Star Casting Co. and
Hitman Fight Gear -- are ripe for expansion as mixed martial
arts tightens its grip on the mainstream.  J.C. Penney Co. ,
 Kohl’s Corp.  and Macy’s Inc. already sell some of the gear, and
the new owners and founders are looking to add sales both at
home and overseas.  
 “These are some of the most exciting brands I’ve seen in
years,” Salter said in a telephone interview. “The popularity
of mixed martial arts and the UFC is soaring around the world.
The last time I saw a sport with this much potential was 20
years ago with snowboarding.”  
 Salter wouldn’t say how much his firm paid for the brands.  
 Grand Terrace, California-based  TapouT , the most widely
distributed of the three, was founded in 1997 by three mixed
martial arts fighters. The company sells a range of merchandise
and services, from $24 logo T-Shirts to a $950 bed with its
signature cage design. TapouT generated just under $200 million
in sales last year, President Dan “Punkass” Caldwell, 39, said
in a Sept. 3 telephone interview.  
 Many Suitors  
 He says he can’t count how many suitors he turned away
before Salter came calling. “We love this brand so much,”
Caldwell said, “I have it tattooed on the back of my neck.” He
says he agreed to the deal in part because Salter knows the
clothing industry and welcomes the founders’ continued
involvement.  
 Amid signs of mixed martial arts’ growing cachet,  Under
Armour Inc.  last year signed a multiyear endorsement deal with
fighter Georges St-Pierre. In January, Flash Entertainment, a
unit of Mubadala Development Co., Abu Dhabi’s investment arm,
announced it had bought a 10 percent stake in Las Vegas-based
Zuffa LLC, which owns the UFC and World Extreme Cagefighting.  
 Ultimate Fighting, which brings together combatants versed
in a range of martial arts styles, was once considered so
violent that in 1998 Arizona Senator  John McCain  tried to ban
what he called “human cockfighting.” Since then the  UFC  has
added some combat restrictions. Prohibitions on its website
include “no knees to the head of a downed opponent” and “no
groin or throat strikes.”  
 ‘Street Brawlers’  
 “People are starting to respect these athletes as athletes
and not just street brawlers,”  Tim Pogue , Authentic Brands’
chief marketing officer, said in a telephone interview.  
 Salter’s history with extreme sports dates back to Ride
Snowboards, in which he sold shares in 1996. Later, at the
Toronto-based private equity shop Hilco Consumer Capital, he
helped oversee the acquisition of Sharper Image Corp and brands
associated with the estate of  Bob Marley .  
 Earlier this year, Salter left Hilco and started Authentic
Brands with backing from Leonard Green, the billionaire investor
whose firm owns stakes in Sports Authority Inc. and Whole Foods
Market Inc. The mixed martial arts acquisitions are the firm’s
first.  
 Affluent  
 Mixed martial arts fans are younger and more affluent than
the general population, according to Scarborough Sports
Marketing, a New York-based consumer researcher. More than 75
percent of MMA fans are male, the firm says.  
 Because the UFC has “done such an extraordinary job of
building their brand, retailers -- and others -- will want a
piece of the action, especially as global opportunities
increase,” David Carter, principal at the Sports Business Group
consulting firm, said in an e-mail.  
 Last year, TapouT introduced a mid-tier brand, TapouT MPS,
to supplement sales to department stores, and is weighing a
discount line that could sell at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other
mass chains, Caldwell said. TapouT’s Hitman brand already sells
at  Sears Holdings Corp.’s  Kmart stores. Salter predicts he’ll
double revenues in the next two years.  
 The founders have already branched out, with plans for more
TapouT gyms, a new energy drink in Canada and a documentary
unit. They’re peddling combat cages similar to those used in
bouts to fitness centers and other interested parties, including
a Saudi prince who flew them to the Middle East earlier this
year, Caldwell said.  
 Car Accident  
 Caldwell will remain president, while co-founder Tim
“SkySkrape” Katz will stay on as marketing/creative director.
(The company’s third founder, Charles “Mask” Lewis, died last
year in a car accident.) They’ll now be joined by Luke Burrett,
who started rival apparel maker Silver Star Casting Co. in 1993
after detailing cars in Southern California. Burrett, who runs
the company with his wife, Charis, a former Playboy model, met
Salter at a UFC after-party in Canada earlier this year.  
 “We’ve been fierce competitors with TapouT, and now that
we’re under the same roof we’ll be unstoppable,” Burrett said
in a Sept. 3 telephone interview.  
 Mixed martial arts remain controversial in some quarters.
Last month, the Canadian Medical Association called for a ban,
following its British counterpart.  
 Salter says criticism of the sport is overblown.  
 ‘Safer’  
 “Mixed martial arts are safer than many other contact
sports that have been around for decades,” he said. “The UFC
has rules in place to protect fighters from injuries that
regularly occur in other contact sports.”  
 Salter says he sees opportunities for growth outside the
U.S. in countries like Brazil, whose version of Jiu-jitsu
provided inspiration for mixed martial arts in the U.S. The
sport also combines elements of boxing and wrestling.  
 Ira Mayer, publisher of The Licensing Letter, says the
recent controversy around the sport won’t hurt the brands’
sales. “Look what’s going on with football,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They’re finally acknowledging these guys
are getting concussions. Is that going to stop anybody from
carrying the merchandise? No.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Baseball player Shane Victorino poses in Silver Star Casting  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Baseball player Shane Victorino poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. 
Source : Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Baseball player Shane Victorino poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. 
Source : Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mixed martial arts athletes pose in TapouT t-shirts  
                       
                         
                           TapouT via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mixed martial arts athletes pose in TapouT t-shirts. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mixed martial arts athletes pose in TapouT t-shirts. Source: TapouT via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Surfer Kala Alexander  
                       
                         
                           Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Surfer Kala Alexander poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Surfer Kala Alexander poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. Source: Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Motorcyclist Trigger Gumm  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Motorcyclist Trigger Gumm poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. Source : Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Motorcyclist Trigger Gumm poses in Silver Star Casting Co. gear. Source : Silver Star Casting Co. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
