-- Dodging Mexico Mayhem, Latinas Brave Arizona Posse, Find Beauty
-- Peter J. Brennan
-- 2010-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/dodging-mexican-mayhem-latinas-brave-arizona-roundup-find-beauty-travel.html

          
          
             I was poolside at the  Hyatt Regency
Scottsdale Resort and Spa at Gainey Ranch  near Phoenix, and
relaxing like a cowboy with half an eye open, on the lookout for
police.  
 A couple of weeks ago I took my Costa Rica-born wife,
Cynthia, our daughter, Nicole, and my mother-in-law, Gloria, to
the state that has become notorious for its new law to round up
the ilegales. This has created quite an uproar among Latinos.  
 I’d considered camping at  Scorpion Bay  halfway down the
Pacific Coast side of Baja California. The Mexican peninsula
south of our home in Southern California is so undeveloped it
would look familiar to the conquistadors who explored it in the
16th century. The surfing wave at Scorpion Bay is so long and
beautiful you can take a nap on it.  
 The issue was safety. While foes of Arizona’s immigration
law complain about stereotyping, if Mexican police spot a U.S.
car on their turf, they not only stop you for no reason, they
often demand bribes. This has happened to relatives, friends and
me. Even the U.S. State Department has a  warning  about such
extortion, recommending victims get the name of any police
officers involved.  
 Mexico has such a rotten reputation for crime and
 corruption  that my Latina wife refuses to visit Tijuana,
 Rosarito  or Ensenada. These are full-on party towns that should
ideally be weekend getaways for Southern Californians. Yet
hotels in these Baja coastal towns posted vacancy rates ranging
from 14 percent to 41 percent in the first half of this year,
according to the Baja state government.  
 Proposed Boycott  
 A proposed boycott of Arizona doesn’t seem to have badly
damaged the state’s tourism. Since the law became known
nationally, Arizona has kept pace with national trends, with
occupancy rising to an average 54 percent in May, June and July,
a 5.6 percent increase from the year before, according to Smith
Travel Research.  
 When staying in a desert, the best way to pick a hotel is
by checking out photos of the swimming pools. Those at the
Hyatt, which charged a very reasonable $150 a night including
taxes, are every bit as good-looking in person. Numerous streams
of water cascade from pillars, creating a cooling mist to escape
the 115-degree heat. Elegant palm trees supplied more-than-
adequate shade. A three-story water slide and poolside movies at
night entertained the kids.  
 It wasn’t all perfect. The waiters need more training in
such niceties as removing empty plates of food and not taking
away our unfinished glasses of Maker’s Mark while we’re in the
pool.  
 Scottsdale is famous for its lovely golf courses, one of
which was right next to the Hyatt. However, golf on a summer
afternoon in the desert is recommended only for those who love
three-hour saunas.  
 Hole in the Rock  
 We visited relatives to celebrate my cousin Brian Brennan’s
40th birthday and swam in their relaxing pools. Brian took us
climbing on local hills such as Hole in the Rock and “A”
Mountain, nicknamed for the 60-foot-tall, steel-and-concrete
letter that overlooks the Arizona State University campus in
Tempe. By the time we finished our hikes at 8 a.m., it was
already 100 degrees and Brian assured me that you won’t find
anyone hiking in the afternoon at this time of year.  
 Then it was off to red-rock Sedona, where the weather is 25
degrees cooler since it’s in the mountains north of Phoenix. We
visited the  Chapel of the Holy Cross , a small Catholic church
inspired by the Empire State Building. Sitting at the base of a
sheer cliff, the church plants a smooth wedge-like structure and
a striking cross facade amid the rough stone and mountains, its
simplicity highlighting the beauty of the area. Inside, the
altar stands before a large window that overlooks the valley of
Sedona.  
 Grand Canyon Train  
 We drove an hour north to Williams, where the following day
we boarded the  Grand Canyon Train . While it’s a nice ride
through pretty farmland for about 55 miles, there are no
spectacular cliffs to see until reaching the Grand Canyon
itself. The train trip included a live show with wisecracking
train-robbing cowboys and a sheriff chasing them.  
 That was the closest we came to a crook or a cop during a
92-hour visit to Arizona, a place that is far safer than
northern Mexico, where the bad guys are the real deal.  
 ( Peter J. Brennan  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)
  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hyatt Regency Scottsdale  
                       
                         
                           Hyatt Regency Scottsdale via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The pools at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort and Spa in Scottsdale, Arizona. The pools feature water cascading from side outlets and night-lit pillars, providing a cool respite from 115 degree, August heat. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The pools at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort and Spa in Scottsdale, Arizona. The pools feature water cascading from side outlets and night-lit pillars, providing a cool respite from 115 degree, August heat. Source: Hyatt Regency Scottsdale via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hyatt Regency Scottsdale  
                       
                         
                           Steven L. Walker/Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort via Bloomberg 
                         
                         An aerial view of the 2 1/2 acre, water playground at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort in Scottsdale, Arizona. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An aerial view of the 2 1/2 acre, water playground at the Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort in Scottsdale, Arizona. Photographer: Steven L. Walker/Hyatt Regency Scottsdale Resort via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mountain  
                       
                         
                           Brian Brennan/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The view from the top of "A" Mountain, next to Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. Hiking the mountain, also known as Hayden Butte, is a challenge in the summer heat. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The view from the top of "A" Mountain, next to Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. Hiking the mountain, also known as Hayden Butte, is a challenge in the summer heat. Photographer: Brian Brennan/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jan Brewer  
                       
                         
                           Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jan Brewer, governor of Arizona. The state has become notorious for its new law to round up the "ilegales," which has the Latin American community in an uproar. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jan Brewer, governor of Arizona. The state has become notorious for its new law to round up the "ilegales," which has the Latin American community in an uproar. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
