-- ECB's Bini Smaghi Says Global Financial Regulators Must Coordinate Efforts
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-09-07T08:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/ecb-s-bini-smaghi-says-global-financial-regulators-must-coordinate-efforts.html

          
          
             European Central Bank Executive
Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  said global regulators must
coordinate efforts when setting tighter banking rules to prevent
future financial crises.  
 “A new paradigm for new international cooperation is
required from global policy makers,” Bini Smaghi said according
to the text of a speech delivered in Beijing today. “Keeping an
excessive focus on the domestic economy may actually exacerbate
the global economic and financial imbalances, ultimately making
future global crises more likely and more severe.”  
 The collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  in September
2008 pushed the global economy into the worst recession since
the Great Depression and challenged policy makers to come up
with tougher banking rules. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision is drafting new capital and liquidity rules for
world leaders to discuss at a meeting in Seoul in November.  
 Bini Smaghi said one of the pre-crisis problems was that
while the financial market became increasingly global,
“supervision and regulation remained largely” national.  
 “A key message for all of us from the crisis is that
keeping an economy in order, keeping one’s own house in order,
so to speak, does not necessarily insulate it from external
shocks,” he said. “The key challenge faced by global policy
makers is to make the system safer.”  
 While policy makers’ focus “seems to have turned again
toward very short-term targets related to growth and employment,
with little consideration paid to sustainability,” surveillance
can’t be “outsourced” to markets, Bini Smaghi said.  
 “Markets can be very erratic and move in a discontinuous
fashion,” he said. They “tend to undervalue risk in ‘good
times’ and overvalue it in ‘bad times.’ This is why market
surveillance can usefully complement, but not replace, enhanced
surveillance by policy makers themselves.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        