-- Emerging Stocks Fall for First Time in Five Days on Slowing China Output
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-09-07T05:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/emerging-stocks-fall-for-first-time-in-five-days-on-slowing-china-output.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in five days after a Chinese official said industrial
output growth may slow, overshadowing a $50 billion plan by U.S.
President Barack Obama to bolster the world’s largest economy.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slipped 0.1 percent to
1,010.34 at 12:39 p.m. in Hong Kong, snapping a 4.3 percent
rally during the past four days that had sent the gauge to a
four-week high. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  lost 0.4
percent, while the South Korean won weakened 0.4 percent against
the dollar to lead declines in Asian currencies.  
 Shanghai Industrial Holdings Ltd. and China Shenhua Energy
Co. slid after  Xin Guobin , an official with the nation’s
industry ministry, said in Beijing today that output growth may
slow to about 10 percent in the second half.  Amorepacific Corp. ,
the Seoul-based cosmetics maker, sank 3.9 percent on a downgrade
by BNP Paribas SA. Steelmakers rallied after the metal price in
China, the biggest consumer of steel, jumped on production cuts.  
 “Although we don’t have the risk of a double-dip for
China’s economy, a deceleration of the economic growth is
inevitable,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities
Co.  
 The MSCI emerging index has slipped 3.6 percent from this
year’s peak on April 15 amid concern that a slowdown in China’s
economy and stagnant U.S. jobs growth will derail the global
recovery. The 21-country gauge is still up 2.1 percent this year.  
 Won, Baht  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped the most in four days,
extending this year’s decline to 18 percent. China Shenhua
Energy, a unit of the nation’s largest coal producer, slid 1.2
percent.  
 Shanghai Industrial retreated 1.6 percent in Hong Kong
trading. Industrial companies declined the most among 10
industries in the MSCI emerging index, losing 0.4 percent.  
 South Korea’s won retreated from its strongest level in
four weeks after policy makers were suspected of buying dollars
in the foreign-exchange market yesterday, said Ha Joon Woo, a
currency dealer at Daegu Bank in Seoul.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell for the first
time in five days, retreating 0.1 percent. Thailand’s baht and
India’s rupee both depreciated 0.2 percent against the U.S.
currency.  
 Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. jumped 7 percent in Shanghai.
Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, rose 5.1 percent in
Seoul, while Hyundai Steel Co. climbed 4.6 percent and Dongkuk
Steel Mill Co. added 3.3 percent.  
 Obama proposed spending at least $50 billion to rebuild
150,000 miles (241,400 kilometers) of roads, construct and
maintain 4,000 miles of rail and overhaul 150 miles of runways.  
 The rally for China’s steelmakers and metal prices has
“further upside” as the Chinese government introduces stricter
policies to reduce energy consumption by the end of the year,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        