-- Estonian Premier Ansip Calls Employers' Tax, Pension Plan `Inappropriate'
-- Ott Ummelas
-- 2010-09-07T07:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/estonian-premier-ansip-calls-employers-tax-pension-plan-inappropriate-.html

          
          
             Estonian Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip 
rejected as “inappropriate” proposals by the main employers’
lobby to boost competitiveness through tax exemptions, stricter
collective bargaining terms and a higher pension age.  
 “I don’t wish to discuss this inappropriate, imperatively
worded text called a manifesto,” Ansip said in a reply to
questions by  Aeripaeev , published by the Tallinn-based business
newspaper today. “It is destroying our social cohesion.”
Ansip’s spokeswoman Liina Kersna confirmed his reply by phone
today. Ansip wanted to “clearly distance himself from this
document,” she said.  
 The Estonian Employers’ Confederation  last week published
its manifesto for 2011-2015 with proposals including an
exemption from social tax payments on salaries higher than three
times the  average monthly wage . The proposals were meant to
start a public discussion ahead of parliamentary elections on
March 6, it said.  
 Estonia will become the third eastern European country to
adopt the euro in January behind Slovenia and Slovakia as it
seeks to boost investor confidence and remove trade barriers.
Still, the move won’t improve competitiveness, crucial for the
export-dependent economy, according to analysts including  Annika Lindblad  from Nordea Bank AB and  Neil Shearing  from Capital
Economics Ltd.  
 Employers pay a 33 percent tax on all employees’ gross
wages. Collective bargaining terms should be annulled for
employers once the agreements run out, any industrial action
precluded by a collective bargaining deal and support strikes
made illegal, the document proposed.  
 The retirement age should be raised to at least 67,
compared with the government plans for an increase to 65 by
2026, and relations with neighboring Russia have to be improved,
the manifesto said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        