-- Euro Falls on Bank Funds Concern; Asian Steelmakers Rally on Obama's Plans
-- Shani Raja
-- 2010-09-07T06:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/euro-falls-on-bank-funds-concern-asian-steelmakers-rally-on-obama-s-plans.html

          
          
             The euro weakened against 14 of 16
major counterparts on speculation European banks may need to
raise more capital. Asian steelmakers gained after President
 Barack Obama  proposed $50 billion to improve U.S. infrastructure.  
 The euro dropped 0.6 percent to $1.2805 at 3 p.m. in Tokyo
from $1.2876 in New York yesterday, the biggest decline since
Aug. 30.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.3 percent at 121.51
after rallying 4.6 percent in four days. Standard & Poor’s 500
index futures were little changed and those for the Euro Stoxx
50 decreased 0.3 percent. U.S. markets were closed yesterday.
Japanese government  bonds  rose for the first time in five days.  
 Obama proposed spending on transportation projects to spur
the world’s biggest economy before JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
that it sees “further upside” for China steelmakers. A group
of German banks said new rules may force Germany’s 10 biggest
lenders to raise $135 billion of capital. Europe’s largest banks
hold more than 134 billion euros in Greek, Portuguese and
Spanish government bonds, according to a Bloomberg News tally.  
 “Obama’s plan is helping steelmakers,” said  Nader Naeimi ,
a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages $85 billion. “The recovery from the 2008 recession was
going to be on the back of physical infrastructure spending, and
this is what we are seeing in the U.S. and emerging economies.”  
 The index of materials stocks including steelmakers on
China’s  CSI 300 Index  rose 1.3 percent, leading gains among the
measure’s 10 industry groups. Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. jumped
7.8 percent in Shanghai.  Posco , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker, jumped 4.7 percent in Seoul, set for its biggest
gain since June 21, Hyundai Steel Co. climbed 5.1 percent and
Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. added 2.7 percent.  
 China Steel  
 Benchmark hot-rolled  coil  steel prices in China, the
metal’s biggest consumer, rose 3.5 percent yesterday as
steelmakers in Hebei province shut mills after the local
government limited electricity to reach power efficiency targets.
In the U.S., Obama’s proposals call for an “infrastructure
bank” and seek money to rebuild 150,000 miles (241,400
kilometers) of roads, construct and maintain 4,000 miles of rail
and overhaul 150 miles of runways.  
 The euro weakened amid renewed concern sovereign-debt risk
will hinder the fiscal health of European banks, denting
prospects for the region’s economic recovery. The single
currency weakened to 107.67 yen from 108.42 yen. The dollar
traded at 84.11 yen from 84.21 yen.  
 Greece Risk  
 Greece still faces “substantial” default risk as
insolvency prevents the nation from repaying its debt when its
bailout program expires in three years, Pacific Investment
Management Co. fund manager  Andrew Bosomworth  said yesterday.  
 The yen was among the biggest gainers among the major
currencies today as sovereign debt concern boosted demand for
so-called refuge currencies.  
 Japanese automakers fell on concern the yen’s strength
against the euro will hurt the value of European sales. Nissan
Motor Co. lost 1.8 percent, while  Honda Motor Co.  slipped 1.4
percent. Nintendo, the world’s largest maker of video-game
consoles, declined 1 percent.  
 The Bank of Japan kept borrowing costs and the size of its
liquidity injections unchanged. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and
his board left the bank-loan facility at 30 trillion yen ($356
billion) after boosting it by 10 trillion yen at an Aug. 30
emergency meeting, the central bank said. Policy makers held the
benchmark overnight rate at 0.1 percent.  
 JGBs Gain  
 Ten-year Japanese bond  yields  fell 4.5 basis points from an
11-week high to 1.140 percent after a key supporter of Ichiro
Ozawa, the head of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan’s
largest faction, said his chances of replacing Prime Minister
Naoto Kan have declined.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the
overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent for a fourth month,
the central bank said, as concern that the global recovery may
falter trumped evidence of accelerating expansion at home.  
 “The domestic economy by itself demands higher interest
rates,”  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in
Sydney, said ahead of today’s decision. “What’s stopping the
RBA is the global economic uncertainty.”  
 The Australian dollar extended declines after Prime
Minister Julia Gillard won the backing of key independent
lawmakers, allowing her Labor Party to retain government and
pursue a tax on mining companies. The Australian currency slid
to 91.37 U.S. cents in Sydney, from 91.76 cents yesterday in New
York.  
 Won Weakens  
 South Korea’s won fell for the first time in five days,
dropping 0.5 percent to 1,176.70 per dollar, on speculation the
central bank intervened to curb appreciation that may hurt
exports. The won retreated from its strongest level in four
weeks after policy makers were suspected of buying dollars in
the foreign-exchange market yesterday, said  Ha Joon Woo , a
currency dealer at Daegu Bank in Seoul.  
 Copper dropped for the first time in five days as London
Metal Exchange contracts for three-month delivery fell 1.2
percent to $7,619 a metric ton.  
 Oil slid for a second day in New York, declining 1.1
percent to $73.81 a barrel on speculation that fuel demand will
decline as the U.S. summer peak consumption season ends.
Yesterday’s Labor Day holiday marks the end of the peak driving
season. Refiners often idle units for maintenance in September
and October as gasoline demand drops and before heating-oil use
increases. U.S. crude inventories last week rose to the highest
point since June, the Energy Department said.  
 The Markit iTraxx Asia index of credit-default swaps on 50
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan rose 3.5 basis points
to 116 basis points in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices show. The risk benchmark is headed for its biggest
increase since Aug. 31 and its highest close since Sept. 4,
according to CMA in New York.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Will McSheehy  in Singapore at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net 
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Euro Falls on Bank Funds Concern  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2818 at 12:20 p.m. in Tokyo from $1.2876 in New York yesterday, the biggest decline since Aug. 30. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2818 at 12:20 p.m. in Tokyo from $1.2876 in New York yesterday, the biggest decline since Aug. 30. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., talks about his investment strategy and the outlook for improving corporate dividends.
     Lenhoff speaks from London on Bloomberg Television's "On the Move" with Francine Lacqua. Brewin Dolphin oversees $33 billion. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
