-- Indonesian Central Bank Seeks to Avoid Rate Rise, Counts on Reserve Rules
-- Greg Ahlstrand
-- 2010-09-07T05:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/indonesian-central-bank-seeks-to-avoid-rate-rise-count-on-reserve-rules.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s central bank chief said
he wants to avoid increasing interest rates, counting on lending
and reserve rules for banks to contain inflation and stoke
growth in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy.  
 “As long as we still can manage our monetary variables by
other instruments, we will try to avoid changing the interest
rate,” Governor  Darmin Nasution  said in an interview in
Jakarta. By raising the amount banks must hold in reserve and
setting loan-to-deposit ratio guidelines, officials can bolster
economic expansion and keep consumer price gains within target,
he said.  
 Nasution’s comments late yesterday indicate Indonesia isn’t
ready to join Asian counterparts in raising borrowing costs from
world-recession lows as the region leads the recovery. At stake
is reining in a 16-month high inflation rate that’s eroding
purchasing power in the world’s fourth most populous nation.  
 “Bank Indonesia is behind the curve in raising interest
rates,” said  Eric Alexander Sugandi , a Jakarta-based economist
at Standard Chartered Plc. “We don’t think the new measures are
sufficient to combat inflation.”  
 Bank Indonesia left its benchmark at a record-low 6.5
percent on Sept. 3. The bank has kept the main rate unchanged
for more than a year as President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  has
focused on bolstering growth, targeting an average 6.6 percent
annual expansion through the end of his term in 2014.  
 Faster Growth  
 The country’s benchmark stock index rose 0.4 percent as of
11:32 a.m. in Jakarta. The rupiah slid 0.2 percent to 9,009 a
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Nasution, speaking in his office in his first interview
since assuming the post this month, said gross domestic product
may climb by 6.2 percent this year, in part as banks bring their
loan portfolios into line within the new ratio guidelines.
Growth has met or exceeded that pace only once since 1996,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  
 He also predicted that consumer prices, which surged 6.44
percent in August from a year before, will rise within Bank
Indonesia’s 4 percent to 6 percent target range in 2011 as
liquidity is mopped up by a boost in banks’ reserve
requirements.  
 Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  of stocks has gained 34
percent in dollar terms so far this year, outstripping the 2.4
percent advance for the  MSCI Emerging Market Asia Index , as
economic growth picked up.  
 The rupiah has risen 4.2 percent against the U.S. currency
in that time, the third-best performer in Asia outside Japan,
behind Malaysia and Thailand, which have both raised rates.  
 Policy Outlook  
 “In the past we rarely used the reserve requirement in our
monetary policy,” said  Nasution , 61, who headed the country’s
tax office before joining the central bank as a deputy governor
last year. Going forward, “our response will not only be the
interest rate. We will often use the reserve requirement.”  
 The central bank said last week lenders will be required to
set aside 8 percent of their deposits as primary reserves
starting Nov. 1, from 5 percent previously.  
 Bank Indonesia  also said it will introduce in March an
additional reserve requirement that’s linked to the share of
funds that a lender gives out in loans. Officials will impose a
penalty on banks whose loan-to-deposit ratio is below 78 percent
or more than 100 percent.  
 When Bank Indonesia determines liquidity is at a desired
level, it will return 2.5 percentage points of the additional 3
percentage points of primary reserve requirement to the lenders,
it said last week.  
 Tightening Liquidity  
 The higher reserve requirements for lenders are unlikely to
hurt the drive to boost credit growth, Standard Chartered’s
Sugandi said. That’s because the rules are aimed at controlling
liquidity, which is set to increase in the coming months as
central bank securities mature, he said.  
 “Liquidity will tighten, although not alarmingly,”
Sugandi said. “We don’t see the measures to boost credit growth
and increasing reserve requirement ratios as contradicting each
other.”  
 The central bank may be forced to raise rates in the fourth
quarter as inflation this year will exceed its target range,
Sugandi predicts.  
 Indonesia’s $540 billion economy expanded at a faster-than-
projected 6.2 percent pace in the second quarter as investment
rose. Stronger growth has helped boost profit at companies
including builder PT Wijaya Karya and  PT Bank CIMB Niaga .  
 Bank Lending  
 Bank Indonesia estimates bank lending this year may rise
about 13 percent to 20 percent, based on the current volume of
loans being made, Nasution said. Larger credit expansion is
needed to support economic expansion of 6.2 percent, he said.  
 “We will monitor the lending rate of banks,” he said.
“We need lower lending rates to encourage credit growth,”
Nasution added, referring to the cost of loans.  
 The country’s  inflation  accelerated in August as the
world’s most populous Muslim nation observed the fasting month
of Ramadan and families began preparations for the Eid-ul-Fitr
celebration. Higher electricity costs also boosted prices.  
 Consumer prices may climb by more than the central bank’s
target of 4 percent to 6 percent this year, Nasution said last
week.  
 Elsewhere in the region,  Malaysia  left rates unchanged last
week after three increases this year. The Bank of Thailand
raised its  benchmark  on Aug. 25 and signaled further moves to
come after the economy overcame political unrest to grow faster
than estimated last quarter.  
 Nasution, who has a doctorate in economics from University
of Paris, Sorbonne, France, became governor on Sept. 1, the 14th
in the central bank’s 57-year history. He became acting governor
after Vice President  Boediono  resigned as central bank chief in
May 2009 to become President  Yudhoyono ’s running mate in last
year’s presidential election.  
 Nasution’s term as governor is scheduled to run to 2013.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Ahlstrand  in Jakarta at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Indonesia Seeking to Avoid Rate Rise, Governor Nasution Says  
                       
                         
                           Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution speaks during interview at his office in Jakarta. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution speaks during interview at his office in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution  
                       
                         
                           Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution stands for a photograph at his office in Jakarta. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution stands for a photograph at his office in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
