-- Japan May Overhaul Property Trust Regulations, Land Deputy Minister Says
-- Katsuyo Kuwako
-- 2010-09-07T06:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/japan-may-overhaul-property-trust-regulations-land-vice-minister-says.html

          
          
             Japan will consider relaxing tax
requirements as part of changes to rules for real estate
investment trusts after the market shrank by more than half in
the past three years, a land minister said.  
 The government may revise the regulation to allow the
trusts, known as J-REITs, to retain more than 10 percent of
their earnings to finance operations, said  Sumio Mabuchi , vice
minister of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and
Tourism. Currently, J-REITs must pay out more than 90 percent of
their profit to investors as dividends to receive tax breaks.  
 “The REIT market has shrunk too much,” Mabuchi said in an
interview in Tokyo. “We must consider ways for REITs to retain
some of their earnings without losing tax breaks, because
currently they are forced to keep seeking financing as they tend
to pay out nearly all their earnings.”  
 The changes being considered are the second effort by the
government in a year to revive the J-REIT market after Japan’s
37-member  TSE REIT Index  lost 65 percent from its  peak  in May
2007 as the global credit crisis made it harder to refinance
loans and raise capital to buy properties. Japan opened the REIT
market in September 2001, playing catch-up in developing the
securities pioneered by the U.S. in the 1960s.  
 The draft of the bill may be ready for debate in the next
year’s parliament session, which usually starts in January,
Mabuchi said. He declined to elaborate further, saying that it
will depend on discussions within a committee that was formed to
promote real-estate investments.  
 Stable Dividend  
 The REIT benchmark was little changed, down 0.01 percent at
the 3 p.m. local close in Tokyo, trimming an earlier loss of as
much as 0.7 percent.  
 Under the current regulation,  J-REITs  typically pay out
almost 100 percent of their earnings to investors, partly
because they want to make sure they achieve the above 90 percent
requisite after audit to receive tax breaks, said  Hirotaka Uruma ,
the chief financial officer at Daiwa House Morimoto Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  
 “There is not much buffer under the current rules,” said
Uruma. “A revision to lower that requirement would help REITs’
operations and stabilize dividend payouts.”  
 The government may also consider granting J-REITs the
ability to issue convertible bonds to help them boost finances,
Mabuchi said. The trusts can currently only raise funds by
selling new shares, bonds and properties, and taking out loans.  
 “We probably need to look at the issue from its root,”
said Mabuchi. “That may mean reviewing the actual set up of the
Japan REIT market from the very beginning.”  
 J-REITs represent about 20 percent of Japan’s 45 trillion
yen ($535 billion) securitized real estate market, government
data show. The market was created as a financial tool that pools
assets into tradable securities, making investments easier and
creating liquidity in the property market.  
 The bankruptcy of New City Residence Investment Corp., a
residential REIT, in October 2008, prompted the government to
introduce a fund that would invest as much as 500 billion yen to
help J-REITs refinance their debt last year.  
 The TSE REIT Index had a record market value of about 6.79
trillion yen in May 2007, compared with about 3 trillion yen
today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Japan May Overhaul Property Trust Regulations  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Residential buildings in Tokyo. Japan will consider relaxing tax requirements as part of changes to rules for real estate investment trusts after the market shrank by more than half in the past three years, Mabuchi said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Residential buildings in Tokyo. Japan will consider relaxing tax requirements as part of changes to rules for real estate investment trusts after the market shrank by more than half in the past three years, Mabuchi said. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
