-- Napa Vintner Lee Urges Fellow Koreans to Swap Soju for Cabernet
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/napa-vintner-lee-urges-fellow-koreans-to-swap-soju-for-california-cabernet.html

          
          
             Lee Hi-Sang , a South Korean
businessman who owns Napa Valley’s Dana Estates, didn’t take his
first sip of wine until he was in his mid-30s. Since then, he’s
sought to ensure other Koreans don’t wait that long.  
 Lee, who built his fortune in the flour-mill industry, took
to wine immediately and made it his mission to boost the
popularity of Napa vintages in his home country. He began
distributing California wine more than a decade ago and
purchased Dana Estates in 2005.  
 “I’d like to change our culture,” Lee, now 64, said
during lunch at his  winery , whose $275-a-bottle Cabernet has
earned a  perfect 100-point score  from critic  Robert Parker . “I
thought I would introduce this good drink to Korea.”  
 That’s no easy task: Most of the alcohol consumed in South
Korea is still either beer or soju, a spirit typically distilled
from rice. While Lee has increased his wine sales to $28 million
in 2008 from less than $500,000 in the 1990s, the economic slump
has shuttered wine bars and restaurants in Korea, and prompted
consumers to shy away from pricey brands, Lee said. The country
also imposes taxes and tariffs that can increase the cost of
imported wine by 65 percent.  
 As the biggest importer of Napa wine into the country, Lee
aims to make the product recession-proof by turning it into an
everyday part of Korean life. He’s also considering adding more
budget wines to his lineup and reaching out to retail stores
because consumers are doing more of their dining at home.
Another goal: overcoming the perception that French wine is
superior, Lee said.  
 ‘Very Conservative’  
 “Koreans are basically very conservative, so they prefer
French,” he said. “Napa is a new wine for them.”  
 Lee discovered wine in 1979. After a day of skiing in
Vermont, he washed down some kimchi -- a pickled cabbage dish --
with a glass from Columbia Crest, a Washington State winery.  
 In the past three decades, he’s led a crusade. Calling
himself a “wine evangelist,” Lee trekked across Napa Valley,
spending years persuading high-end producers to sell him bottles
to bring back to Korea. He’s now the third-largest importer of
wine into South Korea, and sells more than a third of Napa wine
in the country.  
 His own winery isn’t a big part of that plan: Dana Estates
bottles are only available to customers on its mailing list and
a few restaurants and retailers. Still, the reviews earned by
its Lotus Vineyard Cabernet Sauvignon have helped raise Lee’s
stature in the industry. He’s also gotten other vintners to
consider selling in Korea.  
 Getting on the Radar  
 “When Mr. Lee approached us, I said, ‘Well, it’s not really
on our radar,’” said  Tim Mondavi , a former winemaker at Robert
Mondavi Winery and founder of the Continuum Estate in Napa.
“But they continued to pursue us, and I am absolutely delighted
that they have.”  
 Mondavi just returned from his own four-day trip to Korea,
where he left 20 six-packs of wine for sale.  
 “Mr. Lee has been able to amass a group of very credible
high-end wineries here in Napa Valley,” Mondavi said. “That
led to our decision to go with him.”  
 Lee opened his winery in 2009 after restoring a  vineyard 
built in 1883 by German viticulturalist H.W. Helms.  Architect 
Howard Backen, whose  clients  include Napa producers Bond Estate,
Harlan Estate,  Paul Hobbs  and Ovid, tried to preserve as much of
the original stone structure as he could, while making it a
modern facility.  
 15,000-Bottle Collection  
 The result is a 19,000-square-foot winery that has enough
space for tasting rooms, fermenters, storage caves and a
circular wine cellar that holds more than a third of Lee’s
15,000-bottle personal collection.  
 Lee also spent $13 million to build a seven-story wine
education center, retail and wholesale store in Seoul, called
 Podo Plaza . Since opening in 2005, more than 3,000 students have
paid $250 to $2,000 for classes on wine.  
 While the value of U.S. wine exports to South Korea more
than tripled to $9.75 million between 1999 and 2009, the country
ranks 15th as a market, behind Poland, Sweden and Denmark,
according to the San Francisco-based  Wine Institute .  
 Beer and soju accounted for 83 percent of alcohol
consumption in South Korea in the first quarter. Based on
factory prices, the market was worth 7.5 trillion won ($6.4
billion) in 2008, according to the most recent data from the
National Tax Service. That doesn’t reflect the price that
consumers pay at retailers, bars and restaurants.  
 Contrast With China  
 The recession also took its toll, with the value of U.S.
wine imports to South Korea dropping 24 percent last year. That
contrasts with other Asian nations, which increased their demand
during the slump. China saw a 64 percent gain to $35.6 million,
Japan rose 28 percent to $78.5 million, and Hong Kong increased
83 percent to $46.9 million. Worldwide U.S. exports declined 9.5
percent.  
 Even so, Koreans have come a long way since the early
1990s, said  Russell Weis , general manager of  Silverado Vineyards 
in Napa, who has traveled to Korea at least 10 times in the past
two decades on behalf of wineries.  
 “We were just chasing around ex-pats who were stationed
there,” Weis said. Now the pool of potential customers is
bigger, though still a select group, he said. “It’s a young,
affluent, well-traveled, often American-educated Korean.”  
 Lee, the chairman of Seoul’s Woonsan Group, is accustomed
to touting luxury imports: His company runs the country’s
exclusive dealer of Ferraris. He also owns the Barn, an
American-style steakhouse in Seoul.  
 What’s a Corkscrew?  
 Woonsan operates several other businesses, including the
country’s largest flour miller; a wine wholesaler, retail store
and wine bar; a pet food company; and an organic food chain.  
 Lee spends most of his time in South Korea, where wine can
still be a novelty. During holidays, instead of giving his
Korean employees traditional small gifts, he brings them wine.
At first, many didn’t know how to open the bottles, having never
seen a corkscrew before, he said.  
 He also gives wine glasses and openers to restaurants,
which he hopes will lead to sales of bottles. With more exposure
to wine, Koreans may also seek to lower tariffs, making the
drink more affordable in the country, Lee said.  
 Terry Hall, a spokesman for the  Napa Valley Vintners 
association, said a delegation from the group visited South
Korea in May. His organization also is meeting with the Korean
ambassador to the U.S. about eliminating the 65 percent import
surcharge.  
 Napa wineries aren’t as aggressive in targeting Korea as
their French counterparts, making it harder to bolster the
reputation of California wines in the country, Lee said.  
 “Since the economic crisis, French wineries are very busy
making visits,” he said. “Napa is very slow to come. I don’t
know why.”  
 Silverado Vineyards , whose wine is sold in 20 countries,
just sent its first shipment of wine to South Korea this year,
totaling 14 cases, or 168 bottles.  
 Still, California wines have an edge in the long run, Lee
said. “For me, Napa wine is far better than Bordeaux.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Woonsan Group Chairman Lee Hi-Sang  
                       
                         
                           Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Woonsan Group Chairman Lee Hi-Sang. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Woonsan Group Chairman Lee Hi-Sang. Photographer: Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Woonsan Group Chairman Lee Hi-Sang  
                       
                         
                           Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lee Hi -Sang, chairman of Woonsan Group, poses for a photograph at a wine shop at the Podo Plaza in Seoul. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lee Hi -Sang, chairman of Woonsan Group, poses for a photograph at a wine shop at the Podo Plaza in Seoul. Photographer: Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bottles of wine from the U.S.  
                       
                         
                           Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bottles of wine from the U.S. at a wine shop at Podo Plaza in Seoul. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bottles of wine from the U.S. at a wine shop at Podo Plaza in Seoul. Photographer: Seong Joon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
