-- 
National Bank of Greece's $3.8 Billion Takeover Bid Spurned by Alpha Bank

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-02-18T18:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/national-bank-of-greece-to-raise-3-6-billion-in-proactive-capital-plan.html
Alpha Bank SA, Greece’s third-
biggest bank, rejected an unsolicited 2.8 billion-euro ($3.8
billion) takeover bid from  National Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s largest lender, saying the offer was inadequate.  Alpha’s board voted unanimously to spurn National Bank’s
all-stock offer, Athens-based Alpha said in a  stock exchange
filing  today. National Bank urged Alpha to give the offer, made
on Jan. 18, “serious consideration,” saying it would create a
stronger bank that would be less reliant on emergency funding.  The government is pushing the country’s banks to combine
after their capital was depleted by the sovereign debt crisis
and mounting loan losses. Previous attempts to create fewer,
stronger banks in Greece have stumbled: talks between National
and Alpha collapsed in January 2002 after the two sides failed
to agree on how to share power in the combined company.  Piraeus
Bank SA , the fourth-biggest bank, last year abandoned its bid to
buy two smaller government-controlled banks after failing to get
a response from the government.  The rejection “may be a ploy by Alpha to receive an
improved offer” and National is likely to sweeten its bid,
Athens-based broker Euroxx Securities said in a note to clients.
A “tie-up between Alpha and National would constitute a key
catalyst for a radical transformation of the Greek banking
market, with a positive repercussion across other Greek banks.”  Proposed Terms  Anthimos Thomopoulos, National Bank’s group chief financial
officer, didn’t answer his mobile phone when called to comment
on Alpha’s rejection.  National Bank offered eight new shares for 11 existing
Alpha shares, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Athens-based lender today. National Bank shareholders would own
71 percent of the combined lender, and would have the right to
name the vice-chairman, chief executive officer and three
directors. Alpha would name the chairman and four directors.  “The proposed merger would create the leading bank in  Greece , which we believe would be pivotal in supporting the
recovery of the  Greek economy ,” National Chairman Vassilis Rapanos said in an earlier statement today. “I am deeply
convinced about the merits of this transaction and I believe it
would resonate favorably with shareholders of both banks.”  The offer values Alpha Bank shares at about 5.50 euros
each, 18.9 percent more than Alpha Bank’s average price over the
past 20 days. That’s a narrower premium than on the previous
four European banking takeovers in  Europe  valued at more than $1
billion in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The bid values Alpha Bank at 0.49 times book, the lowest
multiple among those transactions, the data show.  Shares Suspended  Shares in both banks were suspended by the Athens Stock
Exchange before National’s announcement. National Bank has
gained 25 percent so far this year to 7.57 euros, while Alpha
added 26 percent to 4.79 euros before today’s suspension.  Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  welcomed
news of the talks today, and said the government would look
positively on all initiatives that would bolster the country’s
banking system, according to a statement from his office.  The country’s central bank chief George Provopoulos has
also urged the country’s lenders to team up to make stronger
companies that can ride out the Greek crisis, and extend loans
to businesses and households to get credit flowing through to
the economy again.  Capital Boost  Greece’s banks were weakened as the country’s debt crisis
led to a slump in bond prices, a shrinking economy and forced
the industry to turn to emergency funding from the ECB. As the
country enters a third year of recession, Greece’s lenders face
increasing loan losses as the government cuts wages and pensions
to ensure the flow of 110 billion euros in bailout funds pledged
by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  last year.  The combined bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a gauge of
financial strength, would be 10.7 percent, giving it better
access to funding markets and allowing it to cut its reliance on
emergency  European Central Bank  money, National Bank said.  The transaction would have been the biggest takeover in
Greece since  Deutsche Telekom AG  bought a stake in Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA in 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The takeover would also be the largest
banking acquisition in Europe since  Banco Santander SA  of  Spain 
agreed to buy Poland’s Bank Zachodni WBK SA in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  