-- Ohio's Scorn of Stimulus Means Obama May Pay for Pledge
-- Lisa Lerer
-- 2010-09-07T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/ohio-s-scorn-of-stimulus-funds-means-obama-may-pay-for-keeping-jobs-pledge.html

          
          
             A construction crew lined the main
road heading into  Wilmington , Ohio, choking traffic and kicking
up dust one August afternoon as workers rebuilt sidewalks in the
late-summer heat.  
 Projects like this and other ventures funded by last year’s
$814 billion economic-stimulus package generated about  21,000
jobs  in Ohio in the second quarter of 2010 alone.  
 For Dan Stewart, it hasn’t been welcome news.  
 “From the time they put up the first barricades, downtown
has been dead,” said Stewart, 60, who runs a bookstore a block
from the Clinton County courthouse. “The orange barricades
said, ‘Wilmington is closed.’”  
 The electorate has grown so angry and disillusioned that
even a federal project delivering jobs has become the object of
ridicule in a county where as many as 3,000 people were thrown
out of work when the local DHL unit of  Deutsche Post AG  shut
down last year. That’s a bad sign for Democrats seeking to
retain control of the U.S. Congress.  
 This year’s elections are becoming a referendum on
President  Barack Obama  and the U.S. government’s historic
intervention in the economy, and Ohio is ground zero for that
debate. The issues roiling the nation --  unemployment , the
 housing  slump, slow growth,  deficits  -- dominate here.  
 The $1 billion surplus the state government ran in June
2005 turned into a $1.13 billion deficit last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Ohio has lost about 400,000
manufacturing jobs in the last decade, 40 percent of the factory
workforce. And more than a quarter of all subprime mortgage
loans were delinquent for 90 days or more in the second quarter.  
 Nationwide Pattern  
 Ohio has so many close state and federal races that any
pattern seen here is likely to reflect a broader national trend
in the contests for control of Capitol Hill this year.  
 “It’s a mixture of old and new, rural and urban, industry
and agriculture,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor and publisher
of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report, which handicaps
congressional and gubernatorial elections.  
 Obama will underline Ohio’s importance tomorrow, when he
visits Cleveland to talk about the economy and urge Congress to
permanently extend a research-and-development tax credit for
businesses, according to two administration officials. He’s
already visited Ohio nine times since he became president, more
than any state except New York.  
 Ohio is key because it’s a reliable predictor of national
moods just as it is of consumer sensibility for companies that
come here to test-market products: The state has voted for the
 winner  in the last 12 U.S. presidential elections.  
 Political Crosscurrents  
 Political crosscurrents framing races throughout the
country are also on display, from Tea Party anger to supporters
of Obama frustrated by the pace of “change.”  
 As many as five congressional seats held by Democrats are
at stake. Among them, U.S. Representatives  Steve Driehaus  and
 Mary Jo Kilroy , both first-term Democrats, must coax the
students and black voters who propelled them into office back to
the voting booth, without Obama on the ticket.  
 Democratic Governor  Ted Strickland  faces a tough re-
election, having to overcome an economic tide that has erased
almost 400,000 jobs since he took office in 2007.  
 And Republicans need to retain the seat held by retiring
Senator  George Voinovich  if they want to boost their chances of
winning control of that chamber from the Democrats. Their
candidate,  Rob Portman , the top international trade official
under former President  George W. Bush , is vying to succeed
Voinovich in a state that continues to lose jobs overseas.  
 Rust Belt Legacy  
 These battles are taking place in a state of 11.5 million
people that has struggled to discard its Rust Belt image.  
 Politicians tout Toledo, one of the three largest solar-
panel manufacturing centers in the country, and technology-
innovation hubs at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton and
the Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus.  
 A state once famous for Firestone Tires and Youngstown
steel has become a consumer-products hub, anchored by
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. ,  Kroger Co.  and  Macy’s
Inc.  The Cleveland Clinic attracts biotechnology investments.
And  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  is the single-largest private employer
in Columbus, Ohio’s capital, trailing only the state government
and Ohio State University.  
 “There is a whole series of huge, potential manufacturing
industries which we end up being world leaders,” Obama said
during a town-hall meeting in Columbus last month.  
 The bond markets view Ohio as a safer bet than California
or New York or other Midwestern states, such as Illinois and
Michigan. The cost of insuring the state’s bonds against default
for five years is less than half that of insuring similar debt
in California and Illinois.  
 Can’t Overcome Headwinds  
 Still, the emergence of a new economy hasn’t enabled Ohio
to overcome the headwinds the country is facing.  
 The  jobless rate  in Ohio was 10.3 percent in July, compared
with a national average of 9.6 percent. In June, more than
625,000 people filed for unemployment. Personal income  has
dipped  since its June 2008 peak. Quarterly home sales  are down 
about 20 percent from their peak in the third quarter of 2005.
And building permits have been on a steady decline since June
2005,  sliding  more than 70 percent by last July.  
 NCR Corp. , maker of the first mechanical cash register,
struck a symbolic blow at the old economy in June 2009 by
announcing plans to leave Dayton, its home since 1884, for an
Atlanta suburb.  
 “We’ve seen the last of our industry,” said James Hines,
49, a small businessman from Chillicothe.  
 The economic travails have pinched local governments,
making it harder for politicians to provide relief. In 2005,
state income-tax revenue  totaled $10 billion . Last year, it  was
$8.5 billion .  
 Blaming Democrats  
 Republicans are trying to capitalize on the state’s
troubles by arguing that Democrats have failed to reverse the
national slide. They cite the approximately 300,000 jobs lost
since Strickland took office declaring “a new day for our
state.”  
 John Kasich , a Republican former congressman running
against Strickland, filmed a television ad at the old DHL
facility in Wilmington in which he tells a group of onetime
employees, “What we see here at DHL, really, we see all over
Ohio.”  
 Democrats lay blame at the feet of Republicans and Bush.  
 They accuse Portman, another former Republican congressman,
of forcing jobs overseas when he served as Bush’s trade
representative from 2005 to 2006. Strickland reminds voters that
Kasich, after leaving Congress, worked as managing director of
investment banking in the Columbus office of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. , whose September 2008 collapse accelerated Wall
Street’s financial meltdown.  
 ‘Seven Signs’  
 “If Rob Portman wins Ohio as the trade representative for
 George Bush , it is, in fact, one of the seven signs that the
world is coming to an end,” said  Chris Redfern , chairman of the
Ohio Democratic Party.  
 Redfern’s Armageddon may come true. Portman had almost $8.9
million in the bank at the end of June, according to Federal
Election Commission data, about seven times the amount held by
his Democratic opponent, Lieutenant Governor  Lee Fisher .  
 Still, there are voters who don’t think Democrats should
bear responsibility for all the problems.  
 “You can’t blame Strickland for everything,” said Rick
Perry, 51, a retired contractor from Chillicothe as he sat near
the horseshoe pit at the  Ross County Fair . “He did everything
he said he would do,” from cutting the budget to streamlining
services. “But when he did it, people didn’t like it.”  
 ‘Afraid of Socialism’  
 Perry said he didn’t vote for Obama in the 2008
presidential election because he’s “afraid of socialism,”
though he backed Democrat Strickland in 2006. He’s not sure what
he’ll do on Nov. 2.  
 Obama’s frequent visits to Ohio are intended to help voters
like Perry make up their minds.  
 He made a trip to Columbus last year to tout the passage of
the stimulus plan a few weeks after he signed it into law. In
May, he was in Youngstown highlighting a federal transportation
grant. In June, he was back in Columbus to talk about the
10,000th road-building project financed by the bill. And last
month, he sat around the kitchen table of a Columbus family
listening to people express their concerns about the economy.  
 At the end of May, the president’s approval rating was 46
percent, according to the most recent Ohio Poll conducted by the
University of Cincinnati. That was a 17-point drop from a year
earlier.  
 No White Horse  
 One voter whose support he’s held is Karyn Cotton, 60, of
Cincinnati, who said Obama deserves credit.  
 “People had expectations that he was going to ride in on
this white horse and make everything okay,” said Cotton. “He’s
doing the best he can.” She’s eager to show her support for the
president in November by voting for Democrats.  
 Obama’s popularity in the state in 2008 drove thousands of
first-time voters to the polls, particularly blacks and college
students.  
 Natasha Whitney, 35, was among those infrequent voters who
backed him in 2008. The black mother of two from Columbus said
she’s not sure if she will vote in the congressional elections.
She’s applying to school to become a medical assistant and is
worried she won’t find work once she finishes.  
 “We need jobs,” Whitney said. “It’s kind of moving
slow.”  
 Ground Zero Wilmington  
 Nowhere is the anxiety over jobs greater than in
Wilmington, a town of 12,000 that sits a few miles off
Interstate 71 in southwest Ohio, about 50 miles from both
Cincinnati and Columbus.  
 A pawn shop and bail bondsman do business along a main road
otherwise dominated by banks and law offices. Some storefronts
are vacant. As traffic snarled along South Street into town last
month, a sign told drivers the project was sponsored by the
 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act , otherwise known as the
stimulus plan.  
 Two businesses have closed since the road work began, said
Stewart, who operates “Books ‘N’ More” with his wife, Marla.
He and Marla were forced to lay off two employees and have pared
inventories to limit costs as foot traffic slowed to a trickle.
The one full-time employee who remains only works 24 hours a
week, Stewart said.  
 Sandy Gilton worked at the DHL facility in Wilmington for
10 years before the company’s parent signed a joint-operating
agreement with  United Parcel Service Inc.  and closed the hub it
operated in town with  ABX Air Inc.  An estimated 3,000 residents
of Wilmington and surrounding Clinton County lost their jobs,
catching the attention of both Obama and Arizona Senator  John McCain , the Republican presidential candidate, during the 2008
campaign.  
 Now, Gilton, 43, runs a consignment store, Next to New
Apparel & Accessories, and is struggling to keep the business
going.  
 “You’ve got to pay the bills,” she said from behind the
cash register.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ohio’s Scorn of Stimulus -Obama May Pay for Keeping Pledge  
                       
                         
                           Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A sign promoting one of the Obama administration's economic stimulus package projects stands in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A sign promoting one of the Obama administration's economic stimulus package projects stands in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S.  Photographer: Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Nigel Gault, chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight, discusses the potential impact of President Barack Obama's expected proposals this week to help the U.S. economy.
     Obama is proposing to expand tax relief for businesses and boost federal spending on the nation’s transportation system to help bolster an economy that’s losing jobs heading into the November congressional elections. Gault talks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Dan Gerstein, strategist at Dan Gerstein Consulting, and Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas Research Partners, talk with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Mark Crumpton about President Barack Obama's proposal to spend at least $50 billion on roads, railways and airports to help spur the U.S. economy.
     Gerstein and Clifton also discuss whether tax cuts passed during President George W. Bush's administration will be extended. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ohio’s Scorn of Stimulus - Obama May Pay for Keeping Pledge  
                       
                         
                           Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Construction continues on a highway overpass as part of the Obama administration's economic stimulus package in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Construction continues on a highway overpass as part of the Obama administration's economic stimulus package in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S. Photographer: Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ohio’s Scorn of Stimulus - Obama May Pay for Keeping Pledge  
                       
                         
                           Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Planes sit on the tarmac at a closed DHL facility in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Planes sit on the tarmac at a closed DHL facility in Wilmington, Ohio, U.S. Photographer: Jay LaPrete/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
