-- Palm Oil Rally to Increase Demand for Rival Soybean Oil, Wilmar Adani Says
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-09-07T05:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/palm-oil-rally-to-increase-demand-for-rival-soybean-oil-wilmar-adani-says.html

          
          
             A rally in palm oil may cool demand
for the world’s most used cooking oil and prompt some buyers to
switch to soybean oil, according to  Adani Wilmar Ltd. , India’s
second-biggest importer of vegetable oils.  
 A seasonal increase in production starting next month in
Indonesia and Malaysia, the top producers, and the tendency of
palm oil to cloud over in winter may cool demand from consumers
including India,  Atul Chaturvedi , Adani Wilmar’s chief executive
officer, said in a telephone interview from Ahmedabad yesterday.  
 Palm oil, used in food and fuel, has advanced 15 percent
from near an eight-month low on July 7, driven by demand from
Asian countries celebrating festivals in the September quarter,
and a stronger Malaysian currency. Soybean oil has climbed 12
percent in the same period.  
 “Palm will have a tough time finding a home,” Chaturvedi
said. “With winter around the corner and the weather getting
colder as we go along, thick oil is not bound to be all that
exciting compared with liquid oil.”  
 Soybean oil’s premium over palm oil  narrowed to the lowest
in more than three months yesterday, making the rival oil more
attractive. The premium fell to $59.68 a ton, the lowest level
since June 4, according to Bloomberg data. Exchanges in the U.S.
were closed for Labor Day holiday yesterday.  
 Adani Wilmar is a venture between India’s Adani Group and
Singapore-based  Wilmar International Ltd. , the world’s largest
trader of the tropical oil.  
 ‘Marginal Increase’  
 India’s vegetable oil purchases in the year ending Oct. 31
may be “marginally” more than last season’s 8.66 million tons,
said Chaturvedi. Imports have soared to the highest level since
1994 after the government ended taxes on palm and soybean oils.  
 Purchases in from November to July were 6.38 million tons,
little changed from 6.42 million tons a year ago, the Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India said Aug. 16. Imports in the
year ending Oct. 31 may be less than 9.1 million tons forecast
by the group in March because of an increase in local supplies,
B.V. Mehta, executive director at the group, said the same day.  
 “It all boils down to how the Indian crop shapes up. If
the crop is good then imports in October-December should be
reduced,” Chaturvedi said. “Local oilseed crops look very
exciting with so much rain.”  
 Farmers  planted oilseeds such as soybeans and groundnuts to
16.9 million hectares as of Sept. 2, compared with 16.4 million
a year earlier, helped by adequate rain this season, according
to the farm ministry. The monsoon in 2009 was the driest in more
than three decades.  
 Palm oil for November delivery fell as much as 0.5 percent
to 2,608 ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange in
intraday trading, a day after the biggest gain in almost a month.
The jump was because of a stronger ringgit, Chaturvedi said.  
 “Palm looks a little high-priced and is largely currency
driven,” he said. “On the demand side it’s not exciting.”  
 Malaysia’s ringgit yesterday reached 3.1098, the strongest
level since October 1997, making shipments more expensive for
holders of other currencies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        