-- RAK Ceramics CEO Sees No Slowdown in U.A.E; Plans India IPO to Build Plant
-- Zahra Hankir
-- 2010-09-07T05:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/rak-ceramics-ceo-sees-no-slowdown-in-u-a-e-plans-india-ipo-to-build-plant.html

          
          
             Ras Al Khaimah Ceramics,  the world’s
biggest maker of ceramic tiles, is producing bidets, sinks and
bathtubs at a maximum capacity in the United Arab Emirates even
as Dubai’s construction boom falters, an official said.  
 “There is no major slowdown for us in the U.A.E.,” Chief
Executive Officer Khater Massaad said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We are fully booked and producing at full
capacity.”  
 The company’s  first-half profit  rose almost 2 percent to
147.8 million dirhams ($40 million), the manufacturer said on
Aug. 12. Dubai’s construction boom petered off in 2008 after
banks tightened lending and speculators fled the market.
Builders in the emirate have delayed or canceled projects worth
about $330 billion, Dubai-based market researcher Proleads
estimated.  
 RAK Ceramics, based in Ras Al Khaimah, one of the seven
sheikhdoms that make up the U.A.E., is among the cheapest
companies on Abu Dhabi’s benchmark index even after climbing 19
percent this year compared with an 8.2 percent decline in Abu
Dhabi’s benchmark stock index.  ING Investment Management (Dubai)
Ltd. , which owns a 1 percent stake in the company, says that RAK
Ceramics still offers “value.”  
 “They are deleveraging and increasing their profitability
and they are unlocking value in their subsidiaries by listing
them in other countries,”  Yazan Abdeen,  who helps oversee $50
million at ING, said in an interview in Dubai. “It is a true
treasure chest.” The company was the world’s top ceramic-tile
manufacturer by value in 2009, according to Ceramic World
Review.  
 Trailing Earnings  
 With annual sales of more than $1 billion, RAK Ceramics may
expand in India and raise about $50 million through a share sale
of its South Asian unit to build a new plant in the country,
Massaad said. The company raised a similar amount through an
initial public offering of  RAK Ceramics Bangladesh Ltd.  earlier
this year.  
 The stock is  trading  at 4.4 times trailing earnings in Abu
Dhabi, a 59 percent discount to the  ADX General Index , making it
 cheaper  than about 90 percent of the companies in the benchmark
 gauge , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. RAK Ceramics
closed up 0.6 percent at 1.6 dirhams yesterday.  
 Still, “liquidity is extremely low on RAK Ceramics,” said
 Marwan Shurrab , assistant fund manager and chief trader at
 Gulfmena Alternative Investments Ltd.  in Dubai. “It’s
attractive on valuation numbers and ratios, but does not have
the investor base to make it an active player in the market.”  
 RAK Ceramics has  643 million dirhams in loans  due in 2011
and 275 million dirhams due in 2014, Bloomberg data show. The
company is reducing its debt and may start paying a dividend
next year making it an “appealing investment,” Abdeen said.  
 ‘Few Entrants’  
 The Bangladeshi  share sale received bids for 20 times the
offered amount. RAK Ceramics has risen 17 percent since the June
13 listing of the Bangladeshi unit, giving the parent a market
value of $294 million. RAK Ceramics has units in 12 countries
including Germany and China.  
 “There are few entrants coming into the ceramics industry
globally and RAK Ceramics doesn’t have local competitors,” said
 Hettish Kumar , senior financial analyst at Global Investment
House KSCC in Kuwait. About 30 percent of the company’s
contracts are from the U.A.E., making it vulnerable to the
property slowdown in the country, said Kumar, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        