-- Slovak Coalition Backs Austerity Package Including Temporary VAT Increase
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-09-07T06:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/slovak-coalition-backs-austerity-package-including-temporary-vat-increase.html

          
          
             Slovak coalition leaders approved an
austerity package, including a temporary increase in value-added
tax by one percentage point, as the eastern European country
seeks to more than halve the budget deficit within three years.  
 The leaders of the four ruling parties agreed to raise the
value-added tax rate for most goods and services to 20 percent
from the current 19 percent, Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  said
late yesterday.  
 The measure is part of a package that seeks to cut the
fiscal  shortfall  by 1.7 billion euros ($2.2 billion) next year
through a combination of spending cuts and revenue-boosting
measures.  
 The new Slovak administration, in power since July, wants
to reduce the shortfall from a projected 7.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year below the European Union’s limit of
three percent of GDP by 2013. At the same time, the government
wants to minimize the impact of the austerity package on the
economy, which is set to resume growing after slipping into its
first-ever recession last year.  
 “We need to make savings through means that won’t halt the
economy,” Radicova said after meeting with her coalition
partners in the Slovak capital of Bratislava.  
 The administration wants to raise about 800 million euros
in extra revenue from next year. The increase in VAT, which will
be effective only until the fiscal gap narrows back to the EU
limit, is forecast to bring about one-fifth of this amount. The
rest will be fetched mostly from higher excise taxes on
cigarettes and beer and removing breaks for payment of taxes and
social-security contributions.  
 Another 900 million euros will be saved by a 10 percent
cut in expenditures, more effective procurement and changes to
the pension system, Radicova said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        