-- South African Gold, Foreign Currency Reserves Are Little Changed in August
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-09-07T07:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/south-african-gold-foreign-currency-reserves-are-little-changed-in-august.html

          
          
             South Africa’s gross reserves were
little changed in August as a stronger dollar reduced the value
of euros, pounds and other currency holdings, the central bank
said.  
 Gold and foreign currency  reserves  fell to $43.1 billion
from $43.2 billion in July, the Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said
on its website today. Net reserves increased 1.2 percent to
$39.2 billion.  
 The dollar gained last month against 13 of the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, increasing 2.8 percent against
the euro. That cut the value of holdings in foreign currencies,
undermining the central bank’s efforts to build reserves and
meet demands by industry and labor unions for a weaker rand.  
 “Does the exchange rate matter, of course it does,”
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Sept. 2. “But what’s
feasible to do about it, what’s sustainable to do about it, is a
different question.”  
 The  National Treasury  has been increasing its foreign
currency deposits with the central bank this year, helping to
boost reserves and restrict the rand’s gains. The currency of
Africa’s biggest economy has climbed 30 percent against the
dollar since the beginning of 2009, raising the cost of exports
and making imported goods cheaper.  
 Last month, the Treasury eased its foreign currency
deposits, adding just $36 million, compared with $480 million in
July, the central bank’s data shows.  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on July 19 that the government should step up dollar
purchases to weaken the rand and save jobs. President  Jacob Zuma 
said on July 22 the Cabinet is considering that proposal, though
no decision had been made yet.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        