-- Venezuelan Inflation Slows to Match 3-Year Low on Government Food Policies
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-10-05T19:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-07/venezuela-reports-slowest-monthly-inflation-this-year-as-food-prices-ease.html
Venezuela’s monthly inflation slowed
in September, matching a three-year low, as government polices
to control food prices pushed the costs of staples down.  Consumer prices  rose 1.3 percent in September from August,
according to the central bank’s benchmark Caracas price index
published today, lower than the 1.8 percent median forecast of
seven economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Food prices fell 0.1
percent in September from a month earlier, down from a monthly
 increase  of 12.5 percent in April.  The government’s increasing role in both food production
and distribution and the guarantee of dollars to the food sector
for imports has ensured a slowdown in inflation,  Juan Pablo Fuentes , Latin American economist at Moody’s Analytics, said in
a phone interview from Philadelphia. As purchasing power
increases with the recovery of the economy, this strategy may
only work in the short term, he said.  “We haven’t seen food inflation at this level since 2007
and that explains the deceleration of prices in Venezuela,”
Fuentes said. “Once the economy begins to grow again at the end
of the year, the pressure on prices will increase and it will
not be possible to record inflation near 1 percent.”  Monthly inflation as measured by the Caracas price index
last rose less than 1.3 percent in August 2007 and has come in
at that level in September 2007 and again last December.  Focus on Food  Venezulean President  Hugo Chavez  has nationalized assets
from Cargill Inc, Gruma SAB and French retailer  Casino Guichard
Perrachon SA  in a bid to control production and distribution
chains. Today he confirmed the “forced acquisition” of the
country’s leading farm-supply business,  Agroislena  C.A. Sucesora
de Enrique Fraga Afonso.  Venezuela, which imports around 70 percent of its food, has
guaranteed the supply of dollars to the food sector through its
currency exchange commission,  Asdrubal Oliveros , director of
Caracas-based financial consulting firm Ecoanalitica said in a
phone interview.  “The sector that’s received the greatest assignation of
foreign currency has been food,” he said. “The government
wants to control price increases in these products because it
understands it is key to reducing inflation.”  Venezuela’s economy, the only one in Latin America still in
recession, shrank less than forecast in the three months through
June as the oil-exporting nation showed the first signs of
recovering from a five-quarter contraction.  Monthly inflation as measured by the central bank’s
national  consumer price index , which tracks prices across the
country, was 1.1 percent in September, the bank said. Annual
inflation was 27.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  