-- Construction Bank Dismisses Talk of Bear Stearns Bid
-- Luo Jun
-- 2007-10-17T12:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-10-17/construction-bank-dismisses-talk-of-bear-stearns-bid-update2-.html

          
          
                  Oct. 17 (Bloomberg) --  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
nation's second largest, said it will focus on acquiring
commercial banks, dismissing speculation of a possible bid for a
stake in Bear Stearns Cos.  
 The bank may make purchases overseas, Chairman  Guo Shuqing 
said in an interview today in Beijing, where the state-owned
company is based.  
 China  Citic Group, the overseas investment arm of the
Chinese cabinet, is bidding for a stake in Bear Stearns, the U.S.
securities firm hit the hardest by the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market, Citic President Chang Zhenming said yesterday.  
 Investors including  Warren Buffett , Bank of America Corp.,
Wachovia Corp., Citic Group and Construction Bank, also are
among potential bidders, the  New York  Times reported last month,
citing sources that it didn't identify.  
 China Citic Bank Corp. (998) , a unit of Citic Group, has no plans
to buy Bear Stearns shares, it said in a Hong Kong stock
exchange statement today.  
 Construction Bank bought Bank of America's  Hong Kong  and
Macau unit for HK$9.7 billion ($1.2 billion) a year ago. The
bank now has 18 outlets in Hong Kong, compared with about 13,500
in China. The company has applied to set up a branch in New York,
Guo said.  
 Guo also said Construction Bank awaits regulatory approval
to join  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  in allowing Chinese individuals to
buy Hong Kong-traded shares under a pilot program introduced by
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. The regulators are
still studying the impact on the potential flows of money across
the border.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        