-- Deathbed of Keynesian Economics Will Be in U.K.: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/deathbed-of-keynesian-economics-will-be-in-u-k-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             The U.K. has produced notable
economists over the years, but John Maynard Keynes, the guru of
government intervention, was one of truly global significance.  
 So it may be fitting that the U.K. will also become the
deathbed of Keynesian economics.  
 Britain has been following the mainstream prescriptions of
his followers more than any developed nation. It has cut
interest rates, pumped up government spending, printed money
like crazy, and nationalized almost half the banking industry.  
 Short of digging Karl Marx out of his London grave, and
putting him in charge, it is hard to see how the state could get
more involved in the economy.  
 The results will be dire. The economy is flat on its back,
unemployment is rising, the pound is sinking, and the bond
markets are bracketing the country with Greece and Portugal in
the category marked “bankruptcy imminent.” At some point soon,
even the most loyal disciples of Keynes will have to admit
defeat, and accept that a radical change of direction is needed.  
 The public debate about the state of the British economy
was enlivened last week by a brawl between economists.  
 On Feb. 14, a group that included the former Bank of
England policy makers Tim Besley, Howard Davies, Charles
Goodhart and John Vickers published a letter to the Sunday Times
calling on the government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown to
control the ballooning deficit. If it didn’t, the stability of
the economic recovery would be threatened, and there would be a
run on the pound, they warned.  
 Keynesian Backlash  
 That brought a stinging response from the Keynesians, who
are urging the U.K. to spend its way out of recession. Nobel
laureates Joseph Stiglitz and Robert Solow were among the
signatories to letters written by a group of 67 economists
insisting that deficit spending was the only way to salvage the
economy. The letters, published in the Financial Times, argued
that a “a sharp shock” now “would be positively dangerous.”  
 So who is right, and who is wrong? It’s a debate that
matters to the rest of the world. After all, if demand
management doesn’t work here, it won’t work anywhere.  
 The U.K. has some experience of mass letter writing from
Keynes’s devotees. In 1981, a group of 364 economists wrote an
open letter ripping into the policies of then Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher. They turned out to be totally wrong, of
course. With hindsight, no one can now dispute that her policies
led to a long and durable economic revival.  
 Budget Blowout  
 And just as the Keynesians were wrong three decades ago,
they are wrong now.  
 The U.K. has been in Keynes overdrive for the past 18
months. The budget deficit is already more than 12 percent of
gross domestic product, on a par with Greece. And while the
Greeks are cutting spending, the British deficit is widening.
Figures for January showed another fiscal blowout. At the same
time, interest rates have been slashed to 0.5 percent. And the
pound has slumped in value, which is supposed to boost demand
for British goods, and help close the trade gap.  
 Just about everything possible has been done to encourage
consumption. The results have been miserable.  
 Retail sales excluding gasoline in January fell 1.2 percent
from the previous month, twice as much as economists forecast.
The number of people receiving unemployment benefits jumped to
1.64 million in January, the highest level since April 1997. The
yield on U.K. government debt is now higher than on Spanish or
Italian bonds, a sure sign that investors are losing faith in
the country’s ability to pay its debts. The inflation rate has
also accelerated to 3.5 percent.  
 Triple Whammy  
 In reality, Britain has the worst of all possible worlds: a
stagnant economy, a crippling budget deficit and rising prices.  
 The Keynesian consensus is that things would have been far
worse without the stimulus provided by government. And if the
economy isn’t pumped up with inflated demand, it will collapse
back into recession. If it’s not working, that just proves the
stimulus should be even larger.  
 It is the argument quacks always push: If the medicine
isn’t working, increase the dosage.  
 And yet, reality has to intrude into this debate at some
point. The deficit can’t get much bigger, interest rates can’t
be cut much lower, and sterling can’t lose much more value.  
 Stimulating the economy isn’t working.  
 In fact, it’s only making it worse. Consumers and
businesses don’t want rising taxes. A falling currency pushes up
the cost of everything the U.K. imports, stoking inflation.
Savers get decimated, and yet the banks remain reluctant to lend
because they rightly believe the economy is in the doldrums.  
 Recipe for Recovery  
 What’s needed is a total change of direction. Get the
deficit under control. Raise interest rates to restore
confidence in the pound, and reward saving. Cut taxes to
stimulate enterprise and investment.  
 And yet the real lesson of the U.K. in 2010 will be of
wider significance. A country can’t spend its way out of a
recession. And it can’t fix what was at root a problem of too
much debt by just borrowing more and more.  
 In the country of its birth, Keynesian economics is being
tested. If the economy isn’t growing at a healthy clip again by
the end of 2010, its failure will be obvious to everyone.  
 (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        