-- Glenn Beck Offers 12 Steps to the Party of No: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-02-23T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/glenn-beck-offers-12-steps-to-the-party-of-no-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             In living color and surround sound,
straight from the ballroom of the Marriott in  Washington , a
production that portends either the coming world domination of
the Republican Party or its crack-up.  
 At the largest  Conservative Political Action Conference 
ever this past weekend, where attendance was up 20 percent (more
than half were young people  paying  $25 instead of the standard
$175 registration fee), you could see the pragmatists and
purists in full flower.  
 There’s a guy wearing a plastic sheet with an AK-47 (or
Uzi, I can’t tell the difference) on the back and too many
“Don’t Tread on Me” hats and T-shirts to count. Paraphernalia
aplenty for whatever your beef against government might be. You
have folks in the exhibition hall pushing guns, abstinence,
secession, tax protests and militias. The John Birchers, who
labeled Dwight Eisenhower a communist, had a big booth.  
 On the agenda are all the stars of the political right --
Dick Armey,  Newt Gingrich , Ann Coulter and  Glenn Beck , joined by
conservatives from Congress, like Representative  Michele Bachmann . Most of the Republican presidential hopefuls for 2012
also were there. They need the energy of the whooping crowd, but
they also want to win.  
 For Republicans, the path back to power requires that the
coalition be enlarged. They may be the Party of No but they
aren’t nihilists. Elections are won by putting the poles of your
tent as far out as possible, even if it sags in the middle.  
 But for the CPAC crowd, ideological purity is the road to
recovery. They’d like to limit membership to those willing to
submit a strand of hair to prove their DNA is 100 percent
conservative.  
 Rubio’s Star  
 Inside the hall, a candidate for the Senate like Marco Rubio got a rousing but at times muted reception when he talked
policy. A rising star, he appeals to insiders as a former
speaker of the Florida House. Yet he also attracts outsiders who
like his anti-government rhetoric and up-from-the-bootstraps
origins as a Cuban-American.  
 He made his moderate opponent, former Governor  Charlie Crist , a laughing stock for man-hugging  Barack Obama  when the
president came to Fort Myers to push the stimulus bill. He also
-- unlike  Massachusetts  Senator  Scott Brown  --- warmly and
publicly embraced the tea partiers.  
 When Rubio was throwing red meat, the crowd went wild. When
he wasn’t and touched on governing, the room grew quiet and
restive. The crowd wanted tax cuts and nothing but tax cuts.
He’s still leading in the primary against Crist but the ardor
cooled when he said in a recent interview that he would have
taken the stimulus money for his struggling state.  
 Strange Bedfellows  
 Looking at the agenda, you have to wonder what prime-time
speakers like Fox News star Beck and presidential aspirant  Mitt Romney  have in common. The latter’s hair never moves, the
former’s mouth never stops.  
 Beck refrained from barking during his speech, the most
popular of the event. His trademark chalkboard got a standing
ovation. He did make chomping sounds as he attacked the very
thought of letting infidels into the fold.  
 Beck’s idea, the prevailing one at the gathering, brooks no
compromise or fair-weather friends like Romney, who tries to
pass himself off as one of them by disavowing the beliefs he
held as governor of Massachusetts.  
 To that point, Romney, considered by many pundits to be the
leading contender in 2012, lost the convention’s straw poll. It
doesn’t mean much as Romney, who won it last year, can tell you.  
 This year, Texas Republican Representative  Ron Paul , who
ran in 2008 and is a hero of campus conservatives, won with 31
percent. If the movement could put together a candidate limb by
limb, Paul would be it all the way down to abolishing the
 Federal Reserve . Romney did come in second with 22 percent,
while Sarah Palin was a distant third with 7 percent.  
 Take the Money  
 That paltry showing has to be a case of be-there-or-be-
square for the reigning queen of the conservative movement.
Palin turned down the invitation of CPAC, which doesn’t pay its
speakers, in favor of the National Tea Party Convention, which
did.  
 Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , one of the more viable
hopefuls for 2012, embodied the dilemma of trying to govern and
be angry enough to appeal to the base of the party. The
diminutive Pawlenty urged his audience to emulate  Tiger Woods ’s
wife: “We should take a page out of her playbook and take a
nine iron and smash the window out of big government in this
country.”  
 ‘We’re in Trouble’  
 The comment came up later on “Meet the Press.” “With
that kind of rallying cry,” host David Gregory asked, “do you
really expect people to take you seriously?” Pawlenty deflected
his out-of-character moment, saying, “If we’ve gotten to the
point where you can’t make a joke, I think we’re in trouble.”  
 Beck whose hour-long speech ended the conference
demonstrated the difference between this year and last when
headliner  Rush Limbaugh , in Johnny Cash garb, bounced his way
through a speech devoted to jibes at the common enemy, Obama.  
 The common attack against Obama this year was about his
teleprompter usage -- by speakers using teleprompters. In his
speech, Beck’s enemy wasn’t Obama but the GOP, which he likened
to a newbie at Alcoholics Anonymous taking the first of the 12
steps. “Hello, my name is the  Republican Party , and I got a
problem. I’m addicted to spending and big government.”  
 We know what happened in 2000 when Green Party candidate
 Ralph Nader , at heart a Democrat, saw no differences where there
were many. Purity tests are for losers.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        