-- Tiger Woods 101 Grads Send Beautiful Woman Home: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-02-23T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/tiger-woods-101-grads-send-beautiful-woman-home-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Sports leagues and their unions,
post-Tiger Woods, have a chance to alter their rookie programs,
which are designed to help first-year players adapt to the
changes that come with moving from the school to the pros.  
 Forget the skits, which are really warnings. Cancel the
role playing that centers on how to handle relationship discord.
Nix the veteran who, through no fault of his own, never had a
prayer of penetrating the skulls of young know-it-alls sold on
invincibility.  
 Oh, and send the beautiful woman in the tight dress home.
Her loitering by the front door is no longer required.  
 OK, let’s begin.  
 Dim the lights. Quiet the fellas, most of whom deep down
think they have nothing to learn about life as a professional
athlete. They’re here because they have to be here. Says so in
the collective bargaining agreement, the same document that
enumerates just how many millions they’re to be paid.  
 Now roll tape. And let it sink in. Let the athletic marvels
pursuing riches and fame spend the next 13 minutes watching
Woods squirm, digesting just how far a global icon can sink.  
 Talk about compelling reality TV. This wasn’t some
hypothetical fall from grace.  
 Can’t happen to you? Think again, sport.  
 Today’s lesson in Tiger Woods 101 is that no one, not even
the most famous athlete on the planet, is immune from becoming a
punch line. Today’s lesson centers on accountability,
responsibility and backlash.  
 ‘I Knew’  
 “I knew my actions were wrong,” Woods said last week,
speaking for the first time since news of his rampant
infidelities hit the tabloids. “But I convinced myself that
normal rules didn’t apply.”  
 Tiger Woods thought he could get away with whatever he
wanted to.  
 “I was wrong,” he said while trying to make things right.  
 Let that sink in.  
 Odds are good the stars of tomorrow have already seen the
confessional. It was hard to miss. Practically every network
carried it live.  
 Even Wall Street took a break for Woods, who could teach
some of the money manipulators a thing or two about entitlement
and playing by the rules.  
 New York Stock Exchange volume fell to about 1 million
shares, the lowest level of the day at the time, in the minute
before the face of golf began speaking. Trading shot to about 6
million when he finished saying sorry.  
 My initial reaction was that Woods wasted our time. He
could have conveyed the same sentiments in a press release. Then
I watched it again. And then a third time, which is when his
riff about rules hit home.  
 Woods was wrong.  
 Rule Changes  
 The same rules don’t apply to athletes. That’s changing,
albeit slowly. What’s changing, and fast, is the public’s
tolerance for their transgressions.  
 Maybe it’s just the sheer abundance of athletes screwing
up.  
 Try telling Plaxico Burress the same rules don’t apply to
athletes. Or Michael Vick and Gilbert Arenas.  
 Tiger’s dalliances cost him a lot more than just a few
endorsement millions, which isn’t much to the first athlete
billionaire. It also cost him a reputation and maybe even a
family.  
 The union that represents National Basketball Association
players has included me among the guest speakers at its Rookie
Transition Program, where everyone gets a chuckle out of the
role-playing exercise where a wife or girlfriend is spending too
much money.  
 The rookies laugh, yes. Whether they learn, well, that’s
another story.  
 Stop Laughing  
 The union shook things up a few years back by hiring a
model to loiter near the conference center. Let’s just say that
she was popular. There was nothing but silence when that same
woman walked into the meeting room and told the boys-being-boys
that she was HIV positive.  
 No one was laughing.  
 Watching Woods can have the same effect. It’s just so
startling to see where Woods is, especially when you consider
that he was darned near universally loved and respected.  
 “I only thought about myself,” Woods said.  
 Wouldn’t it be something if athletes stopped for a moment
to consider someone else before loading that gun and, like
former Super Bowl hero Burress, tucking it into the waistband of
his pants?  
 Think First  
 Wouldn’t it be something if LeBron James, who shares a Dec.
30 birthday with Woods, thought about someone else, like his two
sons, before revving his Mercedes to 101 mph?  
 Woods said he worked hard his entire life and figured that
he deserved to enjoy all the temptations around him. “Thanks to
money and fame, I didn’t have to go far to find them,” he said.  
 There’s a lot that comes with fame and fortune. Foolish
doesn’t have to be included.  
 Dim the lights. Roll tape.  
 “I’ve had a lot of time to think about what I’ve done,”
Woods said.  
 Give the new guys 13 minutes to sit there and consider what
it is they’re going to do.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        