-- Israeli Dig Uncovers 3,000-Year-Old Wall From Time of Solomon
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-02-22T12:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/israeli-dig-uncovers-3-000-year-old-wall-from-time-of-solomon.html

          
          
             An ancient stone wall uncovered just
outside the Temple Mount in Jerusalem’s Old City may be the
first structural evidence of biblical King Solomon’s building in
the city, an archaeologist said today.  
 “A comparison of this latest finding with city walls and
gates from the period of the First Temple, as well as pottery
found at the site, enable us to postulate with a great degree of
assurance that the wall revealed was built by King Solomon in
Jerusalem in the latter part of the 10th century B.C.E.,” dig
director archaeologist Eilat Mazar said.  
 The six-meter-high wall and its surrounding complex of a
gatehouse and a corner tower were excavated over the past three
weeks in a dig conducted by the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
in the latest of finds linked to the reigns of David and
Solomon.  
 In December 2008, archaeologists found the remains of a
walled city over a plain where the Bible claims David killed
Goliath, and Hebrew University professor Yosef Garfinkel said
the find supported the biblical portrayal of David as a ruler of
a kingdom strong enough to field an army.  
 Palestinian archaeologists have criticized their Israeli
counterparts’ rush to link finds to the Bible. The Old City of
Jerusalem houses sites holy to all three of the world’s
monotheistic religions.  
 The section is in east Jerusalem, which was captured by
Israel in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed in a move
never internationally recognized. The Palestinians seek the area
as the capital of their independent state.  
 ‘Ruling Presence’  
 The 3,000-year-old wall discovered this month in Jerusalem
“testifies to a ruling presence. Its strength and form of
construction indicate a high level of engineering,” Mazar said.  
 “The Bible tells us that Solomon built, with the
assistance of the Phoenicians, who were outstanding builders,
the Temple and his new palace and surrounded them with a city,
most probably connected to the more ancient wall of the City of
David,” she added.  
 Mazar’s biblical reference was the Bible’s First Book of
Kings, chapter 3, verse one:  
 “And Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and
took Pharaoh’s daughter and brought her into the city of David,
until he had made an end of building his own house, and the
house of the Lord and the wall of Jerusalem around about.”  
 Discovered along with the wall were seal impressions on jar
handles with the words “to the king,” and other bullae with
Hebrew names that also testified to the royal nature of the
structure, Mazar told journalists at the site.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Israel and the Palestinians: TNI ISRAEL PAL <Go>
Top arts and lifestyle stories: MUSE <GO>  
          
          


  


        