-- Live Terrorists Are Worth More Than Dead Ones: Celestine Bohlen
-- Celestine Bohlen
-- 2010-02-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/live-terrorists-are-worth-more-than-dead-ones-celestine-bohlen.html

          
          
             The good news last week was that the
Americans, with the help of the Pakistanis, didn’t kill a top
Taliban commander. They captured him instead.  
 Alive,  Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar  might reveal some
valuable information. Dead, he would be just one of some 20 al-
Qaeda or Taliban fighters who have been picked off by Predator
drones armed with Hellfire missiles launched by the U.S.
military or the Central Intelligence Agency. The Taliban isn’t
listed as a  terrorist group  yet, though it has harbored al-Qaeda
members for years.  
 The Obama administration has stepped up these kinds of
remote-control bombardments,  launching  at least 64 drone strikes
within Pakistan in its first 13 months; in its last three years,
the Bush administration unleashed 41, according to an  analysis 
by the New America Foundation.  
 The U.S. doesn’t like to think of itself as being in the
assassination business, which is why the preferred term is
“targeted killings.” Either way, this growing practice
involves large legal and moral questions that should loom large,
but don’t -- not compared with the outcry over coercive
interrogation or extraordinary renditions.  
 How many terrorists have been killed? How many innocent
civilians? The CIA program is shrouded in secrecy, and therefore
virtually unaccountable. Information about the strikes is often
second-hand; mistakes aren’t always reported. One  study ,
published last May, cited Pakistani sources who claim more than
700 civilians have been killed by drones, or 50 civilians for
every terrorist -- a shocking ratio that explains why public
opinion in Pakistan is so outraged.  
 Death-by-Drone  
 Yet, targeted killings have barely penetrated U.S.
consciousness, let alone its conscience. You didn’t hear human-
rights groups or congressmen raise their voices over last
month’s  death-by-drone  of Hakimullah Mehsud, a 28-year-old
Taliban leader from Pakistan’s province of Waziristan accused of
orchestrating the Dec. 30 suicide attack that killed seven CIA
operatives.  
 There are reasons to support targeted killings, up to a
point. It’s sometimes the only viable way to nab top terrorists,
known killers like Mehsud, particularly those who have found
refuge in chaotic regions such as Yemen, Somalia or Waziristan,
where local governments are powerless to carry out arrests.  
 That said, it is still a second-best policy. Dead men don’t
talk; they make good martyrs; they are easily replaceable in
decentralized organizations like al-Qaeda or the Taliban -- just
a few reasons why capturing enemies such as Baradar is always
better than killing them.  
 1976 Ban  
 The U.S. still has a ban on political assassinations,
adopted in 1976 after the CIA’s botched attempts at political
murder. That ban has been eroded by the war on terrorism, but
there’s no question that the quickening shift to targeted
killings makes it hard for the U.S. government to take the high
ground when other countries -- say, Russia or Israel -- send hit
squads after their political enemies.  
 While Americans may know nothing about the innocent
civilians who have died in drone attacks in remote Pakistani
villages, the families, neighbors and countrymen of the victims
have no doubt about who was behind the unmanned killers. In the
long run,  their anger  is more likely to be a boon for the
terrorists, than any help to U.S. counterterrorism efforts.  
 Hellfire Missiles  
 Robotics already changed the way we fight wars, just as
gunpowder, fighter bombers and nuclear weapons did in the past.
This time, the change is set to fast forward. When the U.S.
invaded Iraq in 2003, it had only a handful of unmanned systems
in the air, none of them armed. Today, the U.S. has more than
7,000 such systems, ranging from 48-foot-long Predators packed
with Hellfire missiles to micro-aerial vehicles that fit in a
soldier’s backpack.  
 According to P.W. Singer, author of  “Wired for War: The
Robotics Revolution and Conflict in the 21st Century,”  robotics
is one of the fastest-growing sectors in the aerospace industry,
now in development in 44 countries.  
 Innovations like the Reaper, a smarter more heavily armed
version of the Predator, have already made our old definitions
of war outdated. “We have the equivalent of a war being
conducted in Pakistan, and yet no one views it as a war,”
Singer said. “This technology can be very seductive, because it
is seen as ‘costless,’ but there are long-term costs, and no one
is weighing them.”  
 In a  2006 study  of Israel’s history of aggressively
pursuing and killing its enemies,  Dan Byman , director of
Georgetown University’s Center for Peace and Security Studies,
found that the Israelis, who faced a constant threat of
terrorism, decided that the benefits of their policy outweighed
the costs, which included heavy international condemnation.  
 His advice then was that it would be “a mistake for the
United States to rush too far down Israel’s path” without
careful scrutiny, and public debate.  
 Since then, the U.S. has stepped up its “targeted
killings” but so fаr, no one has opened the debate.  
 ( Celestine Bohlen  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Celestine Bohlen in Paris at 
 cbohlen1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        