-- Pfizer Begins Trial of $300 Million Neurontin Claim of Misuse by Kaiser
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-02-22T23:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-22/pfizer-begins-trial-of-300-million-neurontin-claim-of-misuse-by-kaiser.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc.  illegally promoted the
epilepsy pill Neurontin for unapproved uses, causing health-care
plans to needlessly pay hundreds of millions of dollars, lawyers
for a California insurer told a jury in federal court.  
 Kaiser Foundation Health Plan Inc. and Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals claim they were misled into believing Neurontin was
effective for migraines, bipolar disorder and other conditions
in addition to epilepsy, for which the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approved the drug in 1993. Kaiser is seeking
$100 million, an amount that may be tripled under federal civil-
racketeering law.  
 “This is a case about fraud,” Thomas Greene, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs, told jurors today in Boston. Pfizer and its
Warner-Lambert unit “lied about the effectiveness of Neurontin.
My client, Kaiser, paid millions of dollars for a medicine that
was no more effective than sugar pills.”  
 The trial began today with jury selection under the
supervision of U.S. District Judge  Patti Saris , who is
overseeing federal lawsuits from throughout the U.S. targeting
 Pfizer  with injury claims and allegations of fraudulent sales
and marketing of the drug.  
 A verdict in the case may influence other Neurontin suits
against Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker. In a ruling last
year, Saris said that fraud findings against Pfizer could be
binding against the New York-based company in future trials.  
 Bipolar Disorder  
 Kaiser, based in Oakland, California, alleges Neurontin was
wrongly prescribed for off-label uses, including treatment of
neuropathic pain, and in dosages larger than the maximum
approved by the FDA. The company’s own studies showed that
Neurontin was no more effective than a placebo in treating the
condition, though Pfizer never told doctors or patients about
them, Greene said.  
 Like other third-party payers suing Pfizer, the health
insurer claims it would have saved money spent on off-label
Neurontin prescriptions if Pfizer hadn’t hidden the truth.  
 “This is a case of an insurance company, Kaiser, seeking
its money back for a medicine that provided therapeutic value
and that its own physicians prescribed using their best medical
judgment,”  Chris Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, said in a
statement. “In fact, Kaiser, through its own Web site,
recommended Neurontin for years for the same off-label uses that
contradict claims the company is making in this case.”  
 Guilty Plea  
 Warner-Lambert Co. developed and marketed Neurontin for
several years before  Pfizer acquired  it in 2000. Four years
later, Warner-Lambert pleaded guilty and agreed to pay
$430 million to resolve off-label marketing allegations by the
U.S. Justice Department.  
 Kaiser lawyers can introduce evidence about that settlement
at the trial, Saris said at a Jan. 28 hearing.  
 The Justice Department claimed in a 2004 sentencing
memorandum that Warner-Lambert’s marketing increased off-label
sales from 15 percent of all Neurontin prescriptions in 1994,
its first year on the market, to 94 percent, or $2.12 billion,
of  Pfizer’s  Neurontin sales in 2002.  
 In 2002, responding to press reports of Pfizer’s allegedly
fraudulent Neurontin marketing, Kaiser began an information
campaign that led to a 34 percent drop in Neurontin
prescriptions to its members, according to Saris.  
 Among the cases in Saris’s court are product-liability
suits claiming the drug is linked to an increased risk of
suicide. The first trial in one of those cases, over the suicide
death of a 39-year-old woman, ended when her family dropped the
case. A second is set for trial next month.  
 Trial ‘Tsunami’  
 Saris denied Kaiser and other third-party payers the right
to sue Pfizer as a group last May, ruling that they failed to
satisfy the requirements for class-action treatment. Class
certification “would inevitably result in a tsunami of
individual, complex trials,” Saris said.  
 Lawyers for the insurance companies asked Saris to review
her decision, particularly on claims of off-label marketing of
Neurontin for use by bipolar patients, claiming such sales were
clearly fraudulent. Saris said she would reconsider the issue
after the Kaiser trial.  
 “Kaiser claims 632,000 fraudulent prescriptions” were
written over an eight-year period as a result of Pfizer’s off-
label marketing, and that thousands of Kaiser doctors were duped
by the drugmaker, Raoul Kennedy, a lawyer for Pfizer, told the
jury in his opening arguments. “Yet not a single doctor has
come forward to say he was misled by the company.”  
 Off Label  
 Last month, Saris dismissed fraud claims by  Aetna Inc.  and
Guardian Life Insurance Co. against Pfizer. Unlike those
companies, Kaiser showed it had considered Pfizer’s allegedly
false claims and data in deciding to pay for off-label Neurontin
prescriptions, she said in the ruling.  
 Kaiser’s witnesses include former FDA commissioner  David Kessler  and  David Franklin , who worked as a sales representative
in Warner-Lambert’s Parke-Davis unit for four months in 1995.
Franklin filed a whistleblower complaint that resulted in the
2004 settlement. The trial is expected to last about four weeks,
Saris said.  
 The case is In Re Neurontin Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, MDL 1629, U.S. District Court,
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Cary O’Reilly  in Washington at 
 caryoreilly@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Neurontin  
                       
                         
                           Pfizer Inc. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         This is an undated company photo of a bottle of Neurontin 600 mg tablets. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     This is an undated company photo of a bottle of Neurontin 600 mg tablets.  Source:  Pfizer Inc. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
