-- Ericsson financial chief steps down after Q3 shock
-- 
-- Thu Oct 25, 2007 2:55am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/25/businesspro-ericsson-results-dc-idUSL256744120071025

 

 STOCKHOLM  (Reuters) - Telecom equipment group Ericsson's 
( ERICb.ST ) chief financial officer has stepped down in the wake 
of a shock profit warning last week which caused a massive 
selloff in the company's shares. 

  Ericsson said on Thursday Karl-Henrik Sundstrom has decided 
to leave the group and it has appointed Hans Vestberg, head of 
the company's global services unit, to replace him.  Issuing final third-quarter results after rushing early 
numbers to the market last week, Ericsson also said its 
operating margin was 13 percent, instead of a preliminary 12.9 
percent.  The final figures were otherwise broadly unchanged.  The company said the appointment was effective immediately. 
Vestberg will also remain head of global services until a 
successor is appointed.  Ericsson had stunned the market last week with numbers that 
it said fell short of its own expectations as well as the 
market's. Ericsson shares were down 30 percent on the news at 
one point, the biggest intraday fall in its history.  The company repeated on Thursday that the reason for the 
poor weak result was lower sales of network upgrades coupled 
with a higher proportion of sales of new network rollouts.  Upgrades tend to be more profitable while new networks 
generally involve greater costs and hence are less lucrative.  The company said it still expected mid-single-digit growth 
for the GSM/WCDMA market in 2007 and its early expectation was 
that current market conditions would prevail in 2008.  "The sharp decline in profit this quarter is mainly due to 
weaker sales of mobile network upgrades and expansions combined 
with continued high sales of new network buildouts," said Chief 
Executive Carl-Henric Svanberg in a statement.  "This changed business mix within networks affected group 
margins negatively. All other businesses performed as 
expected."  The comment was broadly the same as issued last week.  Ericsson confirmed that third-quarter operating income fell 
to 5.6 billion Swedish crowns ($865 million) from 8.8 billion a 
year earlier.