-- Chrysler truck plant OKs contract
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Wed Oct 24, 2007 8:35pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/25/businesspro-chrysler-uaw-dc-idUSN2433836420071025

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - A Chrysler LLC truck plant in the 
Detroit area on Wednesday voted to approve a proposed four-year 
contract, throwing the weight of a key plant behind the deal on 
a day of ratification voting expected to determine the fate of 
the controversial labor pact. 

  More than 9,000 Chrysler workers at four major Detroit-area 
plants voted on Wednesday on the proposed contract, which has 
run into unexpectedly fierce opposition from union dissidents.  In recent days, UAW locals representing over a third of 
Chrysler's work force have bucked the union's leadership team 
and voted to reject the contract.  That dissent has threatened to scuttle the proposed 
contract, which was reached between the UAW and Chrysler 
earlier this month after a strike that ran just six hours.  Of the Detroit plants voting on Wednesday, Chrysler's 
Warren, Michigan assembly plant was the first to report 
results.  A local official said the almost 3,000 workers at the plant 
making Dodge Ram pickup trucks had voted to approve the 
contract by a 78-percent margin.  The vote represented the first major Chrysler assembly 
plant to vote to approve the contract. Four other assembly 
plants had rejected the pact.  A majority of Chrysler's more than 45,000 UAW-represented 
workers have to vote to approve the contract.  Other Detroit-area plants yet to report Wednesday's vote 
tallies include Chrysler's Warren stamping plant, and a 
stamping and assembly plant in Sterling Heights, Michigan.  If the contract is rejected, UAW President Ron Gettelfinger 
could opt to go back to the bargaining table with Chrysler 
executives, recess talks or push for another round of 
ratification votes.  The last time UAW workers voted to reject a national 
contract was in 1982 when Chrysler workers voted overwhelmingly 
against a proposed contract at a time when the automaker was 
bouncing back from near failure with the help of funding from 
the U.S. government.  UAW officials have been active in campaigning to win votes 
for ratification this week after appearing to have been caught 
off guard by the strength of a grass-roots campaign to scuttle 
the contract that included the chairman of the union's Chrysler 
bargaining committee, Bill Parker.  Parker is president of UAW Local 1700 which represents some 
2,700 workers who make the Chrysler Sebring and Dodge Avenger 
sedans at the Sterling Heights plant.  Many Chrysler workers said they were angered by the union's 
failure to secure pledges from the automaker's owner, Cerberus 
Capital Management, that it would keep U.S. factories running 
beyond the 2011 expiration of the pending contract.  Others object to a historic concession that would allow 
Chrysler to bring in new workers outside the assembly line at 
just $14 per hour -- roughly half what the average UAW worker 
currently makes.  Chrysler's Belvidere assembly plant, which has emerged as a 
flashpoint in the debate over creating a second tier of 
union-represented workers, will vote on Friday.  That plant, which Chrysler considers an example of its 
success in driving down manufacturing costs, employs about 600 
temporary workers under a previous agreement with the UAW.  Gettelfinger has said he wanted to wrap up a contract with 
Chrysler before beginning talks with Ford Motor Co.( F.N ), which 
is seeking its own deep concessions.  That timetable would be complicated if the Chrysler deal 
were rejected.  Cerberus took Chrysler private in a $7.4 billion deal that 
closed in August. Former parent Daimler AG ( DAIGn.DE ) maintains 
a nearly 20 percent stake.  Under Cerberus, Chrysler has been looking for overseas 
partners that could allow it to expand its lineup and sales in 
new markets at a lower cost than by building up plants in the 
United States, which now accounts for nearly all its sales.