-- China growth slows but more tightening in store
-- By  Jason Subler  and Zhou Xin
-- Thu Oct 25, 2007 1:55am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/25/businesspro-china-economy-dc-idUSPEK14655720071025

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - Chinese economic growth slowed a touch 
in the third quarter but not by enough to dispel expectations 
of more interest rate rises and other policy curbs to stave off 
the risk of overheating. 

  Annual growth in gross domestic product eased to 11.5 
percent in the third quarter, bang in line with forecasts, from 
a 12-year high of 11.9 percent in the April-June period, the 
National Bureau of Statistics said on Thursday.  The outcome leaves China on course to grow this year at the 
fastest rate since 1993, when the economy expanded 13.1 
percent, and brings it closer to overtaking Germany as the 
world's third-largest economy.  "Industrialization, urbanization and China's global 
manufacturing power are the three engines that continue to 
drive very high growth," said Chen Xingdong, chief economist at 
BNP Paribas Peregrine in Beijing.  The Shanghai stock market  .SSEC  was down almost 4 percent 
on the day, in part as investors priced in higher borrowing 
costs. The central bank has already raised interest rates five 
times this year.  The tightly controlled yuan rose to its highest level 
against the dollar since it was revalued in 2005.  "I expect an interest rate rise any time. It's safe to say 
there'll be one more rise this year. I'd not be surprised if 
there were two," said Chris Leung, an economist with DBS in 
Hong Kong.  GDP over the first three quarters expanded 11.5 percent 
from the same year-earlier period, virtually ensuring that 2007 
will mark the fifth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
  MEASURED TIGHTENING  In another sign of its global clout, China this year is 
contributing for the first time more than the United States to 
world growth, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Although that is a source of pride for the ruling Communist 
Party, which ended its five-yearly Congress on Monday, 
statistics office spokesman Li Xiaochao said growth and 
inflation were still too high.  Premier Wen Jiabao vowed on Wednesday to keep a tight grip 
on policy for the rest of the year to tame price pressures and 
brake investment, the main driver of growth but also the root 
cause of China's worsening pollution and galloping energy 
consumption.  "What is needed is more attention to the quality of growth 
and environmental protection," Chen at BNP Paribas said.  Still, the thrust of the spokesman's comments suggested the 
pace of policy tightening will remain deliberate, not dramatic.  Li, though warning of problems, described the performance 
of the economy so far this year as sound and solid thanks to 
timely government measures such as cutting tax rebates for 
exporters.  "If we had not had these policies, the economy wouldn't be 
in as good shape as it has been in the first three quarters. 
We've seen all the indicators go from being overly fast to 
showing signs of moderating," Li said.  Investment in fixed assets such as flats and factories 
slowed a bit in September, as did annual consumer price 
inflation -- to 6.2 percent from a decade high 6.5 percent in 
August.  "I think the various tightening steps are beginning to take 
hold. Investment is still fast, but not as fast as I had 
expected," said Zhu Jianfang, chief economist at CITIC 
Securities in Beijing.
  IMBALANCES  Still, Leung at DBS said the authorities would not be able 
to lower their guard.  "Inflation was lower than August, but one month's figures 
do not mean a reversal in the uptrend. Data from the real 
economy would suggest otherwise," he said.  Li said China was well on the way to attaining President 
Hu's goal of quadrupling per capita GDP for China's 1.3 billion 
people between 2000 and 2020.  To hit the target, per capita output would need to grow by 
5.4 percent a year for the next 13 years; since it introduced 
market reforms in 1978, annual economic growth has averaged 
nearly 10 percent.  But economists said Thursday's rosy report masked 
underlying imbalances -- notably a record trade surplus that is 
inundating the economy with cash -- that Beijing needed to 
address by letting market forces play a greater role in the 
economy.  In particular they said the yuan needed to rise much 
faster.  The yuan, or renminbi (RMB), rose on Thursday to its 
highest level against the U.S. currency -- 7.4834 per dollar -- 
since it was allowed to float within tightly managed bands in 
July 2005.  But economists said the exchange rate was still too low, 
distorting relative prices and the allocation of resources.  "The RMB should be allowed to appreciate faster to deal 
with all sorts of issues associated with excess liquidity in 
China," economists at JP Morgan said in a note to clients.  "The pressure is building and the argument is gaining 
momentum within the Chinese government. We thus expect the RMB 
to appreciate faster going ahead."  (Additional reporting by  Eadie Chen  and Simon Rabinovitch 
in Beijing and Susan Fenton in Hong Kong)