-- Greek Default Beats Bailout, Lehman Lesson Shows: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2009-12-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-22/greek-default-beats-bailout-lehman-lesson-shows-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             There’s a theory making the rounds
comparing Greece with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Letting
 Lehman go broke , the story goes, was the worst policy error of
the credit crisis; with that lesson learned, the global
authorities will do anything to stop a European Union member
from defaulting.  
 I disagree. Letting Lehman collapse wasn’t the problem. The
guardians of financial stability bungled because they had
earlier backstopped Bear Stearns Cos. with a $29 billion dowry
to engineer its shotgun marriage to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That
created a false sense of security about the size of the safety
net, an inconsistency that heightened the ensuing Lehman panic.  
 Instead, the Federal Reserve should have stood aside and
let Bear Stearns fall off the cliff. The splash, while
lamentable, would have been smaller. Moral hazard would have
been minimized. Lehman would probably have survived, albeit by
sacrificing independence and finding a partner to cling to, as
Merrill Lynch & Co. did by snuggling up to Bank of America Corp.
Financial Darwinism would have been allowed to do its job of
keeping the gene pool pure.  
 A similar argument applies to Greece. Any intervention on
behalf of the European Union or the European Central Bank to
rescue the nation from its self-created economic travails would
be a disaster for the common-currency project. It would risk
paving the way for the similarly profligate to ignore their own
fiscal responsibilities, safe in the knowledge that euro
membership has its privileges.  
 Truth and Consequences  
 Greece owes its lenders about $361 billion, according to
June figures compiled by the Bank for International Settlements
in Basel, Switzerland. So, make no mistake -- a default would be
a terrible thing. The consequences of a bailout engineered by
Greece’s European peers, though, would be far worse.  
 There is no joint-and-several guarantee for euro adopters.
Just because euro-region debt is all denominated in the same
currency doesn’t mean it’s backed by a single lender of last
resort. Not only would a bailout of a distressed lender be
undesirable for moral reasons, it would also probably be
illegal, something European officials seem to be telling
bondholders.  
 German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in the Dec.
21 edition of Bild-Zeitung newspaper that Greece has been living
beyond its means for years, and can’t expect Germany to pay for
Greece’s mistakes.  Frank Schaeffler , a member of the German
parliament’s finance committee, said on Dec. 18 that any attempt
to accomplish a joint bond sale by both countries “would be the
first nail in the coffin of the euro.”  
 ‘No Mandate’  
 ECB Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  told Dow Jones
Newswires that the central bank won’t bail out debt-burdened
euro members. “The ECB has no mandate or intention to take into
account the situation of a specific country, especially not with
regard to public finances,” Dow Jones reported on Dec. 20,
citing an interview.  
 There’s no question that Greece is in an economic mess. Its
budget deficit is 12.7 percent of gross domestic product, much
worse than the 3 percent limit stipulated for euro members.
Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , who says he’ll
shrink that shortfall to 8.7 percent next year, says previous
governments misled investors about how unfit the nation’s
finances were.  
 ‘Sleight of Hand’  
 “There’s been some sleight-of-hand,” he told BBC Radio 4
in an interview on Dec. 20. “Especially in 2009, there’s been a
big difference between data reported and the underlying trends
in the deficit.”  
 The Greek banking system has borrowed about 47 billion
euros ($67 billion) from the ECB, according to figures compiled
by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, based on the amount of
collateral the nation has pledged. That’s out of the 700 billion
euros lodged at the central bank by the region as a whole.  
 Put another way, Greece has taken almost 7 percent of the
emergency liquidity that the ECB has supplied to ease the credit
crunch. Its economy, though, accounts for only about 2.7 percent
of the euro area and its public debt is about 4 percent of the
total outstanding among euro members, according to figures
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  
 Greece has already been punished by the rating companies.
Fitch cut its grade by one level to BBB+ on Dec. 8. Standard &
Poor’s followed suit on Dec. 16, warning that a further
downgrade is possible “if the government is unable to gain
sufficient political support to implement a credible medium-term
fiscal consolidation program.” Moody’s chopped its assessment
this week, also leaving the door open to more downgrades.  
 Bond Vigilantes  
 The bond vigilantes are also penalizing Greece. The
nation’s 10-year borrowing cost leaped to 6 percent this week,
up more than a percentage point in the past month and up from a
low for this year of 4.4 percent in October. Greek debt yields
about 2.50 percentage points more than that of Germany, Europe’s
benchmark borrower.  The spread , a measure of how much riskier
Greek debt is perceived to be, reached 276 basis points on Dec.
21, more than doubling in five weeks.  
 At those prices, investors aren’t yet pricing in a default.
What’s not clear, though, is whether their repayment
expectations are based on optimism that Greece will mend its
ways, or hopes that deeper pockets will be made available should
the need arise. Anyone banking on the latter is probably making
a costly mistake.  
 ( Mark Gilbert  is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers walk through a fruit and vegetable market in Athens, on Dec. 23, 2009.  Photographer: Yannis Kontos/Bloomberg  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Pond on Treasuries, Thin on Greek Debt, Currencies 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  Shaw on Greek Debt, Juckes on Economy, Bronzo on Stocks 
     
 


                 
           
                            
                     
                     George Papaconstantinou, Greece's finance minister, poses after an interview in London on  Dec. 16, 2009. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, pauses while presenting the country's draft 2010 federal budget at the Haus der Bundespressekonferenz in Berlin, on Dec. 16, 2009.  Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
