-- `Tron: Legacy' Opens Atop Box Office With $43.6 Million in Ticket Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-12-20T22:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/-tron-opens-atop-box-office-with-43-6-million-update1-.html
“Tron: Legacy,” a sequel to the
1982  Walt Disney Co . release about a man trapped in a video
game, opened as the top-grossing weekend movie, with $44 million
in ticket sales at U.S. and Canadian theaters.  “Yogi Bear,” based on the TV cartoon character, opened
second with $16.4 million for Warner Bros., researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.
“The Fighter,” expanding to 2,503 theaters from four, took in
$12.1 million to open in fourth.  Ticket sales fell for a sixth straight weekend, making it
less likely Hollywood will exceed last year’s record $10.6
billion in the U.S. and Canada. This year’s holiday films are up
against a 2009 slate that included “Avatar,” the top-grossing
film of all time, and “The Blind Side,” a surprise hit that
generated $256 million in domestic sales, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo.  “We might actually barely exceed the $10.6 (billion), but
it’s built on the back of higher ticket prices,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit,
said in an interview. “It will be a shallow victory.”  “Tron: Legacy” continues the story of programmer Kevin
Flynn, who has been trapped in a video game for 20 years. In the
new film, Flynn’s son Sam is transported into the digital world
while investigating his father’s disappearance.  Jeff Bridges 
reprises his role as Flynn.  Michael Sheen  and  Bruce Boxleitner 
co-star.  ‘The Fighter’  In “Yogi Bear,” a greedy politician decides to close
Jellystone Park and sell the land. Yogi and his friend, Boo Boo,
join forces with a park ranger to save their home.  Dan Aykroyd 
provides the voice of Yogi.  Justin Timberlake  plays Boo Boo.  “The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn
Treader,” the third film based on the C.S. Lewis books, fell to
third place from first with $12.4 million.  “The Fighter,” distributed by Viacom Inc.’s Paramount
Pictures, stars  Mark Wahlberg  as Irish-American boxer Micky
Ward.  Christian Bale  co-stars as Ward’s half-brother and
trainer, Dicky Eklund. The film was nominated for six Golden
Globe awards, including best film drama and best actor in a
drama for Wahlberg.  Disney’s “Tangled” dropped to fifth from third with $8.8
million, while the thriller “Black Swan,” took in $8.4 million
for seventh place. The film, which features  Natalie Portman  and
Mila Kunis as rival ballerinas, expanded to 959 theaters from
18. It’s been nominated for four Golden Globe awards.  ‘The Tourist’  “The Tourist,” a thriller starring  Johnny Depp  and
 Angelina Jolie , was sixth with $8.5 million. The movie, from
Sony Pictures, features Depp as a math teacher who becomes
embroiled in a Scotland Yard investigation after meeting a
mysterious woman, played by Jolie.  Sales for the weekend’s top 12 films fell 1.7 percent to
$127.7 million from a year earlier, according to Hollywood.com.
This year’s domestic box-office sales total $10.1 billion, up
1.2 percent from a year earlier. Attendance is down 3.8 percent.  Films opening in the coming week include Paramount’s “True
Grit,” “Little Fockers” from Universal Pictures and Sony’s
“Country Strong.”  “‘Little Fockers’ could be the leader, given the strength
of the earlier films,” Dergarabedian said of the third in the
series starring  Ben Stiller  and  Robert De Niro .  The amounts below are based on gross ticket sales from Dec.
17 to Dec. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net :
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 