-- Taiwan Offers Trove of Insider Data for Hedge Funds
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2010-12-20T19:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/taiwan-offers-trove-of-insider-data-for-hedge-funds-seeking-trading-edge.html
For technology companies, Taiwan is
home to the biggest custom producers of chips used in products
like  Apple ’s iPhone and  Dell  computers. For hedge funds, it’s a
cornucopia of confidential data, leaked from chipmakers and
parlayed into an edge in trading stocks of their U.S. customers.  The U.S. insider-trading investigation that began last year
with the arrest of the head of Galleon Group LLC is shedding new
light on this nexus of underground research and offshore
manufacturing. Last week, a U.S.-based employee of Taiwan’s
biggest chipmaker, moonlighting as a consultant for Primary
Global Research LLC, was charged with providing material,
nonpublic information to investors. Last month, a Primary Global
employee with ties to Taiwan was arrested in the probe.  While the Taiwan connection is just emerging in complaints
filed by the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, the nation’s black
market for business intelligence and its appeal to hedge funds
looking for an advantage are well-established. Since at least
2004, incidents of analysts dealing in confidential chip-
production data have occurred at the Taipei offices of banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc ., said six people in the finance industry with knowledge of
the events, who asked not to be identified to protect their
business relationships.  “Taiwan has been the wild, wild East,” said  Peter Douglas , a principal of Singapore-based hedge-fund consultant
GFIA Pte. “If you want to understand the global tech value
chain, you’re going to need to know what’s going on in the
Taiwan slice of it.”  SEC ‘Too Strong’  Don Ching Trang Chu , the Primary Global employee arrested
on Nov. 24, had a cadre of Asia-based employees of North
American technology companies signed up to feed information to
clients, prosecutors said in the criminal complaint against him.
The firm, based in Mountain View, California, is among about 40
“expert networks” that provide investors with access to
research and experts in a range of sectors, countries and
thousands of individual companies.  Chu offered to set up meetings with some of his experts for
hedge-fund manager  Richard Choo-Beng Lee  when he traveled to
Taiwan, according to the complaint. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission is “too strong,” Chu, a Taiwan native who
became a U.S. citizen in 1987, told Lee, according to the
complaint. “In Asia, there, nobody cares.”  Lee, co-founder of Spherix Capital LLC in San Jose,
California, was secretly cooperating with the government after
being ensnared in the Galleon case. Chu’s lawyer,  James DeVita ,
declined to comment. Chu, 56, was fired by Primary Global, which
hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing.  Financial Clues  The country’s semiconductor foundries count most major chip
designers as customers, including  Texas Instruments Inc . and
 Qualcomm Inc ., which in turn supply companies such as Apple Inc.
and Dell Inc.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co ., based in
Hsinchu, is the world’s largest contract chip manufacturer,
followed by cross-town rival  United Microelectronics Corp .
Neither TSMC nor UMC has been accused of wrongdoing in the U.S.
investigation.  The foundries’ role in the global supply chain means that
gleaning information on their orders can provide insight for
investors into the sales expectations of their customers, said
 John Crossman , a partner at Taipei-based Independent Research
Partners Co. who has worked in Taiwan’s securities industry for
20 years.  “Taiwan operated this way in part because it’s a pretty
small community and everyone knows someone personally in the
sales department of these tech companies,” with the result
being a lot of friendly information-swapping, Crossman said.
“It is tolerated because it’s assumed that everyone does it, so
the information doesn’t have explosive value.”  TSMC  fell 2.3 percent, the most in three months, to
NT$71.20 in Taipei, while UMC declined 1.5 percent to NT$16.45.
The benchmark Taiex index dropped 49.18, or 0.56 percent, to
8768.72, ending a five-day rally.  In early 2007, Lehman Brothers’ compliance team received
reports that a Taiwan technology analyst was getting TSMC
production data and passing it on to selective clients.  Lines Blurred  Two compliance officers flew in to investigate and
concluded there was no breach of policy, according to three
people familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
because the probe was confidential. The investigators found such
activity so common in Taiwan that no clear distinction could be
made between legitimate research and insider trading, these
people said. The analyst was disqualified from getting a
promotion, however.  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman in New York,
declined to comment.  In 2004, a Taipei-based member of JPMorgan Chase’s research
team seeking a position at Merrill Lynch & Co. produced during
an interview a TSMC spreadsheet, which the candidate said showed
monthly customer shipments, according to a person with knowledge
of the meeting, who declined to be identified because the
details were confidential. The candidate didn’t get the job.  Hedge Funds  Mark Tsang , a Hong Kong-based spokesman at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, declined to comment, as did  Marie Cheung , a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase in Hong Kong.  The principal players in Taiwan’s intelligence black market
have evolved, according to the people with knowledge of the
matter. From about 2004 to 2007, they were semiconductor
analysts at sell-side firms, exploiting their contacts at TSMC
and UMC to get confidential data. The analysts have been mostly
supplanted since the 2008 financial crisis by expert networks
like Primary Global.  The most important customers have remained the same: hedge
funds.  “There were a number of hedge funds that realized getting
data points was the way to invest, and Taiwan was one of the
first places where this caught on,” said Crossman of
Independent Research.  No Taiwan Cases  No hedge funds have been accused of insider-trading in
Taiwan. Stocks not listed in the country don’t come under the
jurisdiction of the island’s regulators, according to  Lin Tung- liang , chief secretary at the Taipei-based Financial Supervisory
Commission. The U.S. probe has focused on domestic stocks.  Galleon registered its Galleon Asia-Pacific (HK) Ltd. in
Taiwan in January 2008, according to records at the country’s
economy ministry. The office closed and New York-based Galleon
liquidated after co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam  was arrested in
October 2009 for allegedly being at the center of two insider-
trading rings.  Rajaratnam has said he is innocent, and no one at the
Taiwan office has been accused of wrongdoing. Jim McCarthy, a
spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to comment.  Another firm with a Taiwan presence was Loch Capital
Management LLC. Loch’s Boston headquarters were searched last
month as part of the federal insider-trading investigation. The
Taiwan office voluntarily deregistered in November 2009.  Loch said in a Dec. 3 letter to investors that it received
a subpoena and that it isn’t the target of a government probe.
Mark O’Toole, a spokesman for the firm, declined to comment.
Loch hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing in the U.S. or Taiwan.  Incentive for Analysts  Funds still operating in Taipei include Clairvoyance
Capital Management Inc., Cavalry Management Group LLC and Empire
Capital Management LLC, according to registration details from
Taiwan’s economy ministry. The firms declined to comment or
didn’t respond to telephone calls or e-mails seeking comment on
the Taiwan hedge-fund industry.  For analysts, providing clients with tips is a way to boost
their reputations and win votes in investor rankings, according
to  Vincent Chen , head of Greater China technology research at
Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei. A top spot in Institutional
Investor’s annual All-Asia Research Team can lead to a pay raise
and more clients for their firms.  “An analyst’s main purpose is to get votes for themselves
and brokerage business for their firm,” Chen said in a
telephone interview.  Spreadsheet Details  One example of a data sheet, obtained by Bloomberg News,
shows a rolling update in expected demand for TSMC’s factories
in a specific quarter, broken down by customer. The information
shows that some customers increased their forecast for
production demand while others left their expectations
unchanged, according to a person familiar with the data who
declined to be identified because it’s confidential.  Elizabeth Sun , a TSMC spokeswoman, said that while the
format looked familiar, she couldn’t verify if the document was
genuine.  Manufacturers and customers have said they were frustrated
by the dissemination of inside information. In a June 30, 2006,
e-mail, TSMC’s North America operations chief,  Rick Cassidy ,
related to Taiwan colleagues a formal complaint filed by  Atheros
Communications Inc ., which said its foundry production data was
being leaked to hedge funds.  Customers’ Suspicions  The document was introduced as evidence in a lawsuit filed
by TSMC against Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. and settled in November 2009. The litigation
was unrelated to insider trading and dealt with a patent and
breach of contract dispute between the two Asian companies.  Cassidy said in the e-mail that he’d discussed the Atheros
complaint with  Paul Franklin , vice president operations of the
Santa Clara, California-based company, and  Jack Lazar , chief
financial officer, whom, wrote Cassidy, “has recently been
talking to a number of hedge funds that know specific
information about Atheros (and other TSMC customers, Broadcom,
Marvell, etc.) that is not public information.”  In verbal testimony given at the trial, Cassidy said other
clients had also expressed their concerns to TSMC about data
leaks from the foundry, according to a court transcript.  Molly Mulloy, a spokeswoman for Atheros, declined to
comment. TSMC’s Sun declined to comment on specific cases or
investigations it has conducted.  Recruiting Drive  “Around 2004, there were more rumors floating around about
our customers and wafer shipments, so we did step up our
investigations further,” she said. The company put on a seminar
about insider trading, at which it warned employees to be on the
defensive with people trying to get access to sensitive
information.  It was during that period that expert networks began
stepping up their contacts with employees, according to Sun. She
recalled representatives of Gerson Lehrman Group seeking to
recruit TSMC employees as consultants in its expert network, the
industry’s largest. Sun said the company’s general counsel wrote
to Gerson Lehrman, asking that the firm stop contacting TSMC
workers. The company doesn’t allow employees to engage in
outside work, Sun said.  In January 2006, a Gerson Lehrman attorney, Michael
O’Toole, sent an e-mail to Sun in which he said the firm had
contacted some TSMC employees about being consultants and was
unaware of company rules barring it.  “I wanted to reach out to you to discuss and better
understand Taiwan Semiconductor’s policies on employee
consulting,” O’Toole said in the e-mail, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Sun replied in an e-mail that TSMC’s general counsel and
human resources head advised her that employees were prohibited
from expert-network consulting. Gerson Lehrman said in an
internal e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News that it would comply
with TSMC’s prohibition. The New York-based firm has a marketing
agreement with Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Inside Job  Still, Manosha Karunatilaka, an account manager at TSMC’s
office in Burlington, Massachusetts, began talking to clients of
Primary Global in September 2008, according to the complaint
filed when he was arrested on Dec. 16. Karunatilaka provided
inside information to a second cooperating witness in the U.S.
investigation, prosecutors said.  Karunatilaka received production reports on the foundry’s
top 10 customers, and was paid $200 per call to consult with
Primary Global clients, prosecutors said in the complaint.  TSMC’s customers typically provide monthly forecasts and
place orders based on those forecasts, Karunatilaka said to the
witness, according to the complaint. “You can kind of estimate
what will be the shippings, you know, based on that,” he said.  TSMC said in a statement that Karunatilaka, 37, has been
fired.  Brad Bailey , an attorney for Karunatilaka, said in a
telephone interview that he’s reviewing the case and declined to
comment on any specifics alleged in the complaint. Two messages
left at a Marlborough, Massachusetts, number listed under the
name Karunatilaka weren’t returned.  Additional Arrests  Arrested on the same day as Karunatilaka were  James Fleishman , a sales manager at Primary Global; Mark Anthony
Longoria, a supply manager at  Advanced Micro Devices Inc . who
worked as a Primary Global expert; and  Walter Shimoon , an
employee of  Flextronics International Ltd . who was also in the
expert network.  A fifth man, Daniel DeVore, formerly a supply manager at
Dell, pleaded guilty in federal court in New York on Dec. 10 to
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and wire fraud as part of
the probe. He is cooperating with the investigation.  UMC has also faced the problem of people seeking inside
information for their clients, said  Liu Chi-tung , its chief
financial officer. Several years ago, the company discovered a
secretary had made friends with analysts and regularly met them
to discuss company information, he said.  ‘Outside Official Windows’  The secretary was fired, said Liu, who declined to name the
worker or the analysts. No secret information was released,
according to Liu.  “Some try to make contact with UMC outside of the official
windows, yet we have tight control and haven’t had any leaks
that I’m aware of,” said Liu, who joined the company in 2001.  The arrests of Chu and Fleishman showed the government’s
heightened interest in investors’ use of expert networks and
whether they have crossed the line from legitimate research to
insider information.  “Any fundamentally driven investment strategy is going to
try to create an information edge,” said Douglas, the GFIA
consultant. “The question is whether you’re doing that legally,
morally and ethically, or not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 John Helyar  in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Edelman at   ledelman3@bloomberg.net  