-- Maria Sharapova Ends 10-Year Tennis Sponsorship Deal With Prince Sports
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-19T20:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/maria-sharapova-ends-10-year-sponsorship-agreement-with-prince-sports.html
Former Wimbledon tennis champion
 Maria Sharapova  ended her 10-year sponsorship agreement with
racket manufacturer  Prince Sports Inc. , both parties said.  “Sharapova’s contract with Prince allowed the parties to
mutually agree to end the relationship this year and Sharapova
and Prince have decided to do so,” Prince and Sharapova said in
an e-mailed statement.  Max Eisenbud, the Russian’s agent at IMG, declined to
comment on which racket she’ll use next. No reason was given for
the end of the relationship.  Sharapova, 23, had been playing with a Prince racket since
she was nine years old. All three of her major titles --
Wimbledon, the U.S. Open and the Australian Open -- were won
with a Prince racket.  Gordon Boggis, chief executive of Bordentown, New Jersey-
based Prince Sports, thanked the former world No. 1 for being a
“great partner.” As the partnership is wound down, Prince will
continue to have the rights to market and sell Maria Sharapova
signature-line products throughout 2011, the statement said.  “I have thoroughly enjoyed my partnership with Prince,”
Sharapova said in the statement. “Their rackets helped me to
three great slam victories and much more. I will always retain
nothing but the highest admiration for Prince.”  Sharapova is the world’s highest-paid female athlete, with
annual earnings from endorsements and prize money of $24.5
million, according to an estimate by Forbes magazine in August.  The Russian, who finished the season ranked 18th on the  WTA
Tour , in January extended her sponsorship agreement with  Nike
Inc . by eight years for $70 million, a person with knowledge of
the contract said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at the London sports desk at 
2284 or  celser@bloomberg.net  