-- Las Vegas Sands’ Leven Says Macau Seeking Orderly Casino Growth
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-12-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/las-vegas-sands-leven-says-macau-seeking-orderly-casino-growth.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. , the biggest
developer on Macau’s Cotai Strip, said recent curbs on land
concessions signal the regional government is seeking more
“orderly growth” of new casino resorts.  Macau, the only part of China where casinos are legal, is
trying to avoid a repeat of 2008, when the financial crisis
halted several projects and workers were laid off, Chief
Operating Officer  Mike Leven  said in an interview in New York.
Building projects consecutively rather than simultaneously may
ease labor shortages and avoid periods of unemployment, he said.  Land rights for future projects will be subject to public
auction, Jaime Carion, director of Macau’s Land, Public Works
and Transport Bureau, said last week, according to the Macau
Daily Times.  Las Vegas Sands’  Hong Kong-listed  Sands China Ltd. 
said on Dec. 2 the government rejected the company’s application
to develop Cotai sites 7 and 8, a decision that may be appealed.  “They’re trying to manage growth in a healthy way,” Leven
said. “They’re probably not going to allow them all to be built
at once. When one gets built and gets close to opening, they’ll
allow the next one to start construction, and it will open after
the existing property ramps up.”  Macau also rejected casino company  SJM Holdings Ltd. ’s
request for the same sites, the Wall Street Journal reported on
Dec. 17.  Billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , Sands’ founder and chief
executive officer, has restarted his expansion in the world’s
biggest casino center, where the company operates the Sands
Macao, Venetian Macao and Four Seasons casino resorts.
Construction has resumed on Cotai sites 5 and 6, where Sands is
building St. Regis, Shangri-La, Sheraton and Traders resorts.  Site 3  Work stopped in late 2008 during the financial crisis.
Adelson invested more than $1 billion of his family money in the
company to eliminate bankruptcy concerns.  The company also has rights over site 3, the next area it
has slated for new hotels and casinos. Las Vegas-based  MGM 
Resorts International and  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  also plan casinos on
Cotai to expand their existing presence in the territory.  Projects by Wynn, MGM and Sands’ site 3 may be the next
three Cotai casinos allowed, Leven said.  “My feeling is Macau will allow it to grow, just not all
at the same time,” Leven said.  Adelson, 77, envisions Cotai as China’s Las Vegas Strip,
and has said he wants thousands of hotel rooms and new
developments to create a convention hub and attract more mass-
market vacationers.  Betting Big  Macau’s casino gambling revenue has jumped 57 percent to
169.5 billion patacas ($21.2 billion) this year through
November, boosted by visitors from China’s mainland.  Hong Kong-based  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd . is building
a Cotai resort set to open next year after work slowed in 2008.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd . opened its second Macau
casino, City of Dreams, on Cotai in June 2009. Melco Crown is a
joint venture between  Lawrence Ho , son of Macau’s original
casino monopoly holder,  Stanley Ho , and  James Packer ’s Crown
Ltd., Australia’s biggest casino owner. SJM is controlled by
Stanley Ho.  Wynn Resorts , owner of the Wynn and Encore casinos in Las
Vegas and Macau, is “ready to begin” site work on its first
Cotai resort, CEO  Steve Wynn  said on a Nov. 2 earnings call. The
project will cost $2 billion to $3 billion and open in 2015, he
said.  MGM Resorts , the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas
Strip, plans to build its second Macau resort in Cotai, and will
follow Wynn and Sands with a Hong Kong initial public offering.
The MGM Grand Paradise SA is MGM’s joint venture with Stanley
Ho’s daughter  Pansy Ho .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  