-- Australian Government Won't Be `Stampeded' by Retailers Over Online Sales
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-19T05:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/australian-government-won-t-be-stampeded-by-retailers-over-online-sales.html
The Australian government won’t be
“stampeded’ by retailers over the threat to businesses from
goods sold by offshore websites, Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten  said.  ‘‘We respect the fact that large retailers have ongoing
concerns,’’ Shorten told Bloomberg News today in an e-mail.
‘‘But we will not be stampeded into making rash decisions
because of a vocal minority, especially when the majority of the
sector and consumer groups support our sensible, measured
approach.’’  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. , Australia’s largest furniture
and electrical retailer, and  Premier Investments Ltd. , whose
chairman, Solomon Lew, was a former executive chairman of Coles
Myer Ltd., are among retailers who criticized a government
inquiry into the future of retailing announced yesterday. They
say the probe will be too slow to tackle the danger from the
growth in online purchases from abroad.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration yesterday
announced the inquiry into the impact of globalization on
domestic retailers. It said the Productivity Commission will
report its findings in 2011 as the government seeks to safeguard
the future of an A$242 billion ($239 billion) industry.  The Commission also plans to start a ‘‘compliance
campaign” to ensure that sales taxes and customs duty
concessions on imports aren’t being exploited, Minister for Home
Affairs  Brendan O’Connor  said in yesterday’s statement.  Too Late  The inquiry will be completed “too late” to stop some
retailers going out of business shortly after Christmas, Harvey
Norman’s executive chairman  Gerry Harvey  said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  The Australian National Retailers Association -- which
represents companies including  Woolworths Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest retailer, as well as Harvey Norman and others -- and the
Australian Retailers Association, whose members are smaller
companies, today backed the government’s approach.  “We’re all trying to achieve the same end here,” ARA’s
Executive Director Russell Zimmerman said by telephone from
Sydney. “The government has taken a very holistic approach to
this review, and I think to try and force the government’s hand
without knowledge of what the actual problem is means you may
end up fixing it the wrong way.”  He said only about 3 percent of Australia’s retail market
is currently affected by a problem that is nonetheless “growing
exponentially.”  The government “has taken seriously the concerns of the
retail sector in difficult economic conditions,” ANRA’s Chief
Executive  Margy Osmond  said in a statement e-mailed today.  The associations together represent the bulk of Australia’s
retailing industry.  Evading Duty  “You’ve got every second person in the country importing
things from overseas, evading duty, not paying sales tax,”
Harvey said yesterday. “It’s gaining momentum at a rapid rate.
Rather than clip it in the bud, they’ll end up doing something
about it, but it will be too late.”  Premier Investments’ Lew, who has also been a Reserve Bank
of Australia board member, echoed Harvey’s sentiments.  “What we all agree on is that the Australian retail sector
is hurting and the government appears to be on the side of the
overseas retailers,” he said in an e-mail today.  He called on the government to immediately abolish the
sales tax for all purchases under the present A$1,000 threshold,
rather than only in the case of offshore purchases.  ‘All we’re asking for is an even playing field,’’ Lew said.
“Then consumers really will see savings.” Premier is
Australia’s largest specialty-clothing retailer.  Australian Dollar  The threat to retailers has been exacerbated by a
strengthening currency, which has increased the spending power
of consumers shopping overseas. The Australian dollar has
advanced 18 percent since the end of June, the most of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, reaching parity with the
greenback in October for the first time since July 1982.  “There is no denying that retailers are doing it tough,”
Shorten said today. “But having no GST on a relatively small
number of overseas imports is not the chief reason for slow
retail in Australia. Other factors, including the high
Australian dollar, ongoing aftershocks of the global financial
crisis and the fact that Australians are simply spending less
this Christmas are much larger concerns.”  Harvey said an alliance of retailers has been formed to
press the case. The group includes  Westfield Group , the world’s
largest owner of shopping centers, and  Myers Holdings Ltd. ,
Australia’s biggest department store chain, the Weekend
Australian newspaper reported yesterday.  Ad Campaign  The report said the alliance is planning newspaper and
television advertisements similar to those used by the mining
industry against a resources tax, which played a part in
toppling former Labor Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  A separate article in the Weekend Australian said mining
companies are planning new advertisements against the
government, believing they were misled over the so-called
mineral resources rent tax.  “All certain people are doing at the moment is joining
together to try and figure out what to do,” Harvey said. “If
that means mounting an advertising campaign at the same time as
the miners are going to do theirs or whatever, certainly if the
government’s faced with a double onslaught like that, and the
slightest little thing happens out there, see you later
government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  