-- Australia Rebounds to Snatch Momentum, Favoritism in Ashes Cricket Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-20T04:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/australia-rebounds-to-snatch-momentum-in-quest-to-regain-cricket-s-ashes.html
Australia needed 50 minutes to tie
the Ashes cricket series at 1-1 and take the favorite’s status
from England with two matches left in the best-of-five contest.  The Australians sealed a 267-run win in the third Test in
Perth before the first drinks break on day four as fast bowler
Ryan Harris took 6-47 to help skittle England out for 123.  The victory with more than five sessions to spare followed
an innings and 71-run defeat in Adelaide and a first-day batting
collapse at Perth that had prompted one local bookmaker to pay
out on England retaining the Ashes. Australia is now the
oddsmakers’ favorite to regain the trophy.  “We got a nice old hiding in Adelaide last week and to
bounce back as dramatically and drastically as we’ve been able
to says a lot about us,” Australia captain  Ricky Ponting  told
reporters. “Momentum and confidence is a great thing in sport.
We’ve got the tide going back in our direction again.”  It was Australia’s first win in six elite Tests since
beating Pakistan in July. A victory for England at the WACA
Ground would have given it an unbeatable 2-0 series lead, enough
to retain the Ashes following last year’s 2-1 triumph in the 
U.K.  Andrew Strauss ’s team arrived in Perth after dominating
since day three of the opening match in Brisbane, though managed
only 310 runs over two innings as Australia’s gamble in
selecting four fast bowlers and leaving out a specialist spinner
paid off.  Harris and recalled fast bowler  Mitchell Johnson  finished
with nine wickets apiece to help reignite the contest heading to
the fourth Test in Melbourne starting Dec. 26.  ‘Perspective’  “We have to retain a sense of perspective,” Strauss said.
“This result doesn’t make us a bad team overnight. We need to
retain the confidence we built from the first two Tests and come
out all guns blazing in Melbourne.”  Australia is now the 6-4 favorite to win the series ahead
of 13-8 chance England, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill.
That means a successful $4 bet on the home team will bring in $6
and the original stake.  Johnson’s haul of 6-38 in England’s first innings, which
included taking four wickets in 27 balls, stole the momentum
from England, Ponting said. Strauss and opening partner  Alastair Cook  had taken the score to 78-0 in reply to Australia’s 268
before Johnson tore through England’s top order.  “To have that happen when it did, and have him coming into
the game under a bit of pressure as well, was an amazing
achievement from him and brilliant for the team,” Ponting said.
“It’s set up this victory and no doubt now set up the series
for us.”  Johnson Rebounds  Johnson, the International Cricket Council’s Player of the
Year in 2009, was named man of the match after finishing with
match figures of 9-82 and top scoring with 62 in Australia’s
first-innings. He was dropped for the first time in his career
in Adelaide after going wicket-less in Brisbane.  Harris finished with 9-106 in the match, while  Mike Hussey ’s 116 in the second innings put Australia in control and
lifted him past Cook as the top run scorer in the series with
517 runs in five innings.  Needing another 310 runs for the win after losing its top-
five batsmen for 81 runs late on day three, England added 42
runs to its overnight total to slump to its first defeat since
arriving in Australia on Oct. 30. Harris removed four of the
five Englishman to fall in 10 overs yesterday.  Strauss said England may consider changes for Melbourne
that could include elevating right-hander  Ian Bell  above  Paul Collingwood  to No. 5 in the batting order. Bell is averaging
71.00 in the series compared with Collingwood’s 15.50.  Options Open  “Ian Bell looks in very good form,” England coach  Andy Flower  told reporters today. “Jiggling with batting orders and
personnel is always an option but you also have to be careful
about altering a side that’s been very successful over the last
18 months. Of course those options are always open.”  Australia named an unchanged 12-man squad even after
Ponting didn’t take the field yesterday after fracturing his
left little finger when trying to take a catch late on day three.
The Australian slipper said he’s a “really good chance” of
playing at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on Boxing Day.  As holder of the Ashes, England would keep the trophy by
tying the series. The English last successfully retained the
Ashes in 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s team secured a 2-1 series
win in Australia.  Ponting said the onus is now back on Strauss’s squad.  “England will be just starting to have a look at, one,
their team makeup for Melbourne, and two, the sort of cricket
they have to play if they want to beat us,” Ponting said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at  at
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  