-- Baker Steel Plans Gold Fund After 44% Gain, Expects Record Prices in 2011
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-19T22:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/baker-steel-plans-gold-fund-after-44-gain-expects-record-prices-in-2011.html
Baker Steel Capital Managers LLP , a
London-based firm managing about $1.7 billion, plans a new gold
fund, predicting another year of record prices for the metal.  The fund will hold physical gold and shares of producers
worldwide, Managing Partner  David Baker  said in an interview.
He’s seeking as much as $200 million from investors, mainly in
Europe, and may start buying assets for the fund next quarter.  The firm’s existing  Baker Steel Gold Fund  climbed 44
percent in the first 11 months as bullion jumped and shares of
Toronto-listed Great Basin Gold Ltd. and  Nevsun Resources Ltd. 
surged. Baker, a metallurgist, expects gold will rise as miners
struggle to discover fresh fields and Asian central banks
bolster reserves.  “Gold isn’t in a bubble,” said Sydney-based Baker, who
founded Baker Steel Capital Managers in 2001. “We’re not
finding enough to grow supply. We’re having to go to more
marginal projects and third-world countries where there are more
risks.”  Gold has gained 25 percent this year, reaching a record
$1,432.50 an ounce on Dec. 7. Baker, a gold analyst in Sydney
and London in the 1980s, said the price may climb past $1,800 in
2011.  Investors often turn to gold to hedge against inflation.
The price jumped after most major currencies strengthened this
year against the dollar, the world’s reserve currency, while the
Federal Reserve kept borrowing costs near zero and injected
money into the economy with a fresh round of bond purchases.  Asian Buying  Baker, 51, said Europe’s debt crisis may force the European
Central Bank to print money, fanning inflation. In China, where
consumer prices rose at the fastest pace in 28 months in
November, the central bank must be considering buying gold over
the U.S. dollar, he said.  “Something has to give and the only thing that’s giving is
gold -- it’s going up,” he said in the Dec. 15 interview in
Sydney. “As soon as other Asian central banks see China doing
something, they’ll do it as well.”  Of 21 Asia-Pacific countries, only Pakistan has cut its
gold reserves in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In China, gold imports jumped almost fivefold in the
first 10 months from the entire amount shipped in last year, the
Shanghai Gold Exchange said Dec. 2. Most of it was made into
mini gold bars, which Chinese investors like to hold, the
exchange said.  Baker said 71 percent of the companies held by the  Baker
Steel Gold Fund  have started producing gold, and the largest
concentration of mines is in Africa. Investing in the miners, as
well as the physical metal, gives the fund the chance to
outperform bullion.  Nevsun, Resolute  Vancouver-based Nevsun Resources, whose  stock  has more than
doubled this year, has said it expects to begin gold production
at the Bisha mine in Eritrea in the final quarter. Great Basin
Gold, which said two months ago the start-up of its South
African project is “on track,” climbed 62 percent. The stocks
are among the largest 10 holdings in the  Baker Steel Gold Fund .  Perth-based Resolute Mining Ltd., the fund’s biggest
holding at the end of October, has climbed 26 percent in 2010.
The stock, which is trading at 17 times estimated earnings, is
“ridiculously cheap,” according to Baker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  