-- Biden Says Ending Tax Cuts for Wealthiest Americans Is Democratic 2012 Aim
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-19T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/biden-says-ending-tax-cuts-for-wealthy-is-a-target-for-2012.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said ending
tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans will be an administration
goal for 2012 and predicted Democrats would be able to advance
measures that get more revenue from the highest earners.  “We will be able to make the case much more clearly that
spending $700 billion over 10 years to extend tax cuts for
people whose income averages well over a million dollars does
not make sense,” Biden said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.” The vice president also said the economy would be
stronger in two years.  Biden defended the tax-cut compromise President  Barack Obama  forged with Republican leaders and signed into law Dec.
17, saying it would boost economic growth and lower an
unemployment rate that is hovering near 10 percent.  “This is going to grow the economy faster next year than
it would have,” Biden said. “That means more people
employed.”  The legislation extends through 2012 -- when Obama faces
re-election -- all reductions on income, capital gains and
dividends that were originally enacted in 2001 and 2003. It also
continues expanded unemployment insurance benefits through 2011,
cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011 and lets
businesses write off 100 percent of capital investments.  Democratic Defectors  Some Democrats defected from the administration’s deal and
voted against the plan, arguing it betrayed campaign promises
not to extend tax breaks for the richest Americans. They had
argued that the U.S. couldn’t afford to keep the tax cuts for
families with incomes exceeding $250,000 a year. They also
unsuccessfully pressed for higher taxes on the biggest estates.  “We did go to the mat,” Biden said. “We got to the end,
we couldn’t get it done and we had to make a decision.”  The agreement prevented tax rates across-the-board from
rising on Jan. 1.  Biden said both he and Obama still believe the tax cuts
enacted under Republican President  George W. Bush  for the top
earners are “morally troubling.”  Biden praised congressional passage yesterday of a measure
to repeal the “don’t ask, don’t tell” ban on military service
by openly gay men and women.  “We will not be squandering the abilities of combat
soldiers as well as interpreters who happen to have a different
sexual preference,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  