-- BNP Leads Biggest Lending Push in Two Years: Russia Credit
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-19T21:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/bnp-leads-biggest-lending-push-in-two-years-as-rates-tumble-russia-credit.html
International banks led by BNP
Paribas SA are lending the most in Russia since 2008, turning to
companies in the world’s biggest  energy exporting economy  for
higher returns as  loan rates  tumble in Europe.  Russian companies borrowed $10.1 billion this month, taking
the total this year to $39.6 billion, more than twice the amount
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO Sberbank 
borrowed $2 billion last week in the largest syndicated loan for
a Russian bank, paying annual interest at 150 basis points, or
1.5 percentage point, over the London interbank offered rate for
three years. The rate compares with margins of at least 250
basis points for three-year loans provided to state-owned
lenders  Vnesheconombank  and OAO Gazprombank this year.  Banks outside of Russia are looking east as improved
corporate profits drives loan rates in western Europe to as
little as 12.5 basis points over benchmark interbank rates for
Nestle SA, the Vevey, Switzerland-based food manufacturer.
Lenders are stepping up credit to Russia as a 21 percent gain in
oil prices in the past four months boosts confidence in the
economy’s recovery.  “The market is wide open for top quality Russian names,”
said  Mark Waters , the London-based head of loan syndication to
energy and commodity companies at BNP Paribas. The Paris-based
bank overtook Credit Agricole CIB as the biggest lender to
Russia and the former Soviet Union this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. “We’re still seeing pricing levels that are
attractive to lenders” in Russia, he said.  Syndicated loans to Russian companies climbed 140 percent
from $16.7 billion last year. The market exceeded the equivalent
of $28 billion raised from domestic bonds, a turnaround from
last year when local debt was the bigger market.  Reduced Interest  “Issuers are adding loans to balance and optimize
investor demand,”  Herbert Moos , deputy chairman of VTB Group,
Russia’s second-biggest lender, said by e-mail.  Banks competing to lend in Russia have reduced the average
interest margin by 19 percent to 350 basis points from 432 last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The decline in western
Europe has been steeper at 37 percent, taking the average for
loans to investment-grade borrowers to 109.3 basis points, the
lowest since 2007, the data show.  Gains in Russian government dollar bonds due in 2020 pushed
the yield 7 basis points lower to 5.086 percent on Dec. 17. The
country’s ruble notes due August 2016 were little changed,
leaving the yield at 7.58 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield that investors demand over U.S. Treasuries
to hold Russian debt, rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
rose 8 basis points to 209, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Indexes. The difference compares with 147 for debt of
similarly rated Mexico and 188 for Brazil, which is rated two
steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield  spread on Russian bonds is 43 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, near the smallest difference
since September 2009 and down from a 15-month high of 105 in
February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 142,
down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data provider
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 10 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  Deal ‘Pipeline’  The ruble climbed less than 0.1 percent to 30.6890 per
dollar, bringing its weekly increase to 0.8 percent. Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.0600 per dollar in three months.  Borrowing costs in Russia are still higher than two years
ago, when Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, got a three-
year loan paying interest 85 basis points above Libor, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.   “There is good space for Russian top companies and banks
to lower their borrowing costs, as banks return more heavily to
emerging-market lending,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging market
credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “Russian
borrowers are back in the pipeline even more than Latin American
and Asian companies.”  Sberbank may borrow from the syndicated loan market again
next year, as well as issue Eurobonds “depending on market
conditions,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Bella Zlatkis  told
reporters in Moscow on Dec. 17. Sberbank’s loan was quoted at
98.75 percent of face value on Dec. 17, according to WestLB AG
prices.  Rusal Restructuring  United Co. Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum producer,
plans to begin discussions with banks early next year for $5
billion of new borrowing, including loans to refinance existing
debt, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Oleg Mukhamedshin  said in
an interview in London on Dec. 1. The Moscow-based company
renegotiated $17 billion of loans to foreign and Russian lenders
last year in the country’s biggest corporate restructuring.  Banks reduced the interest Rusal pays over Libor to 450
basis points in September, from 550 in June and 700 in December
2009. The company expects to cut borrowing costs further next
year, Mukhamedshin said.  The increase in Russian borrowing contrasts with other
emerging markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, where
lending declined 43 percent this year to $282 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia’s economy  is recovering from a 7.9 percent
contraction last year, the country’s worst slump since the
Soviet Union collapsed two decades ago. The government expects
3.8 percent growth in 2010 and 4.2 percent next year, compared
with official forecasts of about 1.4 percent growth in the
Eurozone.  “We’ve seen a lot of banks move back into Russia,” said
 John Starling , a director for HSBC Holdings Plc’s loan syndicate
in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 