-- China Declines to Condemn North Korean Shelling as South Prepares Drill
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-19T23:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/china-declines-to-condemn-north-korean-shelling-as-south-prepares-drill.html
United Nations Security Council
efforts to calm tensions between North and South Korea were
stalled as China refused to support a resolution condemning the
North for a Nov. 23 attack on a South Korean-held island.  China declines to join a majority of the Security Council
members in condemning the North Korean attack, according to a
diplomat present at the meeting who spoke with reporters on
condition of anonymity. The Chinese mission to the UN didn’t
respond to a telephone message requesting comment.  Russia called an emergency session of the UN council today
saying it feared “further escalation of tensions” on the
Korean peninsula after South Korea said it would hold live-fire
artillery drills on an island near North Korea’s coast.  South Korea will go ahead with the drill sometime
Dec. 20, said an official at South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff
who declined to be named, citing military policy. The official
wasn’t able to give a time for the drill in the disputed western
sea border of the two nations.  South Korea’s last artillery exercise in the area, where it
fired shells into the sea off the Southern-held Yeonpyeong
island, were met with a return barrage Nov. 23 that killed four
South Koreans on the island.  Massive Retaliation  The North says it won’t recognize a sea boundary drawn up
by U.S. officials commanding UN troops at the end of the Korean
War in 1953. It says the sea around the islands belongs to the
North, and has vowed massive retaliation if the South again
fires into the sea around the islands. The U.S. has about 28,500
troops in South Korea.  The Security Council must “help launch diplomatic activity
with a view to resolving all issues of dispute between the two
Korean sides by political and diplomatic means,” Russia’s
ambassador to the world body,  Vitaly Churkin , said in a
statement late yesterday.  South Korea’s new defense minister vowed Dec. 3 that his
country would reply with moves including airstrikes if North
Korea makes another attack.  “I will mobilize all combat capabilities available to
severely punish the enemy,”  Kim Kwan Jin , former chairman of
the South’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at a confirmation
hearing. “I will surely use planes. This is a matter of self-
defense.”  Weak Response  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  on Nov. 29 apologized
for what he called the military’s weak response to North Korea’s
Nov. 23 shelling.  North Korea’s attack on the fishing community and military
outpost of Yeonpyeong was the first shelling of South Korean
soil since the 1950-1953 war.  The artillery exercises will take place on Dec. 20 or Dec.
21, a spokesman at the Joint Chiefs of Staff who declined to be
named, citing military policy, said today by telephone in Seoul.
North Korea warned it will retaliate if the exercise takes
place.  Shelling by South Korea “would make it impossible to
prevent the situation on the Korean peninsula from exploding,”
North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency cited the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs as saying in a statement yesterday.
South Korea sees no reason for abandoning the drill just because
other countries say it shouldn’t happen, the South Korean
military spokesman said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  at the United Nations at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  