-- Connecticut Women Win 88th Straight, Tying UCLA Men's Record of 1971-74
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/connecticut-women-win-88th-straight-tying-ucla-men-s-record-of-1971-74.html
The University of Connecticut
women’s basketball team has faced an extra challenge during its
record-tying 88-game winning streak: it cannot draw inspiration
from losing.  The Huskies won again yesterday, defeating Ohio State
University 81-50 in the Maggie Dixon Classic at New York’s
Madison Square Garden to match the longest major-college winning
streak in basketball.  Connecticut can surpass the  John Wooden -coached UCLA men’s
team that captured 88 straight victories in 1971-74 by winning
at home tomorrow night against Florida State.  “Some of the best lessons you can learn in life come from
when you mess up, when you fail,” said Maya Moore, who had 22
points yesterday for the Huskies. “What we are doing is harder,
because you have to build that motivation from somewhere else.
It’s harder to get motivated when you don’t have those losses on
your record.”  Connecticut coach  Geno Auriemma  agreed that winning teams
have to guard against a sense of complacency.  “The motivator is that if you lose, you’re determined not
to let that happen again,” he said in a news conference.
“Well, if you win, what motivates you? That’s something that
comes from deep inside you.”  Tiffany Hayes scored 26 points to lead the Huskies (10-0),
who have not lost since the 2007-08 postseason and are two-time
defending national champions.  Wooden’s UCLA  UCLA, coached by Wooden and with players such as  Bill Walton , won 88 straight from January 1971 to January 1974. The
Bruins’ streak began after a loss at Notre Dame, and ended with
another defeat at Notre Dame.  Moore, a two-time national player of the year and
Connecticut’s career scoring leader, said there are similarities
between her current team and the UCLA men of the early 1970s.  “Both teams I think share just that level of
competitiveness and an expectation level that is just above
everyone else’s,” she told reporters. “We would just like
people to remember how much we respect and love the game, and
hopefully they can see that when we play.”  Auriemma avoided comparing his team’s achievement to that
of Wooden’s UCLA squads. Texas A&M women’s coach  Gary Blair ,
whose team defeated Rutgers in the opening game of the Dixon
Classic, said Connecticut’s streak is more impressive.  “What he’s done by beating everyone by double figures, I
don’t think Wooden did that,” Blair said.  Double Digits  The numbers back Blair up. The Huskies have won 86 of the
88 games on their streak by 10 or more points. The UCLA men’s
teams won 72 of their 88 straight wins by a double-digit margin.  Connecticut, which has seven national titles under
Auriemma, has won by an average of 33 points during the streak.
The Huskies have gone 237 games in a row without allowing an
opponent to shoot better than 50 percent from the field.  Ohio State (8-2) shot 27 percent and Jantel Lavender, who
entered the contest with a nation-leading average of 26.6 points
per game, was held to 14 points on 7-for-21 shooting.  The Huskies, who were lauded with chants of “Eighty-eight,
eighty-eight” by fans in the final 30 seconds, hit 50 percent
of their 64 shots against the Buckeyes.  “You don’t stumble and bumble into history, you have to do
it the right way,” Auriemma said. “Today was an opportunity to
do something that everybody is going to remember.”  Connecticut started its streak at the beginning of the
2008-2009 season. Its last loss came to Stanford in the Final
Four in 2008. The Huskies travel to Palo Alto, California, on
Dec. 30 to face Stanford.  “For a team to win 88 straight in anything is a remarkable
feat,” said Rutgers coach  C. Vivian Stringer , whose 850
victories put her third on the career list among women’s
basketball coaches. “Every team that plays Connecticut brings
its ‘A’ game.”  Moore said it’s too soon for the players to realize what
they’ve accomplished.  “It’s kind of mind-boggling,” she said. “We know it’s
something special, but we’re still in the middle of our season,
so it’s kind of tough to take in the full reality of what’s
going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at Madison Square Garden in New York at 
   rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  