-- American Express, InterMune, Jefferies: U.S. Equity Movers
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-12-20T14:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/constellation-energy-illinois-tool-invesco-slm-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
are having unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Airgas Inc.  (ARG US) climbed 0.1 percent to $63.09. The
company trying to fight off a hostile takeover by Air Products &
Chemicals Inc. was raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at
Piper Jaffray Cos.  Amazon.com Inc.  (AMZN US) rose 1.4 percent to $180.13. The
largest online retailer had its share-price estimate raised to
$195 from $180 at Barclays Plc, which said the online holiday
season has been strong and Amazon.com continues to gain share
from both online and offline competitors.  American Express Co.  (AXP US) declined 1.5 percent to
$43.35. The biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by purchases was cut
to “hold” from “buy” at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Carnival Corp.  (CCL US) rallied 1 percent to $42.95. The
world’s biggest cruise-line operator was rated “overweight” in
new coverage at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Chesapeake Energy Corp.  (CHK US) advanced 3.4 percent to
$24.09.  Carl Icahn , the billionaire investor, boosted his stake
in the producer of natural gas to an equivalent of 5.8 percent,
according to a regulatory filing. Icahn has had and intends to
seek further discussions with Chesapeake.  Cloud Peak Energy Inc.  (CLD US) climbed 1.8 percent to
$20.99. The coal mining company was raised to “outperform”
from “market perform” at FBR Capital Markets. The 12-month
share-price estimate is $28.  Constellation Energy Group Inc.  (CEG US) gained 0.6 percent
to $28.91. The developer and operator of electricity generating
facilities said Chief Operating Officer Michael J. Wallace, 63,
plans to retire in April.  Huntington Bancshares Inc.  (HBAN US) added 3.2 percent to
$6.43. The Columbus, Ohio-based bank was raised to “buy” from
“neutral” at Bank of America Corp.  Illinois Tool Works  (ITW US) rose 1.8 percent to $52.92.
The maker of Hobart food mixers and Duo-Fast nail guns may rise
as it introduces new products and expands into Asia and other
emerging markets, Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  Intel Corp.  (INTC US) fell 0.3 percent to $21.40. The
world’s largest chipmaker’s proposed purchase of McAfee Inc.
faces scrutiny from the European Union’s antitrust regulator,
which may initiate a lengthier “phase two” investigation, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified people.  InterMune Inc.  (ITMN US) advanced 6.1 percent to $37. The
biotechnology company with a drug to treat a fatal lung disease
was raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at Robert W. Baird
& Co.  Invesco Ltd.  (IVZ US) climbed 0.5 percent to $22.90. The
investment management group may rise as much as 20 percent as
one of the “best value” asset managers, Barron’s reported in
“The Trader” column, citing analysts.  Jefferies Group Inc.  (JEF US) increased 0.2 percent to
$26.62. The New York-based investment bank said preliminary
fourth-quarter earnings will be 35 cents a share, exceeding the
average analyst estimate for 32 cents a share.  Las Vegas Sands Corp.  (LVS US) gained 2.3 percent to
$46.44. Sands China Ltd., a majority-owned subsidiary of Las
Vegas Sands Corp., said it received a letter from the Macau
Land, Public Works and Transport Bureau which should clear the
way for the company to start preparing for the sale of shares to
prospective buyers interested in owning a Four Seasons-branded
apartment at the Cotai Strip in Macau.  MetroPCS Communications Inc.  (PCS US) rose 3.5 percent to
$12.50. The pay-as-you-go mobile phone company was raised to
“outperform” from “sector perform” at RBC Capital Markets.
The 12-month share-price estimate is $16.  NetApp Inc.  (NTAP US) gained 2.8 percent to $55.32. The
maker of data-storage products was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Sara Lee Corp.  (SLE US) advanced 0.5 percent to $17.35. The
food company’s talks to sell itself to Brazilian meat processor
JBS SA have hit a snag over price, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the situation. Sara Lee recently rejected a
takeover offer from JBS, deeming the price too low, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The bid was less than Sara Lee’s intraday high of
$17.62 on Dec. 17, when the Wall Street Journal reported the
companies were in talks, the people said.  Spokesmen for Sara Lee and JBS declined to comment.  SLM Corp.  (SLM US) climbed 5.1 percent to $12.67. The
student-loan maker may rise to the “high teens” during the
next 18 months and could attract a buyer, Barron’s said, citing
no one.  Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc.  (SHO US) retreated 4.9
percent to $9.97. The real estate investment trust that focuses
on upscale lodging said  Arthur Buser  has resigned as president
and chief executive officer.       Vivus Inc.  (VVUS US) jumped 0.2 percent to $9.80. The
drugmaker today announced that it filed a marketing
authorization application with the European Medicines Agency for
its Qnexa obesity drug, according to a statement distributed by
PR Newswire. If approved, Qnexa could receive marketing
authorization in all 27 European Union member countries,
potentially in late 2011, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net . 