-- Consumer, Business Spending Probably Increased as U.S. Economy Accelerated
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-19T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/consumer-business-spending-probably-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
Spending by U.S. consumers and
businesses probably accelerated in November, a signal the
economy is speeding up at the end of the year, economists
forecast before reports this week.  Household  purchases  rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4 percent
increase in October, according to the median estimate of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Dec. 23 figures
from the Commerce Department. The same day, another report from
the agency may show demand for  durable goods  excluding cars and
aircraft climbed 2 percent.  Fewer firings and rising incomes are boosting consumer
confidence, making it more likely spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, will keep improving. At the
same time, factories are ramping up production as gains in
 exports  reinforce growing demand from U.S. companies, pointing
to a more balanced and durable recovery.  “We really have started to see improvements in momentum
and more broad-based improvements,” said  Russell Price , a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit.
“We’re on the precipice of getting to an economy that’s
sustainable without Fed stimulus.”  The consumer spending report also will show  incomes  rose
0.2 percent last month after increasing 0.5 percent in October,
according to the survey median.  Improving household balance sheets may be helping boost
demand during the Christmas holiday period. The International
Council of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14 revised its November-
December holiday-season sales forecast up by 0.5 percentage
point to a range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  ‘Great Christmas’  “All the brands around the world are having, so far so
good, a very great Christmas,”  John Demsey , group president of
Estee Lauder Cos., said in a Bloomberg Television interview Dec.
15. “Consumer confidence is up and it’s really about the power
of the brands and pent up demand that consumers have.”  Auto dealers also are among retailers seeing improved
demand. Car sales in November rose to a 12.26 million unit pace,
the highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers program in
August 2009,  industry data  showed this month. Demand over the
past three months is the strongest in two years.  The Commerce Department’s report on durable goods will show
total orders fell 0.7 percent, reflecting a drop in aircraft
demand. Bookings for  business equipment  excluding defense and
planes, items like computers and machinery, rose 3 percent,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  ‘Extended’ Gains  “We have seen now an extended period of time of recovery
in the components business,”  Paul Reilly , chief financial
officer of Arrow Electronics Inc., said last week at a
conference in New York. Melville, New York-based Arrow is a
distributor of electronic components and computer products to
industrial customers.  The improving economy has boosted stock prices. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  has risen 22 percent since reaching
a 10-month low on July 2. It is up 5.4 percent so far this
month.  The economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the third
quarter, more than the 2.5 percent estimated last month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Commerce Department is scheduled to release its
second revision for the period on Dec. 22.  Economists in the past two weeks have boosted projections
for fourth-quarter growth after the government reported better-
than-projected retail sales for November and the Obama
administration reached a compromise with congressional
Republicans to extend Bush-era tax cuts and introduce new
reductions.  Raising Forecasts  JPMorgan Chase & Co. chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli 
forecast the economy will grow at a 3.5 percent pace from
October through December, up from a prior estimate of 2.5
percent.  Housing, the industry that triggered the worst recession in
seven decades, is struggling to recover after a homebuyers’ tax
credit expired and foreclosures keep adding to inventory.  Sales of new and existing homes increased to a combined
5.05 million annual rate in November from 4.71 million the prior
month, according to economists surveyed. Purchases averaged a
5.7 million pace in the first six months of the year when the
tax break was in effect, and then slumped to 4.12 million in
July, the weakest since comparable records began in 1999.  The National Association of Realtors is scheduled to
release figures on  existing home sales  Dec. 22. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected demand for previously owned
houses rose 7.2 percent to a 4.75 million rate last month.  The Commerce Department will issue  new-home sales  data Dec.
23. Purchases climbed 6 percent to a 300,000 pace, according to
the Bloomberg survey.  Other reports this week will show initial  jobless claims 
held at 420,000 last week and the Thomson Reuters University of
Michigan final index of  consumer sentiment  for December
increased to 74.5, the highest reading in six months, according
to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  