-- German Stocks Advance; Volkswagen, Munich Re Rise as Metro Drops
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-20T16:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/daimler-kloeckner-lufthansa-munich-re-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks climbed, with the DAX
Index rebounding from last week’s decline, as investors
speculated that the economic recovery will withstand Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Volkswagen AG led gains in the benchmark DAX, rising 3.7
percent.  Munich Re  added 1.5 percent as the world’s biggest
reinsurer was reported as saying it will keep its dividend
payment stable.  Metro AG  fell 2 percent as Haniel & Cie. GmbH
was said to consider reducing its stake in the company.  The  DAX  rose 0.5 percent to 7,018.6 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt, trimming last week’s 0.3 percent retreat. The
measure has advanced 4.9 percent this month as U.S. reports
showed builders began work on more homes and manufacturing in
the New York region rebounded more than forecast. The broader
HDAX Index rallied 0.6 percent today.  “The start of 2011 might be quite good as we still have a
lot of liquidity driving the market,”  Michael Koehler , head of
strategy at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Mainz, said. “The
latest economic data that we got, especially from the U.S., was
overall really good and we will definitely not see a double dip.
Though, the sovereign-debt crisis issue is still not solved.”  France risks losing its top AAA grade credit rating as
Europe’s debt crisis prompts a wave of downgrades that threatens
to engulf the region’s highest-rated borrowers, with Belgium
also facing a possible cut, analysts and investors said.  Christmas Retail Sales  German Christmas retail sales this year have exceeded their
level in 2009, the German Retail Federation said, without
supplying data. Snow hampered shopping “slightly” at the
beginning of the week, the retail group known as HDE said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares gained 3.7 percent to 126.25
euros. Chinese sales will rise 10 to 15 percent in 2011 in line
with the wider market,  Soh Weiming , the company’s executive
president for China, said in an interview in Guangzhou, southern
China today. Volkswagen’s group sales in China jumped 38 percent
in the first 11 months of 2010 to 1.8 million units compared
with a year earlier, Soh said at an earlier briefing.  Separately, Audi AG, Volkswagen’s luxury-car brand, will
probably beat its target for A1 deliveries next year and may
further increase production to meet demand for the subcompact,
 Peter Schwarzenbauer , the unit’s sales chief, said.  Munich Re, E.ON  Munich Re climbed 1.5 percent to 113.3 euros. The company
plans to pay at least 5.75 euros per share as a dividend and to
stick to its policy of paying out at least a quarter of its
profit to shareholders, Boersen-Zeitung reported, citing an
interview with Chief Financial Officer  Joerg Schneider .  E.ON AG added 0.6 percent to 22.54 euros.  Germany’s biggest
utility  said it has agreed to sell its gas network in Italy to a
group consisting of Italian investment fund F2i SGR SpA and AXA
Private Equity. The enterprise value is about 290 million euros
($380.7 million), with E.ON to net 255 million euros in cash.  Separately, German electricity for delivery next year
climbed as coal prices rose to a two-year high, which may make
electricity generation more expensive.  Metro,  Germany’s largest retailer , declined 2.6 percent to
54.37 euros, the first retreat in three days. Major investor
Haniel wants to adjust its portfolio and make strategic
investments in “small pearls” that profit from global trends,
WirtschaftsWoche magazine cited Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Kluge  as saying.  Haniel and shareholder group Schmidt-Ruthenbeck together
 own 50.01 percent of Metro , the magazine said. The two could
continue to control Metro with a 40 percent stake,
WirtschaftsWoche said, citing an unidentified Metro manager.  Conergy AG soared 18 percent to 58 euro cents, the highest
price in two months. The solar-module maker said it reached an
agreement with creditors to reduce its debt by 188 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 