-- Derivatives Rules Raise Concerns in Nascent Market for Swaps: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-20T01:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/derivatives-rules-increase-risks-in-nascent-market-for-swaps-china-credit.html
Rules governing credit-default swaps
in China are too narrow, hindering their growth at a time when
the corporate bond market is expanding 45 percent, according to
bankers.  About 23 agreements covering a notional 1.99 billion yuan
($298 million) have been sold since China set up a credit
derivatives market a month ago, according to the central bank.
That compares with outstanding contracts on $30 trillion of debt
globally at the end of June, according to data compiled by the
Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland.  While bankers, regulators and government officials met on
Hainan island last week in the first conference since the yuan
contracts started to discuss the future of the market, they
didn’t expand on rules to determine what would trigger a
settlement of the swaps under a so-called credit event.  “Right now a credit event is a very narrow definition,”
 Gao Feng , co-head of Global Markets China at Deutsche Bank AG,
said at the conference. Rules for payouts need to be simplified
and standardized to help market liquidity, he said. The rules
“should include more,” he said.  Five-year default swaps cost an average 81.5 basis points
on AAA debt in China, according to quotes from 12 financial
institutions. That compares with 34 basis points for similarly-
rated debt in North America and 65 basis points in Europe as of
Dec. 16, according to Moody’s Analytics.  ‘Not Clear’  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “If the company defaults on the bond then it’s no problem,
but if there’s a bankruptcy or other event then it is not clear
what will happen,” said  Qiao Hongjun , a senior manager in the
global capital markets department at Bank of Communications in
Shanghai, at the conference.  Elsewhere in China’s credit markets, yuan-denominated 10-
year notes rallied last week, the seven-day repurchase rate rose
the most in more than three years and Russia’s United Co. Rusal
plans to sell bonds in China. The yuan snapped two weeks of
gains.  Bonds, Repurchase Rates  The  yield  on the 3.29 percent government note due in
September 2020 fell six basis points last week to 3.86 percent,
according to prices from the National Interbank Funding Center.
Credit-default swaps tied to China’s sovereign debt for five
years fell four basis points to 68, according to CMA prices.  China’s seven-day repurchase  rate , a gauge of interbank
funding costs, surged 123 basis points to 3.72 percent, the
highest level since October 2008, according to daily fixings
published by the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai.
The increase was the biggest since October 2007. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Rusal plans to hire banks by the end of the year to sell
yuan-denominated bonds and conduct the sale as early as the
first quarter of 2011. A “reasonable” amount for the bonds
would be about 1 billion yuan, Rusal’s Head of Capital Markets
 Oleg Mukhamedshin  said Dec. 17 in Moscow. Rates may be 2 percent
to 5 percent, he said.  The yuan depreciated to 6.6640 per dollar in Shanghai from
6.6553 on Dec. 10. The government set the reference rate at
6.6623 against the dollar today, weaker than Friday’s 6.6593.
The currency has strengthened about 2.4 percent versus the
greenback since a two-year peg ended on June 19. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards reflect bets for a 2 percent advance in
the coming year.  Loan Target  Banks want credit derivatives to disperse risks after the
annual target for 7.5 trillion yuan of new loans was almost
breached last month as China seeks to rein in credits following
an unprecedented 9.59 trillion yuan of lending in 2009. While
developing credit markets is key to the government’s goal of
transforming China into a global economic powerhouse, regulators
want to avoid speculation and leverage.  China’s corporate bond market grew 45 percent in the 12
months to November to 3.39 trillion yuan, according to  Chinabond ,
the nation’s biggest clearinghouse. The figure includes
enterprise bonds, medium-term notes and commercial paper, and
excludes corporate bonds approved by the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, according to Chinabond’s website.  “It’s a good step to have a derivatives market in place,”
said  Zhang Zhiming , head of China research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Hong Kong. “But the market is thin because, for all the
corporate issues in China, so far there has been no default.”  ‘Better Proof’  China’s banking regulator said it hasn’t determined whether
banks can use the derivatives to reduce their risky assets and
improve their capital, and further time is needed to prove their
effectiveness.  “From a long-term perspective the greatest risk China’s
commercial banks face is credit risk, concentrated in the loan
business and bond investing,” Huang Zhi, a director at the
innovation department of the China Banking Regulatory Commission,
said in a speech at last week’s conference.  There have been no defaults on publicly-listed debt in
China since the central bank started regulating the market in
1997, Moody’s senior analyst  Ivan Chung  said last month.  “The problem is that no one has tested the settlement
process for these instruments,” Li Lian Khoo, an executive
director in the legal and compliance department at UBS AG, said
in a telephone interview from Hong Kong.  Different Rules  China’s products differ from the global standard in that
they only insure a specific underlying bond or loan.  Lack of clarity surrounding company bankruptcy procedures
is also cause for concern,  Hui Ou-Yang , a managing director at
UBS, said in an interview at the conference. “Bankruptcy laws
that have been untested for state-owned firms in China may pose
concerns over what constitutes a credit event.”  The 2006 Bankruptcy Law that took effect June 1, 2007, is
one of the most significant pieces of legislation for China’s
move toward a market economy, according to a guide to bankruptcy
law published by Herbert Smith LLP last year. How Chinese courts
implement the law in practice is yet to be seen, it said.  The central bank is likely to set a target of at least 7
trillion yuan of new loans for 2011 after leaders met to decide
key economic policy objectives for the coming year, said two
people briefed on the matter on Dec. 13.  Loan Ceiling  The ceiling of 7.5 trillion yuan of new loans for 2010 was
almost breached in the first 11 months of the year, forcing
banks to set aside more deposits as reserves. Policy makers are
concerned the pace of lending may contribute to asset bubbles
and derail the recovery.  The People’s Bank of China on Dec. 10 ordered lenders to
park more money with the central bank for the third time in five
weeks to counter the threat of inflation. Economic growth in
China last quarter was the fastest among BRIC nations and its
$2.65 trillion foreign-exchange reserves are almost a third of
the world’s total stockpile.  While the new yuan contracts make the definition of a
credit event simple, what can be insured against is restricted.  “This limits the possible scope of the amount of risk you
can hedge and will have an impact on demand,” Ji Jiangfan, a
fixed-income analyst at China International Capital Corp., the
nation’s first Sino-foreign investment bank, said in an e-mail.
Still, that should result in lower premiums for the insurance,
Ji said.  -- Henry Sanderson ,  Shelley Smith . With assistance from Judy
Chen in Shanghai. Editors:  Patrick Chu ,  Tom Kohn .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  