-- Euro Falls a Second Day on Concern Region's Crisis to Spread; Dollar Gains
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-20T22:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/dollar-advances-versus-euro-on-optimism-u-s-recovery-gathering-momentum.html
The euro weakened on speculation
some European nations will struggle to raise funds amid the
region’s debt crisis after rating companies downgraded the
creditworthiness of two state-controlled Irish banks.  The single currency depreciated versus 15 of 16 major
counterparts, falling to two-week lows against the dollar and
the yen. Costs to insure French government debt rose to a
record, indicating the nation may be at risk of losing its top
rating. The Swiss franc climbed to a euro-era record on haven
demand.  “Things are starting to work against the euro with concern
over the sovereign debt situation in the euro zone,” said
 Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange in London. The weakening of the euro “is probably a
warm-up of what could potentially occur once markets start up
again in 2011.”  The euro slipped 0.4 percent to $1.3131 as of 5 p.m. in New
York, the weakest since Dec. 2, from $1.3188 Dec. 17. The common
currency fell 0.7 percent to 110 yen, from 110.77 yen, after
touching 109.58, the lowest since Dec. 7. The U.S. currency fell
0.3 percent to 83.77 yen from 83.98 yen.  French Swaps  The cost to insure French government debt tripled this
year, reaching an all-time high of 105.5 today, according to
data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps tied to the French bonds imply a
rating of Baa1, seven steps below its actual top ranking of Aaa
at Moody’s, according to the New York-based firm’s capital
markets research group.  “It’s telling that you have somewhat of a rise in risk
appetite,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at
Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “The
euro is definitely getting left behind.”  The ECB said it has “serious concerns” that Irish draft
legislation to fix the banking system threatens the central
bank’s ability to run its liquidity operations. The bank
commented in a position paper dated Dec. 17.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building
Society, both controlled by the Irish state, had their senior
debt ratings cut to junk today by Moody’s Investors Service.
Moody’s lowered Ireland’s credit rating by five levels to Baa1
on Dec. 17, the day after it placed Greece on review for
possible downgrade.  Franc Haven  The Swiss franc climbed as much as 1.2 percent to 1.2636
per euro. Against the dollar it appreciated 0.4 percent to
0.9649.  The Swiss National Bank last week held the three-month
Libor target rate at 0.25 percent in an attempt to keep a lid on
the currency. The franc’s strength against the euro has
threatened the country’s export-led recovery.  “Since Ireland has kicked off the new bout of tension, it
is deemed as the most regional safe-haven currency play,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The concern
in Europe related to budget deficits is something that
Switzerland doesn’t have to deal with.”  The dollar was boosted against the euro by the demand for
safety and optimism the world’s largest economy is improving.
The Commerce Department will report Dec. 22 that the U.S.
economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate during the third
quarter, up from its initial estimate of a 2.5 percent pace,
according to the median of a Bloomberg News survey of 61
economists.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, rose as much as 0.4 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar rose the most against the dollar among
the major currencies. The Australian dollar and South Africa’s
rand also gained as commodity prices surged, fueling demand for
assets from countries linked to growth.  The kiwi, as New Zealand’s currency is known, rose 0.8
percent to 74.21 U.S. cents. The aussie added 0.5 percent to
99.35 cents and the rand advanced 0.6 percent to 6.8388 per
dollar.  The pound rose against the euro and the dollar after the
Confederation of British Industry said in a report the Bank of
England will start raising interest rates within six months.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s Dec. 9 Monetary Policy
Committee meeting, due Dec. 22, will likely show members
remained split in their decision to keep the key interest rate
at a record low 0.5 percent and to hold the asset-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds.  The pound gained 0.3 percent to 84.64 pence per euro, from
84.91 pence Dec. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  