-- Dubai Stocks Gain on DIC Restructuring Deal, Led by Arabtec; Israel Climbs
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-12-19T14:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/dubai-stocks-gain-on-dic-restructuring-deal-led-by-emirates-nbd-arabtec.html
Dubai’s shares rose for a second day
as Dubai International Capital LLC, an investment company owned
by the emirate’s ruler, reached an agreement with creditors to
restructure about $2.5 billion. Abu Dhabi’s benchmark gained.  Arabtec Holding Co. , the biggest construction company in
the United Arab Emirates, advanced the most since Dec. 7 and
 Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the biggest Shariah-compliant lender in
the country, gained the most since Dec. 1. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index  increased as much as 0.9 percent, before closing 0.1
percent higher at 1,641.15 at 2 p.m. in the emirate. Abu Dhabi’s
index increased 0.3 percent, the most in more than a week. In
Israel, the  TA-25 Index  added 0.2 percent to close at a record
1,308.73 in Tel Aviv.  “Positive development over the weekend with the DIC
restructuring” pushed stocks higher, said  Akram Annous , MENA
strategist at Al Mal Capital PSC in Dubai. “It’s another
resolution of an outstanding issue tied to debt restructuring
which needs to be dealt with for the economy to mend.”  Dubai International said Dec. 17 “headline economic terms
have been agreed in principle” with the coordinating committee
of lenders representing the company’s creditors to alter terms
on the debt. Lenders will get 2 percent interest on $2 billion
of loans and extend maturities to six years, the company said.
About $500 million of loans will have maturities extended for
four years with an unchanged cash interest coupon.  Borse Dubai Sale  Borse Dubai Ltd., the company that controls Dubai’s two
stock exchanges, sold shares in Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. to help
pay $1.1 billion of a $2.45 billion term-loan. It raised $497
million from the sale of 22.78 million shares to  Nasdaq OMX  and
$175 million from the sale of 8 million Nasdaq OMX shares to
 Nomura Holdings Inc , the Dubai government’s media office said in
an e-mailed statement Dec. 16.  Separately, Abu Dhabi offered $1.5 billion to buy the 20
percent stake in London Stock Exchange Group Plc owned by Borse
Dubai, the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got
the information. The three stock exchanges in the U.A.E. may
merge as part of the deal, the report said.  “One U.A.E. exchange makes the market more profitable,
more unified to outside investors,” said Al Mal’s Annous.  London Stock Exchange spokesman  Alastair Fairbrother  and a
Borse Dubai spokesman declined to comment when contacted by
telephone today.  Arabtec jumped 2.6 percent to 2 dirhams. Dubai Islamic
gained 1.9 percent to 2.17 dirhams.  Government Bonds  Emaar Properties PJSC , the nation’s biggest property
developer, increased 0.6 percent to 3.57 dirhams, the highest
since Dec. 14. The company said Dec. 16 it has identified
“better and viable” options than converting debt into equity
in Amlak Finance PJSC.  Oman’s  gauge  rose 0.7 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index 
of companies in the Persian Gulf advanced less than 0.1 percent.
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  increased 0.2 percent.
 Kuwait Stock Exchange Index  declining less than 0.1 percent.
Markets in Bahrain and Qatar were closed for a holiday.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index  retreated for a third day,
falling 0.3 percent.  In Israel, government bonds rose. The yield on the
benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit due January 2020 dropped 4
basis points to 4.66 percent, matching the lowest since Dec. 7.
The shekel weakened 0.1 percent to 3.593 against the dollar Dec.
17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  