-- Senate Democrats Make Final Push to Ratify Nuclear Treaty
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-20T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/durbin-says-senate-has-67-votes-to-ratify-arms-treaty-as-mcconnell-balks.html
Supporters of a nuclear arms
reduction treaty with Russia said they’re confident of having
enough votes to ratify the accord, even as top Republicans said
they will try to delay it until next year.  The Senate yesterday rejected a Republican-sponsored
amendment that Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman  John Kerry  said would have scuttled the  Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty . Lawmakers are scheduled to resume debate today on the
treaty, one of their last major pieces of business before
adjourning.  “I believe it will pass, and I believe there will be a
vote” before the end of the year, Kerry said on ABC’s “This
Week” program. His view was echoed by Vice President  Joe Biden ,
Illinois Democratic Senator  Richard Durbin  and Indiana Senator
 Richard Lugar , the ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations
panel and a treaty supporter.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  said on CNN he’s
decided to oppose the treaty, and asked the administration to
put off a vote until next year. Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl  said on
Fox he opposes holding the vote during the post-election lame-
duck session of Congress. Senator  Lindsey Graham , a South
Carolina Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee,
joined in the calls for a delay.  “If you really want to have a chance of passing Start,
you’d better start over,” Graham, a member of the Armed
Services Committee, said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  Obama’s Priority  President  Barack Obama  has made ratification of the treaty,
known as Start, his top foreign policy priority during the post-
election lame-duck session. Democrats, who now have 58 votes in
the 100-member Senate, will have a narrower majority in the next
Congress starting in January, which might make ratification more
difficult. Ratification requires a two-thirds majority.  Senators yesterday voted 60-32 to reject an amendment from
Republican Senator  Jim Risch  of Idaho to add language on
tactical nuclear weapons to the treaty preamble, which would
have reopened the agreement to negotiations.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  rejected Republican
requests for more time and said a final vote on the treaty would
be held before Congress leaves this week.  “The Obama administration has spent the past eight months
working to address legitimate concerns and the Senate has
conducted an extensive bipartisan review,” Reid said in a
statement.  Missile Defenses  Among the issues raised by treaty opponents, including
McConnell, is whether the accord would limit U.S. development of
a missile defense. Obama sent a letter to McConnell Dec. 18
saying that the treaty won’t hinder the U.S. from deploying such
a system in Europe.  “The New Start Treaty places no limitations on the
development or deployment of our missile defense programs,”
Obama wrote. “We are proceeding apace with a missile defense
system in Europe designed to provide full coverage for NATO
members on the continent, as well as deployed U.S. forces,
against the growing threat posed by the proliferation of
ballistic missiles.”  McConnell and Kyl said that letter doesn’t relieve their
concerns, and appealed to Obama not to push for a vote this
year.  “I don’t think this is the best time to be doing this,
members are uneasy with it,” McConnell, of Kentucky, said on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Preamble Language  Kyl said the question is about what the Russians understand
about the language in the preamble.  “Tell it to the Russians,” Kyl said on the “Fox News
Sunday” Program. “In fact, change the preamble to the treaty,
which would eliminate any doubt about this issue.”  Military commanders and defense and nuclear officials have
testified that the accord doesn’t limit missile-defense options
in the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and
that it improves the ability to verify Russia’s adherence to
agreed-upon weapons thresholds.  The accord has also been endorsed by former Republican
President  George H.W. Bush  as well as current and former U.S.
military commanders and Cabinet secretaries, including  Henry Kissinger  and  Colin Powell .  The treaty, replacing an agreement that expired last
December, limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more than
1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of 800
land-, air- and sea-based launchers. Obama and Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  signed the accord in April.  Moving on Debate  The Senate voted 66-32 on Dec. 15 to begin consideration of
the treaty, highlighting how narrow a majority Obama and his
Democratic Party may have for an accord that requires two-thirds
of the senators present and voting -- 67, if all 100 are in the
chamber -- for approval.  Lugar said the difficulty now will be working through
Republican amendments so that a final vote on the treaty can be
held before adjournment.  “Several Republicans will support it, and I join the
chairman in believing that there are the votes” to ratify it,
Lugar said on ABC’s “This Week” program. “The problem is
really getting to that final vote.”  Biden, interviewed on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” said the
Senate has had enough time and hearings on the treaty to move on
to a vote. While some Republicans have raised “legitimate
concerns” about treaty provisions, he said, many of the
opponents are “just simply against any arms control
agreement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  