-- Jets Defeat Steelers, Eagles Rally Past Giants in 4th Quarter: NFL Week 15
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-20T05:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/eagles-beat-giants-for-first-place-on-last-play-touchdown.html
The New York Jets won in
historic fashion. The New York Giants found a new way to
lose a National Football League game.  The Jets ended a two-game losing streak with a 22-17
win yesterday in Pittsburgh, their first victory ever in 12
games in the state of Pennsylvania.  The Giants blew a 21-point fourth-quarter lead in a
38-31 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles that ended with
 DeSean Jackson ’s 65-yard punt return for a touchdown. It
was the first time in NFL history that a player scored on a
winning punt return as time expired.  “I’ve never been around anything like this in my
life,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said. “It’s about as
empty as you get to feel in this business.”  The Eagles scored 28 points in the fourth quarter to
erase a 31-10 deficit and claim sole possession atop the
National Football Conference’s East Division with two
regular-season games left.  The Atlanta Falcons became the first NFC team to
clinch a playoff spot by extending their winning streak to
eight games with a 34-18 win against the Seattle Seahawks.  The Falcons’ 12-2 record is tied with the New England
Patriots for best in the NFL. The Patriots, who had already
earned a postseason berth, pushed their winning streak to
six by beating the Green Bay Packers 31-27 last night.  The Steelers locked up a playoff berth yesterday
despite their loss to the Jets. The Chicago Bears can claim
a playoff spot tonight with a win in Minnesota.  Jets’ Win  The Jets matched the Steelers at 10-4 as  Brad Smith 
returned the opening kickoff 97 yards for a touchdown.
Quarterback  Mark Sanchez  added a 7-yard scoring run for the
Jets’ first offensive touchdown in three games.  The Steelers drove to the Jets’ 10-yard line in the
closing seconds before quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger ’s
final two passes fell incomplete in the end zone.  New York trails first-place New England by two games
in the American Football Conference’s East Division. The
Jets are tied in the race for a wild-card playoff spot with
the best record among second-place teams.  “We needed this huge, there’s no question,” Jets
coach  Rex Ryan  said. “We knew what we were coming into. We
knew we’d have to play at our very best and we did.”  The Steelers are now tied with Baltimore atop the AFC
North after the Ravens’ 30-24 win over New Orleans that
ended the Saints’ six-game winning streak.  Eagles’ Comeback  The Eagles scored four touchdowns in the final seven
minutes, 43 seconds to erase a 31-10 deficit at New
Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Quarterback  Michael Vick  threw for three touchdowns
and added a rushing score for the Eagles, who improved to
10-4 and won both regular-season meetings against the
Giants.  “I’ll tell you what, my heart is a little weaker
after this one,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said during a news
conference. “That was special.”  The Giants (9-5), who fell into second place in the
NFC East, had led by 21 points with 8:17 left after
quarterback  Eli Manning  threw his fourth touchdown pass of
the game.  “We let one slip out of our hands,” Giants defensive
end  Justin Tuck  told reporters. “We had an opportunity to
basically seal up the NFC East and lost it.”  Jackson’s fourth career kick return for a touchdown
completed a comeback engineered by Vick, who completed 21
of 35 passes for 242 yards. He had 94 of his 130 yards
rushing in the fourth quarter.  New York has lost six straight games against the
Eagles since its last win on Dec. 9, 2007.  Colts Stay Alive  The Indianapolis Colts kept their postseason chances
alive with a 34-24 victory over Jacksonville.  Tyjuan Hagler 
clinched the home win for the Colts by returning an onside
kick attempt by Jacksonville 41 yards for a touchdown with
1:47 remaining.  Peyton Manning  threw two touchdown passes to  Austin Collie  for Indianapolis, which improved to 8-6 and tied the
Jaguars for first place in the AFC South.  The Detroit Lions snapped their NFL-record 26-game
road losing streak with a 23-20 overtime win against the
Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  Dave Rayner  kicked a 34-yard field goal on the first
overtime possession to give the Lions the win in Tampa,
Florida. Rayner had made a 28-yard field goal as time
expired in the fourth quarter to send the game to overtime.  Detroit’s last road win had been Oct. 28, 2007, in
Chicago.  Chiefs Win  The Kansas City Chiefs remained a game ahead of the
San Diego Chargers in the AFC West by beating the St. Louis
Rams 27-13. The Chiefs improved to 9-5 while the Rams (6-8)
remained tied with Seattle for first place in the NFC West.  The Dallas Cowboys pulled out a 33-30 win against the
Washington Redskins when  David Buehler  made a 39-yard field
goal with 50 seconds left. The Cowboys (5-8) blew a 30-14
fourth-quarter lead before Buehler’s kick sent the Redskins
(5-8) to their fourth loss in a row.  It was Cincinnati 19, Cleveland 17; Tennessee 31,
Houston 17; Buffalo 17, Miami 14; Oakland 39, Denver 23;
and Carolina 19, Arizona 12 in other Week 15 NFL games.  San Diego beat San Francisco 34-7 four days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  