-- Heathrow, Frankfurt Flights Canceled, Delayed Second Day by European Snow
-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-19T16:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/heathrow-frankfurt-flights-canceled-delayed-second-day-by-european-snow.html
Air travelers faced a second day of
cancellations and delays as severe weather crippled European
airports, including those in London, Paris and Frankfurt.  London’s  Heathrow  said it would operate only a “limited
number of departures” and canceled all arrivals today after
being closed for much of yesterday because of snow and ice. Over
500 inbound and outbound flights were canceled at  Frankfurt 
today, according to Waltraud Riehemann, a spokeswoman for hub
operator Fraport AG.  “While Heathrow’s northern runway remains clear, the
change in temperature overnight has led to a significant buildup
of ice on parking stands around the planes and this requires the
airfield to remain closed until it is safe to move planes
around,” the airport said on its  website . Airports operator BAA
Ltd. said it expects further cancellations and delays tomorrow,
“as well as in the days that follow,” at Heathrow.  Flights at Paris’s Charles de Gaulle Airport were reduced
by 40 percent because of snowfall in northern France, the
nation’s civil aviation authority said in an e-mailed statement.
The reductions will last through the end of the day, according
to the statement.  The snow blanketing western Europe disrupted holiday travel
plans as well as affecting retailers during the final weekend
before Christmas.  Roissy-Charles de Gaulle  canceled about a quarter of its
flights until 4 p.m. local time today because of snow showers,
France’s civil aviation regulator said. In Scotland, Edinburgh
airport said it was open for departures only.  Snow Clearance  A “handful” of departures will take place from Heathrow’s
Terminal 3 and Terminal 5 while teams clear an area nine times
larger than London’s Hyde Park,  Donna O’Brien , a BAA Airports
Ltd. spokeswoman, said today by telephone. The airport expected
to process 200,000 inbound and outbound passengers today, she
said. Heathrow is posting updates on a  Twitter  feed.  “This is the second time in two days that my flight to
London has been canceled,” said Henry Abrahamian, 61, a
passenger stranded at Vienna airport en route to Los Angeles via
London. “I’ll find my way there eventually, maybe for next
Christmas.”  Etihad Airways, the Abu Dhabi-based intercontinental
carrier, Air Canada and India’s Jet Airways were among airlines
which announced canceled services to Heathrow today.  More Snow  London’s Gatwick was aiming to return to “near-normal
capacity” by late afternoon, Sarah Baranowski, a spokeswoman
for the airport, said by telephone. The airport has canceled 48
out of a total 708 scheduled flights today, she said.  “Further snow is expected in the south and west”
tomorrow, the U.K.’s Met Office said on its  website . As much as
15 centimeters (six inches) of snow fell in southwest England
yesterday, forcing the closure of Heathrow and Gatwick airports
for most of the day.  Deutsche Bahn AG said in an e-mail it expects weather
disruptions and an increase in passengers after the halts to
cause bottlenecks in the German railway system this afternoon.  Amsterdam’s  Schiphol  said on its website passengers should
be prepared for delays and cancellations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Barwell in London at 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  