-- Medvedev Joins Parade to India as Leaders Chase Arms, Nuclear-Power Deals
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-12-20T16:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/medvedev-joins-parade-to-india-chasing-weapons-nuclear-deals.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  will seek
arms and nuclear-power contracts during an Indian visit this
week that follows trips by U.S. President  Barack Obama , Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Medvedev’s two-day trip comes after Sarkozy spent four days
in India earlier this month and Obama visited in November to
promote trade. He will arrive with an $11 billion tender for 126
warplanes and as much as $100 billion in nuclear-power contracts
up for grabs. Wen led a delegation that signed $16 billion of
deals during a trip that ended Dec. 17.  India, Russia’s top arms customer, has tripled its defense
budget over the last decade as it looks beyond a traditional
military rivalry with Pakistan to counter China’s rising power.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  has spearheaded Russia’s efforts
to fend off competition from the U.S. and Europe.  “Russia has always been a major player in India, but now
it faces increasing competition in areas it traditionally
dominated such as the arms trade as India tries to diversify its
suppliers further to get the best price and quality,”
 Konstantin Makiyenko , deputy head of the Center for the Analysis
of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow, said in a Dec. 17
phone interview.  India accounts for about 35 percent to 40 percent of
Russia’s annual $8.6 billion of arms deliveries abroad,
Makiyenko said.  Fighter Jet Competition  OAO RSK MiG is bidding against  Dassault Systemes SA ,  Boeing
Co.  and Lockheed Martin Corp, for the fighter-jets contracts.
Indian plans to expand the country’s atomic capacity 10-fold by
2020 may net deals for Rosatom Corp.,  Areva SA , Alstom SA, or
Westinghouse Electric Co.  Obama and Sarkozy during their visits backed India’s
campaign for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security
Council. Wen stopped short of those endorsements, saying in a
joint statement with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  that
China “understands and supports India’s aspiration to play a
greater role in the United Nations, including in the Security
Council.”  Medvedev may also be supportive, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow,
adding that Russia is “very cautious” about changes to the
Security Council, looking to safeguard its role.  Russia, the U.S., France, China and the U.K. are the
council’s permanent members at present. They hold veto power
over any measure.  Putin’s Deals  Putin in March closed more than $10 billion in agreements
with India, including the delivery of India’s second aircraft
carrier in 2012 and 29 MiG-29 fighters. The two countries signed
a “road map” on nuclear energy that may net Russian companies
a role in building as many as 16 reactors.  Medvedev’s delegation will include  Mikhail Pogosyan ,
Moscow-based MiG’s chief executive officer,  Sergei Kiriyenko ,
the CEO of Moscow-based Rosatom,  Sergei Prikhodko , the
president’s foreign policy aide, told reporters in Moscow on
Dec. 17.  Sergei Chemezov , head of Moscow-based Russian
Technologies Corp., a holding that includes Rosoboronexport, the
state arms exporter, will also accompany Medvedev.  Nuclear energy will be discussed “in detail” during the
trip and the two countries will sign a cooperation agreement to
open the door for future deals, Prikhodko said.  ‘Entrench Ourselves’  “We want to entrench ourselves in the market and we’re
seeing serious movement forward,” he said. The joint production
of a transport aircraft and a fifth-generation fighter jet will
also be on the agenda, Prikhodko said. The new fighters are
designed to offer better radar-evading stealth capability and an
improvement in maneuverability and speed.  Russia successfully tested a prototype of its fifth-
generation PAK FA stealth fighter in January, one year behind
schedule and 13 years after the first flight of its U.S. rival,
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin’s  F-22 Raptor.  “The fifth-generation fighter deal will be the most
important issue,” and could be worth as much as $30 billion
over the life of the agreement, because India may seek to deploy
as many as 300 of the jets, Makiyenko said.  The contract for drawing up the design of the Indian
modification of the jet will cost $295 million and may be signed
during Medvedev’s visit to India, RIA Novosti  reported  Dec. 16,
citing Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. Chairman Ashok Nayak. He said
Indian engineers will work in Russia over the next 18 months,
the Russian news service said.  Fighter Jet Components  “The Indian fighters will most likely have a large amount
of French, Israeli and British components,” Makiyenko said.  Dassault is based in Velizy Villacoublay, France; Boeing in
Chicago and Lockheed Martin in Bethesda, Maryland. Areva is
based in Paris and Alstom in Levallois-Perret, France;
Monroeville, Pennsylvania-based Westinghouse Electric Co. is a
unit of Toshiba Corp. of Tokyo.  India’s nuclear expansion may cost as much as $100 billion,
the Indian official said.  “I think this is the” minimum, Kiriyenko said on Dec. 14,
when asked about the spending figure. “Judging by their plans
that’s the least they’ll spend. It’s realistic. And our share
will be significant.”  Kiriyenko said no concrete nuclear contracts are likely to
be signed during Medvedev’s visit as companies negotiate the
details of the deals, he said.  Competition is increasing on India’s nuclear market, said
 Brahma Chellaney , an analyst at the Centre for Policy Research
in New Delhi.  “India is going from being non-aligned to being multi-
aligned, so Russia is only one partner,” he said. “India now
has strategic partnerships with all the major powers except
China. This was unthinkable 10 years ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  