-- Europe Company Debt Spreads Above U.S. as Growth Diverges: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-12-20T21:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/europe-company-debt-spreads-above-u-s-as-growth-diverges-credit-markets.html
Relative yields on European
investment-grade company bonds are the highest ever compared
with U.S. debt as the region’s deficit crisis worsens and the
U.S. economy revives.  Investors demand an extra 189 basis points in yield to own
high-grade euro-denominated bonds instead of government debt,
compared with a spread of 169 for U.S. corporate notes, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. The 20 basis-point
difference matches the record reached on Dec. 15.  While European government budget cuts damp the region’s
outlook for growth, retail sales, consumer confidence and
industrial production in the U.S. are rising. Bonds of Italian
utility  Enel SpA  are the worst performers this month among the
50 biggest issuers in Bank of America’s EMU Corporate Index.  “The big change is that there’s a lot of fiscal tightening
in Europe,” said  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolio management at Pacific Investment Management Co. in
Newport Beach, California, manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund. Europe will suffer “lower animal spirits, lower spending,
lower hiring,” he said.  The spread on investment-grade bonds in euros widened 2
basis points this month, while relative yields in the U.S.
declined 13 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  Until last month, spreads in Europe were higher than those
on U.S. debt just once, at the end of May. The euro index spread
is historically lower because the average maturity of bonds it
measures is 4.9 years, half that of the U.S. gauge.  Global Spreads  Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads on company debt from
the U.S. to Europe and Asia narrowed 1 basis point to 170 basis
points, or 1.7 percentage points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields were
little changed at 3.96 percent.  The securities have returned 6.77 percent this year on
average, including reinvested interest, compared with 3.31
percent for government bonds. Equities as measured by the MSCI
World Index have gained 10.4 percent, including dividends.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
fell to the lowest in eight months on speculation the economy
can withstand the European region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.3 basis point to a mid-
price of 85.2 basis points as of 2:16 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  French Bond Risk  The cost of insuring against a default on French government
debt surged to a record today on speculation Europe’s sovereign
deficit crisis would hurt nations beyond the so-called
peripheral countries. Credit-default swaps tied to France’s
bonds rose 3 basis points to a record 105.5, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. bank, agreed to
bundle property loans from  Aegon NV  into bonds, as the market
rebounds for securities backed by commercial real estate.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch business may make
securities from loans to owners of U.S. industrial, office,
retail and multifamily residential buildings through Aegon USA
Realty Advisors LLC, a unit of the Dutch insurer, according to a
statement today from the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
company.  Leveraged Loans  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose
0.43 cent for the week to 92.48 cents on the dollar, the highest
weekly close since April 30. The  index  tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans.  In emerging markets, relative yields increased by the most
since the week ended May 21. Spreads jumped 26 basis points to
254 basis points, after declining the prior two weeks, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  European spreads widened 21 basis points this year, while
relative yields on dollar debt declined the same amount, Bank of
America indexes show.  The euro region’s economy will likely expand 1.7 percent
next year, the same as in 2010, according to economists at New
York-based JPMorgan. The bank’s economists forecast growth in
the U.S. will accelerate to 3.3 percent from 2.9 percent.  “I don’t think in Europe it’s even about the economy; it’s
how do I take the next step forward and not botch the bailout,”
said  Brian Cogliandro , managing director and head of U.S.
syndicate at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA in New York. The U.S.
economy “appears to have some underlying strength, it appears
to be on a sustainable path,” he said.  Debt-Crisis Mechanism  Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of
Greece and Ireland and the continent’s largest economy, pushed
through an accord to set up a permanent debt-crisis mechanism at
euro-region finance ministers’ talks last week. The program
allows for the purchase of government bonds and advancing short-
term credit, though leaders remain divided on whether to
increase the 750 billion-euro ($986 billion) emergency fund or
to rush aid to Portugal or Spain.  “This is weaker growth due to all the austerity measures,
which are especially hitting the peripheral countries,” said
 Sven Kreitmair , a credit analyst at UniCredit SpA in Munich.
“The economic growth, recovery scenario is stronger in the
U.S.”  Sovereign rating downgrades are adding to European
bondholders’ pain. Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s
credit rating five levels to Baa1 on Dec. 17, and said last week
it may downgrade Spain and Greece, which already has a junk
grade.  State Spending  Rome-based  Enel ’s bonds lost 2.1 percent this month,
according to Bank of America’s EMU Corporate Index. Debt sold by
Paris-based water company  Veolia Environnement SA  and Berlin-
based rail operator Deutsche Bahn AG each lost 2 percent.  Bonds of Rome-based defense contractor  Finmeccanica SpA 
lost 1.9 percent, almost double the average 1 percent decline
for euro-denominated investment-grade securities, Bank of
America index data show. S&P cut the company’s short-term rating
and downgraded the outlook on its long-term BBB grade on Dec. 6,
saying it’s “constrained” by a reliance on Italian state
spending.  Euro-region bonds are being hurt “as the sovereign crisis
impacts the real economy,” said  Andrew Moulder , a credit
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London. “With the utilities,
for example, as austerity measures slow an economy, that has a
knock-on effect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  