-- AU Optronics, First Gen, IJM, Noble Group: Asia Ex-Japan Equity Preview
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-12-19T20:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/first-gen-ijm-noble-group-asia-ex-japan-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in  Asian trading , excluding Japan. Stock
symbols are in parentheses, and share prices are from the
previous close, unless noted otherwise.  AU Optronics Corp.  (2409 TT): Taiwan’s second-largest flat
panel maker received Taiwan government approval to build its
first liquid-crystal-display factory in China. AUO plans to
build a so-called 7.5-generation facility in Kunshan province at
a total cost of $3 billion, Vice Economics Minister  Hwang Jung- chiou  told reporters in Taipei on Dec. 17. The stock dropped 1.3
percent to NT$31.  Cahya Mata Sarawak Bhd.  (CMS MK): The Malaysian builder
said it agreed to form a joint venture with Naim Holdings Bhd.
(NHB MK) and Bintulu Development Authority to develop a housing
township in Sarawak state. The township will cater to the
housing needs arising from the development of the Samalaju
Industrial Park, Cahya said in a statement. Cahya added 0.4
percent to 2.64 ringgit. Naim was unchanged at 3.46 ringgit.  First Financial Holding Co.  (2892 TT): First Commercial
Bank’s board approved the signing of a memorandum of
understanding with Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of Communications
Co., its parent First Financial said in two statements to the
Taiwan Stock Exchange on Dec. 17. The agreements for business
cooperation need approval from local regulators before they can
be signed, the statements said. The stock gained 3.3 percent to
NT$24.85.  First Gen Corp.  (FGEN PM): The largest Philippine power
producer said it signed a $100 million notes facility with Banco
de Oro Unibank Inc. to fund investment next year. The stock fell
0.2 percent to 11.80 pesos.  Energy Development Corp.  (EDC PM): The biggest Philippine
producer of electricity using geothermal energy said it’s in
talks with financial advisors for funding options of present and
future projects, including a potential bond sale. The company
said it’s “pursuing” the construction of an 86-megawatt wind
project in northern Philippines. The stock fell 0.7 percent to
5.94 pesos.  IJM Corp.  (IJM MK): The Malaysian builder and property
group said it won a 460.6 million ringgit building contract from
Naza TTDI Construction Sdn. The contract is related to the
superstructure works for an office development in Kuala Lumpur,
the company said in a statement. IJM fell 0.3 percent to 6.27
ringgit.  Noble Group Ltd.  (NOBL SP): The Hong Kong-based supplier of
commodities said it appointed Robert van der Zalm as chief
financial officer, replacing Stephen Jeffrey Marzo. Noble was
unchanged at S$2.07.  PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia  (TLKM IJ): Indonesia’s biggest
telephone company plans to buy a majority stake in a Cambodian
telecommunication company next year, President Director Rinaldi
Firmansyah said. Telekomunikasi rose 1.3 percent to 7,850 rupiah.  Shenzhen Development Bank Co.  (000001 CH): The lender
denied a report that its merger plan with  Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co.  (2318 HK) was sent back by China’s banking regulator,
according to a statement. The merger is still being reviewed by
regulators, the statement said.  Shenzhen Development Bank slid 0.6 percent to HK$16.35.
Ping An, China’s second-largest insurer, advanced 1.2 percent to
HK$83.  Yanlord Land Group Ltd.  (YLLG SP): The China-based
developer said it bought a residential site in Shenzhen, China,
for 945 million yuan ($142 million). The stock was unchanged at
S$1.65  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 