-- Gates Says `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Repeal Will Be Successfully Integrated
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2010-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/gates-says-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-repeal-will-be-successful.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
predicted that gay troops will be successfully integrated into
the military, following yesterday’s vote in the Senate to end
the 17-year-old “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy.  By a vote of 65 to 31, the Senate cleared the way for the
legislation to go next to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature. Before the new policy takes effect, the Defense
Department must draft regulations and the president and military
leaders must certify that allowing gays and lesbians to serve
openly in the military for the first time won’t hurt the
nation’s war efforts.  “I am convinced that the U.S. military can successfully
accommodate and implement this change, as it has others in
history,” Gates said in a written statement yesterday. He said
a change in policy will “take an additional period of time.”  More than 14,000 service members have been discharged for
being gay since 1993, according to the  Servicemembers Legal
Defense Network , a gay-rights advocacy group.  Obama, who promised to repeal the 1993 law, praised the
Senate action as an important civil-rights victory.  “It is time to recognize that sacrifice, valor and
integrity are no more defined by sexual orientation than they
are by race or gender, religion or creed,” he said in a written
statement. “It is time to allow gay and lesbian Americans to
serve their country openly.”  “Don’t ask, don’t tell” was considered a compromise when
first passed. It allowed gays to serve if their sexual
orientation were kept private.  Righting a Wrong  “It’s time to right a wrong and put the military in line
with the best of American values,” said Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of Connecticut, an independent who usually sides with
Democrats on domestic issues.  Critics, including Arizona Republican  John McCain  and the
commandant of the Marine Corps,  General James Amos , said
repealing the ban would be a threat to “good order and
discipline” in the military in a time of war. They asked that
any change be delayed.  “There’ll be high-fives all over the liberal bastions of
America” with the bill’s passage, said McCain, a former
prisoner of war. “I am confident our military, the best in the
world, will salute and do the best they can. They will do what
is asked of them, but don’t think it won’t be at great cost.”  First Casualty  “The first casualty in the war in Iraq was a gay
soldier,” Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the  Senate Armed
Services Committee  and a Michigan Democrat, said shortly before
the Senate vote on Dec. 18. “We cannot let these patriots
down.”  Passage of the repeal, first approved by the House in May,
marks a win for Obama just weeks after his self-described
“shellacking” in November’s mid-term elections.  Eliminating the “don’t ask, don’t tell” law doesn’t
immediately change Pentagon policy. Under the legislation, the
ban would remain in effect until 60 days after Obama and
Pentagon leaders certify that the Defense Department is ready
for the new policy.  Defense officials have not said how long that process could
take. A Pentagon task force, in a report issued last month,
outlined numerous revisions to training, military education and
regulations that would be needed.  Gates said he would “immediately proceed with the planning
necessary to carry out this change carefully and methodically,
but purposely.”  Two senators said they expect the time required will be
“months not years.”  ‘Sequenced Implementation’  Senator  Jim Webb  of Virginia, a Democrat and former Navy
secretary who voted for repeal, said he received written
confirmation from Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  that the repeal
would have “a sequenced implementation of the provisions for
different units in the military.”  Gates and Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, had urged Congress to repeal the policy so the Defense
Department could make the change without a sudden intervention
by the courts. A federal trial judge in September ruled the ban
unconstitutional and the case is under appeal.  Mullen praised the Senate vote in his own statement,
saying, “We will be a better military as a result.”  The final vote showed bipartisan support for repeal, as
eight Republicans broke ranks with their party to join all
attending Democrats in favor of the bill. One Democrat, newly
elected Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, and three
Republicans didn’t vote.  Making History  With enough votes assured to claim victory, Senate
Democrats joined gay-rights leaders at a press conference to
cheer the expected result shortly before the final vote.  “America made history today,” said Joe Solmonese,
president of the  Human Rights Campaign . “We are grateful
America recognized we should be able to serve our nation openly
and honestly.”  Repealing the policy enjoys public support. A Washington
Post-ABC News poll this month found that 77 percent of Americans
say gay and lesbian service members who disclose their sexual
orientation should continue serving.  Prospects for passage of the repeal appeared in jeopardy
for months. The House had approved repealing the ban in May as
part of annual defense legislation that authorizes all military
programs.  No Excuses  The new Senate vote came on a separate version of the
repeal passed by the House on Dec. 15. Representative  Barney Frank , a gay Democrat from Massachusetts, said the maneuver
helped “strip away any excuse” for not voting on the repeal.  Among those visiting the Senate to witness the vote was
Mike Almy, a gay former Air Force officer who led a team of 200
men and women in the Iraq war. Almy said he was fired after Air
Force officers discovered private e-mail he had written to loved
ones, including someone he had dated.  “There is nothing I want more than to resume my career,”
Almy said at a news conference hailing the vote. “I look
forward to wearing the uniform again as an officer in the U.S.
Air Force.”  The eight Republicans who voted in favor of repeal were
 Scott Brown  of Massachusetts,  Olympia Snowe  of Maine,  Susan Collins  of Maine,  Richard Burr  of North Carolina,  John Ensign  of
Nevada,  George Voinovich  of Ohio,  Mark Kirk  of Illinois and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 David Lerman  at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  