-- Sachin Tendulkar Hits Record-Extending 50th Century in Test Cricket First
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2010-12-19T18:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/india-s-tendulkar-becomes-the-first-to-score-50-centuries-in-test-cricket.html
Sachin Tendulkar  became the first
player to score 50 centuries in cricket’s elite Test format as
he led India’s resistance yesterday against South Africa.  The 37-year-old right-hander, the leading run scorer in
Tests and one-day internationals, brought up his latest hundred
on the fourth day of the first Test in Centurion as India
battled to save the match. Tendulkar raised his bat and looked
to the sky after reaching triple figures.  It’s the fourth major milestone this year for Tendulkar at
the stage of his career when batsmen typically decline. He
became the first player to score a double-century in a one-day
international in February and six months later played in a
record 169th Test. He reached an unprecedented 14,000 Test runs
in October.  “He can also get 75 hundreds if he wants,” former India
fast bowler  Javagal Srinath  said in an interview. “This is one
guy who doesn’t have any problems as far as batting is
concerned. Even if he is out of form, he is the only guy to come
out of it as quickly as possible and be as effective as ever.”  Mumbai-born Tendulkar, who made his debut against India’s
archrival Pakistan as a 16-year-old, also has the most runs,
17,598, and hundreds, 46, in one-day internationals.  Australia captain  Ricky Ponting , Indian teammate  Rahul Dravid  and South Africa’s  Jacques Kallis  are the only other
active players to have scored more than 10,000 Test runs.  ‘Made for Cricket’  With a style based on balance, precision and anticipation,
Tendulkar’s mastery of an array of shots has enabled him to
accumulate runs in all conditions and in any country, earning
the 5-foot-5 player the nickname “Little Master.”  “He is made for cricket,” said Srinath, who took 236 Test
wickets for India. “He is a run machine.”  Tendulkar registered his first three-figure score in Tests
against England in 1990 when aged 17 and made 16 Test hundreds
by the age of 25. His average -- at 56.55 runs per Test innings
before the current match -- is the highest by any Indian who
batted at least 20 times and 14th in a list headed by  Donald Bradman  on 99.94.  His run-scoring feats have made him an idol at home, where
cricket is the most popular sport among the India’s population
of 1.2 billion. He was given the honorary rank of group captain
by the Indian Air Force in June in recognition of his “glorious
achievements as a cricketer and sports icon.”  Indian Icon  Each Tendulkar innings on home soil is still met with
adulation and scrutiny, according to Om Prakash Chowdhry, who
has been working at New Delhi’s Feroz Shah Kotla Stadium for
about three decades as a groundskeeper.  “People stand up when Sachin walks out to the pitch and
the stadium reverberates with the chants of his name,”
Chowdhry, 50, said in an interview. “And the stands empty the
moment he gets out.”  Yesterday’s score in South Africa has given India a slim
chance of avoiding defeat in the first Test of a three-match
series. India needed at least 484 to make the home team bat
again, and was at 454-8 when bad light ended play. Tendulkar is
unbeaten on 107.  In notching his seventh Test century of 2010, Tendulkar
moved 11 clear of Ponting atop the century-makers’ list.  While Tendulkar is 20 months older than Ponting, he’s
unlikely to be retiring anytime soon, said Abbas Ali Baig, who
played 10 Tests for India and managed the team at the 1992
Cricket World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.  “I think he will still get to a century of centuries in
international cricket,” Baig said in an interview. “That would
be something. He’s very keen on fitness and he will maybe still
go on for a while longer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Subramaniam Sharma in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  