-- Indispensable Holbrooke Leaves the World Bereft: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-12-19T16:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/indispensable-holbrooke-leaves-the-world-bereft-albert-r-hunt.html
Charles de Gaulle , who famously said
the graveyards are filled with indispensable men, was wrong.
Richard Charles Albert Holbrooke was that rare indispensable
man.  Holbrooke, who died of a shattered aorta at 69 last week,
was President Barack Obama’s envoy on Afghanistan and Pakistan.
He was the most innovative and successful U.S. diplomat of the
last half-century.  In Washington, a town full of larger-than-life figures, few
equaled Holbrooke: He was brilliant, egotistical, loyal,
strategic, charming, manipulative, caring, demanding,
compassionate and funny, sometimes all in the same conversation.
He was a force like no other.  Although now familiar, his career is worth briefly
recapping.  A senior at Brown University in 1962, he couldn’t decide
whether to be executive editor of the New York Times or
secretary of state. When the Times turned him down for a job, he
joined the Foreign Service. He served in  Vietnam  and was a
special aide to two ambassadors. Back in Washington, he became
an adviser to the president of the  United States , and wrote a
chapter of the historic  Pentagon Papers  chronicling the history
of the Vietnam War. He was still in his 20s.  He then directed the Peace Corps in  Morocco  and was editor
of Foreign Policy magazine. He tried his hand at business and
finance, working at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and a private-equity firm, though as one of his bosses
recalled, other than the bonuses it didn’t turn him on; his
abiding passion was government and public service, particularly
foreign policy.  Relations With  China   In the Carter administration he was assistant secretary of
state for Asian affairs, helping to broker diplomatic relations
with  China .  When President  Bill Clinton  was elected, Holbrooke wanted
to be ambassador to  Japan  but settled for  Germany . Although he
was in that post less than a year, almost two decades later, few
Americans are more respected there. He founded The American
Academy in Berlin, which in only a decade and a half has
elevated the cultural and educational exchanges between Germany
and the U.S.  His most legendary achievement was the 1995  Bosnian peace
accords  brokered at Dayton,  Ohio , where his combination of
skill, ruthless toughness, patience, persuasiveness and
perseverance forced some thugs to back down, stopping the
genocide and saving thousands of lives. It’s difficult to
imagine another diplomat who could have pulled this off.  Swaying Jesse Helms  At the end of the Clinton administration he became the most
formidable ambassador to the  United Nations  in modern memory. He
persuaded Senator Jesse Helms, a staunch conservative, to
support crucial U.S. funding for the international organization,
and remarkably helped convince the North Carolina Republican to
switch his position and support international AIDS-prevention
efforts. (Helms, who’d been a vocal opponent, had a farewell
session for Holbrooke when he left the UN; the ambassador
received a standing ovation from the  Senate Foreign Relations
Committee , which Helms chaired.)  The dispossessed -- AIDS sufferers, refugees, victims of
repressive regimes -- had few more passionate champions than
Holbrooke. He was a perpetual profile in courage, often risking
his life on missions from the Balkans to  Asia .  Substantive Inferiors  He was no saint. He had as many detractors as supporters.
He could be brutal and insensitively vain. In Holbrooke’s most
recent job, both the former top U.S. commander in  Afghanistan ,
General Stanley McChrystal, and his aides, as well as
functionaries in Obama’s White House and National Security
Council, sniped incessantly at the ambassador. They thought he
treated them as substantive inferiors; they were.  He took issue with references to his huge ego. Once, when I
wrote about this trait, I likened it to a  Texas  saying that “it
ain’t bragging if you can do it.” Holbrooke wanted to know
which Texan said that.  The ambassador, a title he enjoyed, was comfortable in
settings as diverse as Manhattan salons, dinners with leading
political, business and human-rights advocates in world
capitals, journalistic groupies in Washington or refugee camps.  Loyalty was a Holbrooke hallmark that he also evoked in
others, including powerful friends such as Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  and the exceptional staff he assembled on the
Afghanistan- Pakistan  mission. Working in the smallish offices on
the State Department’s ground floor -- not prime real estate in
a prestige-conscious venue -- this diverse group shared a total
commitment to their challenging task and to their leader.  Lessons From Bundy  It was difficult to talk to Holbrooke about his last role
without recalling a laudatory review he wrote two years ago of
Gordon Goldstein’s book about McGeorge Bundy and the Vietnam
War. Bundy was a brilliant and arrogant national security aide
to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson; at age 27, he
wrote the “memoirs” of former Secretary of War  Henry Stimson 
and was the dean of faculty at Harvard College at 34. Years
later, Goldstein’s book chronicles, Bundy realized the most
important undertaking of his life, the  Vietnam War , was a
failure.  With his deep knowledge of history, Holbrooke saw
parallels. The Afghanistan war, despite last week’s rhetoric
from the White House, isn’t going well; too much of the agenda
is being set by the military.  Vietnam Parallel  If it ends badly there will be another parallel to Vietnam.
Just as  Bundy  became convinced that it would have been different
had Jack Kennedy lived, there will be a haunting, if
inexplicable, sense that Holbrooke could have devised a better
end game. The rationale would be that only Holbrooke could
somehow achieve something like that.  The stories over the past week that depict the tragedy of
his inability to ever become secretary of state miss the point.
He might have been another George C. Marshall; very few,
however, who achieved that position had Holbrooke’s record of
triumphs that so affected people’s lives.  To the end he was a calculating, tough-minded, pragmatic
idealist who deeply believed that America -- mistakes like
Vietnam and Iraq notwithstanding -- is the best hope of the
world and has an obligation to fulfill that mission.  Dick Holbrooke was a true patriot.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 