-- Ingenico Says Bidder Not in Position to Submit Offer
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-19T20:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/ingenico-says-bidder-not-in-position-to-submit-offer-update1-.html
Ingenico SA , the world’s largest
maker of card payment terminals, said a bidder for the company
has not been in a position to submit a binding offer that is
acceptable to its board.  Ingenico received a non-binding offer on Dec. 14 and has
“reviewed the content and the terms with the acquirer,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement today. “At this stage of
the discussions, the latter has not been in a position to submit
a binding offer that could be accepted by the board.”  A person familiar with the matter said Dec. 17 that  Danaher
Corp.  offered to buy  Ingenico  for 1.44 billion euros ($1.9
billion). Ingenico hadn’t identified the bidder and said on Dec.
17 that it received a 28-euro-per-share non-binding takeover
offer, 41 cents a share more than the price of its shares before
trading was suspended.  Payment software and equipment are attracting increasing
interest from technology and telecommunications companies as
more transactions move from cash to electronic formats. Buying
Ingenico would have allowed Danaher to add card readers to a
product lineup that includes  payment stations  at fuel pumps,
dental tools and ultraviolet  disinfection systems  for water
plants.  Ingenico, based in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine,
said on Dec. 17 that the discussions may or may not lead to a
transaction. Today, the company said that its board has asked
for the company’s shares to resume trading in Paris on Dec. 20.  Spokespeople for Ingenico and Washington-based Danaher
couldn’t immediately be reached today to comment.  Cash Available  Ingenico  rose  4 percent to 27.59 euros in Paris on Dec. 16
before trading was halted.  Safran SA  is Ingenico’s biggest
shareholder, with a stake of about 22 percent.  Danaher, which posted $11.2 billion in revenue in 2009, has
about $4 billion available for acquisitions during the next four
to six quarters, Chief Executive Officer  Lawrence Culp  said at a
Dec. 15 investor meeting. Danaher completed 13  acquisitions  this
year.  The company “could conservatively deploy about $2 billion
towards acquisitions in short order utilizing only its
commercial paper resources and existing cash on hand,”  Jon Wood , an analyst at Jefferies & Co., wrote in an investors note
on Dec. 16..  France Telecom SA , the largest French telecommunications
company, last week announced a research effort aimed at
improving technologies for payment using mobile phones. The
global value of goods purchased via mobile devices will be about
$200 billion annually in 2012, according to Juniper Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 