-- Iran Cuts Energy Subsidies as Sanctions Take Toll, Gasoline Prices Soar
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-19T08:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/iran-begins-cutting-energy-subsidies-as-united-nations-sanctions-take-toll.html
Iran started phasing out energy
subsidies and replacing them with cash payments to the poor,
under a five-year plan promoted by President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
as an “economic revolution.”  Ahmadinejad said the changes would lead to a better
distribution of wealth, state-run Press TV reported today. The
price supports totaled about $4,000 a year for a family of four,
more than the income of many Iranians, and turned the nation
into “one of the most wasteful” for energy consumption, the
International Monetary Fund has said. The Central Bank put the
cost of the energy subsidies alone at $40 billion to $100
billion a year, depending on oil prices.  The three-decade-old subsidies, which allowed Iranians to
buy gasoline recently at 38 cents a gallon, are being phased out
as pressure mounts from four rounds of United Nations sanctions
and measures from the U.S. and the European Union aimed at
curbing the country’s nuclear program. The punishments include
restrictions on trade related to Iran’s oil and gas industries.  “The government is squeezed as it has never been before
and is seeking to cut costs,”  Hossein Askari , professor of
business and international affairs at the Elliott School of
International Affairs at George Washington University in
Washington, said in a phone interview before the cuts began.  Under the price supports, an Iranian consumer was permitted
to buy a monthly maximum of 60 liters (16 gallons) of gasoline
at the subsidized price of 1,000 rials (10 cents) a liter. It
will now cost 4,000 rials a liter for 50 liters a month, and
7,000 rials a liter for bigger amounts, Press TV said today.
After the five-year phasing out of subsidies, gasoline will sell
domestically for 90 percent of the price in the region,
according to the legislation.  Wholesale Price  The government also plans to cut subsidies for diesel fuel,
kerosene, natural gas and electricity today, Press TV reported.
Subsidies as well will be reduced on wheat, rice, cooking oil,
milk, sugar, postal services, air travel and rail tickets,
according to the plan.  Iran aims to use 80 percent of the money saved to provide
cash grants to its poorest citizens and to support energy-
intensive industries. About 60 million Iranians have signed up
to receive the cash, officials said.  The sanctions have increased the country’s trade costs by
about 20 percent, Askari said. The crude output of Iran, the
second-largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, hasn’t risen, while its domestic fuel
consumption has, Askari said.  ‘Correctly Used’  The main aim of the program “is for consumption to be
optimized and for the country’s riches to be correctly used,”
Ahmadinejad said in an Oct. 30 television interview.  Iran’s government knows that ending subsidies is necessary
for the economy to grow at the pace of “vibrant emerging-market
countries,” Dominique Guillaume, IMF mission chief, said on the
fund’s website in September.  “They realize that the only way to do so is to restore
market pricing of energy.” Guillaume said. “From a domestic
perspective, if prices are higher, the energy sector in Iran
will become more profitable and hence be able to invest, extract
and produce more. Furthermore, if the Iranian people are able to
restrain their consumption, this will have a positive side
effect on the global oil market.”  U.S. Undersecretary of State  William Burns  said Dec. 1 that
tougher American sanctions over Iran’s nuclear program are
costing Iran as much as $60 billion in lost energy investments.
The U.S. and its allies allege that Iran’s atomic work may be
cover for weapons development, a claim the country denies.  Refining Capacity  Iran had relied on imports for as much as 40 percent of its
gasoline because it lacked refining capacity. Iran’s projects in
the oil and gas industries have been stalled since the U.S. put
pressure on international companies to halt their investments in
the country in an effort to isolate it. Iran needs to invest
about $46 billion to upgrade its nine refineries and build seven
more, officials have said.  Iran’s economy is projected to grow 1.6 percent this year
after expanding 1.1 percent in 2009, the IMF said in October.  Two presidents before Ahmadinejad failed in their efforts
to revise the subsidy system, which was set up when the country
was at war with neighboring Iraq. Such attempts in the 1990s
sparked public protests.  Nationwide Demonstrations  Iran was rocked by nationwide demonstrations by protesters
who alleged that Ahmadinejad’s June 2009 re-election was
fraudulent, a swelling of anti-government sentiment that was put
down violently by security forces.  While fear of a crackdown will prevent unrest over the
subsidy cuts, Ahmadinejad may face a challenge among members of
parliament if they feel the plan isn’t well received by the
public, said Scott Lucas, professor of American Studies at the
University of Birmingham in England and founder of EA WorldView,
a website on U.S. foreign policy and international affairs.  The government projects savings of as much as $20 billion
in the first 12 months of the subsidy cuts, down from an initial
estimate of $40 billion before the current budget of 3,470
trillion rials was approved in March. The spending plan is based
on oil at $65 a barrel. Crude for January delivery climbed 32
cents to settle at $88.02 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange on Dec. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  