-- Iraq's Crude Production to Advance 17% Early Next Year, Oil Minister Says
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-12-19T11:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/iraq-s-crude-production-to-advance-17-early-next-year-oil-minister-says.html
Iraq forecast a 17 percent rise in
oil output next year and invited companies from South Korea and
Kazakhstan to sign immediately a delayed contract for the Akkas
gas field, Oil Minister  Hussain al-Shahristani  said.  Iraq, holder of the world’s fifth-largest oil reserves,
wants foreign investors to help it boost production of crude and
natural gas. Output of both has suffered from insurgent attacks
and a lack of investment since  Saddam Hussein ’s ouster in 2003.
Seeking to end the stagnation, the government has awarded 12 oil
contracts and three gas licences.  “Iraq’s oil production capacity will increase to 2.75
million barrels a day early next year,” Shahristani said in an
interview in Baghdad yesterday.  The country now produces about 2.35 million barrels of
crude a day. Shahristani attributed the expected increase to
investments by the international oil companies that have signed
contracts to develop Iraqi fields.  While Iraq generates most of its revenue from oil sales,
the government wants to produce gas as fuel for power plants,
which have been unable to meet domestic demand. Officials hope
to develop Iraqi gas reserves for electricity and export.  Iraq was to have signed the Akkas gas-field agreement with
 Korea Gas Corp.  and Kazakhstan’s  KazMunaiGaz National Co.  on
Nov. 14. Iraq delayed the signing to clear up a
“misunderstanding” over the planned use of fuel from the
deposit, Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi, an Oil Ministry deputy, said at
the time.  Companies Invited  “We have invited the companies to come to Iraq and sign
the contract as soon as possible,” Shahristani said yesterday.  The minister added that negotiations were continuing with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Mitsubishi Corp.  about a project to
capture associated gas at oil fields in southern Iraq.  “Until now the negotiations are not completed between the
oil ministry and the coalition led by Shell over the creation of
the joint gas company,” he said. “Once they are completed, it
will be submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers.”  An agreement with Shell and Mitsubishi is due to be signed
by the end of January, Ali Hussain Khudair, the director-general
of Iraq’s South Gas Co., said on Nov. 25.  The government gave initial approval on June 29 for the
creation of a venture with Shell and Mitsubishi, to be called
Basra Gas Co. The venture would be owned 51 percent by state-run
South Gas, with Shell holding 44 percent and Mitsubishi the
remaining 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  