-- Jockey Tony McCoy Wins BBC Sports Personality Award; Beckham Gets Accolade
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-20T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/jockey-tony-mccoy-wins-bbc-sports-personality-award-beckham-accolade.html
Tony McCoy  won the British
Broadcasting Corp.’s Sports Personality of the Year award,
becoming the first jockey to take the accolade in its 57th
edition.  McCoy, 36, known by his initials A.P., topped a public poll
ahead of darts player Phil Taylor and heptathlete Jessica Ennis.
The result was announced last night in a BBC television program
built around the award. Former England soccer captain  David Beckham  won the Lifetime Achievement Award.  In April, jumps jockey McCoy won the Grand National on
Don’t Push It to claim his first victory in the 4 1/2-mile
steeplechase, one of the biggest horse races in the U.K.
calendar, at the 15th attempt.  “This is an unbelievable feeling standing here in front of
all these amazing people,” McCoy said. “To win this award is
very surreal.”  The northern Irishman has been Britain’s champion jump
jockey for the past 15 seasons, a record tally. His candidacy
for the BBC award received support from across the sport in
Britain, and earlier this month a race at Cheltenham, England,
was renamed the “Vote A.P. Gold Cup.”  Major race victories in McCoy’s career have included the
Champion Hurdle and Gold Cup at Cheltenham and the King George
VI Chase at Kempton Park. In February last year, he became the
first jockey to ride 3,000 winners over jumps in Britain and
Ireland. He’s now ridden more than 3,300 winners, more than any
other jump rider.  Beckham Ovation  Beckham, with his wife Victoria and children in the
audience, received a standing ovation as he collected his award.  “I’m really humbled to receive an award for something I
have always loved and continue to love doing,” said a visibly
emotional Beckham. “Football is a team game, and without the
team and the players’ support and skill I wouldn’t be here
today.”  The BBC’s team award was won by Europe’s winning Ryder Cup
golf squad, whose captain Colin Montgomerie received the Coach
of the Year award. Top-ranked tennis player Rafael Nadal took
the overseas personality award.  The BBC award is one of the most prestigious accolades in
U.K. sport. Previous winners include Beckham, cricketer  Andrew Flintoff , golfer  Nick Faldo  and marathon runner Paula Radcliffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 