-- Nunavut to Demand Hearing to Stop Baffinland Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-20T22:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/nunavut-to-ask-ontario-regulators-for-hearing-on-baffinland.html
Nunavut Iron Ore Acquisition Inc., a
venture bidding against ArcelorMittal to buy  Baffinland Iron
Mines Corp. , will ask Ontario regulators for a hearing to object
to a shareholders’ rights plan adopted by the takeover target.  The so-called poison pill takeover defense is designed to
favor Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal’s “inferior” bid and end
the auction process, Nunavut Iron, backed by investment firm
Energy & Minerals Group, said in a statement yesterday. Nunavut
Iron said its offer “remains superior,” and that it will ask
the Ontario Securities Commission for a hearing today.  ArcelorMittal, the largest producer of steel, raised its
cash offer for Baffinland to C$492 million ($485 million), or
C$1.25 a share, on Dec. 18. Baffinland said it supports the
amended offer and that it will adopt a new shareholder rights
plan. Nunavut Iron had raised its offer for Baffinland to C$1.35
a share on Dec. 16, from 80 cents.  “The adoption of this rights plan is intended to be an
auction-ending move by the Baffinland board and it not in the
best interests of its shareholders,” Bruce Walter, Nunavut
Iron’s chairman, said in the statement. The plan “will prevent
shareholders from considering Nunavut Iron’s current offer or
any increased offer.”  Baffinland  dropped  1 cent to C$1.31 at 3:59 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have more than
doubled this year. ArcelorMittal  advanced  as much as 1.6 percent
to 29.49 euros in Amsterdam trading and closed at 29.27 euros.  Iron Ore Gains  Closely held Nunavut Iron and ArcelorMittal are battling
for control of Toronto-based Baffinland’s  Mary River project ,
which contains reserves of 365 million tons of iron ore,
according to a November statement from ArcelorMittal. Prices for
iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, almost doubled in the
April quarter and gained more than 20 percent in the June-to-
September period.  The Mary River project is located about 620 miles (1,000
kilometers) northwest of Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut, the
largest of Canada’s three northern territories.  The  Ontario Securities Commission  rejected Baffinland’s
previous poison pill plan four weeks ago, Nunavut said in the
statement.  Daniella Dimitrov , vice chairman of Baffinland, and  Richard McCloskey , its chief executive officer, didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  Giles Read , a spokesman for ArcelorMittal,
didn’t respond to an e-mail and a telephone call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  