-- Mexico Pipeline Blast Kills 27, Blamed on `Criminal Gang' Stealing Fuel
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-12-19T22:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/pemex-pipeline-explosion-in-mexico-s-puebla-state-kills-22-minister-says.html
An oil pipeline operated by Mexican
state-owned company Petroleos Mexicanos exploded today as a
“criminal gang” tried to steal fuel, killing at least 27
people and injuring 52, the company said.  The early morning blast in San Martin Texmelucan today
damaged 115 houses in Puebla state, the company said in a
statement on its website. Valentin Meneses, the state’s interior
secretary, said in an interview on the Milenio TV network that
32 of the houses were completely destroyed.  The 30-inch Nuevo Teapa pipeline runs from the port of Dos
Bocas in Tabasco state to the Tula refinery in Hidalgo state.
The refinery has as many as four days of supply to maintain
production of as much as 280,000 barrels a day, said Fabricio
Guerra, a Petroleos Mexicanos press officer in Tula.  The refinery can use another pipeline if Nuevo Teapa is
down for more than four days, said Guerra, who didn’t have an
estimate of how long pipeline repairs would take. The Tula
refinery is “still operating normally,” Guerra said.  Pemex , as the oil company is known, has been a victim of
fuel theft in the past. The company said last year that as much
as 5 million barrels worth 9.3 billion pesos ($750 million) were
stolen in 2008. People arrested in connection with fuel theft in
March 2009 may have been working with drug cartels, the attorney
general’s office said then.  ‘Rivers of Fire’  “All of this is the consequence of a criminal gang,”
Meneses said. “They lost control because of the great force of
the fuel that came out. Many streets started to flood with fuel.
There was a spark and there were rivers of fire.”  The blast was reported at 5:50 a.m. local time.  Pemex said in an e-mailed statement that the fire was
controlled by the company’s emergency workers and local
authorities. The military has also been deployed, Pemex said.  The office of Mexico’s Attorney General began an
investigation of the blast on  orders  of Mexico President  Felipe Calderon , Interior Minister  Jose Francisco Blake Mora  said in
comments broadcast on Milenio TV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  