-- Perpetual Says Takeover Talks With KKR Ended on Disagreement Over Terms
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-20T05:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/perpetual-says-takeover-talks-with-kkr-ended-on-disagreement-over-terms.html
KKR & Co.  ended talks to buy
 Perpetual Ltd.  for at least A$1.75 billion ($1.73 billion),
triggering the biggest drop in the Australian fund manager’s
shares in more than two years.  The parties couldn’t agree on acceptable terms, they said
in separate statements today. KKR won’t carry out due diligence
and Sydney-based Perpetual doesn’t expect further discussions
with the New York-based buyout firm, Perpetual said.  Perpetual’s 15 percent  tumble  in Sydney trading erased most
of the gain since announcing the approach in October. KKR’s
challenge was to lock in the target’s senior  investment managers ,
led by head of equities  John Sevior , to avoid buying a business
left bare if key workers defect. That’s not a typical private-
equity investment, said  Shaun Manuell  at Equity Trustees Ltd.  “It didn’t really fit the mould,” said Manuell, who helps
manage A$750 million in Australian stocks at Equity Trustees in
Melbourne. “They tend to look for steady, stable cash flows and
improve operational efficiencies. It’s a difficult model for
service industries.”  Perpetual  shares  fell to A$31.54 at the 4:10 p.m. local
time close in their biggest decline since October 2008. KKR’s
proposal was as high as A$40 a share. Before the approach was
made public nine weeks ago, Perpetual stock fetched A$30.97.  Not Acceptable  Perpetual said this month it signed confidentiality
agreements with KKR and gave the private-equity firm access to
some data. An estate trustee since 1888, Perpetual had said the
legal implication of selling that unit was among issues to
resolve before a bid could be recommended to shareholders.  “The parties have agreed that such an offer by KKR cannot
be formulated,” Perpetual said in its statement. “Mutually
acceptable terms were unable to be developed.”  For KKR, the collapse of talks is at least the second
failure since July. That month, a group including Carlyle Group
and TPG Capital beat KKR after bidding A$2 billion for
Australian hospital operator Healthscope Ltd. KKR bid alone,
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  “KKR was satisfied with the level of access and
information received,” Ian Smith, an Adelaide-based spokesman
for the private-equity firm, said in a statement today. He
confirmed the two companies couldn’t reach agreement.  Rising Currency  Perpetual on Oct. 15 was  valued  at 13.6 times earnings, 29
percent below its average of 19.2 times over the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Perpetual was founded in Sydney in 1886 by a group that
included Edmund Barton, who became Australia’s first prime
minister in 1901. The company on Nov. 30 managed more than A$27
billion in investment funds, according to its website.  KKR was seeking an asset manager in Australia’s A$1.35
trillion pension-fund industry. The offer followed a surge by
the Australian dollar to parity with the U.S. currency in
October, driving up the cost to foreign investors buying the
nation’s assets.  Perpetual, which is also searching for a new chief
executive officer, reiterated that it expects underlying profit
after tax for the six months ending Dec. 31 of between A$35
million and A$40 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  