-- Prince Alwaleed Is Richest Arabian Businessman for Seventh Year
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-12-19T13:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/prince-alwaleed-is-ranked-richest-arabian-businessman-for-the-seventh-year.html
Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  was ranked
the richest Arab businessman by  Arabian Business  magazine for
the seventh year after adding more than $2 billion to his wealth
this year.  Alwaleed’s assets were valued at $20.4 billion, the Dubai-
based magazine said today in its  2010 Arab Rich List , adding
that the figure was confirmed by the Saudi prince’s office in
Riyadh. It compares with Alwaleed’s wealth of $18 billion
reported last year by Arabian Business.  Alwaleed, 55, has restructured  Kingdom Holding Co.  and
invested $500 million in General Motors Co.’s initial public
offering in November to drive investment growth as the global
financial crisis unwinds. Riyadh-based Kingdom Holding, 95
percent owned by Prince Alwaleed, announced yesterday that it
will pay its first annual dividend in 2011 since listing on the
Saudi stock exchange more than three years ago.  “Taking into account the latest market values of Kingdom
Holding, and an appreciation in the value of many of his key
assets, we now place a figure of $20.4 billion on his total
wealth,” Arabian Business said. The magazine assessed
Alwaleed’s assets in five areas, including Kingdom Holding,
companies outside Saudi Arabia, property and transportation.  Shares of  Kingdom Holding  have gained less than 1 percent
this year, while the  Tadawul All-Share Index , the largest bourse
in the Middle East by market value, has advanced 7.2 percent.
Alwaleed sold 315 million shares of Kingdom Holding at 10.25
riyals each in an initial public offering in July 2007.  $100 Billion  Saudi businesses represented six of the 10 richest Arabs
this year on the Arabian Business list. The wealth of the top 10
Arabs climbed 16 percent from last year to $100 billion, the
magazine said.  Saudi Arabian businessman Sheikh  Mohamed Bin Issa Al-Jaber 
was ranked the second richest Arab with $12 billion, up from
$9.7 billion in 2009. He is the founder of  MBI International.   The  Olayan family , with more than 50 companies from
manufacturing to providing investments services, ranked third
with $11.9 billion in wealth.  Mohammed al-Amoudi , whose Corral
Group owns Preem AB, Sweden’s largest refiner, followed with $10
billion. The Saudi Binladin Group with $9.8 billion was ranked
fifth.  Saudi companies have benefited as the Arab world’s largest
economy implements a $400 billion, five-year spending package,
announced in late 2008, to stimulate economic growth expected by
the central bank at 3.5 percent this year. The government also
announced a $384 billion, five-year spending plan in August.  Al-Kharafi Slips  “Saudi Arabia has by far the biggest number of entries on
the list, with the kingdom’s entities taking up the top five
places alone,” Arabian Business said. “Altogether, there are
32 Saudi entries on the 2010 list, and of the 24 new entries, 20
of them came from the Gulf’s biggest economy.”  Kuwait’s  Nasser Al-Kharafi  dropped three spots to the sixth
position with $8.2 billion, according to the list. Al-Kharafi
had $9.4 billion, according to the Arabian Business 2009 list.  Alwaleed built his fortune by investing in brand-name
companies he considered undervalued, including  Apple Inc. , News
Corp. and Time Warner Inc. He ranks 19th on Forbes magazine’s
list of the world’s richest billionaires.  Alwaleed and Kingdom Holding bought a 1 percent stake in
Detroit-based GM’s IPO because of the “relatively attractive”
offering price and growth prospects in Brazil and China,
according to a company statement last month.  In January, Alwaleed transferred 180 million of his shares
in Citigroup Inc. to  Kingdom Holding  to enable the Saudi company
to pay dividends and improve earnings, according to a company
release. Kingdom Holding appointed Sarmad Zok, chief executive
officer of the lodging unit Kingdom Hotel Investments, to the
board of Kingdom Holding and its investment committee in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  