-- U.S. Condemns Belarus Crackdowns, Rejects `Illegitimate' Election Results
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2010-12-20T21:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/protesters-police-clash-in-minsk-after-belarus-s-lukashenko-wins-election.html
The U.S. government said it rejects
as illegitimate the re-election of Belarus President  Alexander Lukashenko  and “strongly condemns” a crackdown on
demonstrators protesting the longtime leader’s return to office.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  today called on
Belarus authorities to release demonstrators who have been
detained. At the State Department, spokesman  Philip J. Crowley 
denounced beatings, arrests and the use of “excessive force”
against opposition politicians, journalists and civil activists,
some of whom tried to storm the parliament to protest
Lukashenko’s re-election yesterday.  According to the Belarus  Central Election Commission’s
website , Lukashenko won 79.7 percent of the vote. Gibbs said the
U.S. “cannot accept as legitimate” the official results.  Instead, the U.S. endorsed a report by the observer mission
from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,
which concluded that voting and counting were not free, fair or
transparent. The OSCE said the process was “marred by the
detention of most presidential candidates and hundreds of
activists.”  Lukashenko, 56, who has ruled Belarus since 1994 under a
regime dubbed the last dictatorship in Europe by the
administration of U.S. President  George W. Bush , vowed to punish
protesters. With the opposition defanged, demonstrations will
probably fizzle out, said  Alexander Rahr , an analyst at the
Berlin-based German Council on Foreign Relations.  “The opposition was dispersed, and tomorrow no one will
remember these leaders,” Rahr said by telephone. “The
situation in Belarus will only change when opposition against
Lukashenko emerges from within the system. So far, there has
been nobody like this.”  ‘Clear Step Backwards’  The White House today reiterated a Dec. 1 statement that
“further development of relations is contingent upon the
Government of Belarus’ respect for human rights and the
democratic process.” Gibbs called the post-election violence
“a clear step backwards” and expressed concern that
independent Internet media had been disrupted, calling on the
government to protect its “citizens’ right to free media.”  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, called on authorities to “immediately release those
arrested.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said today that while his
country would always have a close relationship with Belarus, the
elections “have to reflect sovereign will of Belarus people.”  Smashing Windows  Thousands rioted on Independence Square in central Minsk
yesterday after the vote, which would give Lukashenko a fourth
term in office. Protesters smashed windows and chanted slogans
including “Go away” and “Long live Belarus,” footage on
 Google Inc .’s YouTube  showed.   Post-election demonstrations in Ukraine led to the 2004
Orange Revolution, which swept opposition candidate  Viktor Yushchenko  to power over pro-Russia then-premier  Viktor Yanukovych . A year earlier, Georgian President  Mikheil Saakashvili  rose to power in the Rose Revolution, when he led
protests over elections that he said incumbent  Eduard Shevardnadze  had rigged.  Minsk’s Independence Square was cleared by daybreak, said
Alexander Atroshchenko, spokesman for candidate  Andrei Sannikov ,
by telephone from Minsk. Opposition supporters were preparing to
continue protests today, he added. Sannikov was detained, along
with rival presidential candidates Grigory Kostusev, Vitaly
Rymashevsky and Vladimir Neklyaev.  ‘Paralyzed’ Opposition  Five presidential candidates were detained, with two others
under house arrest, according to  Joerg Forbrig , a senior program
officer at the German Marshall Fund.  “The opposition has been paralyzed,” he said by phone.
“It will be very difficult for the protests to continue today.
The police detained not only the presidential candidates, but
also the campaigners and organizers.”  Protests following Belarus’s last presidential election
four years ago fizzled out after freezing temperatures and
multiple detentions shut down a camp that demonstrators set up
outside the electoral commission in Minsk. The OSCE said the
2006 vote didn’t conform to international democratic standards.  “You should read our laws to find out what’s going to
happen to protesters; everything will be done according to the
law,” Lukashenko said, according to Russia’s state-run Rossiya-
24. “You won’t see any disturbances.”  ‘Dependent on Russia’  Belarus is part of a customs union with Russia and
Kazakhstan. The three countries plan to create an economic union
in 2012. Russia and Belarus are further joined by a “ union
state ” agreement developed in a series of treaties in the
1990s.  The ex-Soviet republic of 10 million that borders Russia
and three European Union nations joined the EU’s Eastern
Partnership to counter Russia’s influence.  The EU extended the suspension of a travel ban aimed at
Lukashenko and top members of his government in October, arguing
that a policy of engaging Lukashenko is leading to limited
human-rights improvements in Belarus.  “Belarus’ economic stability is very dependent on
Russia,” said Daniel Krutzinna, a Minsk-based investment
consultant at Uniter Investment Company, in an interview in
Warsaw today. Belarus’ foreign debt has doubled since the global
economic crisis began, he said. The country needed a $3.5
billion International Monetary Fund to stay afloat last year.  The rhetoric between Minsk and Moscow became increasingly
heated in October, with Lukashenko accusing Russian media of a
“unscrupulous lies, disinformation and utter nonsense” that he
implied was ordered by the Russian authorities.  ‘Belligerent Reliance’  The two countries reached an energy deal on Dec. 9, when
Lukashenko dropped earlier objections to closer economic
integration with Russia in exchange for duty-free oil. Russian
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said that his country will deliver
as much as 21 million metric tons of crude to Belarus duty-free
in 2011, costing Moscow $5.3 billion in lost revenue.  “The result ensures the status quo of Belarus’ belligerent
reliance on Moscow remains intact for several more years,” said
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow, said by e-mail. “It ensures that, despite Lukashenko’s
constant complaints, the umbilical cord between Moscow and Minsk
remains unbroken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
 Indira Lakshmanan  in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 