-- South Korea Completes Live-Firing Exercise; Drill Passes Without Incident
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-20T15:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/south-korea-to-go-ahead-with-artillery-drill-as-north-warns-of-retaliation.html
South Korea said a live-firing drill
that drew threats of retaliation from North Korea was completed
without incident, after the United Nations Security Council
failed to agree on steps to ease tension on the peninsula.  Artillery positions on Yeonpyeong Island shelled after a
similar exercise last month ceased firing around 4 p.m. local
time, said a Defense Ministry official in Seoul who declined to
be named, citing government policy. North Korea said it doesn’t
need to respond to all military provocations, calling the drill
“a childish play with fire of cowards,” the official Korean
Central News Agency reported, citing the army’s supreme command.
Even so, it said a “powerful retaliatory strike” might “lead
to blowing up the bases of the U.S. and South Korean puppet
warmongers” at any time.  “In the world of North Korea we call any day progress when
war hasn’t broken out,”  Christopher Hill , former U.S.
ambassador to South Korea and nuclear envoy under President
 George W. Bush , said on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with
 Margaret Brennan .” “The real difference here is that the South
Korean government is not prepared to play along anymore.”  Yeonpyeong abuts the western coast sea border that North
Korea says is illegal and that the South insists it will police.
An emergency meeting of the Security Council ended last night
without agreement as China blocked moves to condemn the North
and Russia urged that the drills be scrapped.  ‘Bellicose Mood’  Postponement “would appear as if they’re surrendering, as
if they’re bowing to North Korean pressure,”  Andrei Lankov , an
associate professor at Kookmin University in Seoul, said on
Bloomberg Television today. The public is in a “bellicose
mood,” he said. “They see Chinese and Russian actions as
interference in South Korean domestic politics.”  South Korean  stocks  and the won earlier fell the most in
three weeks. The  Kospi stock index  opened 0.9 percent lower
after tensions rose over the weekend. The benchmark fell as much
as 1.5 percent before the drills, recouping losses to end 0.3
percent down at 2,020.28. The won fell to a 1-month low as
investors also sold South Korean assets after the government
proposed tighter curbs on capital flows to head off inflation.  The North had earlier threatened retaliation for any
shelling of waters that it claims as its own, saying that the
response would be stronger than the Nov. 23 bombardment of
Yeonpyeong Island, in which four people died.  Live-fire drills “would make it impossible to prevent the
situation on the Korean peninsula from exploding,” KCNA cited
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as saying on Dec. 18.  Sovereign Right  President  Lee Myung Bak  said today it is South Korea’s
sovereign right to hold military drills to protect its
territory, according to a statement from his office. Lee told
the military to be prepared for any provocation, even after the
drill. South Korea saw no reason to abandon the maneuvers
because other nations opposed them, a military spokesman said
yesterday.  The government lifted its evacuation order on the island at
6.30 p.m. local time, broadcaster YTN reported, without saying
where it got the information.  The “exercises are fully consistent with South Korea’s
right to self defense,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
UN, said after the council meeting, adding that it was unlikely
the members would find common ground on the issue. “It is safe
to predict the gaps that remain are unlikely to be bridged.”  China urged all parties to avoid actions that would
escalate tension, and called for “maximum restraint,”
according to a statement by spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  on the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs website posted after the drills.  Underground Shelters  China declined to join a majority of the Security Council
members in condemning North Korea’s Nov. 23 attack, according to
a diplomat present at the meeting who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The Chinese mission to the UN didn’t respond to a
telephone message requesting comment.  About 20 U.S. military personnel were planning to
participate in today’s drills. Residents, local officials and
journalists on the island were ordered to underground shelters,
the Associated Press reported from Yeonpyeong.  The U.S. and South Korea were using civilians as “a human
shield,” KCNA said, repeating an accusation the official North
Korean agency made following the deaths of two civilians in last
month’s bombardment. The attack, which also killed two soldiers,
was the first shelling of South Korean soil since the 1950-1953
Korean War ended in a cease-fire with no peace treaty.  Crossing the Border  South Korea’s Unification Ministry today banned workers
from crossing the border and entering the Gaesong industrial
park in North Korea because of security concerns, ministry
spokeswoman Lee Jong Joo said by phone. The government hasn’t
decided whether to rescind the ban tomorrow, Lee said.  Russia requested the emergency UN meeting, saying the
Security Council “must send a restraining signal” to both
countries.  Vitaly Churkin , the country’s ambassador to the UN,
said Russia wanted the UN secretary general to appoint a special
envoy to Korea.  “We have a situation of very serious political tension and
no game plan on the diplomatic side,” Churkin told reporters in
New York after the meeting. “It’s better to refrain from doing
these exercises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  