-- South Korea Imposes Levy on Foreign Exchange Borrowings to Stop Outflows
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-20T06:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/south-korea-imposes-levy-on-foreign-exchange-borrowings-to-stop-outflows.html
South Korea unveiled measures to
guard against sudden capital outflows as military tensions with
the North raised concerns investors will pull funds out of
Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  The government said yesterday it aims to apply a levy on
banks’ foreign-exchange borrowings, will strengthen punishment
for inappropriate reporting of currency trades and may tighten
rules on derivatives. It is considering a 20 basis-point levy on
overseas debt maturing in less than one year, Vice Finance
Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said.  Nations from China to South Africa are striving to limit
currency volatility as near-zero borrowing costs in advanced
economies spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging-
markets. South Korea is also worried funds will exit the country
due to military tensions, said researcher Jeong Young Sik.  “After suffering two financial crises in recent years,
Korea wants to better protect itself and tackle capital flows,”
said Jeong, a research fellow at Samsung Economic Research
Institute in Seoul. “Global circumstances are in favor of
controls and jitters are growing over the rising tensions with
North Korea and the consequent possibility of capital flight.”  Military Tensions  The proposed tighter curbs on capital flows and speculation
North Korea will retaliate against artillery drills by its
neighbor weighed on South Korean shares. South Korea commenced a
live-firing drill today as the United Nations Security Council
failed to agree on steps to ease tensions.  South Korea’s won gained 0.2 percent to 1,150.25 per dollar
at the 3:00 p.m. close in Seoul, recouping earlier losses of as
much as 1.7 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark Kospi stock index fell 0.3 percent to close at
2,020.28. South Korea’s three-year bond yield was unchanged at
3.35 percent, according to prices from the Korea Exchange.  The bank levy will be imposed on non-deposit foreign-
currency liabilities held by all domestic and foreign lenders,
according to a joint statement released yesterday by the
Ministry of Strategy and Finance, the  Bank of Korea  and the
Financial Supervisory Service.  Short-term  debt , which poses a greater risk, will be
subject to a higher levy than long-term borrowing, the financial
authorities said, adding that the banks will pay in U.S. dollars.
Proceeds from the charge will be used to provide liquidity to
financial institutions in times of risk, Yim said.  ‘Highly Vulnerable’  “We wanted to regulate systemic risk from excessive
capital inflows and outflows, and we decided implementation of a
bank levy would be good to reduce volatility,” Yim said at a
press conference in Seoul yesterday after the measure was
announced. It will be proposed to the National Assembly in
February, and will take effect after July 1 if approved, Yim
said.  The country is “highly vulnerable” to extreme changes in
the global economy and sudden capital movements, the statement
said. Overseas investors withdrawing short-term funds led to a
financial crisis across most of Asia more than a decade ago.  The proposed levy will likely reduce banks’ demand to
borrow short-term overseas funds, Bank of Korea economist Kim
Seung Won said.  Kim said in a research paper today that increased foreign
exchange  reserves  tend to boost short-term foreign borrowings as
the nation’s default risk falls, prompting banks to rely more on
short-term money because of cheaper borrowing costs.  Derivatives Rules  South Korea may tighten its cap on banks’ holdings of
foreign-exchange derivatives after completing a review on Jan. 9,
Yim said yesterday. The government in October imposed a limit of
250 percent of equity capital on foreign banks and 50 percent on
domestic banks to reduce volatility in capital flows and trading
of the won.  The government will strengthen punitive measures on
reporting of foreign-exchange activity, according to the
statement. Domestic banks held $168.9 billion in non-deposit
foreign-currency liabilities as of October and foreign bank
branches had $104.6 billion, it added.  Emerging economies have been introducing capital control
measures in recent months to cool investment from overseas.
Taiwan last month announced a plan to restore curbs on foreign
investment in its  debt , only allowing offshore funds to have up
to 30 percent of their portfolios invested in all types of
government bonds and money-market products. Brazil tripled a tax
on purchases of local fixed-income assets by overseas investors
in October.  Rising Won  The won has appreciated 34 percent since February last year,
the biggest gainer in Asia, damping the nation’s export-driven
economic expansion.  South Korean regulators began an audit of how banks should
handle foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to tackle
speculation. The National Assembly on Dec. 8 passed a bill that
will from Jan. 1 tax interest income from treasury and central
bank bonds by as much as 14 percent and put a 20 percent levy on
capital gains from their sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  