-- U.K. to Publish Details About Revised HS2 High-Speed Rail Route Tomorrow
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-12-19T14:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/u-k-to-publish-revised-hs2-high-speed-rail-route-tomorrow.html
U.K. Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  will publish the exact route of the HS2 high-speech rail
route from London to Birmingham tomorrow, saying new adjustments
mean it will have a less severe impact on the environment.  The line was announced earlier this year by the Labour
government, which lost power in elections in May. Labour also
announced plans for a Y-shaped network of high-speed lines that
may later link to northern England and Scotland.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition,
which also favors the Y-shaped approach north of Birmingham, has
been examining the London-to-Birmingham route under pressure
from Conservative lawmakers whose districts it dissects.
Residents along the route have expressed concerns about noise,
environmental impact and the value of their homes.  “We’ve always said we were not wedded to the precise
alignment that the previous government put forward,” Hammond
told BBC radio’s The World This Weekend program today. “The
route that we publish tomorrow as our preferred route will be
changed from the original route.”  The route won’t be altered “to a completely different
corridor, but small changes in the alignment of the route so it
goes further away from sensitive areas, making it deeper in many
places so it is buried in cuttings rather than on the surface,”
he said. “We are very sensitive to the fact that there will be
local environmental impacts and there are ways we can mitigate
them.”  Under the coalition proposal, the line will have links to
Heathrow and the High Speed 1 line to the Channel Tunnel, taking
the total cost to 33 billion pounds ($51 billion), 3 billion
pounds more than under the Labour blueprint.  Cameron ’s government has already dropped plans for the new
HS2 line to have its main hub at London’s Heathrow airport
rather than at Euston station in the city center, as envisioned
by Labour minister  Andrew Adonis .  Hammond will make a statement to Parliament in London
tomorrow afternoon, a spokesman for the Department for Transport
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 