-- U.K. Will Not Be ‘Bullied’ by Banks Over Bonuses, Cable Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-12-19T12:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/u-k-government-will-not-be-bullied-by-banks-over-bonuses-cable-says.html
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said
the government won’t be “bullied” by banks threatening to
leave the U.K. for more favorable tax regimes and called for
“real restraint” over bonus payments.  Executives from Britain’s four largest banks -- Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Barclays Plc
and HSBC Holdings Plc -- will meet with Cable and Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  this week. Bonus payments will be
on the agenda, he said.  “We’re not going to be bullied,” Cable told The Sunday
Times newspaper in an interview today. “I meet all kinds of
companies who say ‘give us something or we’ll go somewhere else’
but you can’t just give in the whole time.”  In a separate interview with the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show
today, Cable repeated the government’s threat to take “robust
action” to tackle a lack of pay restraint with a possible
further tax on banks. He declined to “spell out the detail” on
what form any levy would take.  “I think it’s fair to say that the bankers do understand
the seriousness of the problem,” Cable told the BBC. “They’ve
come forward with initiatives already to try, you know, they’ve
put more money into equity funding for medium-sized companies,
they’ve suggested a bankers’ code. They do understand that
something has to happen; we can’t go through the winter season
of bonuses without real restraint and social responsibility.”  Deterrent  Further taxes on the financial-services industry risk
driving companies out of London and deterring those that may be
considering moving to the U.K.,  Stuart Fraser , policy chairman
at the City of London Corporation, warned last week.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  kept the top 50 percent
income-tax rate introduced by the previous Labour administration
and from January, the government will introduce a 2.5 billion-
pound ($3.9 billion) levy on bank balance sheets.  Two years after taxpayers invested, loaned or pledged
almost 1 trillion pounds to shore up the British financial
system, banks are set to pay as much as 7 billion pounds in
bonuses for 2010, according to the Centre for Economics &
Business Research Ltd.  While that’s down from a peak of 11.6 billion pounds in
2007, pressure is mounting on the government as it prepares to
eliminate more than 300,000 public-sector jobs and raise value-
added tax on sales to tackle the record budget deficit.  Bank Obligations  Banks have a duty to society, Cable said. “If they fail to
take account of their wider responsibilities, the government has
the possibility of some form of taxation,” he told the BBC.
“There are various ways of doing this. But we’d rather they
accepted that they had wider obligations to British business and
to the public.”  Cable told The Sunday Times he would be “shining light on
what’s actually going on at the top of the leading banking
institutions. If you keep people in the dark, you grow poisonous
fungus. Certainly we can’t leave things as they are.”  The newspaper also reported “tension” between Liberal
Democrat Cable and Conservative Osborne over how quickly to act
over bonuses. The newspaper said Osborne prefers a pan-European
agreement, which could take years. Cable said Cameron and
Osborne agreed with him on tackling the banks’ bonus culture.  “We’re very much working together on this,” Cable told
the BBC. “There is a recognition that we have to deal with
this, there is a coalition agreement. It’s absolutely clear and
explicit that we have to take robust action on unacceptable
bonuses. The whole coalition are fully signed up to that.”  Legislation Ignored  The U.K. opposition Labour Party’s Treasury spokesman  Alan Johnson  said his party had overseen legislation to tackle bank
bonuses that the government isn’t implementing.  “We passed legislation, supported by the Lib Dems and the
Tories to insist that any bonus of more than one million pounds
was transparent and recorded and all the signs are that they’re
not going to implement that legislation,” Johnson told Sky News
today. There is a paradox between the Liberal Democrats “saying
you should do more about banks and bankers’ bonuses and not
implementing legislation that’s already there,” he said.  There is “more money to be taken out of banks” as “a
fair share” of reducing Britain’s deficit, Johnson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  