-- UN Says Peacekeepers Will Remain in Ivory Coast, Rebuffing Gbagbo Demand
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r ,   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-19T15:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/un-says-it-will-continue-ivory-coast-mission-despite-challenge.html
The United Nations rejected a call
from Ivory Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo  for it and France to
withdraw their peacekeepers from the world’s top cocoa grower.  The UN Operation in Ivory Coast, or UNOCI, will continue to
fulfill its mandate to monitor and document human rights
violations, incitement of hatred and violence, Secretary-General
 Ban Ki-moon  said in a statement issued late yesterday.  “Any continued actions obstructing and constricting UN
operations are similarly unacceptable,” Ban said.  Gbagbo’s confrontation with the UN is his latest move to
cling to power after the international community threw its
weight behind challenger  Alassane Ouattara  as the winner of
disputed elections. Ivory Coast’s Constitutional Council
declared Gbagbo the victor in the Nov. 28 run-off, after the
Independent Electoral Commission had announced Ouattara won 54.1
percent of the poll.  “The president of the republic of Ivory Coast calls for
the immediate departure of UNOCI and the French forces that
support” the UN mission, Jacqueline Oble, a spokeswoman for
Gbagbo, said on national television yesterday. “The state of
Ivory Coast considers that UNOCI has been guilty of serious
blunders in which it undoubtedly acted as an agent of
destabilization and has contributed to further divide the
Ivorian people.”  France, Ivory Coast’s former colonial power, and the UN are
biased toward Ouattara, Oble said.  UN Headquarters Shot  Six armed men dressed in military clothes on Dec. 17 opened
fire on a UNOCI patrol and also shot at the mission’s
headquarters, forcing guards to return fire, the UN operation
said.  “Any attack on UN forces will be an attack on the
international community and those responsible for these actions
will be held accountable,” Ban said.  The U.K. today joined the U.S., Canada and the Netherlands
in advising its citizens in Ivory Coast to leave the country
while the uncertainty persists.  Ivory Coast has been divided since 2002, when northern
rebels attempted to topple Gbagbo, whose government they said
discriminated against northerners. The 65-year-old former
history professor has been in power for a decade after disputed
elections triggered a popular revolt which forced ruler Robert
Guei to flee.  Rising Cocoa Price  Cocoa reached a four-month high on Dec. 7 on speculation
that the political conflict would hamper exports of the beans.
Cocoa for March delivery has since fallen, trading 1.7 percent
down at $2,951 per metric ton on Dec. 17 after statistics showed
deliveries had so far remained unaffected.  Security forces on Dec. 16 opened fire on Ouattara
supporters who protested against Gbagbo and tried to invade the
state-owned broadcaster. Ouattara’s party claimed 32 of its
supporters were killed in the violence in Abidjan, the
commercial capital.  The army has warned opposition newspapers against
publishing since Dec. 17.  Ouattara’s party wants Gbagbo’s “departure by any means,”
spokesman Amadou Coulibaly said in an interview yesterday.  UN peacekeepers have armed opposition forces “with
artillery, heavy weapons, Kalashnikovs and light weapons,” army
spokesman Hilaire Babri Gohourou said on state television.  “The security forces of Ivory Coast have concluded that
the UN troops, which came as an impartial force, have abandoned
that posture,” Gohourou said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 