-- Hungarian Central Bank May Pause in Rate-Tightening Cycle to Assess Wages
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-20T07:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/hungarian-central-bank-may-pause-in-rate-tightening-cycle-to-assess-wages.html
Hungary’s central bank may pause a
rate-tightening cycle started last month as policy makers assess
the outlook for wages and consumer prices while the currency
strengthened, according to a survey of economists.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will probably keep the  benchmark
two-week interest rate  at 5.5 percent after unexpectedly raising
it from 5.25 percent last month, said 12 of 23 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Eleven expect a quarter-point increase to 5.75
percent. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.  Hungary needs a “modest tightening cycle” to prevent
accelerating inflation from anchoring expectations above policy
makers’ 3 percent target, central bank President  Andras Simor 
said last week. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  wants lower interest
rates to support pro-growth government measures, which the
central bank has called “unsustainable.”  “There has been little in recent economic data to support
the marked shift in the Monetary Council’s view on inflation
within a relatively small period of time,”  Neil Shearing , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note.
“Last month’s surprise rate hike is best viewed as a rebuke of
recent government policies.”  The forint last week posted its biggest five-day gain
against the euro in five months. The currency traded at 272.90
per euro at 8:48 a.m. in Budapest from 272.65 on Dec. 17.
Credit-default swaps, or the price demanded to ensure government
debt against default, declined after rising to the highest since
June following a two-step credit rating cut by Moody’s Investors
Service on Dec. 6.  ‘Different Visions’  Six-month forward rate agreements fell 0.14 percentage in
the past two weeks to 6.12 percent, a sign that investors have
scaled back rate-increase bets for the period between March and
June. The forwards rose to the highest in 13 months on Dec. 10.  “One should not believe that a 25 basis-point increase
will get inflation back to target,” Simor said in a Dec. 13
Wall Street Journal interview. “That doesn’t necessarily mean
that we need many steps.”  Six of seven rate-setters voted for raising the two-week
deposit rate last month after the bank increased its 2011
inflation forecast to 4 percent from an estimated 3.5 percent in
August.  The increase was “unjustified,” the  Economy Ministry  said
in a statement on Nov. 29, the day of the rate decision. The
government is working to boost  growth  to 5 percent by 2014 to
“outgrow” the highest debt level among the European Union’s
eastern members, estimated at 79 percent of gross domestic
product for this year.  ‘Significant’ Increase  Inflation  stayed at a four-month high of 4.2 percent in
November as food prices advanced 5.9 percent while household
energy prices rose 7.9 percent. Core inflation, which strips out
volatile food and energy prices, was 1.9 percent.  Rising wages and prices may trigger a “significant”
increase in interest rates if businesses “see the time has come
to put in place the price and wage increases that they have
delayed” during the economic crisis, Simor said at a conference
on Dec. 17.  The cabinet has urged Simor to quit, criticizing him for
being slow to reduce interest rates after an emergency increase
in 2008 and for having held investments abroad. Simor has
rebuffed calls to resign.  The government is now moving to strip Simor of his right to
name two of four outside members of the rate-setting Monetary
Council when their mandates expire in March. The moves “raise
concerns” that Orban is curbing Simor’s independence, European
Central Bank  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a Dec. 14 letter.  “It’s true that there are certain disagreements between
the central government and the national bank on monetary policy,
which is not absolutely unusual in the modern life of nations,”
Orban said on Dec. 10 in Vilnius. “It’s definitely clear that
we have a different vision on the future of the Hungarian
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  