-- Zero Rates to Persist Until June 2012 in Yen Futures Trading: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-12-19T15:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/zero-rates-seen-until-2012-in-yen-futures-trading-japan-credit.html
Yields on euroyen futures doubled in
the past two months, signaling the Bank of Japan will keep
interest rates near zero until at least June 2012.  Euroyen contracts for delivery in June 2012 yielded a high
of 0.53 percent on Dec. 15, up from 0.27 percent in October,
showing investors anticipate BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  will
keep the overnight lending rate in a range of  zero  and 0.1 at
least until then, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. All
16 economists in a Bloomberg survey say policy makers will leave
rates unchanged at a two-day policy meeting ending tomorrow. The
yield fell to 0.44 percent on Dec. 17.  Money-market rates show investors remain pessimistic about
the economy as the government tries to end a decade of
deflation. In the U.S., the only other major economy where
benchmark borrowing costs are near zero, futures show increasing
expectations the Federal Reserve will raise the target rate for
overnight loans between banks by November.  “We just can’t anticipate a BOJ rate increase any time in
the foreseeable future,” said  Seiji Adachi , a senior economist
at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “The Bank of Japan
doesn’t appear to have any serious commitment to take risks,
buying assets aggressively enough to spur inflation.”  While Japan’s  industrial output  fell in October by the most
since February 2009 as  export  growth slowed, U.S. manufacturing
jumped the most in four months in November. Chicago Mercantile
Exchange futures show the chance of a Fed rate increase from the
current range of zero to 0.25 percent by the end of next year
has risen to 46 percent from 39 percent a month ago.  Weaker Yen  The last time the Fed started raising rates while the BOJ
kept them steady was in 2005. The yen tumbled 13 percent against
the dollar that year.  Japan’s currency has already started to weaken in
anticipation of a widening interest rate gap, slipping to 83.98
per dollar on Dec. 17 from its Nov. 1 peak of 80.22.  Shirakawa unveiled a 5 trillion yen ($59 billion) asset-
buying fund in October to try to end price declines and
stimulate demand. The measure has done neither so far.  Gross domestic product will shrink 1.9 percent this quarter
as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus spending fades, the
government-affiliated Economic Planning Association said Dec. 8,
citing analysts’ forecasts. Growth is forecast to slow to 1.3
percent in 2011 from an estimated 4.3 percent this year,
according to the median projections of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Falling Prices  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell at an annual 0.6
percent pace in October. The BOJ, which has said it will keep
rates near zero until inflation reaches 1 percent, forecasts a
0.1 percent increase in the CPI next year.  Investors maintained bets the central bank won’t end the
decade-long deflation that the government says is curbing
economic growth. The  difference  between yields on five-year
Japanese government notes and inflation-linked debt, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices, was little changed at
minus 0.70 percentage point in the week to Dec. 17. The five-
year average is minus 1.11 percentage points.  Constrained by a debt burden almost double the size of
gross domestic product, Kan’s government has little room to
expand aid to the economy, increasing pressure on the BOJ to
keep rates low. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has said he
plans to reduce bond sales in the year starting April 2011 from
this year’s 44.3 trillion yen.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Japanese government bonds
declined 0.7 basis point last week to 70.1, CMA prices in New
York show. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  No Move  Forecasts for  deflation  as well as the three-month euroyen
futures rate indicate the BOJ won’t move “at least until late
2012,” said  Toshiaki Terada , a researcher at Totan Research Co.
in Tokyo.  The central bank will hold its key rate in the current
range at least until June 2012, fourteen of the 16 economists in
the survey forecast, with nine of them saying a rate increase
will take place in 2013 at the earliest. One said the bank may
raise borrowing costs as early as the second quarter of 2012.  Japan’s central bank started buying exchange-traded funds
and real estate investment trusts last week in its asset-
purchase program. It has also started to buy corporate bonds
rated at least BBB.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold such five-year
BBB-rated company debt rather than government notes of similar
maturity narrowed to 104 basis points on Dec. 17, the least
since March 2008, from 121 on Oct. 5, when the BOJ announced the
program, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The three-
month Tokyo interbank offered rate has fallen two basis points
to 0.34 percent since then.  REIT, ETF  The Tokyo Stock Exchange  REIT Index  has advanced 11 percent
during the same period, touching the highest level in more than
two years. The Nikkei 225 Exchange-Traded Fund, which tracks the
performance of the benchmark stock index, has risen 8 percent,
while the Nikkei 225 has gained 8.2 percent.  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC Securities, said
the bank’s purchases of ETFs and REITS may be too small to end
deflation, which crimps revenue and profit margins, deterring
investment and hiring.  “The purchases will fall short of spurring growth
expectations and ending deflation because the Japanese economy
has been deeply entrenched in deflation for more than a
decade,” said Shiraishi. “It can’t ignite a positive cycle
like in the U.S., where the Fed’s purchases are boosting stocks
and stimulating consumer spending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  