-- Zurich Adds U.S. Clients After Buying AIG Auto Unit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-20T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-19/zurich-gains-u-s-customers-after-acquiring-auto-insurance-unit-from-aig.html
Zurich Financial Services AG , the
insurer that got more than a quarter of policy sales from the
U.S. in the first nine months of this year, is adding customers
at a unit acquired from American International Group Inc.  Zurich, based in the Swiss city of the same name,  bought 
bailed-out AIG’s U.S. auto-insurance business last year to gain
Internet sales. The unit, 21st Century Insurance Co., competes
with  Warren Buffett ’s Geico Corp. and  Progressive Corp.  in
making sales directly to clients, rather than through a broker.  “We’re starting to see very good growth, both from a new-
business perspective and the ability to retain customers,” Jeff
Dailey, president of personal lines at Farmers Group Inc., a
Zurich subsidiary that runs 21st Century, said in an interview
on Dec. 17. “We’ve really returned the growth and retention
numbers back to where they were before AIG ran into its
problems, and actually up a little bit from that.”  Direct sales are becoming a bigger part of the U.S. auto-
insurance market. Progressive increased Internet and phone sales
as some customers shunned using agents in a U.S. insurance
market that has been in decline for most of the past three
years. Geico increased its market share in 2009, the last year
of available data, according to the  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners .  Dailey, 53, will be promoted to chief operating officer of
Farmers on Jan. 1 and is designated to be chief executive
officer when  F. Robert Woudstra  retires at the end of 2011,
Zurich said last week in a statement.  Name Change  Zurich completed a rebranding of 21st Century business this
year to avoid connections with the AIG name, said Dailey. The
unit included an auto business called AIG Direct.  “Unfortunately, when AIG had all their troubles, it really
rocked the AIG Direct-21st Century business because most of
their policies would have been marketed under the name AIG,” he
said. “Every time AIG had a problem in the news, it took a hit
in terms of our ability to sell new policies or even some of our
customers thinking that they were still insured by AIG.”  AIG, based in New York, was once the world’s largest
insurer. It was pushed to the brink of collapse in 2008 as
investments tied to the housing market soured. The company
accepted a U.S. government rescue that has swelled in value to
$182.3 billion.  U.S. property and casualty insurers’ premium revenue will
probably rise next year for the first time since 2007, on a
rebound in sales of personal automobile coverage, Fitch Ratings
said in a report on Dec. 7.  “The auto line is starting to modestly or marginally tick
up,” said Dailey. “You’re going to see auto go back to
historical inflationary trends which are on average 3 to 5
percent increases a year.”  Zurich Financial rose 0.4 percent to 243.20 Swiss francs in
Zurich trading, valuing the company at 35.6 billion francs
($36.9 billion). The stock has gained  7.4 percent  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  