-- Six Messages for Democrats in Senate Shocker: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-01-21T02:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-20/six-messages-for-democrats-in-senate-shocker-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             It is hard to exaggerate the
profound historical defeat suffered by Democrats in
 Massachusetts  on Tuesday. A smooth guy in a GM pickup who posed
nude for Cosmopolitan magazine won a U.S. Senate seat in the
most highly educated, relatively prosperous, “don’t blame me, I
voted for McGovern” state in the union.  
 That doesn’t mean there won’t be hyperbole. Fox News’s
Glenn Beck said he doesn’t trust Senator-elect  Scott Brown  and
 warned  that Brown’s term in  Washington  “could end with a dead
intern.” What does this clown -- Beck takes a comedy act on the
road -- drink before his show?  
 Brown himself says his win wasn’t a referendum on  Barack Obama : “It’s bigger than that.”  
 Hard to be bigger than a thunderbolt. So what did we learn,
if anything, on Tuesday?  
 Message One: If you look the slightest bit in, you are out.  
 In 2008, voters didn’t choose Obama; they chose the
outsider promising to be the new sheriff in town. Democrat
 Martha Coakley , as Massachusetts’ sitting attorney general, was
the sheriff in town, but not a new one. In the narrative of us
vs. them, the banks vs. the bank depositors, the insurance
companies vs. the insurance buyers, Coakley became the “them.”  
 Message Two: Don’t get Coakleyed.  
 Democrats just crawling out from under their beds are
swearing off complacency, wholesale campaigning and pinstripes
in favor of pressing the flesh, traveling by truck and giving
the impression you just fell off one.  
 Also, don’t take a Caribbean vacation in the midst of a
campaign -- maybe no vacation, anywhere. It’s true no one wanted
Coakley drowning out “Jingle Bells” over Christmas. That
doesn’t mean you should flee someplace warm when your
constituents are freezing over the holidays, worried about jobs.  
 Other things on the not-to-do-list: Don’t complain about
shaking hands outside Fenway Park in the early-morning chill.
Don’t insult your homeboys by not knowing the local hero. Don’t
pour salt on the insult by insisting the hero, former Red Sox
pitcher Curt Schilling, is a Yankee fan.  
 Message Three: Resist impulse to over-attribute loss to an
unusually bad candidate. (That is, take Message Two with a grain
of salt.)  
 So Coakley’s a doofus, OK. One of the few worthwhile
insights gained from dwelling inside the Beltway is that we’ve
met our share of doofuses who call the Senate home. You can
count on one hand the number of people not related by blood or
marriage to the non-geniuses in charge of the Senate,  Mitch McConnell  and  Harry Reid , who feel warmly toward them.  
 Message Four: Don’t believe that the rejection of a
Democrat translates into sudden love for Republicans who
crippled the economy, redistributed wealth from the middle class
to big business and the rich, and waged a trillion-dollar war in
the wrong country. There’s no mandate to back off fixing our
problems.  
 Message Five: It’s not only about health care. It’s about
the shady banks, and joblessness, too. But it’s partly about
health care.  
 Massachusetts is the canary in the mine. If universal,
government-subsidized health care isn’t working there, why would
residents of that state support the similar yet inferior
national plan that would be implemented under the Senate bill?  
 Put another way: If Massachusetts, with one of the smaller
state deficits, can’t afford Romney-care, imagine how the
country -- with a proportionally much bigger deficit, more
uninsured and an economy in worse shape -- is going to do with a
similarly flawed plan.  
 Message Six: What happened in Massachusetts is a free
glimpse into the future for Obama.  
 PresidentBill Clinton had to lose the whole Congress in
1994 to waken from his stupor and take on the deficit, balancing
the budget and welfare reform.  
 At this very moment, Democrats in tough races, and even
those in easier ones, are dreaming of ways not to have to vote
for the health-care bill. Obama looked at the picture from the
Bay State and told ABC in an  interview  that Congress shouldn’t
try to “jam” health-care legislation through before Brown is
seated.  
 To get support from Democrats, much less Republicans, Obama
is going to have to break health care into smaller pieces the
public can understand and that Republicans can’t so easily
demonize. How can Republicans go home and explain they voted in
favor of Aetna and against their constituents, or in favor of
cherry-picking healthy policy-holders while dropping sick
people?  
 Young and Old  
 Government shouldn’t be the ogre forcing people to buy
insurance under draconian penalties. People want insurance when
they can afford it. Young people can be lured in with cheap
catastrophic policies. Seniors’ drug costs should be covered
above the current $2,250 cutoff. And who could be against
computerizing medical records so people don’t get the wrong
blood type or drug that will kill them?  
 Obama should be cutting deals with Republicans instead of
bribing Democrats with smelly deals that benefit a few. Give the
GOP malpractice reform (not a bad idea anyway) in exchange for a
public-option trigger and reform of the-fee-for-service payment
structure that’s crippling us financially without healing us
medically.  
 Oh, and broadcast it all on C-Span.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        