-- Wall Street Fix Is In at Bank-Crisis Coroner: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-01-21T02:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-20/wall-street-fix-is-in-at-bank-crisis-coroner-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             When Fannie Mae hired former U.S.
Senator Warren Rudman in 2004 to investigate how its accounting
practices had gone awry, his law firm’s final report took 17
months to complete and cost the company more than $60 million.  
 Compare that with the enormous task before the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, the 10-member investigative panel
formed last year by Congress and headed by former California
Treasurer Phil Angelides. The deadline for its final report is
Dec. 15, less than 11 months away, and its budget is $8 million.
Yet it’s supposed to be covering far more ground, and it’s still
just getting started.  
 In addition to investigating the causes of Fannie Mae’s
2008 meltdown, the panel is charged with examining the failures
or near-deaths of at least 10 other major financial
institutions, including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., American
International Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. Those autopsies
aren’t even the commission’s primary mission, though.  
 That would be to examine the many causes of the financial
crisis at large. The statute that created the commission says
its report specifically must tackle the role of regulators,
monetary policy, accounting practices, tax policy, fraud,
capital requirements, credit raters, executive pay, derivatives
and short selling -- plus a dozen other required areas of study.  
 So what are the odds the commission can conduct all these
investigations by mid-December and do a thorough job? About
zero, which clearly was Congress’s intent all along.  
 Time and Money  
 Maybe the public will get lucky, and the commission will
happen upon some revealing morsels of culpability here or there.
But it isn’t possible for this group to do everything it has
been directed to do in such a short time with so little money.  
 The crisis commission tried to put on a show anyway last
week when it called top government regulators and Wall Street
chief executive officers to testify, including Lloyd Blankfein
of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Having refrained from exercising their subpoena power so
far, though, the commission’s members lacked ammunition to ask
probing questions and lobbed softballs to the witnesses.  
 No new facts of any significance emerged from the two days
of testimony. That shouldn’t have been surprising, because the
commission hadn’t done any investigative work to speak of before
the hearings. It was still assembling its staff last month and
didn’t even get its Web site up and running until a week ago.  
 Pecora Hearings  
 For a panel modeled partly on the Pecora Commission of the
1930s, it’s a disappointing start. There’s a bit of history here
that bears mentioning, however. That series of hearings started
off as a snoozer, too.  
 It remained so for almost a year until January 1933, when
the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency hired Ferdinand
Pecora, a former assistant district attorney from New York, to
guide its investigations into Wall Street corruption and fraud.  
 After three duds, the Sicilian-born Pecora became the
fourth chief counsel to oversee the committee’s work, the scope
of which was expanded twice through Senate resolutions after he
was hired. The scandals he unearthed captivated the nation and
spurred the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the passage of the Glass-Steagall Act, which separated
commercial and investment banking until its repeal in 1999.  
 Pecora wasn’t operating under arbitrary deadlines. The
Senate had directed the committee “to make a thorough and
complete investigation” and “to report to the Senate as soon
as practicable the results of such investigation,” which it did
in June 1934 after more than two years of public hearings.
Pecora took over much of the questioning of witnesses himself,
as well as the issuing of subpoenas.  
 Soft Questions  
 At last week’s hearings, by comparison, Angelides and his
fellow commissioners asked all the questions, and their
greenness showed. This is a job for experienced prosecutors, not
blue-ribbon political appointees.  
 For instance, there was this question by Angelides to
Blankfein: “Can you tell me very specifically what are the two
most significant instances of negligent, improper and bad
behavior in which your firm engaged and for which you would
apologize?” Blankfein’s response, which I’ll paraphrase loosely
here: Yeah right, Phil.  
 To have a chance at a credible effort here, Congress at a
minimum needs to amend the legislation that created the
commission so it doesn’t have a fixed deadline to release its
final report. By statute, the commission will be terminated 60
days after the report is due.  
 If its investigators get a hot lead in late November, they
shouldn’t have to blow it off to meet a publication deadline.
And if the commission ever issues subpoenas, the recipients
shouldn’t be able to drag them out past the commission’s
expiration date simply by refusing to comply and taking the
matter to court. Angelides also needs to turn over the conduct
of the hearings to a veteran trial attorney who knows how to
build cases and cross-examine witnesses properly. A decent
budget would help, too.  
 Otherwise, the way it is set up now, this commission might
as well be telling the whole country that the fix is in. The
bankers and their guard dogs in government must be pleased.  
 (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at   jweil6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        