-- M&A Bankers See India Deals Surpassing Record 2010
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-29T10:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/m-a-bankers-see-cross-border-takeovers-propelling-india-past-record-2010.html
Indian mergers and acquisitions in
2011 may surpass this year’s record $71 billion of deals, led by
oil and gas, metals and mining companies, according to M&A
bankers including  Topsy Mathew  of Standard Chartered Plc.  Billionaire  Sunil Mittal ’s $10.7 billion acquisition of
mobile-phone operators in Africa led an almost four-fold
increase in takeovers this year as deals surpassed 2007’s $69
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Large Indian corporates are going through a growth phase:
they think there is a lot of opportunity, they think they have
access to capital,” 35-year-old Mathew, managing director for
M&A for India, said in an interview Dec. 27. The London-based
bank climbed 13 places to No. 2 among Indian takeover advisers
this year, its highest ranking, Bloomberg data show. “They are
capitalizing on the positive sentiment to undertake long-term
strategic transactions,” he said.  Companies in Asia-Pacific including India and China are
expected to be the most acquisitive buyers in 2011 as attractive
valuations and domestic competition drive deals globally,
according to Bloomberg’s M&A Global Outlook survey. Overseas
companies may target Indian pharmaceutical and consumer firms,
and local enterprises will seek natural resources, said Bank of
America Corp., ranked No. 3.  ‘Highly Active’  “Outbound deals would continue to be highly active given
that international companies’ valuations are still relatively
depressed, and Indian companies have access to debt and equity
capital,”  Saurabh Agrawal , the 41-year-old head of India
investment banking at Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions on Dec. 14.
“Inbound and local deals will also take place.”  Cross-border deals rose to a record $59.2 billion in India
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after
Mittal’s New Delhi-Bharti Airtel Ltd. in March agreed to buy the
African assets of Zain for $10.7 billion. Outbound M&A accounted
for 74 percent of that volume.  The acquisition spree in India, China and Brazil contrasts
with a slowdown in global deals. Mergers worldwide are down 46
percent from 2007’s record, according to Bloomberg data. In the
U.S., the world’s largest market, volumes are 51 percent lower,
and levels in Europe are down by 59 percent.  Pending Deals  Pending deals in India including the sale of a controlling
stake in Mumbai-based software maker  Patni Computer Systems Ltd. 
and  Honda Motor Co. ’s holding in New Delhi-based  Hero Honda
Motors Ltd.  Buyout firms including Carlyle Group are bidding to
acquire those shares, people familiar with the matter have said.  A group of state-run companies hired Citigroup Inc. last
week to prepare a bid for Sydney-based  Riversdale Mining Ltd. ,
countering a A$3.9 billion ($3.9 billion) offer from London-
based Rio Tinto Group.  “Resources will be a big focus, with Indian companies
looking at consolidating their position in oil and gas, metals
and mining,” said Standard Chartered’s Mathew. “There will be
a particular focus on Indian public sector companies looking at
oil assets internationally as well as Indian companies looking
to acquire iron ore and coal assets for their steel and power
operations.”  Natural resources and telecommunications will continue to
drive M&A, said  Frank Hancock , managing director of corporate
finance for Barclays Capital in Mumbai. Telecom takeovers
accounted for 26 percent of deals in India this year, while
energy and mining companies accounted for another 30 percent.  Takeover Rules  A proposed overhaul of Indian M&A rules may also stoke
interest in domestic targets, Hancock, 50, said in an e-mail
Dec. 14. London-based Barclays is ranked No. 4 on takeovers in
India, its highest ever position.  “While cross-border will still make up 70 percent of the
total pie, the balance between inbound and outbound will
increasingly become more even,” said Hancock. The new rules
“are going to make it easier for a listed company to be taken
over and thereafter delisted.”  A panel formed by India’s capital markets regulator in July
recommended increasing the threshold shareholding level that
would trigger mandatory open offers to 25 percent from 15
percent. Shareholders who already own more than 25 percent would
also be allowed to offer to buy an additional 10 percent, half
the existing requirement.  Indian Targets  Easing limits on foreign direct investment would also
bolster overseas companies’ appetite for Indian takeover
targets, Sameer Nath, managing director and head of M&A at
 Citigroup ’s local unit, said in an e-mailed response to
questions Dec. 20. New York-based Citigroup is No. 6 among
takeover advisers in India this year.  “Liberalizing the FDI framework in a sensible way could be
a positive for all parties,” Nath said. Overseas companies may
look to India for its telecom, health-care and consumer
industries, while local companies will look overseas for oil and
gas, metals, mining and technology assets, he said.  Financing remains a major prerequisite for large takeovers
in the nation, bankers including Nath said. Outbound deals are
particularly dependent on funding, Agrawal wrote.  A decline in borrowing costs has allowed Indian companies
to replace debt with cheaper financing, putting them in position
now to be more aggressive on acquisitions, said  Ganeshan Murugaiyan , managing director and head of investment banking at
UBS AG’s local unit. The Swiss bank was ranked No. 7 this year
in advising on takeovers in India.  “The benign debt market environment, especially from the
second half of 2010, has helped several corporates to refinance
the debt or raise long-term funds at attractive costs,”
Murugaiyan, 37, wrote on Dec. 14. “With this back-drop, we
expect Indian corporates to be more acquisitive next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  