-- Aberdeen Forgets China Shares When Sizing Up Vodafone Cash Flow
-- B y   B e t h   W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/aberdeen-says-forget-china-shares-when-sizing-up-vodafone-cash-generation.html
Anne Richards , who helps oversee
more than $280 billion of assets worldwide as chief investment
officer of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, says focusing only on
the big trends such as the rise of China can mean missing out on
opportunities in developed markets such as the U.S. and U.K.,
Bloomberg Markets reports in its February 2011 issue.  “We don’t try and buy into big macroeconomic themes,” she
says. Instead, Richards, 46, says Aberdeen takes a more ground-
level approach, centered on the basic company research of its
worldwide staff -- especially in global equities, its largest
holding at more than $113 billion as of Sept. 30.  “We base the vast amount of our decision making on what we
hear from companies from the bottom up,” she says.  The message that many larger companies are sending now --
regardless of geography -- is that business is improving a bit
faster than expected, Richards says. That’s reflected in
 earnings  that are beating estimates in many cases.  As of Dec. 27, quarterly earnings at corporations in North
America beat forecasts by about 6 percent, while businesses in
developed countries in the Asia-Pacific region exceeded
estimates by 10 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The reason for the growth is that many companies around the
world reacted to the credit crisis in 2008 by cutting costs and
increasing efficiencies, Richards says. “As orders have started
to come back, you see that flow through to the bottom line very
quickly,” she says.  Upbeat Picture  The relatively upbeat picture coming from companies
contrasts with signals from fixed-income markets in recent
months, Richards says. “The bond market was forecasting
deflation -- or certainly levels of disinflation--and possible
double dips -- all those very nasty stories that have driven
bond yields down so far,” Richards said in an interview on Oct.
29, three weeks after yields on benchmark U.S. Treasuries due in
five years or less fell to  record lows . “What companies are
actually saying is, ‘The world isn’t too bad.’”  As CIO, Richards leads more than 500 Aberdeen investment
professionals working out of offices worldwide. She also co-
manages one of the firm’s 500 funds -- a closed-end vehicle
focused on U.K. stocks -- and serves on Aberdeen’s group
management board. Besides equities, Aberdeen manages bonds,
property and alternative investment strategies for clients that
include individuals, governments and institutions such as
pension funds.  Dividend Yield  Richards’s fund,  Murray Income Trust  Plc, seeks to generate
growth and income through investments in U.K. stocks. In 2010
through Dec. 27, the fund returned 28 percent, versus 17 percent
on average for peers, according to Bloomberg data.  Even as earnings growth has returned for many companies,
helping boost stocks’ appeal, dividends have taken on increased
importance following the market losses in 2008, Richards says.  “The equity market -- which in many places is comfortably
yielding 3 or 4 percent on a decent portfolio of good-quality
stocks -- starts to look quite attractive,” says Richards, an
engineering graduate who worked at the Geneva-based European
Organization for Nuclear Research before turning to a career in
finance.  Her fund’s 12-month  dividend yield  was about 4.4 percent as
of Dec. 27, compared with 3.51 percent on benchmark 10-year U.K.
government bonds.  Screening for Quality  Richards says Aberdeen’s investment managers use a two-step
process to select the equity investments that they then use to
construct their portfolios. First, they screen for quality,
beginning with understanding the  products  a company makes and
how it earns money. They also examine a company’s legal and
corporate structure, management and financial data. Richards
says Aberdeen favors cash-generating companies, such as  Vodafone
Group Plc  and  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , with
tangible assets on their balance sheets.  As a global investor, Aberdeen also takes into account the
strength of laws protecting shareholders when it screens for
quality. This is one reason why, all things being equal,
Aberdeen has historically preferred India to China. “It is a
fascinating contrast: We love the energy, the vibrancy of both
countries,” Richards says.  “But in China, there is very much still the sense of a
strong central direction,” she says. India, by contrast, is
more freewheeling, and its regulatory protections and minority
shareholder rights are stronger, Richards says. Aberdeen does
invest in Hong Kong-based companies, many of which have
investments in mainland China-based firms, she says.  Valuation Gap  Once quality hurdles are met, Aberdeen focuses on
valuation. A few years ago, Richards says, emerging-market
companies such as Brazilian oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro  SA
traded at much lower valuations than their counterparts in
Europe and the U.S. Now, some stocks in developed markets, such
as consumer-products maker Unilever Plc, are attractive relative
to their emerging-market counterparts, Richards says.  As of Dec. 27, Unilever traded at about 16 times its
trailing 12-month earnings per share, ranking it in the 31st
percentile of similar companies around the world, or among the
cheapest, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with an
earnings multiple of about 30 for Indian beverage maker  Tata
Global Beverages Ltd.  “The valuation differential is not as
stark anymore,” Richards says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Williams  in New York at 
 bewilliams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  