-- Population Changes Accelerate Global Economic Shift to Asia, Census Shows
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-29T18:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/advanced-economies-losing-ground-to-emerging-asia-census-shows.html
A global economic power shift is
being accelerated by population growth in Asia’s emerging
markets, while the U.S. will be buoyed by a relatively youthful
populace, according to analyses of international figures.  Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, is poised to see its
population contract at a 0.2 percent rate in 2015 after
expanding at a 0.3 percent in 1995, data from the  U.S. Census
Bureau  yesterday showed. China, the world’s most populous
country, is projected to grow at a 0.4 percent rate and India
will expand at a 1.2 percent rate in 2015.  Changes in population help determine a country’s economic
prospects. Slowing growth rates, and even contracting
populations, in advanced economies had been offset by migrating
workers in the past decade. That trend has fallen off in recent
years as a result of the global recession.  “There will be a difficult adjustment period ahead as
advanced economies, particularly the smaller ones, have to cede
their dominant positions on the world economic stage to the
dynamic emerging markets,” said  Eswar Prasad , a professor of
international trade policy at Cornell University.  “Emerging markets will have to grow into their role as
major economic powers and shoulder their responsibilities to
contribute to the collective global good,” he said.  U.S. Count  The latest count of the U.S. population shows the nation’s
population grew 9.7 percent to 308,745,538 in the 2010 Census,
the slowest pace of growth since 1940. The government estimated
the growth rate in 2015 would be 1 percent.  The Census Bureau estimates that 194 of 227 countries are
seeing growth accelerate, yesterday’s figures showed. Germany,
the world’s fourth-largest economy, and Japan, ranked second by
gross domestic product, are the only Group of Seven nations with
contracting populations.  “One of the concerns when you have slow growth is the
aging of the population,” said Peter Johnson, special assistant
for international demographic and economic studies at the U.S.
Census Bureau. “That to some extent can be mitigated by
immigration, particularly by able-bodied people who can work and
contribute to the support of the elderly.”  The U.S. has the lowest median age -- 36.6 years -- of the
Group of Seven nations, according to United Nations’ estimates
for 2010. Youthfulness is one variable for future growth because
younger people tend to have more children.  Aging China  The population in China, the world’s third-largest economy,
will become older than that of the U.S. by 2025, the U.N.
estimates show. China’s median age now is 34.2 years, and will
rise to 38.9 in 2025 compared with 38.7 for the U.S., the U.N.
data shows.  “For two decades, fertility in China has been below the
level for the population to replace itself,” said Feng Wang, a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
“Demographic changes as such are creating new imperatives for
changing its model of economic growth, moving away from a
heavily labor-intensive pattern and creating a comprehensive
social safety net before it is too late.”  Slower population growth can be a drag on economic
expansion. Higher fertility rates mean more potential workers
and consumers -- who can both stoke economic growth with tax
revenue and spending.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose 49.4 percent in
the 11 months through November from a year earlier, putting
pressure on the central bank to add to this year’s two interest-
rate increases.  Profits in China  Net income climbed to 3.88 trillion yuan ($585 billion),
the statistics bureau said in a Dec. 27 statement on its
website. That compared with a 7.8 percent gain in the same
period in 2009 and an increase of 55 percent in January through
August.  “In the decade to come India and China are going to be the
center of international trade,” said Laishram Ladu Singh,
professor and head of the Department of Mathematical Demography
& Statistics at International at the  International Institute for
Population Sciences  in Mumbai. “Unless there is a big U-turn in
the outsourcing policies of these developed countries, the world
economy is going to be concentrated in these two countries.”  While there is evidence of a so-called brain drain, in
which educated residents seek employment in another country,
Singh said that about 2 percent of India’s annual $1.3 trillion
GDP comes by way of remittances from workers abroad.  Migration’s Influence  China has the smallest share of net migrants -- the
difference between the number of migrants entering and those
leaving a country -- and the U.S. has the biggest, according to
yesterday’s figures.  Some demographers say China and India are decades away from
becoming advanced economies.  “Both countries are still very, very poor,” said Jane De
Lung, president of the Princeton, New Jersey-based  Population
Resource Center . “China is growing by leaps and bounds, but the
majority of the Chinese still live in very poor and poverty-
stricken areas. You don’t have widespread economic growth
outside the cities in either country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;  Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomoberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  