-- West African Leaders Visit Ivory Coast to Pressure Laurent Gbagbo to Quit
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-29T01:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/african-leaders-visit-ivory-coast-to-threaten-gbagbo-with-regional-force.html
Three West African leaders traveled
to Ivory Coast to tell President  Laurent Gbagbo  to leave office
or risk possible military intervention by states in the region.  Presidents  Thomas Boni Yayi  of Benin,  Pedro Pires  of Cape
Verde and  Ernest Koroma  of Sierra Leone held talks yesterday
with United Nations representatives in Ivory Coast’s commercial
capital, Abidjan, Juliette Amantchi, a spokeswoman for the
9,000-member  UN peacekeeping mission , said in a phone interview.  The Economic Community of West African States asked the
leaders on Dec. 24 to urge Gbagbo to “make a peaceful exit”
and allow  Alassane Ouattara , winner of a Nov. 28 election, to
take office; otherwise Gbagbo could face the use of “legitimate
force.” Gbagbo has rejected calls from the UN, the African
Union and Ecowas to accept the results of the vote.  Gbagbo’s government yesterday threatened to cut diplomatic
ties with countries that recognize ambassadors appointed by
Ouattara, Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne reported, citing
government spokesman Ahoua Don Mello, who said the government
“reserves the right to apply reciprocity in terminating the
missions of their ambassadors in Ivory Coast.” The government
of France said on Dec. 27 it no longer recognizes Pierre Kipre,
who had been serving as the Ivorian ambassador in Paris under
Gbagbo.  The African Union on Dec. 27  named  Kenyan Prime Minister
 Raila Odinga  as an envoy to help end the crisis, which has led
to the deaths of more than 173 people and pushed the world’s
largest cocoa producer to the brink of civil war, according to
the UN.  Agrees to Meeting  Gbagbo, 65, has agreed to meet the three presidents,
 Charles Ble Goude , his minister of youth and employment, said
yesterday in an interview with the Paris-based RMC radio
station. U.S. officials said the meeting began at 2 p.m. local
time, although they didn’t have a report on what happened.  The Obama administration yesterday commended the AU’s
appointment of Odinga as a special envoy and said the U.S.
stands with African leaders and the international community in
calling for Gbagbo to step down.  The U.S. “continues to hope for a peaceful solution,”
State Department spokesman  Mark Toner  said in an e-mailed
statement, reiterating that the administration is prepared to
take “stronger actions such as financial sanctions” against
Gbagbo.  Transportation Strike  Taxi and minibus drivers in Abidjan heeded a call by
opposition parties supporting Ouattara, 68, for a strike to put
pressure on Gbagbo to step down.  “We are not going to work because we want peace,” Omar
Traore, head of a transportation labor union in Abidjan’s
Koumassi suburb, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The political crisis has driven up the price of cocoa and
yields of Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds, which have fallen for seven
out of eight days. The bonds dropped to a closing price of 43.81
cents on the dollar Dec. 27 from 51 cents on Dec. 15, pushing
the yield to 14.632 percent. Cocoa leapt 9.1 percent since the
election on London’s Liffe exchange.  About 14,000 people have fled from Ivory Coast’s western
region to neighboring Liberia since the election, the  UN High
Commissioner for Refugees  said on Dec. 25.  Odinga will assist the Ecowas mission to “trigger a
salutary dynamic capable of preserving the democratic gains in
Ivory Coast, in particular respect for the expressed will of the
Ivorian people and the status of the president-elect Mr.
Alassane Ouattara,” the AU said in a statement on its website.  Power Sharing  Odinga became Kenya’s prime minister in 2008 as part of a
power-sharing government with his rival, President  Mwai Kibaki ,
following disputed elections that sparked two months of ethnic
clashes. The violence killed about 1,500 people and forced
300,000 to flee their homes.  While Odinga didn’t join the West African leaders
yesterday, “he has promised that if the delegation does not
succeed, he will lead another to Ivory Coast and try to stop the
country’s slide into chaos,” his spokesman Dennis Onyango said
in a statement.  A United Nations convoy of 22 soldiers was attacked
yesterday in Abidjan, and one peacekeeper was wounded with a
machete, the UN Operation in Ivory Coast said in an e-mailed
statement. One of three vehicles was burned, the statement said.  A rally in support of Gbagbo, scheduled to be held today,
has been postponed, RTI reported yesterday, citing Ble Goude,
the youth minister. “The postponement was decided to give a
chance to the current diplomacy,” RTI cited the minister as
saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 