-- Thai Economic Growth Will Slow Next Year on Exports, Finance Ministry Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-12-28T09:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/thai-economic-growth-will-slow-next-year-on-exports-finance-ministry-says.html
Thailand’s economic growth will slow
in 2011 as exports falter, the finance ministry said after a
report today showed manufacturing expanded the least in a year.  “Growth next year will return to a normal pattern,”  Naris Chaiyasoot , the head of the finance ministry’s Fiscal Policy
Office, told reporters in Bangkok. “Consumption and investment
will be key drivers. Exports, which led growth this year, will
be fragile given the weakening global economy.”  The ministry forecast  gross domestic product  to grow by 4.5
percent in 2011 and raised this year’s estimate to 7.8 percent
from 7.5 percent. Thailand’s dependence on overseas trade, which
accounts for about 60 percent of the economy, makes it
vulnerable to swings in global demand.  Manufacturing output  growth unexpectedly slowed in November
to 5.6 percent from a year earlier after a revised 6 percent
gain in October, according to the Office of Industrial
Economics. The median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 6.8 percent increase.  “Industrial growth slowed as the recovery in the U.S. and
Europe weighs down the demand for electronics exports,”
Chandara Lim, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said
before the report. “Tighter monetary settings could weaken
private investment and slow manufacturing orders over the
upcoming month.”  The baht has gained more than 10 percent this year, the
best performer in Asia after the Japanese yen and Malaysian
ringgit, raising concern that Thailand’s exports may become more
expensive relative to its regional rivals.  Baht Effect  General Motors Co., Ford Motor Co. and Banpu Pcl are among
companies that have blamed the strong baht for hurting overseas
sales from Thailand.  Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said Dec. 15 the baht
will probably extend gains next year and capital flows will make
the currency volatile.  Earlier this month, the central bank raised its  one-day
bond repurchase rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 2
percent, signaling policy makers view inflation as a bigger
threat than slowing growth. Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said
Dec. 24 Thailand can’t have “low wages, a weak baht and low
interest rates forever.”  Thai  export growth  accelerated to 28.5 percent in November,
and shipments should rise by as much as 28 percent this year,
Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said last week.  The finance ministry’s Naris said the economy probably grew
3.5 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier after a
6.7 percent jump in the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  