-- Thai Production Growth Unexpectedly Slows in Sign Export Rebound May Ease
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-12-28T06:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/thai-industrial-output-growth-unexpectedly-slows-in-sign-exports-may-fall.html
Thailand’s manufacturing output
growth unexpectedly slowed in November, a sign producers may be
anticipating easing global demand after a rebound lifted exports
this year.  The industrial production index  rose 5.6 percent last month
from a year earlier,  the Office of Industrial Economics  said on
its website today. That compares with a revised 6 percent
increase in October and the 6.8 percent median estimate of 12
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The revised October
number was calculated by Bloomberg News based on data provided
by the agency, which only gave the growth rate for November.  Europe’s debt crisis and U.S. unemployment that’s above 9
percent may cap overseas demand for goods by Asian manufacturers
such as Bangkok-based  Hana Microelectronics Pcl , which makes
parts for computers and phones including Apple Inc.’s iPhone.
Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said last week Southeast
Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia may expand more than 4
percent in 2011, slowing from this year’s pace.  “Industrial growth slowed as the recovery in the U.S. and
Europe weighs down the demand for electronics exports,”
Chandara Lim, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said
before the report. “Tighter monetary settings could weaken
private investment and slow manufacturing orders over the
upcoming month.”  Rate Increase  The central bank raised its  one-day bond repurchase rate  by
a quarter of a percentage point to 2 percent earlier this month,
signaling policy makers view inflation as a bigger threat than
slowing growth. Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Dec. 24
Thailand can’t have “low wages, a weak baht and low interest
rates forever.”  Thai  export growth  accelerated to 28.5 percent in November,
and shipments should rise by as much as 28 percent this year,
Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said last week.  Still, the baht has appreciated more than 10 percent this
year, the best performer in Asia after the Japanese yen and
Malaysian ringgit, raising concern that Thailand’s goods may
become more expensive relative to its regional rivals. Korn said
Dec. 15 the baht will probably extend gains next year and
capital flows will make the currency volatile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  