-- AIG Leads Insurers to Best Year Since 2003 as Assets Rebound
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-28T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/aig-berkshire-lead-insurers-to-best-year-since-2003-as-investments-revive.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the company repaying a $182.3 billion government rescue, led the
U.S. insurance industry to its best year since 2003 as
investments strengthened.  Nineteen of the 22 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
 Insurance Index  are beating returns for the benchmark S&P 500
this year. AIG, based in New York, has nearly doubled and is the
insurance index’s best performer.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. has risen 22 percent this year. The index, which
also includes MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer, and
brokers like Aon Corp., has advanced 15 percent, its biggest
annual jump since 19 percent in 2003. The  S&P 500  has risen
about 13 percent so far in 2010.  The industry is building on a recovery that started last
year when the insurance index rose 11 percent. Insurers, which
are regulated by states, avoided much of the federal Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul this year, said  Malcolm Polley , chief
investment officer of Stewart Capital Advisors LLC, a subsidiary
of S&T Bancorp.  Insurers were “probably the best options in a troubled
marketplace for financials,” Polley, who helps manage about $1
billion, said in an interview. “The whole financial-services
sector got taken out and shot in 2008. It didn’t matter what
kind of financial you were, people just wanted out. Now, you’re
beginning to separate the wheat from the chaff.”  AIG’s Progress  AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, is shedding assets
as it seeks to repay the U.S. government rescue and has reported
improved investment results. Realized losses on investments cost
the company $661 million in the third quarter, compared with
$1.86 billion a year earlier. AIG surged 9.3 percent yesterday
after saying it had secured $4.3 billion in bank credit lines,
another step toward gaining independence.  MetLife has reported  net income  of more than $2.7 billion
this year through Sept. 30 after a loss of about $2.2 billion in
all of 2009. Third-quarter investment income rose 12 percent
from a year earlier to $4.39 billion. New York-based MetLife has
climbed 27 percent this year.  Prudential, the second-biggest U.S. life insurer, has
advanced 20 percent so far this year. The Newark, New Jersey-
based company’s third-quarter  earnings  gained after a rising
stock market allowed the company to reduce reserves against
minimum-return guarantees it makes to annuity customers.  “The insurance industry has done a pretty good job at
bolstering its capital position,”  Kenneth Janke , executive vice
president and deputy chief financial officer at Aflac Inc., said
in an interview. “Investors have shifted more toward going back
to looking at the income statements of the insurance companies
and not just the balance sheets.”  Berkshire, MetLife  Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, has been lifted by the
acquisition of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe.  Aflac , the
world’s largest seller of supplemental health insurance, rose 23
percent as a stronger yen magnified revenue from Japan.  MetLife and Aflac are adding corporate debt to their
portfolios as life insurers increase holdings in the securities
at the fastest rate in six years amid near-zero interest rates.
For the first time, life insurers own more than  $2 trillion  in
the bonds issued by companies, according to data released by the
Federal Reserve in Washington this month.  Corporate bonds are returning about 10 percent this year,
including invested interest, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master Index. The
debt returned a record 26 percent last year, after posting an 11
percent loss in 2008.  Catastrophes  Property-casualty insurers benefited from the biggest
increase in sales in four years in the quarter ended Sept. 30,
according to a report from ISO, a unit of Verisk Analytics Inc.
Third-quarter policy sales rose 2.3 percent to $110.7 billion
from $108.2 billion a year earlier.  Catastrophes striking the U.S. in the first nine months of
2010 caused $10.7 billion in insured losses this year, up about
$400 million from the prior-year period, ISO said.  “The fact that there wasn’t a major hurricane, I think
that gave people even more confidence that earnings would be
coming through,”  Ania Aldrich , who helps manage more than $5
billion at Cambiar Investors, said in an interview.  Competition on commercial rates and a weakening municipal-
bond market may hurt property-casualty insurers next year, said
 Paul Newsome , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  State and local government bonds have lost 4.5 percent
including invested interest so far this quarter, their worst
performance since the first quarter of 1994, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Municipal Master Index.  “There are concerns about the financial strength of many
municipalities across the country,” Newsome said in an
interview. State and local bonds are “very important for
property-casualty insurers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  