-- Alfred Kahn, Who Oversaw Airline Industry Break-Up for Carter, Dies at 93
-- B y   A n n e   S w a r d s o n
-- 2010-12-28T12:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/alfred-kahn-who-oversaw-airline-industry-break-up-for-carter-dies-at-93.html
Alfred E. Kahn , the economist-
turned-regulator whose moves to end U.S. government controls on
airlines in the late 1970s set the stage for today’s cheap fares
and for much of the industry’s financial troubles, died
yesterday. He was 93.  Cornell University in Ithaca, New York, where he spent most
of his career, said on its w ebsite  that he died from cancer.  As chairman of the  Civil Aeronautics Board  under President
 Jimmy Carter , Kahn was probably the first Washington regulator
to put himself out of a job. He argued that airlines could serve
consumers and business best by competing with each other, a
novel notion at a time when prices and routes were government-
controlled.  It was under pressure from Kahn and Carter that Congress
passed the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978. Later, as Carter’s
anti-inflation adviser, Kahn also earned fame for saying
“banana” rather than “depression” to avoid uttering an
unpopular word.  He was often asked in his later years whether his push for
deregulation had made the industry worse off than if government
oversight had remained.  “Consumers have benefited to the effect of $20 billion a
year,” Kahn was quoted in the Denver Post as saying at a
February 2005 conference. “Where competition is feasible, the
government should get the hell out of the way.”  Stocking Feet  Kahn was known not just for what he did but for the humor
and informality with which he did it. As CAB chairman, he
granted media interviews in his stocking feet, hanging a leg
over the arm of the old rocking chair in his office. He had a
bad back, and once spoke to a conference of 60 utility lawyers
while lying flat on a table.  He was chairman of the economics department and dean of the
College of Arts and Sciences at Cornell before entering public
service. He also finished his career there, as the Robert Julius
Thorne Professor of Economics Emeritus and as a consultant to
 National Economics Research Associates .  At Cornell, he was an enthusiastic performer in  Gilbert &
Sullivan  operettas. His roles -- he sang baritone -- ranged from
Sergeant Meryll in “Yeomen of the Guard” in 1964 to the poet
Bunthorne in the 2000 production of “Patience.”  Alfred Edward Kahn was born in Paterson, New Jersey, on
Oct. 17, 1917, to parents Jacob and Bertha Kahn. His father, a
Russian Jewish immigrant, worked in a silk mill, according to
“Prophets of Regulation,” by  Thomas K. McCraw .  NYU, Yale  Kahn graduated from high school at 15 and  New York
University  at 18, summa cum laude and first in his class. He
earned his doctorate in economics from Yale University in 1942
after graduate study at NYU and the University of Missouri.  Before World War II, he also worked for policy research
organizations and government agencies in Washington, including
the  Brookings Institution  and the antitrust division of the U.S.
Justice Department. He served in the Army during the war and
began teaching at Cornell in 1947.  His thinking on what is called marginal-cost pricing --
setting a product’s price to account for the cost of producing
one more unit -- led him to focus on ways to inject competition
into industries previously viewed as monopolistic, such as power
utilities. Rather than merely controlling prices and service, he
argued, regulators could set the stage for lower prices by
applying some of the principles of classical economics.  His two volumes of “Economics of Regulation” appeared in
1970 and 1971; McCraw called the first volume “the most
influential work written on the subject.”  Utility Regulator  In 1974, Kahn was named chairman of the  New York Public
Service Commission , which regulated more than 40 industries,
including buses, telephones, shipping docks and the electric-and
gas-utility industry. Against the wishes of the affected
companies, he pioneered such notions as peak- and off-peak
pricing for electricity and disclosure of the cost of telephone
services rather than bundling them together in rate
applications.  Carter named Kahn to head the CAB as one of a host of new
appointees empowered to overturn regulatory practices. At the
time, the five-member board governed where airlines could fly
and how much they could charge for all the routes in the U.S. It
was ostensibly in the name of public service, but the lack of
flexibility meant planes flew barely half-full and airlines were
mostly required to charge the same price for the same route. No
new airline had started up in the U.S. since 1938.  Kennedy Hearings  The  airlines  liked this state of affairs, as did their
labor unions. But even before Kahn arrived at the CAB, calls for
deregulation had begun. The late Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy  of Massachusetts held congressional hearings in 1975
that showed airlines that avoided federal regulation by
operating in-state only, such as  Southwest Airlines Co . in
Texas, had full planes and fares half those of national
airlines.  Kahn was no industry expert. Shortly after his appointment,
he told executives at now-defunct Eastern Airlines Inc.: “I
really don’t know one plane from the other. To me, they’re all
marginal costs with wings.”  That didn’t stop him from going to work swiftly, helped by
cost pressure from the in-state airlines that induced the
national carriers to lower prices sporadically.  Under Kahn, the CAB began approving discount fares for
interstate and trans-Atlantic travel. From Texas International
Airlines’ “Peanuts” fare to the “Super Saver” of  AMR Corp.’s
American Airlines , passengers began flying cheaper, and planes
began filling up. Load factors rose from 55 percent to 61
percent in 12 months, according to McCraw.  New Airlines  Kahn also loosened rules to let airlines set their own
fares, rather than applying for each one to the CAB, and to
choose their routes with more freedom from government oversight.
Such new airlines as Midway Airlines Corp., flying from  Midway
Airport  in Chicago, started up.  The fuller planes caused some consternation among
passengers accustomed to a high level of service. One friend
wrote Kahn to complain that he had had to sit next to a
“hippy” on a flight to Denver.  Kahn’s response: “Since I have not heard from the hippy, I
presume the distaste was not reciprocated.”  He also ended the CAB’s traditional goal of ensuring that
no airline failed financially. The board’s official decision
granting multiple new rights for  Oakland (California) Airport 
said: “We cannot agree to define healthy competition as that
state where the fortunes of the competitors fluctuate but no
competitor ever goes to the wall.”  People Magazine  Kahn, understanding that the changes he had pushed through
the CAB were subject to judicial review and the appointment of
future board members, threw his weight behind congressional
legislation to cement the new environment. He lobbied  lawmakers 
concerned that service to their districts would be curtailed,
and cultivated journalists to get his message across. He was one
of the few federal regulators ever profiled in  People  magazine.  With the support of the Carter administration -- and, by
this time, most of the airline industry -- the deregulation bill
passed in October 1978. It gave the airlines more freedom to set
fares and routes, and set a timetable for the phase-out of the
CAB itself in 1985.  The day the act was signed, on Oct. 24, Kahn announced that
he had a new job. He would become Carter’s anti-inflation czar,
at a time when consumer prices were rising at an annual rate of
8.9 percent.  He was less successful there. With monetary policy in the
hands of the Federal Reserve and economic policy run by Treasury
Secretary Michael Blumenthal, Kahn’s only role was to explain
and exhort.  Banana, Kumquat  His tendency toward frankness didn’t endear him to the
administration. He said that certain policies would bring on a
“depression” and, when rebuked by the White House for using
such a negative word, instead began warning that the economy
faced the threat of a “banana.” He later changed that to
“kumquat” after banana companies objected.  Kahn returned to Cornell, to teach and consult, in 1980. He
continued to make speeches and appearances, and to opine on such
regulatory issues as telecommunications. He survived a serious
auto accident in 2003 and endowed the New York hospital that
saved him with funds to set up a camera traffic-surveillance
system so emergency-room doctors could view the accidents that
injured their patients.  In a luncheon tribute to him on June 24, 2003, former U.S.
Assistant Attorney General  John Shenefield  said:  “He taught us a lesson that competition, even imperfect
competition, is better than imperfect regulation; that facts
make a difference, if only we have the humane procedures to
uncover them and the brains to understand them; and that
intellectual rigor, decked out in wit and flair, even in
Washington, can be a winning combination.”  Kahn is survived by his wife, Mary Simmons Kahn, and three
children, as well as a nephew to whom the Kahns were legal
guardians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anne Swardson  in Paris at 
 aswardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 