-- Allstate Sues Countrywide Over $700 Million Investment in Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-28T22:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/allstate-sues-countrywide-financial-over-purchase-of-700-million-in-cdos.html
Allstate Corp.  sued  Bank of America
Corp.  and its  Countrywide  mortgage unit over $700 million in
residential mortgage-backed securities the insurer purchased,
claiming Countrywide misrepresented the investments.  “The defendants knew the loans offloaded onto Allstate
were a toxic mix of loans given to borrowers that could not
afford the properties, and thus were highly likely to default,”
Allstate said in a complaint filed in federal court in Manhattan
yesterday.  Allstate, based in Northbrook, Illinois, said in the
complaint that the mortgage-backed securities, purchased from
March 2005 to June 2007, suffered “drastic and rapid loss in
value” when large numbers of homeowners began to default on
their mortgages.  The suit, which seeks unspecified damages, alleges fraud,
negligent misrepresentation and violation of U.S. securities
laws. In addition to Bank of America and Countrywide, Allstate
names as defendants former Countrywide officials including
former chairman and chief executive officer,  Angelo Mozilo .  “We are still reviewing the complaint, but this
unfortunately appears to be a situation where a sophisticated
investor is looking for someone to blame for a downturn in the
economy and losses on an investment it made,”  Bill Halldin , a
spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America,
said in a statement.  Outstanding Claims  Bank of America and Countrywide have been sued by the
purchasers of more than $375 billion of securities, Bank of
America said in a Nov. 5 regulatory filing. The bank acquired
Countrywide Financial Corp. for $4.2 billion in July 2008.  Allstate, the biggest publicly-traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, returned to profit last year after investment declines
pushed the company into a $1.7 billion loss in 2008. The
insurer, led by Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , had about
$102 billion of investments at the end of the third quarter.  Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., a Boston-based competitor of
Allstate’s, is also seeking damages in lawsuits over mortgage-
related investments that soured during the financial crisis. In
July, Liberty Mutual sued Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in federal
court, accusing the brokerage of misleading investors in 2007
when it sold preferred stock in Fannie Mae, the government-
sponsored source of home-loan financing.  ‘Mixing and Matching’  In its complaint, Allstate claimed that Countrywide began
ignoring its own underwriting standards in 2003 in an effort to
increase its share of the home mortgage market. The company
adopted an internal strategy to match any mortgage product
feature offered by a competitor, Allstate said.  “By mixing and matching the worst features of mortgage
products from different competitors, Countrywide’s composite
product offering became very aggressive within the industry,”
Allstate said.  Countrywide misled investors about its underwriting
guidelines, the rate at which mortgaged properties were owner-
occupied, the value of the mortgaged homes and the widespread
use of exceptions to the underwriting process to circumvent
guidelines, Allstate said in the complaint.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Financial
Corp., 10-cv-9591, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 