-- U.S. Boosts Ally Stake to Prepare Lender for IPO
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-30T22:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/ally-pays-462-million-to-settle-fannie-s-loan-buyback-demands.html
Ally Financial Inc., the auto and
home lender bailed out by the U.S., moved closer to regaining
its independence as the government converted $5.5 billion of
preferred stock into common shares.  The swap involves almost half the Treasury Department’s
preferred stock and boosts the U.S. taxpayers’ stake to
74 percent of Ally’s common shares from 56.3 percent, according
to a department statement today. The move, along with a planned
sale of some trust preferred securities held by the U.S., is
“designed to accelerate Treasury’s ability to exit its
investment,” the statement said.  The government is looking to recover its $17.2 billion
investment tied to Detroit-based Ally as Chief Executive Officer
Michael Carpenter readies the company for an initial public
offering. Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., almost collapsed
during the financial crisis as defaults on its home mortgages
soared and credit markets shunned the company’s debt.  Treasury officials “want to get out of their stake, that’s
definitely in the cards this next year,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a
senior money manager who helps oversee $14 billion of fixed-
income assets at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan . As for Ally, “it’s probably a pretty good sign that
they’re able to operate as a standalone entity.”  Exit Plan  A Treasury official told reporters that today’s transaction
will help the government’s exit strategy by normalizing the
capital structure. Private investors may be more likely to buy
equity or debt if the Treasury has fewer outstanding preferred
shares that could be converted to common stock and dilute the
stakes of other shareholders.  The U.S. is planning on an IPO for the company, though the
government would consider a private sale, a Treasury official
said in an interview. Carpenter has said an IPO could come as
soon as 2011 and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in
testimony earlier this month that an IPO could come “much
sooner than we thought six months ago.”  The conversion increases the book value of Ally’s common
stock to about $13.8 billion, according to a Treasury official.
Ally’s Tier 1 common ratio will increase from 5 percent before
today to about 9 percent, the official said.  Preferred Conversion  The preferred stock will be converted at one times the book
value of the tangible common equity balance as of Sept. 30,
according to the statement. Treasury will continue to own
$5.9 billion of mandatorily convertible preferred shares, down
from $11.4 billion before today.  Treasury also owns $2.67 billion of trust-preferred
securities, which it agreed to begin selling with Ally’s help
“as soon as practical,” according to the statement.  In addition to the U.S. stake, which Ally pegged at
73.8 percent of the common stock, the conversion leaves Cerberus
Capital Management LP and affiliates holding 8.9 percent, third
party investors with 7.4 percent, General Motors Trust with
5.9 percent and  General Motors Co . at 4.0 percent, according to
a statement from Ally.  Treasury’s approach follows similar moves to exit
investments in  Citigroup Inc . and  American International Group
Inc ., where the government has converted preferred shares as a
precursor to selling common stock, according to the government’s
statement.  “Our ultimate goal in all these investments is to exit as
quickly as possible on terms that realize the most value for the
taxpayer, and this transaction will facilitate that,” Tim Massad, Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial
stability, said in the statement.  KBW’s Advice  Treasury has hired KBW Inc., a firm specializing in
financial institutions, to advise on its Ally investment,
according to the official.  Ally’s $1.75 billion of 7.5 percent notes due in September
2020 were issued at 99.116 cents on the dollar on Aug. 9,
yielding 7.63 percent, Bloomberg data show. The debt traded at
100.5 cents on the dollar, yielding 7.42 percent, on Dec. 20,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “It’s already being kind of priced into the bonds right
now,” Mikelic said. “The bond prices are showing less
government support and more in line as standalone company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 