-- Manchester United Returns Atop Premier League After City Routs Villa 4-0
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-12-29T02:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/manchester-city-defeats-aston-villa-4-0-to-take-lead-of-premier-league.html
Manchester United moved back into
first place in English soccer’s Premier League by tying 1-1 at
Birmingham.  United looked set to re-establish a two-point lead atop the
standings with a win last night before Birmingham midfielder  Lee Bowyer  scored in the 89th minute.  Dimitar Berbatov  had put
United ahead in the 58th minute at St. Andrews.  “We outplayed them in the second half and we didn’t
deserve that,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said on his team’s
website. “We maybe should have finished them off after we went
1-0 up. The number of times we counterattacked against them, we
just needed to take more care with our final pass or the
finishing shot.”  The tie leaves United even on 38 points with Manchester
City, which got three goals from Mario Balotelli to defeat Aston
Villa 4-0 earlier yesterday. United, which has played two fewer
matches, leads because of a better goal difference.  Tottenham moved into fourth place with a 2-0 win over
Newcastle. Spurs has 33 points, two below third-place Arsenal,
which has played one fewer game. Defending champion Chelsea,
which lost at Arsenal two days ago, is in fifth.  “At this moment, there are five or six teams contesting,”
Ferguson said. “I always say if you’re in the front position in
the New Year, then at Manchester United you have a big chance.”  Birmingham pushed players forward to get the draw, which
came when a cross found  Nikola Zigic , who appeared to deflect
the ball with his arm right into the path of Bowyer, who slid
the shot past  Edwin van der Sar . The result lifted the Blues
into 16th place.  Hat Trick  At the City of Manchester Stadium, Balotelli scored from
the penalty spot in the eighth and 55th minutes and had a 27th-
minute tap-in after Joleon Lescott’s 13th-minute header. Villa
has won two of its last 13 league matches, and is just two
points out of the relegation zone.  “It was important that we win this game,” City coach
 Roberto Mancini  said.  Tottenham got a second-half goal from  Aaron Lennon  before
having  Younes Kaboul  sent off in the 65th minute for a foul on
Cheik Tiote.  Gareth Bale ’s 81st-minute goal closed out the
physical game.  “We kept playing and going forward,” Tottenham manager
 Harry Redknapp  said. “We were still positive with 10 men. They
were determined to come in here and not lay down.”  Fulham won 2-0 at Stoke to move out of the relegation zone,
and Blackpool defeated Sunderland 2-0 at the Stadium of Light.
Visiting Blackburn beat West Brom 3-1. West Ham and Everton drew
1-1 in east London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  