-- Ancient Teeth Discovered in Cave in Israel May Point to Oldest Ancestors
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-12-28T17:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/ancient-teeth-found-in-israel-may-be-link-to-humanity-s-oldest-ancestors.html
The discovery of eight ancient teeth
in a  cave  east of Tel-Aviv that was used thousands of years ago
may point to the oldest human ancestors, a study found.  The teeth are older than most of the  hominin  specimens
previously found in southwest Asia, according to researchers
from Tel Aviv University who used advanced imaging technology,
comparative analysis and an examination of the earth and debris
around the  fossils  to date them to 300,000 to 400,000 years ago.  While the features aren’t a direct match to Neanderthals
or early modern humans, they have a “stronger affinity” to
Homo sapiens, the investigators said in a report in the  American
Journal of Physical Anthropology . One possibility is the teeth
belong to an ancient, direct ancestor of early humans that
developed independently of others in Africa and Europe, said
 Rolf M. Quam , a professor of anthropology at the State
University of New York at Binghamton.  “This region of the world has been a crossroads for human
population movements for a very long period of time and is
situated just outside of Africa and just outside of Europe,”
Quam, one of the study’s researchers, said in an e-mail.  Alternately, the finding may reflect a local evolution of
Neanderthals in southwest Asia, showing they were there earlier
than previously believed, or that more than one species -- one
earlier in time, and one later -- occupied that area, Quam said.  Many Theories  “There are a lot of possibilities,”  Avi Gopher , a
professor of archaeology at Tel Aviv University who co-directed
the excavations where the teeth were discovered, said today in a
telephone interview. While one alternative would be to modify
the theory that Homo sapiens developed first in Africa and then
migrated throughout the world, Gopher said, “We must be
cautious; you don’t throw out a paradigm just because of a few
teeth.”  The study was funded by the government of Spain, the
 American Museum of Natural History , the Israel Science
Foundation and philanthropic groups including the Irene Levi
Sala CARE Archaeological Foundation and the Leakey Foundation.  An international team of scientists carried out the
research, led by  Israel Hershkovitz  of Tel Aviv University. The
study was based on excavations of the site under the direction
of Gopher and Ran Barkai, also of Tel Aviv University.  “It is possible the older teeth represent one species and
the younger teeth represent a different species, since we know
that different human species were occupying Africa and Europe at
this time,” Quam said. “With such fragmentary evidence as
eight isolated teeth, it is difficult to offer a clear answer.”  ----With assistance from Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem. Editors:
 Reg Gale ,  Andrew Pollack   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  