-- MannKind Rises After U.S. FDA Delays Ruling on Inhaled Insulin Clearance
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-12-28T21:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/mannkind-rises-after-u-s-fda-delays-ruling-on-inhaled-insulin-clearance.html
MannKind Corp. , the biotechnology
company founded by the billionaire inventor  Alfred Mann , rose in
Nasdaq trading after U.S. regulators delayed a decision on the
company’s inhaled insulin.  MannKind gained 26 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $8.23, at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the
 biggest gain  since Dec. 14. The FDA isn’t able to meet
tomorrow’s scheduled deadline for action on the diabetes drug,
Afrezza, and will need about four more weeks to complete its
evaluation, MannKind said today in a statement.  Today’s delay burned some investors betting against the
stock, and they may be covering short sales by buying shares,
said  Les Funtleyder , a manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in New
York. MannKind, based in Valencia, California, failed to win
approval March 15 when the FDA asked for updated safety data.  “There was a lot of anticipation going into this
outcome,” Funtleyder said today in a telephone interview.
“There may be a few investors who think that a delay, as
opposed to an outright denial, can be taken as a positive. But
the FDA has been taking more time with things, and perhaps they
just needed more time.”  MannKind aims to have the only inhaled insulin on the
market for more than 20 million Americans and 170 million people
worldwide with  diabetes .  Jon LeCroy , an analyst for Hapoalim
Securities in New York, said he is skeptical of the company’s
prospects for gaining approval.  “The FDA remains extremely risk averse,” LeCroy said in a
note to investors on Dec. 17.  “We think this is a major
problem for Afrezza.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  