-- Asia Stocks Fluctuate as Japan Banks Climb, Hong Kong Falls on China Rates
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-12-28T10:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/asian-stocks-advance-as-japan-s-banks-climb-hyundai-merchant-marine-jumps.html
Most  Asian stocks  fell as concern
mounted that China’s interest rate increase won’t be enough to
slow inflation, overshadowing gains by Japanese banks after
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. said it won’t need more capital.  In Hong Kong, China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled
developer, dropped 1.7 percent as the market resumed trade
following a three-day break for Christmas.  Belle International
Holdings Ltd. , China’s largest retailer of women’s shoes, fell
3.8 percent. Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value,
gained 1.3 percent after the lender said it won’t need to sell
more shares in order to meet Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision capital requirements.  “The global economy is recovering, but as a backdrop
there’s the China overheating concern because it’s still unable
to be controlled,” said  Danny Yan , a Hong Kong-based fund
manager at Haitong International Asset Management, which
oversees about $400 million. “I don’t think the banking sector
has a big downside. People are looking towards their
profitability now.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.3 percent to 135.9 as
of 7:25 p.m. in Tokyo as gains by Japanese banks outweighed
declines by developers and energy companies in Shanghai and Hong
Kong. About four stocks fell for every three that gained on the
1,018 member gauge. The index is set for its highest close since
July 24, 2008.  China Stocks Slide  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index dropped 0.9 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite index fell 1.7 percent, taking the benchmark
to its longest run of losses since July.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 0.6 percent as the
nation’s consumer prices declined for a 21st month and the
unemployment rate remained unchanged in November. South Korea’s
Kospi Index gained 0.6 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index slipped 0.2
percent. Markets in Australia and New Zealand were closed today
for a holiday.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.2
percent today. The gauge gained 0.1 percent yesterday as
American International Group Inc. led financial shares higher
after announcing $4.3 billion in bank credit lines. Treasury
two-year notes erased losses after a $35 billion auction, while
oil retreated from a 26-month high.  China Resources Land dropped 1.7 percent to HK$13.88 in
Hong Kong. Belle International, which receives 94 percent of its
revenue from China, declined 3.8 percent to HK$12.78, posting
the  biggest decline  on the Hang Seng Index. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by
market value, fell 1.4 percent to HK$5.60.  Second Rate Increase  China raised interest rates for the second time in just
over two months on Dec. 25 after consumer prices jumped the most
in 28 months and the government forecast “relatively high”
inflation in the first half of 2011.  The government has ordered banks to set aside more  reserves 
six times this year and boosted rates to tame inflation and curb
asset bubbles after record gains in lending and property prices.
China reported inflation of 5.1 percent in November, exceeding
the previous month’s 4.4 percent.  “Investors’ response towards the rate increase was divided
yesterday,” said  Deng Changrong , a strategist at Huaxi
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “As the market moves downward, the
pessimism and uncertainty seem to get stronger.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Energy Index lost 0.4 percent today,
posting the biggest decline among the broader Asian benchmark’s
10 industry groups.  PetroChina, Cnooc  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil and gas producer,
dropped 1.6 percent to HK$9.77. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest
offshore oil producer, lost 0.9 percent to HK$18. China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the nation’s No. 1 oil refiner,
declined 2 percent to HK$7.19. They were among the biggest drags
on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today.  Financial shares were the  biggest contributors  among the 10
industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to the gauge’s
gain today.  Mizuho rose 1.3 percent to 155 yen in Tokyo, the second-
 biggest support  to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank by market value, rose
0.5 percent to 443 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.,
the nation’s No. 2 by market value, rose 0.5 percent to 2,914
yen. Mitsubishi UFJ and Sumitomo Mitsui were also among the
biggest contributors to the Asian benchmark’s gains today.  Japan Banks Advance  Mizuho’s chief executive officer  Takashi Tsukamoto  said
that the lender, which has a lower capital ratio than those of
its two bigger local rivals, expects to exceed international
capital requirements without issuing new stock and by
“steadily” building profit, managing risk assets and reducing
costs to buffer the effects of possible economic slowdowns or
increases in bad loans.  “We won’t need a share sale as an emergency measure to
boost our capital,” Tsukamoto said in an interview this month.
Mizuho has already bolstered its capital by raising more than 1
trillion yen over the past two years through share sales.  Among other stocks that gained, GS Engineering &
Construction Corp. had the second-biggest advance on the MSCI
Asia Pacific index after South Korea’s land ministry announced
plans to support the industry. GS Engineering, a builder, jumped
9.6 percent to 114,000 won in Seoul. Hyundai Development Co.
climbed 1.7 percent to 33,350 won, while Daelim Industrial Co.
added 5 percent to 115,500 won.  The Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs plans
to spend more than 60 percent of its 2011 infrastructure budget
in the first half, and may buy unsold apartments in provincial
areas, according to the ministry’s 2011 policy report to
President  Lee Myung Bak  yesterday.  “Investors are betting on the government’s will to boost
the construction sector next year,” said  Park Young Do , an
analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. “The government
appears to view support measures for the industry are needed to
achieve its growth target.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  