-- Dollar Drops, Franc Rises to Record Before U.S. Data; Stocks, Futures Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-12-28T13:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/asia-stocks-currencies-climb-on-japan-output-data-copper-rises-to-record.html
The dollar weakened and the Swiss
franc climbed to a record before a U.S. housing report that may
indicate prices fell, while European bonds rose as France’s
economy expanded less than initially estimated. Stocks and index
futures advanced.  The dollar depreciated 0.5 percent against the euro at 8
a.m. in New York. The franc gained against all 16 of its major
peers. The 10-year German bund yield declined six basis points.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.2 percent, trimming
yesterday’s 0.8 percent drop, the most in a month. Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures added 0.2 percent, while the Shanghai
Composite Index slid 1.7 percent. Gold rallied for a third day.
U.K. markets were closed for a holiday for a second day.  U.S. home prices probably dropped in October, a sign
housing will remain a weak link as the economic recovery
accelerates into 2011, economists said before today’s report.
France’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the third quarter, less
than the 0.4 percent preliminary estimate, the Paris based
statistics office said. China’s stocks fell for a fifth day as
 Li Daokui , a central bank adviser, said adjustments in rates and
reserve requirements are “very necessary” in 2011.  “The global economy is recovering, but as a backdrop
there’s the China overheating concern because it’s still unable
to be controlled,” said  Danny Yan , a Hong Kong-based fund
manager at Haitong International Asset Management, which
oversees about $400 million.  Dollar, Franc  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners,  fell  for the fourth day, the
longest run of declines since Sept. 29. The franc appreciated as
much as 1.8 percent to 94.35 centimes against the dollar, and
rose 0.9 percent versus the euro. A UBS AG index of Swiss
consumption, which aims to predict developments about three
months ahead, stayed above its long-term average in November,
the Zurich-based bank said.  The yield on the French 10-year bond declined seven basis
points to 3.32 percent, while the German two-year note yield
dropped seven basis points.  Alcatel-Lucent SA gained 1.6 percent after it resolved U.S.
criminal and civil probes into allegations of bribes.  Tenaris SA 
fell 2.1 percent after Exane BNP Paribas downgraded the shares.
Makhteshim-Agan Industries Ltd., the world’s largest maker of
generic agrochemicals, climbed 7.6 percent in Tel Aviv after
Koor Industries Ltd. agreed with China National Chemical Corp.
to take Makhteshim private. Koor rallied 8.8 percent.  Asian Stocks  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.5 percent. Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-biggest bank by market
value, gained 1.3 percent after the lender said it won’t need to
sell more shares in order to meet Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision capital requirements. China Resources Land Ltd., a
state-controlled developer, dropped 2.4 percent as the market
resumed trading following the three-day Christmas break.  U.S. futures gained after the S&P 500 yesterday closed up
0.1 percent, extending what would be its biggest December rally
since 1991, with the index advancing 6.5 percent this month and
13 percent in 2010. About 468 million shares changed hands on
the NYSE yesterday, the fewest for a full-day session since May
1998, as trading slowed following a snowstorm. New York
commuters and travelers face further disruptions today as winds
hinder efforts to clear roads and runways following the heaviest
December snows in six decades.  General Motors Co.  rose 2.5 percent in pre-market trading
as brokerages including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley
initiated coverage of the automaker with a positive view.  House Prices  Property values in 20 U.S. cities were down 0.2 percent
from October 2009, the first year-over-year decline since
January, according to the median forecast of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before a report from S&P/Case-
Shiller, due at 9 a.m. in Washington. A separate report from the
Conference Board, scheduled for 10 a.m., may show consumer
confidence rose to a seven-month high in December.  Same-store sales at a selection of U.S. retailers rose 4.8
percent for the week ended Dec. 25 from the comparable period a
year earlier, the International Council of Shopping Centers and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in an e-mailed statement.  Gold climbed as much as 1.2 percent to $1,399.75 an ounce
on speculation that the dollar’s retreat may boost demand for
the precious metal as an alternative investment. Silver
increased to a one-week high. Oil rose 0.3 percent to $91.30 a
barrel.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced for the first time
in three days, increasing 0.2 percent, as higher commodity
prices boosted earnings outlooks for producers. Currencies
gained, with the yuan rallying 0.09 percent to close at 6.6248
per dollar in Shanghai. The ruble climbed as much as 0.7 percent
to a two-month high as oil traded above $91 a barrel. South
Africa’s rand advanced 1.2 percent to the strongest level since
December 2007 on higher prices for precious metals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at   psillitoe@bloomberg.net . 