-- Australian Floods Force Evacuations, Threatening Crops Across Queensland
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-12-28T03:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/australia-s-queensland-state-declares-disaster-as-floods-force-evacuations.html
Flooding and heavy rainfall in
Australia’s Queensland, the nation’s largest sugar and coal
producing region,  may continue  today as the state government
declares disaster zones and evacuates residents.  Sixteen flood warnings are in place for different parts of
the state as monsoonal showers and storms cross the region, the
Bureau of Meteorology said on its  website  today. People in the
Central Highlands and Coalfields, Wide Bay, Burnett and
Capricornia districts have been warned to expect flash flooding,
it said. Flood warnings are also in place for parts of the
neighboring state of New South Wales.  Three hundred people are being evacuated by aircraft from
the town of Theodore, about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) north
of Sydney, Queensland Emergency Services Minister Neil Roberts
said in a  statement  today. Theodore and other towns including
Chinchilla, Dalby, Alpha, Jericho and Warra have all been
declared disaster situations, he said.  “Residents are urged to leave their homes early if they
are threatened by flooding,” he said. The continued rain will
exacerbate the significant and widespread flooding, he said.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, prompting mining companies including Xstrata Plc and
Vale SA to declare force majeure on coal deliveries. Rio  Tinto
Group , the world’s third-largest mining company, said all its
coal mines in the state have been affected by the rains.  ‘Significant Rainfall’  “We have had significant rainfall and all our operations
are impacted,”  Alison Smith , a spokeswoman for Rio’s coal unit,
said by phone from Brisbane today. The company is trying to
resume output where it can and hasn’t declared force majeure.
Force majeure is a legal clause that allows a company to miss
deliveries because of circumstances beyond its control.  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s largest mining company, will
report any significant impact on its coal mines in the region in
its next quarterly production report, spokeswoman Kelly Quirke
said by phone today.  The flooding would cause unharvested, weather-damaged wheat
and chick pea crops in southern Queensland to be left in fields
while some recently planted cotton and sorghum crops were
underwater, Wayne Newton, grains president of farmer group
 Agforce , said by phone from Dalby.  Harvest Progress  “There has been very little harvest progress in the last
fortnight because of continual wet weather and I would suspect
that a lot of that wheat would be unharvestable,” he said.
Reduced quality and crop losses this season likely cut the value
of the state’s winter grain production by a range of about A$300
million ($302 million) to A$400 million, he said.  The rain and flooding could also reduce sorghum and cotton
production potential amid the risk of more heavy falls as the
state entered the start of its normal wet season, he said.  “We have pretty well the whole of the state already
saturated, all of the river systems just about in full flood and
soil profiles that can’t take any more,” he said.  The record rainfall may curb the next sugar season’s
production and shipments for a second year, Queensland Sugar
Ltd. Chairman Alan Winney said Dec. 23. Australia is the third-
largest sugar exporter. The wet weather forced producers to
leave some cane unharvested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  