-- Lawson's CEO Leads Exodus of `Best People' to China as Japan's Growth Ebbs
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2010-12-29T07:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/lawson-s-ceo-leads-exodus-of-best-people-to-china-as-japan-s-growth-ebbs.html
Lawson Inc . Chief Executive Officer
 Takeshi Niinami  aims to open almost 10,000 stores in China by
2020, selling drinks, food and magazines. To pull it off, the
Tokyo-based executive is packing his bags for Shanghai.  As Japan’s second-largest convenience-store operator plans
to boost outlets in China more than 30-fold, Niinami, 51, will
spend a month in the nation from May and another within less
than a year, he said at a media briefing in Tokyo on Dec. 20.
Lawson is also training Chinese recruits in Japan to work as
store managers in their home country, where the company lags
behind rivals  Seven & I Holdings Co.  and  FamilyMart Co.   “To get a feel for daily life in China and to take risks,
I’ve got to live there a couple of months,” Niinami said.
“Staying all the time in Japan, I tend to focus only on
downside risks.”  Niinami’s plans underscore how Japanese companies are
counting on China, set to surpass Japan as the world’s second-
largest economy this year, as a shrinking and aging population
dims the outlook for growth at home. It is also an example of
how executives in the nation are seeking to overcome a shortage
of international experience as they expand abroad.  “Lawson’s move shows how Japanese companies are trying to
globalize,” said  Tsuyoshi Komori , president of Tokyo-based
consultant Mercer Japan Ltd. “Spending time and pouring energy
into China will prove Niinami’s commitment.”  Lawson rose 0.7 percent to 4,035 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo. The  shares  have fallen 1.6 percent this year,
compared with a 1.9 percent drop in the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  Household Spending  Lawson operated 318 stores in mainland China as of November,
according to the company’s website. The nation is Lawson’s sole
market outside Japan, where it had 9,935 outlets.  The push in China is driven in part by a decline in
Japanese consumer spending, which fell in 2008 and 2009,
according to figures released by the Cabinet Office.  Japan’s population is decreasing from a peak of 127.8
million in 2004 and may bottom out at less than  90 million  in
2055, according to the National Institute of Population and
Social Security Research.  In contrast, the number of middle-income and affluent
consumers in China, the world’s most populous nation with more
than 1.3 billion  people , may almost triple to 415 million in 10
years, Boston Consulting Group Inc. said in November.  7-Eleven, FamilyMart  Competitors have outpaced Lawson in tapping China’s growth.
 Seven & I Holdings , the world’s largest convenience retailer,
operated 708 7-Eleven outlets in mainland China as of November,
said  Minoru Matsumoto , a company spokesman.  FamilyMart  had 492
stores in the nation, according to its website.  Lawson opened its first Chinese store in Shanghai in 1996,
according to its  website . All three companies are based in Tokyo.  “To reach a goal of 10,000 shops by the year 2020, not
only the CEO’s leadership example but also logistics and human
resources are going to be needed,” said  Naozumi Nishimura , an
analyst at TIW Inc. in Tokyo with a “neutral”  rating  on
Lawson’s shares. “I’ll be paying attention to how fast they
expand and how fast they turn a profit from it.”  Lawson’s growth in China has been held back by a lack of
human resources, Niinami said in an interview in April. An
initial effort to send Chinese employees to Japan for training
proved too time-consuming, he said. Changing its strategy, the
company began hiring and training Chinese graduates from
Japanese universities.  “The new system started three or four years ago, and now I
think we have the resources to accelerate our foreign
business,” Niinami said in April.  International Experience  Cross-border training and experience is also a management-
level challenge at Japanese companies. Japan ranked 49th among
58 countries this year in international experience for senior
managers, according to the World Competitiveness Yearbook 2010
published by Switzerland’s  IMD  International business school.  The number of Japanese citizens living in China almost
tripled in a decade to 127,282 in October 2009, according to
Japan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Shanghai is home to 48,255,
according to the ministry.  Niinami’s own international experience includes starting
the Chinese sugar-trading business at Mitsubishi Corp., a Tokyo-
based trading company, he said in an interview with THE 21, a
monthly magazine in 2008. He is also a Harvard Business School
graduate.  He began his career at Mitsubishi, Lawson’s biggest
 shareholder , in 1981 and became president of the convenience-
store operator in 2002. In 2005, he was named Lawson’s CEO.  China Profit  Under Niinami, Lawson’s operating profit has increased in
the past seven consecutive fiscal  years . The company forecasts
 net income  in the 12 months ending February may rise to 22
billion yen ($266 million) from 12.6 billion yen last fiscal
year, while revenue may fall to 430 billion yen from 467.2
billion yen.  In China, operating profit was at a break-even level last
fiscal year, according to the company’s website.  Niinami plans to dispatch a team of staff members,
including company directors, to China ahead of his own arrival,
he said Dec. 20.  The CEO is also improving his Chinese-speaking skills, said
 Wenzhou Song , founder of Tokyo-based  Softbrain Co.  and a
strategic adviser to Lawson in China.  “These days, when Mr. Niinami calls me, he speaks Chinese
with such good pronunciation I mistake him for Chinese,” Song,
a native of China, said in a Dec. 17 interview.  Having worked in China may increasingly be seen as a
qualification for top  executive  jobs at Japanese companies, just
as having served in the U.S. used to be a prerequisite for some,
Song said.  Niinami, speaking at the Dec. 20 briefing, made the same
suggestion.  “I will send the best people from our company” to China,
he said. “If they succeed, they may be in line for my post.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  