-- Brazil's Real Falls as U.S. Confidence Weighs on Demand for Riskier Assets
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-12-28T20:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/brazil-s-real-gains-to-three-week-high-before-housing-report.html
Brazil’s real fell from a three-week
high as declining U.S. consumer confidence raised concern that
the recovery of the world’s largest economy may be stalling,
sapping demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The real dropped 0.3 percent to 1.6915, from 1.6859
yesterday. It earlier touched 1.6790, the strongest level since
Dec. 7 as soybean and other commodity prices increased.  The Conference Board’s confidence index of U.S. consumers
fell to 52.5 in December, lower than the most pessimistic
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, figures from the
New York-based research group showed today. Brazil’s central
bank said it bought dollars at 1.6921 reais each in an auction.  “Weaker consumer confidence is weighing on risk
appetite,” said  Alvise Marino , an emerging-market currency
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. “The
Brazilian administration has shown that they are not shy about
introducing measures to curb the currency appreciation.”  The real has strengthened 37 percent versus the dollar
since the start of 2009, the third-best performer of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind Australia’s dollar and
South Africa’s rand, the other so-called commodity currencies.
Brazil’s government tripled the tax on foreign purchase of local
fixed-income securities to 6 percent in October to slow overseas
investment, weakening the real.  Rate Futures  In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
the contract due January 2012 fell one basis point at 12.14
percent.  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise its
benchmark interest rate 50 basis points to 11.25 percent at its
Jan. 18-19 meeting, according to calculations by Bloomberg based
on interest-rate futures trading.  Brazil’s central bank has raised its benchmark Selic target
rate three times this year, boosting it to 10.75 percent, from a
record low of 8.75 percent as the economy expanded at the
fastest pace in two decades. That compared with rates close to
zero in the U.S. and Japan, encouraging investors to pour their
money into Brazil and other higher-yielding emerging markets for
better returns.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 Yxie6@bloomberg.net 
 Josue Leonel  in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 