-- Brazilian Oil Regulator Finds More Signs of Crude at Libra Offshore Field
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-12-28T17:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/brazil-finds-more-signs-of-oil-at-libra-pre-salt-field.html
Brazil found more evidence of oil at
the government’s Libra offshore field, which may be the largest
oil discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  Brazil’s oil regulator, known as the  ANP , found a second
layer of hydrocarbons at Libra, according to records on its
website dated Dec. 27. The regulator first discovered oil at the
field in late October.  Libra is estimated to hold as much as 15 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, which would eclipse Brazil’s total current
reserve base and make it the biggest find in the Americas since
Mexico discovered Cantarell in 1976. The estimate disclosed by
the ANP in October means Libra may hold almost twice as much oil
as state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s nearby Tupi field.  "Fifteen billion barrels, all things considered, is a big
number,"  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory and
Research Inc., a Chicago-based adviser to oil producers and
investors, said today. "It makes that whole basin attractive for
all of the consortiums that are currently operating there."  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said Dec. 9 that
Brazil’s deepwater fields hold more oil than Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  says they contain.  BG
Group Plc , the U.K.’s third largest energy company and a partner
with Petrobras at Tupi, said last month that the field holds 9
billion barrels of oil, higher than Petrobras’s estimates of as
much as 8 billion barrels.  35 Billion Barrels  Exploration at deepwater oil fields in Brazil will
“intensify” next year as Petrobras and other oil companies add
drilling rigs, Credit Suisse said in a research note yesterday.
Petrobras aims to more than double its oil reserves to as many
as 35 billion barrels by 2014.  Libra is the first field the government plans to auction
next year under the country’s new concession model,  Magda Chambriard , a director at ANP, said in September.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, will operate all new
concessions in the so-called pre-salt area where Libra and Tupi
were discovered.  Shares of the state oil producer  jumped  to a six-week high
today after the country’s oil output climbed to a record in
November and crude traded near a two-year high.  Petrobras climbed 1.9 percent to 26.55 reais in Sao Paulo
trading at 12:42 p.m. in New York, the biggest gain in more than
a week and the highest price since Nov. 11.  ‘Positive Trend’  “Positive production trends should help to boost
confidence in Petrobras’s ability to deliver output growth,”
Bank of America analyst Frank McGann wrote in a note to clients
today.  Brazil’s  production  of oil rose to a record 2.089 million
barrels a day last month, the ANP said on its website yesterday.
Petrobras’ total November oil and gas production was 2.6 million
barrels a day, of which 2.03 million barrels was in Brazil,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Crude for February delivery gained 39 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $91.39 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
It touched $91.67, 21 cents below the two-year intraday high of
$91.88 reached yesterday. Futures have advanced 15 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  