-- Brazil Raises Duties on China-made Baby Dolls as Real Gains Hurt Toymakers
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-29T08:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/brazil-raises-tariffs-on-chinese-toys-as-real-s-37-gain-hurts-industry.html
Brazil raised its tariffs on toy
imports from China in a bid to help the South American country’s
manufacturers hurt by a 37 percent gain in the real against the
yuan over the past two years.  Duties on 14 types of  toys  ranging from dolls and puzzles
to tricycles and electric train sets will be increased to 35
percent from 20 percent until the end of 2011, the Foreign Trade
Chamber said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The chamber said it was acting on a request from Brazilian
toymakers to help them “fight” an increase in imports, 90
percent of which come from China. The higher tariffs will affect
goods whose imports totaled $290 million between January and
November of this year, according to trade ministry data.  China’s Ministry of Commerce didn’t respond to a faxed
request for comment and telephone calls to a spokesman weren’t
answered.  Brazilian imports of Chinese goods in the 12 months through
August increased 37 percent to $21.4 billion, from $15 billion
in all of 2009, according to a  study  published this month by
Brazil’s state-development bank. The surge in Chinese imports,
boosted by the yuan’s competitive exchange rate, threaten to
displace domestic sales by Brazilian manufacturers and has
“important implications” for the country’s industrial
development, said the bank, known as BNDES.  The real’s 37 percent gain against the yuan over the past
two years is the third-best performance among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Australian dollar and South
African rand. The 12-month non-deliverable forwards suggest
traders are betting that the yuan will strengthen 2.2 percent in
one year from its current spot value of 6.625 per U.S. dollar.  Toy sales in Brazil will reach 3 billion reais ($1.8
billion) this year, 49 percent of which will come from products
made abroad, according to estimates by Brazil’s toymakers
association. In 2009, imported toys accounted for 46.8 percent
of 2.7 billion reais in sales, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  