-- Brazil's Primary Government Surplus Narrows in November More Than Forecast
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-12-28T19:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/brazil-primary-surplus-fell-to-4-month-low-in-november-update2-.html
The Brazilian central government’s
 budget surplus  before interest payments narrowed to a four-month
low in November, signaling the government is likely to miss its
fiscal target this year.  The so-called primary surplus of 1.1 billion reais ($650
million) last month was the smallest since July, and compares
with a revised 7.8 billion reais surplus in October. The figure
was below the median estimate of a 2 billion-reais surplus from
eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today that Brazil may
miss its 2010 budget surplus target of 3.1 percent of gross
domestic product because of a possible failure by state and
local governments to deliver required savings. The central
government now needs a surplus of 13 billion reais in December
to hit its 2010 target, Treasury Secretary Arno Augustin said.  Brazil will post a “double digit” surplus in December on
higher tax collection, Augustin said in Brasilia after the
report was published.  In September, the government posted a record 26 billion
reais surplus, after selling oil reserves for shares as part of
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70 billion stock sale. In November,
Brazil cut its budget target by 0.2 percentage point, from 3.3
percent, after excluding state-controlled Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA from fiscal accounting.  ‘Creative Accounting’  The government won’t be able to hit its target with the use
of “creative accounting,” Jankiel Santos, chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said in a telephone interview.
The government’s failure to reach its targets puts additional
pressure on the central bank, Santos added.  “Should they have any contribution from other sources,
meaning the fiscal side, they would be able to hike interest
rates in a milder way,” Santos said. “But that’s not the
case.”  In its quarterly inflation report published last week,
Brazil’s central bank  signaled  it may start increasing  interest
rates  next month because of faster inflation. Santos expects
policy makers to raise rates by 150 basis points, or 1.5
percentage points, over their next three meetings.  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will contain public spending
after she takes office Jan. 1 to open space for the central bank
to cut interest rates that are the highest in the Group of 20
nations, Mantega said Nov. 30.  Lower Target  Traders are wagering central bank President  Alexandre Tombini  will raise borrowing costs 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, to 11.25 percent when he chairs his first
monetary policy meeting Jan. 18-19, interest-rate futures
contracts show. Tombini will take over from President  Henrique Meirelles  next week.  Yields on contracts maturing in January 2012 declined 0.01
percent, or one basis point, to 12.14 percent at 2 p.m. New York
time. The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.6904 per U.S. dollar.  Consumer price inflation in the 12 months through mid-
December quickened to 5.79 percent, the fastest pace in 23
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  