-- Buffett’s Energy Unit Orders 258 Siemens Wind Turbines
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-28T21:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/buffett-s-energy-unit-orders-258-siemens-wind-turbines-for-iowa-projects.html
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., the
power unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , will
expand wind-generation capacity by purchasing 258 turbines from
 Siemens AG  and acquiring a project under development in Iowa.  The turbines will be located in five Iowa counties next
year and have a combined capacity of 593 megawatts, enough power
for 190,000 homes, MidAmerican said today in a statement on its
website. Fifty-two of the turbines will be at the Laurel Wind
Project, a planned facility about 50 miles northeast of the
state capital of Des Moines that MidAmerican will buy from RPM
Access, according to the statement. The purchase price wasn’t
disclosed.  MidAmerican, which Berkshire bought in 2000, sells
electricity in the Great Plains and the U.S. West and operates a
pipeline that transports natural gas from Wyoming to California.
Siemens will manufacture the turbines at its factories in Fort
Madison, Iowa, and Hutchinson, Kansas, the Munich-based company
said in a separate statement.  “The projects make good economic sense for Iowa and our
customers,”  Bill Fehrman , president of MidAmerican Energy Co.,
a subsidiary that made the Siemens order, said in a statement.  Siemens, Europe’s largest engineering company, also signed
a service contract for a MidAmerican gas-fueled power generator.
The natural gas plant provides power when other sources such as
coal or wind can’t meet demand, said  Ann Thelen , a spokeswoman
for the company.  About a quarter of the MidAmerican Energy Co.’s generating
capacity will come from wind power after the new turbines are
installed, she said.  RPM Access  secures permits, easements and other agreements
necessary for wind-power investments in infrastructure in the
Midwest and then sells them to operators such as MidAmerican,
 Aaron Theisen , a project developer at RPM, said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 