-- ChemChina Buys Control of Israeli Agricultural-Chemicals Maker Makhteshim
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-12-28T14:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/chemchina-buys-majority-stake-in-agrochemicals-maker-makhteshim-from-koor.html
China National Chemical Corp.
offered to buy a controlling stake in  Makhteshim-Agan Industries
Ltd. , the largest maker of generic agricultural chemicals, in a
deal valuing the Israeli company at $2.4 billion.  ChemChina, as the company is known, agreed to acquire 7
percent of Makhteshim from  Koor Industries Ltd.  and offered to
buy all the publicly traded stock to bring its stake to 60
percent, Makhteshim said today. The purchase price, based on
current dollar exchange rates and taking into account some
employee options, is 19.98 shekels a share, or 18 percent more
than the stock’s closing price in Tel Aviv yesterday.  Makhteshim, based in Airport City outside Tel Aviv,  jumped 
6.8 percent today. Surging demand for raw materials in China to
power the world’s fastest-growing major economy has prompted
companies to make acquisitions beyond oil and gas industries and
explore takeovers of agriculture and chemical assets. State-
owned Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader, earlier
this year considered a rival bid to BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40
billion offer for  Potash Corp. , people with knowledge of the
matter said in October.  “It looks like the deal is about to close and we believe
this offer will be received by the shareholders because the
Chinese are paying such a high premium,”  Guil Bashan , an
analyst at IBI in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “This is good
news for Makhteshim and for Koor.”  Market Share  Before today, Makhteshim had declined 6.6 percent this
year. The stock  rose  1.14 shekels to 18.04 shekels at the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in Tel Aviv, valuing the company at 7.85
billion shekels ($2.2 billion). Koor  jumped  9.9 percent to 83.60
shekels.  Under the deal, Koor would receive a $960 million non-
recourse loan, which will be backed by Makhteshim shares, and
may be redeemed in cash or in shares. The loan means Koor
“essentially has a put option on close to another $1 billion
worth of Makhteshim shares because if it doesn’t want to pay
back it can just pay with shares,” Bashan said.  Robert Lu, a spokesman for Beijing-based ChemChina, didn’t
answer calls to his office. The transaction is likely to be
completed by the third quarter of 2011, pending approval by
Makhteshim  shareholders  and Chinese regulators, the Israeli
company said.  Nufarm Fallout  China, home to more than 1.3 billion people, is the world’s
largest consumer of foods including pork, soybeans and rice. The
nation, set to pass Japan this year to become the second-biggest
economy, became a net importer of corn in 2009 for the first
time in 14 years after drought damaged crops. The city of
Shanghai, with more than 20 million residents, has a population
almost triple Israel’s.  ChemChina, the nation’s second-biggest chemical company,
has 158.7 billion yuan ($24 billion) of assets, according to its
website. The state-owned company, with 10 listed subsidiaries in
industries ranging from pesticides to plastics, tried to buy
Australia’s Nufarm Ltd. in 2007 to create the world’s largest
supplier of generic farm chemicals before the deal collapsed.  Generic companies like Makhteshim produce copies of top-
selling insecticides once patents have expired. Makhteshim,
which sells its crop-protection products in more than 100
countries, has a 5 percent market share in the global crop-
protection market, according to the company’s  website . Its
products include herbicides, insecticides, and fungicides.
Makhteshim operates manufacturing plants in Israel, Brazil,
Colombia, Spain and Greece.  Non-Recourse Loan  Basel, Switzerland-based  Syngenta AG  is the world’s biggest
maker of agricultural chemicals.  Makhteshim, which posted losses in  two of the past four
quarters , said on Sept. 2 it canceled talks to buy U.S.-based
Albaugh Inc. for about $1 billion. It has been looking to boost
profit after insecticide prices declined because the global
recession hurt demand for food.  Koor, which is controlled by  Nochi Dankner ’s  IDB Holding
Corp.  and  Discount Investment Corp. , would own 40 percent of
Makhteshim, according to today’s statement.  Israel and China established diplomatic relations in 1992.
Israel’s biggest exports to China are agricultural technology
and electronics, and its major imports from the country are
machinery and textiles.  Until the Makhteshim agreement, Israel had been largely
“under China’s radar” in terms of investment, said Ornit
Avidar, a former commercial attaché at Israel’s consulate in
Hong Kong, and now a partner at China Israel Value Capital, a
private-equity fund in Herzliya, Israel.  The deal is significant because while “many foreigners
take into account the political consequences of investing in
Israel, the Chinese separate between politics and business,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  