-- China Starts Anti-Dumping Investigation Into U.S. Distiller Grain Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-28T04:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/china-starts-anti-dumping-investigation-into-u-s-distiller-grain-imports.html
China, the world’s biggest grains
user, has started an anti-dumping investigation into U.S.
shipments of dried distillers’ grains, an animal feed
ingredient, adding to tensions in ongoing trade disputes.  The government will probe for unfair trade practices on
products imported in the year ended June 30 after receiving
complaints from four domestic ethanol producers, the Ministry of
Commerce said on its  website  today. Distillers’ grains, commonly
known as DDGS, is a by-product from making corn-based ethanol.  The probe is likely to further strain commercial ties with
the U.S. a month before President Hu Jintao is scheduled to
visit Washington. China’s surging livestock production has
spurred imports of animal feed ingredients including corn,
soybeans and DDGS.  “This case against U.S. DDGS probably isn’t an isolated
incident and must be observed in the context of the two sides’
trade relations,” Li Qiang, managing director at Shanghai JC,
said by phone.  “The investigation outcome may not support the
charge because prices of imported DDGS have been higher, so
it’ll be difficult to establish damages based on price,”  Imports of DDGS may jump nearly fivefold to over 3 million
metric tons this year, according to Li. Still, the probe “may
not have significant impact beyond the initial concern.”  Strained Ties  The investigation comes after the U.S. last week filed a
complaint at the World Trade Organization against China over
support for its wind-energy manufacturers. A government fund for
wind manufacturers requires recipients to use domestically made
parts, violating WTO rules, the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office said. China responded by saying its policies were in line
with the regulations.  Last month China said it would extend an anti-dumping probe
on U.S. sports utility vehicles and large sedans and in October
it said it would consider appealing a WTO decision to reject the
bulk of its complaints against U.S. duties on imports of steel
pipes. On Dec. 6, China said the U.S. will levy anti-dumping
charges for five years on wax candles imported from China.  Imported DDGS is generally better quality and preferred by
animal feed producers along the coastal regions, Li said.  The ministry will begin the investigation today and will
likely conclude the probe within a year, the ministry’s
statement said. The probe may be extended under exceptional
circumstances to June 2012, it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  