-- China's Stocks to Rebound as Inflation Eases, Morgan Stanley Huaxin Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-28T07:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/china-s-stocks-to-rebound-as-inflation-eases-morgan-stanley-huaxin-says.html
China’s stocks  will rebound next
quarter from the Shanghai Composite Index’s biggest annual drop
since 2008, as slowing  inflation  reduces the need for further
interest-rate increases and economic growth accelerates,
according to Morgan Stanley’s joint venture in the country.  The central bank’s two rate rises since October will
“achieve full effect” in moderating consumer prices that grew
at the fastest pace in 28 months in November, said  Zhao Lisong ,
chief strategist at Morgan Stanley Huaxin Fund Management Co.,
which oversees about $1.9 billion. Property developers, material
producers and automakers will benefit as the government slows
the pace of policy tightening and growth quickens, he said.  “China’s economic growth will support a mild bullish run
in 2011,” Zhao said in a phone interview yesterday from
Shenzhen, declining to give a forecast for the Shanghai
Composite. “As inflation eases after the Chinese New Year, the
government may reduce the frequency of tightening measures.”
The Chinese lunar new year ends by mid-February.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.7 percent to 2,732.99
today, extending the benchmark measure’s longest losing streak
since July, after the People’s Bank of China increased key one-
year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, on Christmas Day. The benchmark measure has
fallen 17 percent this year, making it the worst performer among
the world’s 14 biggest stock markets.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has ordered banks to set
aside more reserves six times this year and boosted rates to
tame inflation and curb asset bubbles after record gains in
lending and property prices. China reported inflation of 5.1
percent in November, exceeding the previous month’s 4.4 percent,
as food costs jumped.  ‘Comparatively High’  The nation’s stocks fell yesterday as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Morgan Stanley forecast further interest-rate increases in
the first half of 2011. China may raise rates as many as three
times in the first six months, according to Morgan Stanley,
while JPMorgan forecasts two increases in that period.  China’s inflation rate may stay at a “comparatively high
level” in the first half, said  Liu Jianwei , a fund manager at
Bosera Asset Management Co., which manages about 19 billion yuan
in Shenzhen.  He favors gold producers and airlines as a hedge against
inflation and as the government allows faster appreciation of
the yuan, reducing carriers’ U.S. dollar-debt costs. Liu also
likes companies that benefit from the government’s next five-
year economic plan, which is focused on boosting domestic
consumption and increasing energy efficiency.  China’s economy will grow at a 10 percent pace next year
and inflation will average 3.3 percent, the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences said in its Blue Book for the Economy in 2011
published Dec. 7. The 2010 target for GDP growth is 8 percent,
according to Wen’s annual working report on March 5.  Earnings Growth  The expansion in the economy, which is set to overtake
Japan as the world’s second-biggest this year, will sustain
earnings growth of as much as 22 percent next year, according to
Morgan Stanley Huaxin’s Zhao.  Chinese industrial companies’  profits  rose 49.4 percent in
the 11 months through November from a year earlier, a report
showed yesterday. The increase compared with a 7.8 percent gain
in the same period in 2009.  China’s interest-rate increase will be positive for bank
earnings as it will boost net interest margins without boosting
the demand deposit rate, according to a report from UOB Kay Hian
yesterday.  The benchmark lending rate rose to 5.81 percent and the
one-year deposit rate increased to 2.75 percent. The lending
rate will climb to 6.56 percent by the end of next year,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month.  “The shortage of liquidity may ease in the first
quarter,” said Zhao, predicting banks will increase their
lending after the government sets a new annual quota. “Economic
growth will also boost liquidity.”  -- Irene Shen . Editors:  Allen Wan , Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  