-- China CEOs Temper Support for Stronger Yuan on Dollar
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T04:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/china-ceos-temper-support-for-stronger-yuan-with-concern-on-dollar-flood.html
Chinese executives are reducing
support for a stronger yuan as they criticize U.S. monetary
easing for weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles in
emerging-market economies.  Shen Wenrong , chairman of Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., the
nation’s biggest private steelmaker, said China should only
allow a “token” appreciation while the U.S. is “printing
money to stoke inflation.”  Ma Weihua , chief executive officer
of China Merchants Bank Co., said the yuan shouldn’t climb “too
fast” and the Federal Reserve must show more restraint after
announcing plans to buy $600 billion of Treasuries. Xia
Jingjiang, general manager at Topshow Outdoor Products Co.,
which makes baseball caps with corporate logos, said the
government won’t risk growth with more rapid currency gains.  Calls to limit appreciation from Chinese executives, who in
March backed an end to a two-year dollar peg, reflect concern
the economy’s expansion may slow as the central bank raises
interest rates to cool the fastest inflation since 2008. Yuan
forward contracts show traders are betting the currency will
stall before Chinese President  Hu Jintao ’s state visit to
Washington next month and climb 2.1 percent in the coming year.  “We hope the yuan will get stronger but don’t want the
appreciation pace to be too fast,” Ma at China Merchants, the
nation’s sixth-largest lender by market value, said in a Dec. 17
interview in Beijing. “The U.S. isn’t taking responsibility. It
called on China to adjust its yuan policy but the whole world is
suffering from its easing measures.”  Forward Rates  One-month non-deliverable forwards traded at 6.6180 per
dollar as of 11:41 a.m. in Hong Kong, signaling little change
from the spot rate of 6.6229, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month contracts are stronger at 6.4863.
Analysts predict the yuan will appreciate another 5.5 percent to
6.28 by the end of 2011, based on the median of 21 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  China’s central bank will allow the currency to rise as
much as 4.5 percent in the coming year, said  Rajeev De Mello ,
the head of Asian investment in Singapore at Western Asset
Management Co. The yuan has climbed 3.1 percent since June 21,
when the government ended a policy of fixing the exchange rate
at about 6.83 per dollar to protect exporters during the global
financial crisis. Thirty U.S. senators called for the yuan to
“appreciate meaningfully” before Hu’s trip, in a letter on
Dec. 6 to Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan .  ‘Faster Pace’  “The noises from the U.S. probably made the Chinese
executives worry China will appreciate the currency at a faster
pace,” said De Mello at Western Asset, which oversees $469
billion of funds. “A faster currency appreciation would be too
much for the local economy since there has already been a lot of
tightening policies in place.”  Shen, from Zhangjiagang-based Jiangsu Shagang, said the
government needs to balance maintaining competitiveness of
exports and cutting raw-material purchasing costs. Iron ore
imports climbed 26 percent last month to the second-highest
level of this year, according to government data.  “China shouldn’t pace up appreciation,” said Shen. “As a
big buyer of iron ore, it has some benefits. But the benefits
are limited.”  Topshow  Xia at Yangzhou, Jiangsu-based Topshow said his company
raised prices of its hats by 3 percent to account for the yuan
in the second half.  “The yuan’s appreciation will be gradual,” he said in a
Dec. 22 interview. “The central government understands clearly
what a strong yuan can do to China’s economy. I hope it won’t
take that risk.”  Executives at companies focused on the Chinese market,
including Beijing-based computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd.,
Shanghai-based China Eastern Airlines Corp. and China Merchants
Bank, said in March that a stronger currency would lower import
costs, boost consumer purchasing power and encourage global
trade using the currency.  Dollar purchases to weaken the renminbi have driven China’s
currency reserves to $2.65 trillion and flooded the financial
system with yuan. The  trade surplus  exceeded $20 billion for the
fifth time in sixth months in November as  overseas sales  climbed
35 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureaus said Dec.
10.  ‘Reality’  “Chinese companies have to face the reality of a rising
yuan rate as the economy grows fast and foreign-exchange
reserves increase,”  Zhang Wei , deputy director of China Chamber
of International Commerce, a government-run organization
representing exporters and importers, told reporters on Dec. 17
in Beijing. “They should also get fully prepared for rising
international pressure on China to let the yuan appreciate.”  The People’s Bank of China increased its benchmark one-year
deposit rate by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, on
Dec. 25 to 2.75 percent, below November’s inflation rate of 5.1
percent. The spread between the savings rate and its U.S.
equivalent reached 197 basis points this week, the most since at
least 1996, boosting the allure of holding yuan assets.  The economy grew 9.6 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, after expanding 10.3 percent in the second quarter
and 11.9 percent in the first.  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  told reporters in
Beijing on Nov. 8 the Fed’s asset purchases might “shock”
emerging markets by flooding them with capital.  Dollar Index  Emerging-market stock funds have taken in a record $92.5
billion and bond funds investing in developing economies had
inflows of $52.5 billion this year, EPFR Global, a Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm, said last week.  So far, the Fed’s policy hasn’t resulted in a weaker dollar
or faster inflation at home.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, has climbed 5 percent since Nov. 3, when the Fed
announced the second round of debt purchases under its
quantitative-easing plan. U.S. consumer prices will increase at
a 1.5 percent annual rate in 2011, compared with a 1.6 percent
pace in 2010, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  A “stable” appreciation is enough to encourage use of the
yuan in global trade and finance, Kong Weipeng, head of fixed-
income investment at Haitong International Asset Management,
said in a Dec. 22 interview in Hong Kong. The  unit  of China’s
biggest brokerage by assets set up a 5 billion yuan ($754
million) fund in August that invests in offshore renminbi bonds.  Favoring Stability  “Investors don’t want to see the yuan go up 10 percent one
month and then go down 20 percent the next,” he said. “In the
short term, if global financial markets become more volatile,
either due to the European debt crisis, or emerging markets
facing more inflation, then that may slow yuan appreciation.”  Yuan trade settlements jumped 160 percent in the third
quarter from the prior three months to 126.5 billion yuan, the
central bank reported on Nov. 2.  Sinosteel Corp., the nation’s biggest iron ore trader,
favors such transactions because of the potential for local
currency gains, President Huang Tianwei said. Ma at China
Merchants Bank said that while his bank is gaining from this
business, “too fast” of an appreciation would be disruptive.  “The trend for the yuan to rise is doubtless, as China’s
economy has grown quickly and it’s impossible for the country to
always keep such large foreign-exchange reserves and trade
surpluses,” he said. “But if the appreciation is too fast,
many Chinese businesses may go bust.”  -- Judy Chen ,  Belinda Cao ,  Sonja Cheung ,  Andrea Wong ,  Helen Yuan ,
 Winnie Zhu ,  Lilian Karunungan ,  Tian Ying ,  Liza Lin ,  Michael Wei .
Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 Xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  