-- China Cuts Export Quotas for Rare Earths by 35%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T03:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/china-cuts-first-round-rare-earth-export-quotas-by-11-correct-.html
(Corrects percentage cut in quotas in headline, first
paragraph and amount in first half of 2010 in second
paragraph in story published Dec. 28.)  China cut its export quotas for
rare earths by 35 percent in the first round of permits for
2011, threatening to extend a global shortage of the minerals
needed for smartphones, hybrid cars and guided missiles.  The government allotted 14,446 metric tons of rare earth
exports split among 31 domestic and foreign-invested
companies, the Ministry of Commerce said today in a  statement .
That compares with the first round this year of 22,282 tons
and the second round of 7,976 tons, according to previous
ministry statements. The government usually issues two rounds
of export quotas every year.  China, which accounts for more than 90 percent of world
supplies, slashed export quotas by 72 percent in the second
half of this year, sparking a surge in prices. Japan, the
world’s biggest user, has sought alternate supplies with
companies including  Hitachi Metals Ltd.  and  Toyota Motor Corp. 
seeking cooperative ventures at home and abroad to secure the
minerals.  “This is in line with government officials’ comments
that we need to protect the environment and resources,” said
Chen Jiazuo, an analyst at metal researcher Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co. “Controlling domestic production
capacity, output and exports will continue to be the theme.”  Chinese government departments are still negotiating
full-year rare earth export quotas for 2011, the ministry
said in a separate  statement  today. Full-year permits should
not be forecast based on the first-round limits announced
earlier, according to the statement.  Industry ‘Sustainability’  The government will decide on the full-year quotas after
evaluating domestic output and demand, as well as global
requirements, the ministry said. The “sustainability” of
the industry in China also will be reviewed, according to the
statement.  Last year, China’s government clamped down on its rare
earth industry, setting production quotas to  bolster prices .
China said in July that it would reduce export quotas in the
second half to supply its own electronics industry and
overhaul a mining sector blamed for causing widespread
environmental damage.  “As China has advanced technologies in rare earth
production, companies can seek cooperation to develop mines
abroad,” Antaike’s Chen said.  China will also raise export taxes for some rare earth
elements to 25 percent next year, the Ministry of Finance
said this month. That was up from the 15 percent temporary
export tax on neodymium, used in batteries for hybrid cars
including Toyota’s Prius and Honda Motor Co.’s Insight.  U.S. Tensions  The latest move to curb exports may further exacerbate
tensions with the U.S., which last week said it may file a
World Trade Organization complaint over restraints on
supplies of the minerals. Rare earths are 17 chemically
similar elements including neodymium, cerium and lanthanum
that are used in the production of electronics.  Molycorp Inc. , the owner of the world’s largest non-
Chinese rare-earth metals deposit, agreed this month to form
joint ventures with Japan’s Hitachi Metals Ltd. to produce
alloys and magnets in the U.S. Hitachi Metals, Japan’s
largest maker of rare-earths magnets, uses as much as 600
tons of the metals each year.  Shares of Molycorp rose $2.85, or 5.8 percent, to $52.29
at 10:33 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Rare Element Resources Ltd., a Vancouver-based rare-earth
miner, jumped $2.29, or 20 percent, to $14.02 in New York.
General Moly Inc., which is developing a molybdenum mine in
Nevada, climbed 42 cents, or 7.1 percent, to $6.32.  Toyota Venture  Toyota Tsusho Corp. , a trading company affiliated with
the carmaker, formed a venture with Sojitz Corp. and a
Vietnamese state-run mining company to export rare earth
metals to Japan from 2012, spokesman Katsutoshi Yokoi said in
September.  Toyota spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  declined to comment
on China’s latest move today, saying the company already was
exploring alternative sources of rare earth.  The price of neodymium oxide, used in magnets in
BlackBerrys, has surged more than fourfold to $88.5 a
kilogram from $19.12 in 2009 because of rising demand and
reduced supply from China, according to Sydney-based Lynas
Corp., which is building a A$550 million ($542 million) rare
earths mine in Western Australia.  Demand growth for neodymium and dysprosium may be 15 to
20 percent per annum, Damien Krebs, a metallurgy manager at
Australia’s Greenland Minerals and Energy Ltd., said in an
interview on Nov. 10. Neodymium is also used in mini hard
drives in laptops and headphones in Apple’s iPod.  ‘Guide’ Industry  China is close to establishing an association that will
work under government oversight to “guide” the domestic
rare earths industry, Wang Caifeng, a member of the committee
overseeing the group’s formation, said at a conference in
Beijing today.  The China Association for Rare Earth will be organized
under the authority of the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology and include the biggest 93 domestic
producers of the minerals, Wang said.  Output and export of rare earths from China have been
reduced because some of the companies mining the minerals
were causing “severe” environmental damage and had to be
closed, Wang said.  “Excessive mining in southern provinces is still severe
and it severely damages the environment. That’s why China is
controlling mining, and naturally output and export will be
reduced,” Wang said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 