-- U.S. Economy: Confidence Falls on Concern Over Jobs
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-28T21:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-unexpectedly-falls-on-outlook-for-job-market.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly fell in December, restrained by concern that jobs
will remain scarce in 2011.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  unexpectedly fell
to 52.5, lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the New York-based
research group showed today. Another report showed home values
dropped more than economists projected.  The loss of confidence is at odds with a report from the
University of Michigan that showed sentiment improved to a six-
month high in December, and with data showing holiday spending
posted the biggest gain in five years. Federal Reserve policy
makers this month said “depressed” housing and high
unemployment remained constraints on consumer spending,
supporting their plans to expand record monetary stimulus.  “We should watch what consumers do and not what they
say,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities Inc. in
Stamford, Connecticut. “If you looked at the confidence data
you wouldn’t have looked for the pace of spending to accelerate
as much as it has. Consumers are still very cautious and very
nervous about where the labor market is headed.”  Stocks rose, led by rising shares of commodity producers as
energy and metal prices climbed. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index 
increased 0.1 percent to 1,258.51 at the 4 p.m. close in New
York. Treasury securities fell, pushing the yield in the
benchmark 10-year note up to 3.49 percent from 3.33 percent late
yesterday.  Rising Sales  Retailers’ 2010 holiday sales jumped 5.5 percent for the
best performance since 2005, said MasterCard Advisors’
SpendingPulse, which measures retail sales by all payment forms.
That compared with a 4.1 percent gain a year earlier. The
numbers include Internet sales and exclude automobile purchases.  The median  forecast  for confidence, based on a survey of 61
economists, projected confidence would increase to 56.3. The
Conference Board revised the November figure to 54.3 from a
previous estimate of 54.1. Projections ranged from 53 to 60. The
index averaged 96.8 during the last economic expansion that
ended in December 2007.  Today’s report stands in contrast to preliminary figures
from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan which showed
 sentiment  climbed this month as the share of Americans citing an
improvement in current conditions climbed to the highest level
since January 2008.  Drop ‘Surprising’  “The fact confidence moved lower is a bit surprising given
the other data we have observed for the month,” said  Dean Maki ,
chief U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.
“Month-to-month changes in confidence are not well correlated
with those in spending. Reports from retailers as well as data
on spending have been upbeat. We would give those more weight.”  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index of property values fell 0.8
percent in October from the same month in 2009, the biggest
year-over-year decline since December of last year, the group
said today. The decrease exceeded the 0.2 percent drop projected
by the median forecast of economists surveyed.  “Despite the fact that housing will remain at pretty low
levels through next year, economic growth in general will be
fairly robust,” Maki said on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Pulse” with Pimm Fox. Maki said he expected growth in a range
of 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year.  Home Values  The home-price gauge fell 1 percent in October from the
prior month after adjusting for seasonal variations, matching
September’s drop which was larger than previously estimated.  Eighteen of 20 cities showed a decrease in prices in
October, led by a 2.1 percent drop in Atlanta, and decreases of
1.8 percent each in Chicago and Minneapolis. Denver and
Washington were the only two that posted gains.  Six markets, including Atlanta, Charlotte, Miami, Seattle,
Tampa and Portland, Oregon, reached their lowest levels in
October since prices started to retreat in 2006.  “The double-dip is almost here,” said  David Blitzer ,
chairman of the index committee at S&P. Sales aren’t “giving
any sense of optimism.”  According to the Conference Board, the share of consumers
who said jobs are  hard to get  increased to the highest level
since February.  Those expecting more jobs to become available in the next
six months reached the lowest level since July, while the
proportion who expected their incomes to rise over the next six
months also fell.  Jobs Gains  Employers added 951,000 workers to payrolls in the first 11
months of the year, according to figures from the Labor
Department. December data are due Jan. 7.  The gains haven’t been large enough to reduce unemployment,
which was at 9.8 percent last month after finishing 2009 at 10
percent.  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 17 signed into law an $858
billion bill that extends for two years Bush-era tax cuts for
all income levels, continues expanded jobless insurance benefits
to the long-term unemployed for 13 months and reduces payroll
taxes during 2011.  Some Americans are more willing to make big-ticket
purchases. Car sales in November rose to a 12.26 million unit
pace, the highest since the government’s cash-for-clunkers
program in August 2009, industry data showed this month. Demand
over the past three months is the strongest in two years.  “We have a high degree of confidence that 2011 is going to
be a stronger sales year,”  George Pipas ,  Ford Motor Co. ’s sales
analyst, said in a Dec. 20 briefing with reporters in Dearborn,
Michigan, where the company is based. “We’re a whole lot better
off than we were a year ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  