-- Crude Oil Trades Near Two-Year High on Speculation U.S. Inventories Shrank
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-12-28T13:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/crude-oil-trades-near-two-year-high-on-speculation-u-s-inventories-shrank.html
Crude traded near a two-year high in
New York on speculation that cold weather in the U.S. and Europe
will boost demand in industrialized nations.  New York, the biggest city in the world’s largest oil
consumer, suffered the heaviest December snows in six decades as
storms spread across the eastern U.S. Oil fell yesterday after
China raised benchmark lending and deposit rates.  “Oil is more or less balanced between positive data from
cold weather in Europe and the U.S., and negative data from
China’s latest interest rate hike,” said  Daniel Briesemann , a
commodities analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “I don’t
expect a big move in one or the other direction this week as
volumes are very low. When traders return in the New Year, we’ll
get a better picture of the price direction.”  Crude for February delivery was at $91.20 a barrel, up 20
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:18 p.m. London time, after rising as high as $91.44. Brent
crude for February settlement rose as much as 30 cents to $94.15
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The New York contract lost 51 cents yesterday after rising
to $91.88, the highest since Oct. 7, 2008, as China’s second
interest-rate increase this quarter bolstered concern that
growth will slow in the biggest energy-consuming country.  Winter Weather  Winds on the U.S. east coast may “quickly” cover roads
with snow, even though storms have ended, according to a winter
weather advisory from the National Weather Service late
yesterday. The wind-chill factor pushed temperatures in New York
City’s Central Park to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 7 Celsius)
at 7:51 a.m. local time, according to data on its website.  Oil also retraced some of yesterday’s 0.6 percent drop
before an Energy Department report forecast to show U.S.
 inventories  shrank for a fourth week, the longest stretch of
declines in a year. The dollar fell for a fourth day, bolstering
the investment appeal of commodities.  U.S. oil stockpiles probably decreased 3 million barrels
from 340.7 million in the week ended Dec. 24, according to the
median  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Supplies have fallen this month by 19 million barrels, or 5.3
percent, the most since December 2006.  The Energy Department will release its weekly report at 11
a.m. in Washington on Dec. 30, a day later than usual because of
Christmas. The American Petroleum Institute, which collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis, will release its
weekly report tomorrow, also a day later than usual.  “We are looking ahead to this week’s reports to get a
picture of the relative supply and demand factors as they exist
here at the end of 2010,”  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron
Hanover Inc., an energy adviser in New Canaan, Connecticut, said
in a note today. “If nothing else, they may tell us more about
the economy.”  Oil, which rallied 78 percent in 2009, has risen 15 percent
this year as signs of a global economic recovery bolstered
optimism fuel demand will grow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in London at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  