-- Dai-Ichi Life to Buy Remaining Stake in Tower Australia for $1.2 Billion
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-12-28T07:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/dai-ichi-life-to-buy-remaining-stake-in-tower-australia-for-1-2-billion.html
Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. , Japan’s
second-biggest life insurer, agreed to buy a full stake of  Tower
Australia Group Ltd.  for A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion), its
biggest overseas acquisition.  Dai-ichi Life, which owns 29 percent of Tower Australia,
will buy the remaining shares in the first half of next year,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. The
transaction is expected to close in May.  The Japanese insurer sold shares to the public in April to
fill its war chest for acquisitions as the economy is forecast
to slow to 1.5 percent next year and the  population ages  faster
than other developed nations. Australian workers will increase
pension savings to A$6.1 trillion by 2035, from A$1.1 trillion
in July, according the government.  “It is vital for insurers to move and conduct business
overseas,” said  Winston Barnes , head of sales and trading for
Asian markets at WJB Capital Group Inc. in San Francisco. “It
is hard to judge whether this is a wise use of their capital at
present, for investors will have to wait years to potentially
realize a possible return on investment.”  Dai-ichi Life  rose 2.1 percent to 133,600 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of Tokyo trading. The shares have fallen 18 percent since
listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Tower Australia  slid 1.1
percent to A$2.73 in Sydney at the close of trading on Dec. 24.  Price Premium  The acquisition represents a 46.5 percent premium over
Sydney-based Tower Australia’s share price before the
announcement, Dai-ichi Life said. It said it plans to acquire
stock options held by managers at Tower for about A$70 million.  Tower trades at 1.3 times its  book value , the second lowest
among six Australian insurers  tracked  by Bloomberg. Dai-ichi’s
offer of A$4.00 a share values the stock at 1.95 times, higher
than the 1.8 multiple for the six companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tower confirmed that Dai-ichi made the offer and its
directors met to consider it,  Ian Smith , a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Dai-ichi has enjoyed an excellent relationship with Tower
since investing in 2008 and has demonstrated strong support in
management and staff,” said Smith, a partner at Adelaide-based
Bespoke Approach, a firm that advises Tower.  Retirement Incentives  The Australian government is increasing incentives for
people to save for retirement, this month moving to cut pension
fees by A$2.7 billion. The MySuper plan may reduce fees savers
pay to asset managers by 40 percent, helping the average worker
retire with an extra A$40,000, according a government-
commissioned study.  In November, Tower Australia said full-year net income rose
88 percent to A$87.4 million.  “The life insurance market in Australia has shown steady
growth, reflecting favorable economic conditions,” Dai-ichi
said in the statement, adding that it “especially sees growth
opportunities in the risk insurance market.”  The insurer, established in 1902, purchased about 30
percent of Tower Australia from Guinness Peat Group Plc for 37.6
billion yen ($456 million) in 2008. The Japanese company also
has operations in Vietnam, India and Thailand.  Japan’s life insurers are struggling for new customers
after the first global recession since World War II. One in five
 Japanese citizens  is over 65 years old. Only 13 percent are
under 15, according to government statistics.  ‘Continue to Shrink’  The nation’s economy will grow 1.4 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. That compares with growth of 9 percent projected
for China and 2.6 percent in the U.S., the estimates show.  Last month, Dai-ichi Life said first-half  net income  fell
42 percent to 29.4 billion yen from a year ago as premium income
and the value of investments declined. Premium income fell 15
percent to 1.67 trillion yen.  “It’s a positive growth scenario for a life insurer to go
overseas as the Japanese market will continue to shrink due to
the dwindling birthrate and aging population,” said  Hidemasa Mizumoto , an analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“The acquisition will spur Dai-ichi Life to accelerate its
overseas acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  