-- Death Toll From Christmas Eve Blasts in Nigerian City of Jos Rises to 80
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-28T08:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/death-toll-from-christmas-eve-blasts-in-nigerian-city-of-jos-rises-to-80.html
Nigeria’s  National Emergency
Management Agency  said 80 people have been confirmed dead from
Christmas Eve blasts in the central city of Jos.  “The death toll has increased to 80 as at yesterday,”
Yushau Shuaib, a spokesman for the agency known as NEMA, said
today by phone from Abuja, the capital. “For this figure we’re
relying on bodies we’ve counted.”  Multiple bomb attacks were carried out by unknown
assailants in the city on Dec. 24 targeting public places,
including a Catholic church. Police initially said at least 32
people were killed in the blasts.  Sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims in Jos,
the capital of Plateau state, has left hundreds of people dead
this year. At least 492 people were killed in an attack on a
predominantly Christian village by Muslim Fulani herders near
Jos on March 7 this year, said Civil Rights Congress, a local
rights group.  Jos, the capital of Plateau state, falls in the middle of
Africa’s most populous country of more than 140 million people,
roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly
Christian south. At least 14,000 people have died in ethnic and
religious violence since 1999 in Nigeria, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  Task Force Deployed  The Christmas Eve attacks sparked reprisal violence by
rival gangs of youths targeting perceived enemies and burning
buildings, prompting additional police and military
reinforcements to the city. At least four people were killed and
20 houses burnt in different parts of the city, Abdulrahman
Akano, the police commissioner in charge of the city told
reporters yesterday.  A special military task force deployed to help quell the
violence yesterday arrested three men who were trying to attack
buildings with dynamite in the Dogon-Karfe district of the city,
Captain Charles Okocha, a military spokesman, told reporters
yesterday.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 