-- Dollar Weakens Against Commodity Currencies Amid Slow U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-28T22:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/dollar-falls-versus-euro-on-concern-data-to-show-u-s-housing-remains-weak.html
The dollar weakened versus its
counterparts in Australia, New Zealand and Canada, as rising
commodity prices boosted demand for currencies linked to raw
materials exports.  The U.S. currency reached a six-week low against the yen as
U.S. economic reports indicated weaker-than-forecast growth,
bolstering the Federal Reserve’s plan to keep U.S. interest
rates low. The Canadian dollar reached parity with the greenback
for the first time since Nov. 11. The Swiss franc strengthened
to a record against the dollar as investors demand an
alternative to the euro amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “With commodity prices rising, some people think the worst
is behind for New Zealand,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research with online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “The reason why we’re seeing such strength in the
commodity currencies is because commodities are doing quite
well.”  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to $1.0100 per Australian
dollar at 5:02 p.m. in New York, from $1.0046 yesterday. It
declined 0.7 percent to 75.55 cents per New Zealand dollar and
weakened 0.6 percent to C$1.0010. The Canadian dollar touched
99.76 Canadian cents, the strongest since April 26.  Euro, Yen  The dollar gained 0.4 percent to $1.3115 per euro after
earlier touching $1.3275, the weakest level since Dec. 17. The
U.S. currency declined as much as 1.2 percent to 81.82 yen, the
lowest level since Nov. 12.  The Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials rose 0.7
percent. Gold futures for February delivery gained $22.70, or
1.6 percent, to $1,405.60 on the Comex in New York.  The euro erased gains against the dollar after the European
Central Bank said it failed to fully neutralize the extra
liquidity created by its bond purchases for a second time since
the program began in May.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it drained 61.78 billion euros
($81 billion) from money markets via seven-day term deposits,
almost 13 billion euros less than the 73.5 billion euros it
intended to absorb.  ECB Sterilization  “If they’re not fully sterilizing, it’s true quantitative
easing, which is bad news for the euro,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in New York.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 0.8
percent from October 2009, the biggest year-over-year decline
since December 2009, the group said today in New York. The
decrease exceeded the 0.2 percent drop projected by the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumer  confidence  fell in December to 52.5, lower than
the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Confidence Board showed today.  While figures showed U.S. property  values  fell, reports
during the next three days will reveal an improvement in
employment, according to Bloomberg News surveys of analysts.  Figures Dec. 30 will show initial jobless claims declined
and pending home sales advanced, the surveys forecast.  “The economic fundamental story in the U.S. is positive
and moving in a positive direction,” said  Mark McCormick , a
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York.  Tax Plan  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 17 signed into law an $858
billion tax-cut bill.  The Fed reiterated this month its commitment to keep
borrowing costs low for an “extended period,” holding the
target rate for overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25
percent, where it has been since December 2008. The Fed said
last month it will buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June
to boost the economy, a policy that has been dubbed QE2 for a
second round of quantitative easing.  An increase in futures traders’ bets that the Swiss franc
will strengthen against the dollar shows investors are concerned
that Europe’s debt crisis may deepen, according to UBS AG.  The Swiss franc appreciated as much as 1.8 percent against
the dollar to a record 94.35 centimes. It strengthened 1.2
percent to 1.2489 against the euro, almost its record high of
1.2439.  Franc Record  The franc reached a record against the single currency last
week as investors sought safety from Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. Swiss National Bank President  Philipp Hildebrand , who
ended 15 months of intervening in foreign-exchange markets this
year, may prove powerless to stop the currency from extending a
record rally that he calls a “burden.”  “The Swiss franc continues to advance and the Japanese yen
is also stronger,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “We’re seeing some
of the safe-haven currencies doing OK and the euro losing
value.”  The euro has dropped 10.8 percent so far this year, the
biggest loss among the 10 developed nations measured in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
lost 1.6 percent and the yen has added 12.5 percent.  The euro has added 1 percent versus the dollar this month
and the yen has climbed 1.6 percent.  South Africa’s rand was the second-best performer versus
the dollar among the most-traded currencies as rising prices for
precious metals lured investors.  The rand gained 0.9 percent to 6.6769 per dollar and
touched 6.6443, the strongest level since December 2007. Gold,
which along with platinum accounts for about a fifth of South
Africa’s exports, advanced for a third day.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said in a news
conference in Tokyo today he will take bold actions if necessary
in the currency market, calling the yen’s recent moves one-
sided. Noda also said he will keep closely watching markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  