-- Hedge Funds Crash, Apple Becomes Uncool in 2011: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-12-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/hedge-funds-crash-apple-turns-uncool-in-2011-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
There is an old joke that
economists only make predictions so that the weather guys
have someone to laugh at. In much the same spirit, once a
year this column also makes some predictions -- but only so
the economists have something to giggle over.  With that caveat in mind, here are 10 things that
might (or as likely not) happen in 2011:  No. 1. The bull market returns. Actually we’ve already
been in a bull market for more than a year. Just take a
look at the figures. But in the early stages of a rising
equity cycle, no one says it’s a bull market. First they
call it a dead-cat bounce. Then they call it a bear-market
rally. By the end of 2011, the penny will have dropped.
We’ll be officially back in bull territory. By the close of
the year, everyone will have started piling back into
equities again.  No. 2. The alternative-investment industry crashes.
The main driver of hedge funds and private-equity funds was
the search for yield. With stock markets in the doldrums,
interest rates cut to almost nothing, and bond yields at
record lows, investors were desperate for any kind of
meaningful return on their money. They were willing to
listen to slick hedge-fund managers who promised to make 30
percent a year on high velocity yak-hide arbitrage. Next
year, interest rates will be rising, and so will bond yield
and equity returns. Why bother paying a fortune to hedge-
and private-equity fund managers, few of whom deliver on
their promises, when you can get pretty decent returns from
mainstream investments?  No. 3. Venture capital returns. The start-up industry
took a terrible beating from the  dot-com crash . But as a
rough rule, a decade is long enough for the financial
markets to forget everything. There are fantastic
opportunities out there. Smartphone apps. Social
networking. Alternative energy. Africa. The markets always
have space for some blue-sky optimists -- and 2011 will be
the year that venture capitalists fill that slot again.  No. 4. France gets smoked out in the euro crisis.
Somehow France has managed to get itself grouped along with
Germany as one of the strong euro nations. But it runs a
bigger budget deficit than Italy. It has chronic
unemployment and little growth. Crucially, it has the
greatest resistance to reform. The merest suggestion of
extending working hours, or retirement ages, or reforming
public services, prompts massive demonstrations. It can’t
last. Next year will be when France wallows with Ireland,
Greece, Portugal and Spain.  No. 5. The  Apple Inc.  backlash starts. We used to
think International Business Machines Corp. was sort of
sinister. Then it was Microsoft Corp. But which business
today has far too much power, is run by control freaks and
puts profits before principles? That’s right. The world’s
third-biggest company, measured by market value, is about
to discover that the line between cool upstart and ugly
monopolist is a very thin one.  No. 6. The German model is back in fashion. The words
German and fashion go together about as well as Greece and
solvent. But in a world trying to figure out how you get
out of a debt crisis, the Rhineland model of capitalism is
suddenly going to seem very appealing. Lots of mid-size
companies, with huge technical expertise, low debt and
skilled workforces exporting niche products to the whole
world -- that sounds like a pretty good formula for success
in the 2010s. By the end of 2011, expect every chief
executive on the planet to start talking earnestly about
how they are looking to a German management model as their
guide.  No. 7.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  gets broken up. The
hastily assembled merger between two of Britain’s largest
banks, Lloyds and HBOS Plc, increasingly looks like one of
the more catastrophic decisions made during the height of
the credit crunch. It is too powerful. This will be the
year it gets split apart.  No. 8. Iceland teaches the world a lesson. Two years
ago, every government in the world bought into the idea
that you had to bail out your banks. If they collapsed, you
would go straight back to the Stone Age. One country defied
the consensus. Iceland couldn’t afford to keep its banks
going. What happened? There’s been pain, sure, but from
next year on the economy should be growing again, inflation
is under control and interest rates are coming down. If
Iceland keeps recovering, only one conclusion is possible:
You don’t need to bail out banks after all.  No. 9. Russia puts the R back in BRIC. We’ve heard a
lot about the rising economic power of Brazil, India and
China. A lot less has been heard about the R in the BRICs -
- Russia. It tends to get dismissed as a raw materials
supplier with an authoritarian government. But it’s trying
to recreate itself as a technology powerhouse -- look at
the plans to create a new Silicon Valley in the Moscow
suburb of Skolkovo. Crazy? Remember, this was the first
country to put a  man into space . Russia has always been
scientifically advanced. If it can bring its brains and
businessmen together, it could yet outshine the B, I and C
in the acronym.  No. 10. A backlash against Christmas e-cards. Do I
really need festive greetings from a small bank in Latvia
I’ve never spoken to? Is that Austrian management
consulting firm sincere in wishing me the best for the
holiday season? I doubt it. Listen up guys. It’s not
thoughtful. It’s not touching. It’s spam. Frankly, I’d
rather get another e-mail from that friendly Ukrainian
company that supplies Viagra without a prescription. By
Christmas 2011, sending out e-cards will be socially
unacceptable -- and not too soon.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the
author of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to
send a letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  