-- England Needs Four Wickets to Retain Ashes After Australia Slumps to 169-6
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-28T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/england-needs-four-wickets-to-retain-ashes-after-australia-slumps-to-169-6.html
England enters day four of the
fourth cricket Test in Melbourne needing to remove Australia’s
tail-end batsmen to retain the Ashes with a match to spare.  Ashes rookie  Tim Bresnan  took three wickets and  Graeme Swann  and  James Anderson  each claimed one yesterday as England
reduced Australia to 169-6 in its second innings after amassing
513 in reply to the home team’s first-innings 98.  “We’ve done a lot of hard work, hopefully we’ll do the
rest and wrap up this win,” Bresnan said in news conference
comments broadcast on Fox Sports.  England leads by 246 runs after removing Australia’s top-
six batsmen and has two days left to force a victory at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground that would put it 2-1 up in the best-
of-five contest with one match left. As Ashes holder, England
would keep the trophy by tying the series.  An English team last retained the Ashes in 1986-87, when
Mike Gatting’s squad sealed a 2-1 win in Australia.  “To be in the position that we are after our poor
performance in this whole game, it is very shattering,” said
Australia all-rounder Shane Watson, who top scored with 54.  Touring batsman  Jonathan Trott  earlier finished unbeaten on
168 as England established a 415-run lead, an Ashes  record
margin  for a team batting second in the first innings.  Batting Slump  Australia had reached 95-1 at the tea break after opener
 Phillip Hughes  was run out chasing a quick single. The home team
then lost four batsmen for 35 runs to slump to 134-5.  Watson added four runs to his half-century after the
interval before becoming the first of Bresnan’s three scalps
when he was given out leg-before-wicket without offering a shot.  Bresnan, playing in his first Ashes Test after replacing
Steven Finn in the England attack, then got  Ricky Ponting  on 20
when the Australian captain played onto his stumps. Ponting has
now scored just 113 runs in the series at an average of 16.14.  Mike Hussey , Australia’s leading scorer in the series with
525 runs, lasted seven balls before Bresnan had him caught by
 Ian Bell  at short cover without scoring.  Spin bowler Swann snared his first wicket of the innings
when  Michael Clarke , on 13, edged to  Andrew Strauss  at second
slip. Steve Smith’s resistance ended on 38 when he bottom-edged
a delivery from James Anderson onto his stumps.  Brad Haddin  was 11 not out, with  Mitchell Johnson  on 6 as
Australia faces its second innings defeat of the series.  Harris Injured  England may need just three wickets tomorrow to clinch the
win after Australia fast bowler Ryan Harris was diagnosed with a
stress fracture to his left ankle after breaking down in his run
up yesterday. It’s not clear if Harris will bat.  Trott earlier batted through morning session as England
added 69 runs to its overnight total of 444-5. Australia fast
bowler  Peter Siddle  removed Prior, Bresnan and Anderson to
finish with 6-75, while  Ben Hilfenhaus  took the wickets of Swann
and  Chris Tremlett .  Trott was at the crease for 468 minutes, faced 345 balls
and struck 14 boundaries in his unbeaten innings, his third
highest score in elite Tests. England’s total was the third time
it had amassed 500 runs or more in the current series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  