-- Genius Awaits Twitter Junkies, Brooklynites, Londoners: Books
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/eureka-genius-awaits-twitter-fiends-brooklynites-londoners-book-review.html
A stroke of genius is rarely a bolt
from the blue, it turns out. More often than not, it’s a
byproduct of one’s surroundings, says  Steven Johnson  in his
latest counterintuitive book, “Where Good Ideas Come From.”  “Some environments squelch new ideas; some environments
seem to breed them effortlessly,” he writes in this jaunt
through what the subtitle calls “the natural history of
innovation.”  Johnson is the author and blogger who brought us the 2005
best-seller “Everything Bad Is Good for You.” This time
around, he uses a series of vignettes -- from Gutenberg’s
printing press to Twitter -- to show that certain physical and
intellectual surroundings are particularly conducive to the
cultivation and dissemination of influential ideas. His message:
Society can do a better job of fostering innovation.  One key ingredient is the city. Johnson, who lives in
Brooklyn, says that inhabiting a metropolis maximizes your
exposure to ideas.  For centuries, densely populated areas have been breeding
grounds for innovation, because that’s where ideas clash and
great thinkers find their peers, he says. Consider the towns of
Northern Italy that brought us the Renaissance. Or the Vienna
coffeehouses where  Sigmund Freud  developed his psychoanalytic
theories.  “As cities get bigger, they generate ideas at a faster
clip,” he writes, echoing an argument familiar from  Richard Florida ’s 2002 best-seller, “The Rise of the Creative Class.”  Virtual City  While this may sound discouraging to rural readers, the
idea factory is just a mouse click away: The Internet, in
Johnson’s eyes, is a virtual city.  Groundbreaking insights often come to fruition through one
or a combination of the following: a hunch, an unwitting
mistake, serendipity or exposure to other ideas, Johnson says.
All of those can occur on the Web.  Newcomers to Johnson’s work may recognize similarities in
substance and tone to the writings of  Malcolm Gladwell , who’s
cited more than once in this book. Like Gladwell, Johnson
describes scientific concepts in terms palatable to those who
haven’t stepped foot in a lab since high school.  Johnson is determined to dispel the myth that most good
ideas flow from eureka moments. Though he doesn’t discount
serendipity, he uses dozens of examples to show that previous
innovations breed new innovations.  Thin Air  “Good ideas are not conjured out of thin air; they are
built out of a collection of existing parts, the composition of
which expands (and, occasionally, contracts) over time,” he
says.  When  Joseph Priestley  and Carl Wilhelm Scheele isolated
oxygen in the 18th century, for example, their discovery
depended on novel scales that could measure miniscule changes
caused by oxidation, Johnson writes.  The key to unlocking innovation, in his view, is to create
open networks where people share and share alike. Though he’s
not advocating the abolition of intellectual-property rights,
Johnson says laws should be tweaked to allow for more openness.  “When you don’t have to ask for permission, innovation
thrives,” he writes. (Never mind that his own publisher states
that “no part of this book may be reproduced, scanned or
distributed in any printed or electronic form without
permission.”)  From Darwin to Jazz  By the end, after remarking on the scientific discoveries
of  Charles Darwin  and the musical genius of  Miles Davis , Johnson
concludes that some segments of society are better equipped than
others for harvesting ideas. While private enterprise has had a
good run, Johnson argues, the public sector is poised to emerge
as the next venue for innovation.  His advice isn’t just for policy makers and academics.
Johnson wants everyone to recognize that even relatively small
lifestyle changes can increase our exposure to new ideas.  “This can be as simple as changing the physical
environment you work in, or cultivating a specific kind of
social network, or maintaining certain habits in the way you
seek out and store information.”  That sounds somewhat less daunting than most New Year’s
resolutions.  “Where Good Ideas Come From” is published by  Riverhead  in
the U.S. and by  Allen Lane  in the U.K. (326 pages, $26.95, 20
pounds).  ( Timothy R. Homan  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net . 