-- European Stocks Gain Amid Low Volumes; Alcatel-Lucent Increases
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-28T16:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-asian-shares-rise.html
European stocks rebounded from the
biggest decline in a month, while trading volumes stayed close
to the lowest levels of the year.  Alcatel-Lucent SA advanced 1.9 percent after it resolved
U.S. criminal and civil probes into allegations of bribes.
Randstad Holding NV rose as Dutch temporary staffing revenue
increased. Roth & Rau sank 11 percent after saying it will be
unable to meet its sales and earnings forecasts for 2010.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.2 percent to
279.79 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, paring yesterday’s
0.8 percent fall. With U.K. and Irish markets remaining closed
for the Christmas holiday, about 432 million shares of companies
in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index changed hands, compared with the
daily average volume for the year of 1.38 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It will be quite random this week with low volumes and
not many people around,” said  Thomas Stucki , chief investment
officer at Hyposwiss Privatbank AG in Zurich. “We will be quite
strong in the first week or two weeks of January then the rally
will lose steam quickly.”  The Stoxx 600, which last week capped its longest stretch
of weekly gains since April, has jumped 10 percent this year as
better-than-estimated U.S. data bolstered confidence in the
economic recovery. The rally last week wiped out losses for the
benchmark gauge since the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008.  National benchmark indexes rose in seven out of 16 western
European markets that were open. France’s CAC 40 slipped 0.1
percent, while Germany’s DAX and Switzerland’s SMI Index were
little changed, rising less than 0.1 percent.  U.S. Confidence  Stocks pared some gains after a report showed confidence
among U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in December. The
Conference Board’s confidence index fell to 52.5 this month,
lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Separate figures showed American home prices
dropped more than predicted in October.
      Alcatel-Lucent  increased 1.9 percent to 2.21 euros in Paris
after agreeing to pay $137 million over allegations the company
paid bribes in Costa Rica, Taiwan and Kenya.  U.S. prosecutors yesterday charged Alcatel with violating
the internal controls and books and records provisions of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Justice Department will defer
prosecution and drop the case after three years if the company
improves its compliance program as promised.  Temporary Staffing  Randstad , the world’s second-largest staffing company, rose
0.7 percent to 39.11 euros. Dutch temporary staffing revenue
rose 12 percent in the weeks 45 through 48 from the year-earlier
period, Dutch temporary staffing association ABU said on its
website today.  Roth & Rau AG  plummeted 11 percent to 12.25 euros after the
German maker of solar-cell production equipment said it will be
unable to meet its sales and earnings forecasts for 2010, citing
writedowns of about 12.5 million euros.  The company on Nov. 10 cut its full-year forecast after
reporting a 77 percent drop in nine-month earnings.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  dropped 1.6 percent to 58.25
euros, the worst performance among automobile stocks in Europe.
The shares extended yesterday’s slump, the biggest since
Aprsxxpil 2009, amid ongoing concern the carmaker’s sales in
China will slow.  Tenaris  retreated 0.9 percent to 18.38 euros after Exane
lowered its recommendation for the world’s biggest maker of
seamless steel tubes for oil and gas extraction to “neutral”
from “outperform,” citing the stock’s recent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 