-- For-Profit College Slump Converging With Student Life-Debtors
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-12-28T21:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/for-profit-college-slump-converging-with-student-life-debtors.html
Ronnie Franklin borrowed to pay his
tuition at a for-profit college that advertised its success in
preparing graduates for better jobs. That decision haunts him.  Frustrated that his degree didn’t lead to work in
electronics, Franklin -- now a $12-an-hour housepainter --
decided to go to a community college this year. He can’t qualify
for a federal grant that would have paid the cost because he
defaulted on $20,000 of his earlier U.S. student loans.  Debt from a for-profit college education also shadows
Christina Bergschneider and Michael DiGiacomo. Landlords
rejected Bergschneider’s apartment applications more than 20
times because of her unpaid student loans. DiGiacomo, who works
in a copy shop, forfeits 15 percent of his after-tax income when
the  U.S. Education Department  garnishees his paycheck to collect
on $30,000 in federal loans for two different for-profits.  Students seeking to move up in life by getting a degree
from a for-profit college are being trapped in a growing
underclass of education debtors. Under U.S. law, their loan
obligations can rarely be discharged in bankruptcy, making them
more onerous than credit-card debt or subprime mortgages taken
out before the housing bubble burst. Along with blocking
students from further education and access to housing, defaults
can subject them to government confiscation of tax refunds and
 Social Security  payments, as well as paychecks.  “I’m cornered, and I don’t know what to do,” DiGiacomo, a
30-year-old former U.S. Army supply and logistics specialist,
said in an interview. “I would love to forget I ever went to
those two schools and start from scratch.”  Taxpayer Money  Students at for-profit colleges, which rely on federal
financial-aid programs for as much as 90 percent of revenue,
carry the biggest loans in U.S. higher education. Bachelor’s
degree recipients at for-profits have median debt of $31,190
compared with $17,040 at private, nonprofit institutions and
$7,960 at public colleges, according to  Education Trust , a
Washington-based nonprofit research and student-advocacy
organization.  While currently enrolling one in eight U.S. students, for-
profit colleges account for almost one in two federal-loan
defaults, according to data released Sept. 13 by the Education
Department.  “These students have debt loads that leave them out of the
running for a productive life in America,” Jose Cruz, a vice
president of Education Trust, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a dead end.”  Piling Up Debt  With the U.S.  unemployment  rate at 9.8 percent, many
college graduates, from traditional universities as well as for-
profit colleges, aren’t finding jobs and are piling up debt.
Thirty-four million borrowers owe $713 billion, not including
interest, in federal student loans, 11 times the amount of two
decades ago, according to the Education Department. A total of
$50 billion in these loans was in default in the year ended
Sept. 30, twice the sum five years earlier.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration wants to curb
rising default rates and the threat of student destitution by
cutting off federal funds to for-profit college programs whose
students have the worst loan-repayment rates and lowest incomes
relative to debt. Representative  John Kline , the Minnesota
Republican who will lead the House education committee beginning
in January, pledged this month to block the plan, known as
“gainful employment,” saying the measures don’t reflect an
accurate picture of the quality of for-profit education.  Apollo Shares  Shares of University of Phoenix parent  Apollo Group Inc. ,
the largest for-profit college chain by enrollment, rose  as high
as  $97.93 in June 2004, as President  George W. Bush ’s
administration eased regulations that resulted in more federal
financial aid flowing into the industry. Apollo shares traded at
$89.22 in January 2009 and have since  declined  by more than 50
percent as the Obama administration proposes more regulation and
investors question the business model of the industry.  An  index  of 13 publicly traded for-profit education stocks
fell 26 percent this year through today, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 index has increased about 13 percent.  Investors are giving some of the lowest valuations to
companies with above-average default rates such as Corinthian
Colleges Inc., according to  Jarrel Price , an analyst with Height
Analytics in Washington. Shares of Santa Ana, California-based
Corinthian fell 6 cents, or 1.3 percent, today to $4.62 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading at 4 p.m. and have
declined 66 percent this year.  Assessing Value  Wally Weitz , founder of Omaha-based Weitz Funds, which
manages $3.5 billion, said he is undecided about the value of
the education provided by for-profit colleges.  “The pressure to make the numbers and so on maybe means
you make too many loans to student who can’t pay them back and
admit students less likely to succeed,” said Weitz, whose firm
owned 874,250  shares  of Phoenix-based Apollo at the end of the
third quarter. His funds bought the shares, a small holding,
because of their depressed valuation, Weitz said in a telephone
interview.  For-profit colleges have higher student-loan default rates
because they serve lower-income students, minorities, immigrants
and working adults,  Harris Miller , president of the Association
of Private Sector Colleges & Universities, a Washington-based
trade group, said in a telephone interview.  Culling Students  The colleges have taken steps to cull students who can’t
succeed, a move that will lower defaults, Miller said.  The University of Phoenix began an orientation program
designed to lower dropout and default rates.  Washington Post
Co. ’s Kaplan Higher Education, the third-biggest chain,
announced a program to let prospects enroll for a trial period
and opt out without owing tuition.  “Higher education is a hugely beneficial investment that
pays off with a lifetime of higher earnings,” Miller said.
“Most Americans are willing to take some risk with a student
loan, knowing the payoff for them individually can be quite
significant.”  Taking a loan didn’t pay off for Franklin.  The son of a nurse’s assistant and a sheriff’s deputy who
didn’t attend college, Franklin dropped out of high school and
spent two decades as a shoplifter and heroin addict, he said.
After kicking his drug habit, he decided to turn his life around
through education, he said.  He heard about  RETS Technical Center  in Boston from a
television advertisement.  He remembers a message that he paraphrases as: “Are you
tired of dead-end jobs with no real future?”  No Preparation  After graduating in 2000 from the 18-month electronics
program, Franklin found himself unprepared for jobs in the
field, he said. Classmates are now working as janitors, security
guards and bus drivers, he said. Of RETS students who were
required to start making payments in 2001, 23 percent defaulted
on their loans within two years, quadruple the national average
for all colleges.  Besides defaulting on $20,000 in student loans and ending
up as a $12-an-hour painter, Franklin stayed with his two sons
in a homeless shelter last year, he said.  Deciding he should study electronics from what he called a
“reputable” institution, Franklin contacted  Roxbury Community
College  in Boston this year, he said. Officials there told him
he can’t qualify for financial aid because, under Education
Department rules, students aren’t eligible if they are in
default on government loans, he said.  Only 14 percent of community college students take out
loans, compared with 97 percent of for-profit students seeking
an associate’s degree, according to Education Trust.  ‘Further in Debt’  “I got an outstanding student loan, and I got no job, and
I’m further and further in debt,” said Franklin, 55, who
received a notice that he may forfeit his tax refund. “It’s
basically crippling me from doing a lot of things to improve my
living condition for me and my family.”  Eighty percent of graduates from RETS Technical Center
succeeded in finding jobs related to their fields within 60 days
of graduating, Don Harris, president of RETS at the time
Franklin attended, said in an interview. The center’s default
rate reflects the socioeconomic background of students, many of
whom come from inner-city Boston, he said. Each student received
$1,800 in new equipment during the program, he said.  “Our school had a reputation as one of the best
electronics programs in the area,” Harris said.  Washington Post ’s Kaplan bought RETS in 2002, said Harris
and a Kaplan spokeswoman, Melissa Mack. Now called Kaplan Career
Institute, RETS had a 20.1 percent two-year default rate for
borrowers who started making payments in 2008, according to the
Education Department.  Low-Income Students  Kaplan students are typically lower-income working adults,
with no financial support from their families, accounting for
the institute’s default rate, along with the weak economy, Mack
said.  Once in default on student loans, people often can’t pass
the credit screenings needed to rent apartments, said Deanne
Loonin, a lawyer with the  National Consumer Law Center , a
nonprofit advocacy organization in Boston.  U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development rules
governing public housing, which is often oversubscribed, allow
agencies to take credit histories into account in considering
applications, costing student-loan debtors access to affordable
apartments, Loonin said in a telephone interview.  Bergschneider, the unsuccessful apartment hunter, has
$100,000 in government and private education loans from her 2003
bachelor’s degree in computer arts from the  Academy of Art
University , a for-profit institution in San Francisco.  Minimum-Wage Work  After graduation, she found mostly minimum-wage work as a
liquor-store clerk, a lifeguard, a maid, a waitress and a pet
sitter, she said in a telephone interview.  Unable to make the $1,000-a-month payments on the loans,
Bergschneider watched her credit score plummet to 526, on a
scale of 300 to 850, leading to her frequent rejection by
landlords, she said.  Bergschneider, 40, shared a 300-square-foot, one-bedroom
apartment with her mother, she said. They moved this year into a
two-bedroom house in Oakland, California, near an industrial
strip and an auto-body shop, she said. Bergschneider sold her
compact-disc collection to get by, and her mother sold jewelry,
including her wedding band. They use a couch left behind by a
previous tenant.  Representing herself in court, Bergschneider filed for
bankruptcy in 2008. The judge declined to discharge her $100,000
in loans.  “I’m going to be in debt until I die,” Bergschneider
said.  The Academy of Art’s official federal student-loan default
rate is 5.5 percent, below the national average for all
colleges, Lisa Cohen, an Academy spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Loan Counseling  All first-time Academy of Art students receive loan
counseling, and students are responsible for making sure they
can afford their obligations, Rebecca Delgado Rottman, vice
president of the school, said in a telephone interview.  In this economy, graduates must work to find a job,
canvassing employers, networking and attending mixers, Rottman
said.  “Hundreds of students who graduated at the time she did
are working,” Rottman said after being asked about
Bergschneider.  Collecting Payment  To collect on federal loans, the Education Department can
seize borrowers’ paychecks, tax refunds and Social Security
payments without a court order -- as much as 15 percent of a
borrower’s disposable income.  The department is currently authorized to collect tax
refunds and Social Security from 3.4 million borrowers. About
98,000 borrowers are having their wages garnisheed, the agency
said.  In part because of those powers and the laws discouraging
bankruptcy discharge, the department estimates it will collect
100 percent of the dollar value of all defaulted student loans.  DiGiacomo, the Army veteran who makes about $15 an hour as
a salesman in a copy shop, said he has first-hand knowledge of
the government’s power.  The education department is taking 15 percent of his after-
tax income to repay his $30,000 in federal loans, which he used
for two for-profit colleges, according to loan documents and pay
stubs.  Additional $50,000  DiGiacomo owes an additional $50,000 in education loans
taken from private companies, he said. He financed an
associate’s degree in graphic design from Gibbs College, owned
by  Career Education Corp. , a Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based
chain of more than 90 campuses.  DiGiacomo also did coursework toward a bachelor’s degree
from New England Institute of Art, owned by  Education Management
Corp. , the second-largest for-profit chain. His current job
requires only a high-school diploma, he said in an interview.  Most students who graduated from the same program as
DiGiacomo obtained jobs in their field of study, Jeff Leshay, a
spokesman for Career Education, said in an e-mail. “Gibbs
Boston takes the issue of job placement very seriously” and has
staff dedicated to the task, he said. Jacquelyn P. Muller, a
spokeswoman for Pittsburgh-based Education Management, declined
comment, citing federal law on student privacy.  DiGiacomo, who lives in Brockton, Massachusetts, eats
mostly ramen noodles and cold cuts rather than costlier foods
because he ends up with about $100 a month after other
necessities such as rent, he said.  ‘Feel Trapped’  “I feel trapped,” DiGiacomo said. “I feel angry. I feel
bullied.”  Congress eased the burden on debtors this year. The
legislators authorized a program that will let some borrowers,
starting in 2014, make payments based on as little as 10 percent
of their incomes -- down from 15 percent now -- over 25 years.
In some instances, obligations may then be forgiven.  In one case, a bankruptcy judge eased the debt burden on a
borrower who attended a for-profit college.  Amanda Lynne Jackson, now 27, went to Brooks College, also
owned by  Career Education . She studied graphic arts at the Long
Beach, California, campus, receiving an associate’s degree in
2005 with a 3.79 grade-point average, court records show.  After she couldn’t get a job, she enrolled in a massage-
therapy program at for-profit National Institute of Technology
in Dearborn, Michigan -- now known as Everest Institute and
owned by Corinthian.  Jackson filed for bankruptcy last year, listing $99,000 in
student loans, the majority to pay for Brooks College.
Unemployed, she lives on $725 a month, according to court
records. In her most recent position, she earned $13.24 an hour,
working in a call center for a credit union.  “I was making myself sick on a daily basis,” Jackson said
in a telephone interview. “How was I going to pay this?”  ‘Credible’ Testimony  Jackson’s testimony was “credible” that she couldn’t find
work in graphic arts because the degree from Brooks was “of
little value in securing employment,” Bankruptcy Court Judge
 Walter Shapero  wrote in his August opinion. He noted that Brooks
was the defendant in a class-action suit, alleging that students
were misled about employment prospects, salaries and the quality
of career services.  Career Education  settled the suit in 2008
for $12.2 million, and Jackson received $2,750, the judge wrote.
Career Education has since closed Brooks.  Shapero ordered Jackson to pay $13,200 starting December
2012 in $100 monthly installments. If she does, the court will
discharge the rest of her student loans.  Boost Income  Students who enroll at  Corinthian  for massage therapy often
are earning at or near the legal minimum wage and can boost
their income through the short-term programs, Kent Jenkins Jr.,
a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  “For graduates who work hard and are successful, the
increase in their earnings power substantially exceeds the cost
of their education,” Jenkins said. Jackson initially borrowed
$10,800 for her Corinthian degree, Jenkins said.  Career Education disputes the judge’s assessment of the
value of a Brooks degree because most graduates find jobs
related to their fields, and the college’s closing wasn’t
related to the litigation, said Leshay, the company’s spokesman.
Tuition, room and board in Jackson’s program at the time would
have been about $43,000, Leshay said. Career Education didn’t
participate in the bankruptcy court trial, he said.  Without help from the court, Jackson’s life would have been
ruined, she said.  Her degree from Brooks “had no value,” she said. “It
hasn’t done anything for me. I don’t know what I would have done
if I lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 Jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 