-- Franklin Mint Owner Says It Was `Duped' Into Buying Collectibles Company
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-29T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/franklin-mint-s-owner-says-it-was-duped-into-buying-collectibles-company.html
The owner of  Franklin Mint LLC ,
which sells collectible coins and statues, claimed in a lawsuit
it was tricked into buying the business as the company teetered
on the brink of failure.  JSSI Capital Enterprises LLC alleges it was defrauded into
buying Franklin Mint in 2009 because the sellers made “material
misrepresentation and omissions,” according to a complaint
filed Dec. 27 in State Supreme Court in New York.  “After the transaction, plaintiffs discovered they had
been duped,” JSSI said in court papers.  Franklin Mint, of Exton, Pennsylvania, sells coin sets like
a U.S. presidential dollar collection for $259.95, models of
cars, including a 7.5-inch long Corvette covered in crystals for
$1,295, and dolls of famous women like  Michelle Obama  and
 Marilyn Monroe , according to its website.  JSSI sued Moshe Malamud, Sam Malamud and Steven Sisskind,
who owned a majority stake in Morgan Mint Inc. at the time of
the transaction, according to the complaint. Morgan Mint owned
Franklin Mint. Moshe Malamud served as Morgan Mint chairman at
the time of the deal, Sam Malamud was a director and Sisskind
was chief executive.  A call left with a Sam Malamud in Brooklyn, New York,
wasn’t returned. Moshe Malamud and Sisskind couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment.  JSSI is seeking more than $12.6 million in damages, the
rescission of $4 million in promissory notes assumed in the deal
and the return of $1.975 million paid to two defendants,
according to the complaint.  The case is Franklin Mint LLC v. Franklin Mint Inc.,
652386-2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 