-- French Economy Grew 0.3% in Third Quarter, Less Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-28T10:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/french-economy-expanded-0-3-in-third-quarter-less-than-initial-estimates.html
France’s economic expansion slowed
more than originally estimated in the third quarter as a drop in
output overshadowed rising household spending.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the three months
through September, compared with a preliminary estimate of 0.4
percent on Nov. 12 and down from a 0.6 percent gain in the
previous quarter, Paris-based statistics office Insee said today
in its final report. GDP expanded 1.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with an estimate of 1.8 percent last month.  “Consumer final demand was the engine for growth in the
third quarter and I think the positive impact from it is likely
to become less in the coming quarters amid fiscal retrenchment
and quite weak labor-market conditions,” said  Joost Beaumont ,
an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “France will
continue to have modest growth next year until the economy
starts to pick up again later in the year.”  France’s sixth-straight quarter of growth underlines how
Europe’s recovery remains fragile after the worst recession
since World War II. Household consumption has been supporting
the economy, with spending on manufactured goods in November
matching the highest in more than seven years as the pending end
of state-auto subsidies spurred car sales, Insee said last week.  Industrial Production  Output  in October from French factories, mines and
utilities declined 0.8 percent after gaining 0.1 percent in
September, Insee said on Dec. 10, underscoring the divide
between Germany’s surging economy and the rest of Europe. German
GDP advanced 0.7 percent in the third quarter after rising 2.3
percent between April and June.  The number of  jobseekers  in France climbed last month,
suggesting employers remain cautious about the growth outlook as
they favor temporary contracts over permanent ones that can be
expensive to terminate. The  total of unemployed  people actively
looking for work rose 0.8 percent, the Labor and Finance
ministries said in a joint statement on Dec. 24 in Paris. The
total number of jobseekers was 2.7 million.  German 10-year bonds snapped three days of declines after
today’s French data, stoking demand for the safest assets. The
yield on  French 10-year bonds  fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  