-- GM Gains as JPMorgan, Barclays Advise Buying Shares
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-28T21:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/general-motors-gains-as-jpmorgan-barclays-advise-buying-shares.html
General Motors Co. , the automaker
one-third owned by the U.S. government, rose 2 percent after
analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc recommended
buying the shares 40 days after trading began.  Analysts at Bank of America Corp.,  Morgan Stanley ,
Citigroup Inc., Royal Bank of Canada and Credit Suisse Group AG
also today advised buying shares of Detroit-based GM, which
raised more than $20 billion through an initial public offering
of common and preferred shares last month.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson , who led GM through the
IPO 16 months after it emerged from bankruptcy, has said the
automaker can make “significant” profit amid U.S. sales about
30 percent below the 16.8 million unit annual average from 2000
to 2007. Sales may rise to 12.9 million in the U.S. next year,
 Michelle Krebs , a senior analyst at Edmunds.com, said yesterday
in an interview with  Pimm Fox  on Bloomberg Television.  “As the economy improves, the auto market will pick up and
investors are going to boost exposure in the industry,”  Walter Todd , who helps manage about $900 million at Greenwood Capital
Associates in Greenwood, South Carolina, said in a telephone
interview.  GM rose 72 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $35.32 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 7 percent from the start of trading Nov. 18.  Ebit, Tax Assets  GM is on a path to earn $5.9 billion of earnings before
interest and taxes in North America this year, Brian Johnson, an
analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, wrote in a research
note. Ebit in North America was $4.94 billion through Sept. 30.  Deferred tax assets that stayed with GM through bankruptcy
are worth $9.18 per share, wrote  Adam Jonas , a New York-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley. The assets were accumulated in part
as predecessor General Motors Corp. lost $82 billion from 2005
to 2008, and they may allow GM to avoid paying U.S. cash taxes
until 2018, Jonas wrote.  Of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, 10 have a “buy”
rating on the shares, and four rate GM “hold.” The average
target price is $43.45, according to Bloomberg data.  GM debuted at a “deep discount” to Ford and is trading at
3.9 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization, and pension income, wrote  Christopher Ceraso , an
analyst at Credit Suisse in New York. Ford trades at a multiple
of 5.5 times, he wrote.  Discount to Ford  “We think GM’s current discount to Ford is justified, but
that the gap will close materially in 2012 as GM’s product cycle
hits its stride and Ford’s shifts to a lower gear,” Ceraso
wrote.  GM has said it plans to begin building the Chevrolet Sonic
small car next year. That will be followed by the Chevrolet
Malibu midsize sedan in 2012 and Impala full-size sedan in 2013,
according to  Himanshu Patel , an analyst at JPMorgan.  The automaker may generate $4.3 billion in free cash flow
this year before pension payments, wrote Patel, who is based in
New York. At that cash flow, GM could achieve its goal of wiping
out debt and pension liabilities by 2013, he said.  GM’s European operations, which lost $1.2 billion on an
Ebit basis in three quarters this year, may break even in 2012,
wrote Barclays’ Johnson and Patel of JPMorgan. Morgan Stanley’s
Jonas said GM Europe may break even in 2011.  “We do not believe that GM Europe is likely to be
profitable on a sustainable basis,” Credit Suisse’s Ceraso
wrote.  40-Day Rule  New York Stock Exchange and Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority rules prevent analysts at firms that manage IPOs from
releasing research for 40 days, according to the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s  website .  Morgan Stanley , JPMorgan, Bank of America and Citigroup led
the IPO that included more than 30 underwriters, according to GM
regulatory filings. Barclays, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and RBC were also listed in GM’s
prospectus.  Trading of  GM options  rose to almost double the four-week
average, with volume for calls to buy the stock changing hands
2.7 times as much as puts to sell. The  most-active contracts 
were March $38 calls, which rose 52 percent to 91 cents and
accounted for almost one fifth of all 53,768 calls traded today.  GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due in July 2033, which were
issued by the old General Motors Corp. and will eventually
convert to shares in the new company, rose 1.25 cents to 34
cents on the dollar at 2:26 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The bonds have gained four consecutive
days to the highest since Nov. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 