-- German Bonds Advance as France Economy Grows at Slower-Than-Estimated Pace
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-28T16:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/german-bonds-advance-as-france-economy-grows-at-slower-than-estimated-pace.html
German 10-year bonds snapped three
days of declines as a report showed the French economy expanded
less than initially estimated in the third quarter, stoking
demand for the safest assets.  French bonds also rose after the nation’s gross domestic
product grew 0.3 percent in the three months through September,
compared with a preliminary estimate of 0.4 percent on Nov. 12,
according to Insee, the national statistics institute. German
debt stayed higher following a U.S. report that showed home
prices dropped more than forecast in October and consumer
confidence unexpectedly declined in December.  “The economic backdrop is likely to keep German bond
yields at relatively low levels,” said  Andre de Silva , head of
Asia-Pacific interest-rate research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong
Kong. “Even though Germany is doing reasonably well, in the
context of the euro zone as a whole, economic growth is going to
be fairly subdued, dragged by peripheries.”  The bund yield declined four basis points to 2.99 percent
as of 4:29 p.m. in London. The 2.5 percent security maturing in
January 2021 rose 0.37, or 3.7 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,311)
face amount, to 95.85. French 10-year yields declined four basis
points to 3.35 percent.  The euro-region economy will grow 1.45 percent next year,
compared with a 1.7 percent expansion this year, according to a
median forecast by 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Property Values  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index of U.S. property values fell 0.8
percent from October 2009, the biggest year-over-year decline
since December 2009, the group said today in New York. The
decrease exceeded the 0.2 percent drop projected by the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Conference Board’s  confidence index  decreased to 52.5,
lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News and down from a revised 54.3 in November,
figures from the New York-based research group showed today. The
share of Americans saying jobs were hard to get climbed to a 10-
month high.  German bonds returned 5.8 percent this year, compared with
a 5 percent gain of French debt and a 20 percent loss from Greek
government securities, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Treasuries handed investors a 5.7 percent return.  AAA rated German bonds will continue to outperform so-
called peripheral debt such as Irish, Greek, Portuguese and
Spanish securities early next year as concern about the euro-
area crisis deepens, according to  Wee-Khoon Chong , a fixed-
income strategist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  ‘Credit Quality’  “We remain bullish on German bonds as credit quality is
likely to continue to be a major issue at least in an early part
of next year,” said Chong. “We see the risk of further rating
downgrades among some member countries. The problem is not going
to go away anytime soon.”  Portuguese bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down four
basis points to 6.74 percent. The yield on Italian securities of
the same maturity was two basis points higher at 4.76 percent.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis erupted late last year after
Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the budget
deficit was twice as big as the previous administration had
disclosed.  The extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year Greek
debt instead of benchmark German bunds rose to 950 basis points
today, from 925 basis points yesterday. It rose to a record high
of 973 basis points on May 7.  German debt  outperformed U.S. Treasuries today, with the
yield difference between their 10-year bonds rose to 42 basis
points, from 30 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  