-- German Stocks Fluctuate; BMW Declines as HeidelbergCement Gains
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-12-28T15:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/german-stocks-are-little-changed-heidelbergcement-advances-as-man-drops.html
German stocks drifted between gains
and losses as trading volumes for stocks in the benchmark DAX
Index headed for the lowest daily total this year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  extended yesterday’s slump, the
biggest since April 2009, amid ongoing concern the carmaker’s
sales in China will slow.  HeidelbergCement AG , the world’s
third-largest cement maker, advanced.  The benchmark  DAX  Index slipped 0.2 percent to 6,960.47 as
of 4:11 p.m. in Frankfurt, after rising as much as 0.3 percent
earlier today. The gauge is headed for a 17 percent gain this
year as companies beat earnings estimates and central banks
around the world moved to protect the economic rebound. The
broader  HDAX Index  slipped 0.1 percent to 3,540.87 today.  “We’ve gone up quite strongly, I am not surprised to see
some consolidation and eventually even a couple of percentage
points of declines,” said  Karim Bertoni , a fund manager at
Banque SYZ & Co. in Geneva. “In the medium-term I am optimistic
on the trend of markets. You have interesting valuations and you
still have growth in the world economy.”  The  DAX  is trading at 11.8 times its members’ estimated
earnings, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with an
average ratio since 2006 of 12.7.  Trading Volumes  Trading volumes in DAX shares today are headed for the
lowest total this year as U.K. markets remained closed for the
Christmas holiday, Bloomberg data show. As of 4:12 p.m. in
Frankfurt, 22 million  shares  in DAX companies had changed hands,
the lowest  level  for that time in the last 240 sessions.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly fell in
December, a sign that the biggest part of the economy will
struggle to sustain momentum into 2011.  The Conference Board’s confidence index decreased to 52.5,
lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News and down from a revised 54.3 in November,
figures from the New York-based research group showed today. The
share of Americans saying jobs were hard to get climbed to a 10-
month high.  A separate report showed U.S. home prices dropped more than
forecast in October, a sign housing will remain a weak link as
the U.S. recovery accelerates into the new year.  BMW , the largest maker of luxury cars, dropped 1.6 percent
to 58.26 euros. The shares yesterday sank 6.4 percent after
China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, increased the
key one-year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points. Last
week, the city of Beijing said it will limit the number of new
passenger cars in the capital to ease congestion on the roads.  ‘Sell’ Recommendation  BMW is “the carmaker with highest exposure to China in
terms of relative earnings contribution,”  Juergen Pieper , an
analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, wrote in a report today, cutting
his recommendation on the shares to “sell” from “buy.”  “If China should lose its momentum, it will be difficult
for BMW to find full compensation elsewhere,” he said. The
brokerage lowered its price estimate on the shares to 55 euros
from 60 euros.  BMW’s stock doubled in price between the start of 2010 and
last week.  Daimler AG , the second-biggest maker of luxury cars,
dropped 0.7 percent to 51.23 euros, after tumbling 4.6 percent
yesterday. The company could consider a separation of the truck-
making operations, Boersen-Zeitung reported, citing analysts it
didn’t identify.  HeidelbergCement  rose 0.9 percent to 47.34 euros. French
competitor  Lafarge SA  said it sold its aggregates and concrete
businesses in Portugal, Switzerland and those in Alsace, France
for 120 million euros ($159 million).  Expand Abroad  E.ON AG  gained 0.8 percent to 23.01 euros.  RWE AG  climbed
0.9 percent to 50.05 euros. OAO Inter RAO UES is in talks with
Germany’s two largest utilities, and with Italy’s  Enel SpA ,
about asset swaps in Europe as the Russian state-controlled
power trader seeks to expand abroad.  Inter RAO is seeking assets in Germany from E.ON, in the
Netherlands from RWE and in Bulgaria from Enel, management board
member Ilnar Mirsiyapov told reporters today in Moscow.  
Roth & Rau AG  tumbled 8.7 percent to 12.64 euros. The German
maker of solar-cell production equipment cut its 2010 sales and
profit forecast again after its SpectraWatt Inc. client said it
may halt business.  The German company in November cut its full-year forecast
for earnings before interest and taxes following delays in
projects in Spain and India and unscheduled writedowns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 