-- Giants Have an 18% Chance of Making NFL Playoffs After Two Straight Losses
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-28T14:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/giants-have-an-18-chance-of-making-nfl-playoffs-after-two-straight-losses.html
New York Giants coach  Tom Coughlin 
says his team remains driven by the knowledge that there’s still
“a chance” to make the postseason.  The question is: How much of a chance?  With one week left in the National Football League’s
regular season, the Giants’ likelihood of qualifying for the
playoffs is 18 percent, according to RJ Bell, the president of
Las Vegas-based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  The Giants have lost two games in a row and can no longer
reach the postseason just by winning. To make the playoffs, they
need to beat the Washington Redskins in their Jan. 2 regular-
season finale and have the Green Bay Packers lose at home to the
Chicago Bears. The Giants are 4-point favorites against the
Redskins, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, and the Packers are
favored by 6 1/2 points over the Bears, who have locked up a
playoff berth.  “We do have to have a little bit of help to get it done,
but there is a chance,” Coughlin, 64, said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters. “That’s the incentive for us to
regroup and try to put together the kind of game we can be proud
of.”  The Packers, who beat the Giants 45-17 two days ago, have a
79 percent chance of claiming the last wild-card playoff berth
in the National Football Conference, said Bell, whose website is
the largest of its kind compliant with U.S. laws. The Packers
would make the postseason with a win over Chicago or losses by
both the Giants and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who are 7 1/2-point
underdogs against the New Orleans Saints.  Bell factors point spreads and the required win-loss
scenarios into his formula to determine the percentage chance
teams have to make the playoffs.  Saints In  One possible avenue for the Giants to advance closed last
night when the Saints, the defending Super Bowl champions,
claimed an NFC postseason berth by winning 17-14 in the Atlanta
Falcons.  Had the Saints lost, the Giants would have had a 30 percent
chance of getting a wild-card berth, which go to the two teams
in each conference with the best records who didn’t win a
division. With the win by New Orleans, the Packers, Giants and
Buccaneers are left to vie for the NFC’s final spot.  The team most likely to claim a playoff spot in the final
week is the Indianapolis Colts, with Bell giving them an 89
percent chance of claiming the last berth in the American
Football Conference.  Colts Route  The Colts would win the AFC South Division with a home win
over the Tennessee Titans as 9-point favorites or with a loss by
the Jacksonville Jaguars, who are favored by 2 1/2 points on the
road against the Houston Texans.  “Our guys have done a great job I think of staying really
focused of not getting caught up in scenario central,” Colts
coach  Jim Caldwell  told reporters. “Trying to reduce things to
the lowest common denominator, and that lowest common
denominator is that we have to win.”  The New England Patriots, Pittsburgh Steelers, Baltimore
Ravens, Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets have secured the
other five playoff spots in the AFC.  The Falcons, Bears, Saints and Philadelphia Eagles have
claimed NFC berths in the postseason, which starts with first-
round games on Jan. 8-9.  One division title remains undecided in the NFC, where the
Seattle Seahawks host the St. Louis Rams for the West Division
crown on Jan. 2. The Rams, who are favored by a point, have a 52
percent chance of advancing to the postseason for the first time
in six years, Bell said.  “Here we are, going into our last regular season game and
we control our own destiny,” Rams rookie quarterback  Sam Bradford  told reporters. “If that doesn’t excite you, I really
don’t know what does.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  