-- Google Pushes Education Software to Schools Through App Store
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/google-pushes-education-software-to-schools-colleges-through-app-store.html
Google Inc.  is talking with
educational-software companies to help build a marketplace for
online learning programs, an industry whose value may approach
$5 billion this year.  Games and instructional tools for teachers from companies
such as  Grockit Inc.  and Aviary Inc. are already offered in the
Google Apps Marketplace, an online store that opened in March.
Google, the world’s largest search engine, seeks to lure more
educational developers and is stepping up efforts to generate
revenue from the project, company executives say.  Software sales for U.S. schools and colleges this year
should surpass the 2009 total of $4.6 billion, according to
 Parthenon Group LLC . That could provide a new growth stream for
Google, which gets most of its sales from  search advertising .
The company works with schools, providing free word processing,
e-mail and spreadsheet programs to students and teachers. Now it
wants to help outside developers sell applications to educators.  “If we can provide access to education apps to our 10
million users in thousands of schools, then that would be a win
all around,” said Obadiah Greenberg, Google’s business
development manager for education.  Most software makers with products on Google Apps
Marketplace now collect all revenue from sales generated through
the site. In the coming months, Mountain View, California-based
Google plans to begin taking a 20 percent share of sales,
Greenberg said.  ‘Google Guru’  Programs in the  Apps Marketplace  can be operated inside the
private Web domains many schools have set up with Google, said
James Birchfield, instructional technology specialist at  Harwich
Public Schools  in Massachusetts.  “A teacher logs into a Google Apps account and they can
access anything in the marketplace,” said Birchfield, who is
known by colleagues as the “Google guru.” “It gives you a
one-stop-shop kind of thing where we know we can integrate it
and we know where it’s all saved.”  Aviary Education , one of the first education apps offered
on the site, is a free Web-based tool that lets students edit
images and audio recordings in a private environment that can be
monitored by a teacher. It’s often used by teachers who want
students to record class presentations and share them online,
said Michael Galpert, co-founder of New York-based Aviary.  “The more that they promote Google services in the
classroom, the larger the audience we get,” Galpert said. The
company now gets most of its new customers through Google’s
Marketplace, he said.  Middle-School Project  Using Aviary’s software, seventh graders at Harwich Middle
School created presentations on women’s issues in the Middle
East, pairing  images  with narrations and sound effects. Google
made the software easier to find and easier to protect students’
work, said Birchfield. “That was a big deal for us.”  In its first nine months, most customers of the Google Apps
Marketplace have been technology administrators at small and
medium-sized businesses, who use it to find tools such as
collaboration software made by  Box.net  and  Atlassian . Google’s
Greenberg wants to get school leaders to rely on the marketplace
to sign up and buy Web-based learning software.  He also says students with experience using free Google
apps in school may be more likely to become paying users when
they join the workforce.  Brand Image  Analysts estimate Google will report sales of $21.7 billion
this year, based on the  average of projections  compiled by
Bloomberg. More than a potential new source of revenue, the
company’s push into education could help it build its brand
recognition among the next generation of Internet users, said
 Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San Francisco.  Providing “more apps for the education vertical helps them
to basically acquire a customer for their whole portfolio of
products early on,” Aggarwal said. Apple Inc. and  Microsoft
Corp.  have offered discounted prices to schools for 25 years in
efforts to “own a new computer user” from the get-go, he said.  Google’s online store for education apps could soon face
competition from Apple, which has said it will open a version of
its popular App Store for Mac computers on Jan. 6.  Apple already has ties to educational-software makers.
According to data tracker  148Apps.biz , education apps are the
fourth-most-represented category in Apple’s App Store, with
24,727 programs, behind apps for books, games and other
entertainment.  Apple’s History  “Apple has a tradition of serving educators,” said
 Margery Mayer , president of the education division of children’s
book publisher  Scholastic Inc.  With one out of six Americans
going to school every day, “it makes sense that if you are a
technology company you would be interested in a market that is
serving such a large part of the population.”  Makers of enterprise software have had some early success
with the Google Apps Marketplace. Visitors to  Atlassian ’s site
are 15 percent more likely to become paying customers if they
were directed there by the Google store, said Daniel Freeman,
director of product marketing at the Sydney-based company.  Box.net expects 2010 sales of more than $100,000 from new
customers that came from the Google Apps Marketplace, according
to  Aaron Levie , Box.net’s CEO in Palo Alto, California.  “That’s a pretty good indication that there is some
interest in the marketplace,” Levie said. “That can grow to
become more significant over time.”  Google is plotting toward a future where it’s the broker of
all new technology adopted by a school, said Salman Khan, the
founder of the nonprofit educational video series  Khan Academy .
His organization has received some funding from Google.  “If you want to introduce a new app for students or
teachers, the district has to sign up the app once and they
won’t have to reinstall it for every student,” Khan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  