-- Bill Miller, Yacktman Say Stick With Biggest Stocks After 2010 Disappoints
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/grantham-yacktman-stick-with-big-stocks-after-2010-disappoints.html
Jeremy Grantham ,  Bill Miller  and
 Donald Yacktman  told mutual-fund investors that 2010 was the
year to buy the biggest stocks. They’re sticking with the
prediction even after getting drubbed by most of their peers.  The Yacktman Focused Fund  trailed 75 percent of rivals this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Grantham’s $14.9
billion  GMO Quality Fund  is up 5.7 percent, worse than 99
percent of rivals, even though its top holding, software firm
Oracle Corp. of Redwood City, California, is up 29 percent.  Small and mid-size stocks almost doubled the return in 2010
of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark for U.S.
large-capitalization equities. Still, Yacktman and the others
are making the same case for the new year as they did for the
last: big companies are undervalued compared with smaller
stocks, and their earnings will benefit more from faster
economic growth outside the U.S.  “In 40 years I have rarely seen a situation where so many
big, profitable international companies are selling at such
relatively cheap prices,” Yacktman, who manages his $1.9
billion fund from Austin, Texas, said in an interview.  Two of the top five holdings in the Yacktman Focused Fund -
- Microsoft Corp., the Redmond, Washington-based software maker,
and pharmaceutical company Pfizer Inc. in New York -- are among
its  worst performers .  Miller’s flagship large-cap fund, the $4 billion  Legg Mason
Capital Management Value Trust , gained 6.6 percent this year,
trailing 98 percent of similarly managed funds, Bloomberg data
show. Miller’s mid-cap fund, the $2 billion  Legg Mason Capital
Management Opportunity Trust,  rose 17 percent.  Focus on Quality  In November, Grantham’s firm, Boston-based Mayo Van
Otterloo Co., predicted that the highest-quality stocks, known
as blue chips, will return 5.1 percent a year above inflation
over the next seven years, compared with an annual loss of 0.8
percent for small stocks.  “I believe (once again speaking for myself) that high-
quality stocks should have an even bigger win over low quality
than our GMO numbers suggest,” Grantham, the company’s chief
investment strategist, wrote in a newsletter.  Grantham declined to comment for this story, Tyler
Bradford, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Grantham, 72, is best known for his gloomy and often
accurate long-term forecasts. In 2000 he predicted that U.S.
stocks would lose money in the coming decade.  The S&P 500 gained 0.8 percent annually in the decade
through Nov. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
S&P Midcap 400 Index, a proxy for mid-size stocks, climbed 7.3
percent annually, while the Russell 2000 Index, a benchmark for
small companies, increased 6.4 percent a year.  Investors Pull Money  In 2010,  large stocks rose 15 percent , compared with 27
percent for mid-cap stocks and 28 percent for small stocks,
Bloomberg data through Dec. 23 show. Mutual funds that invest in
large stocks returned 14 percent, compared with 23 percent for
mid-caps and 26 percent for small-caps.  U.S. investors continue to shun funds that invest in large
stocks, according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. In the first
11 months they pulled $65.8 billion from large-cap funds, $2.5
billion from mid-cap funds and $90 million from small-cap funds.  Morningstar defines the top 70 percent of stocks by market
value as large cap and the bottom 10 percent small-cap.  “Small stocks generally do better when you are coming out
of a recession,” said  Michael Mullaney , portfolio manager at
Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston, where he helps oversee $9.5
billion. The last recession ended in June 2009, according to the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based National Bureau of Economic
Research, which is the official arbiter of economic cycles.  Trend to Continue  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank
in Chicago, where he helps oversee $55 billion, said smaller
stocks will continue to outperform in early 2011 as they benefit
from an expanding recovery. Growth is proving to be better than
many economists expected, Ablin said in a telephone interview,
and smaller firms are disproportionately reliant on the domestic
economy.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the Newport Beach,
California-based firm that manages the world’s biggest bond
fund, said the U.S. economy should grow 3 percent to 3.5 percent
next year, up from an earlier forecast of 2 percent to 2.5
percent.  Miller, of Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a July
newsletter that investors have a “once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity” to buy large-cap U.S. stocks at the cheapest
prices in almost six decades. Known for beating the S&P 500 a
record 15 straight years through 2005, Miller, 60, trailed the
index for the next three years.  28-Year Low  Robert Hagstrom , a Legg Mason portfolio manager, reiterated
the case for buying large stocks in a report issued this month,
saying they are attractively valued and have exposure to fast-
growing emerging-market economies.  In a subsequent telephone interview, Hagstrom said U.S.
multinationals are as cheap as they have been since 1982. “The
market is giving these companies no credit for future growth,”
he said.  Miller declined to comment, Legg Mason spokesman Mary
Athridge said in an email.  Investors are paying a premium to own small and mid-cap
stocks compared with their larger counterparts, said  James Floyd , senior analyst at Leuthold Group LLC, a research firm
based in Minneapolis. Leuthold defines small stocks as those
with market capitalizations from $305 million to $1.5 billion,
and large stocks as those greater than $9.7 billion.  The average price-to-earnings ratio for large stocks was
13.2 at the end of November, compared with 14.7 for both small
and mid-size stocks, Floyd said.  BlackRock’s Stattman  “Currently we think most of the best values are in the
highest-quality companies,” Yacktman, 69, wrote in a letter to
shareholders after the second quarter.  Yacktman, founder and chief investment officer of Yacktman
Asset Management Co., said he views stocks as if they were bonds
and measures a company’s future returns against its current
price. The Yacktman Focused Fund returned 13 percent a year in
the 10 years ended Nov. 30, Morningstar data show, topping 99
percent of similar funds.  Dennis Stattman , manager of the $48 billion  BlackRock
Global Allocation Fund,  said in an August interview that U.S.
giants such as Johnson & Johnson and Microsoft offered global
franchises, strong cash flow and healthy dividends. Johnson &
Johnson, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based maker of health-
care products, has a dividend yield of 3.5 percent; Microsoft
yields 2.3 percent.  “We can’t find a stock among the 20 or 30 biggest U.S.
companies that looks expensive,” Stattman, who is based in
Princeton, New Jersey, said in the interview.  Stattman’s fund rose 9.2 percent this year, trailing 54
percent of rivals.  In a Dec. 15 e-mail, Stattman wrote that while large-cap
stocks are not as cheap as they were earlier in the year, “We
still think they are attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  