-- Groupon Files to Raise $950 Million in Preferred Stock
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   M i c h a e l   T s a n g
-- 2010-12-29T20:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/groupon-files-to-raise-as-much-as-950-million-vcexperts-says.html
Groupon Inc., the Chicago-based
online-coupon site that spurned a $6 billion offer from Google
Inc. this month, has filed to raise as much as $950 million from
the sale of preferred shares.  The company amended its certificate of incorporation,
allowing it to issue about 30.1 million shares of Series G
preferred stock at a price of $31.59 a share, according to a
Dec. 17 filing with the state of Delaware. The financing would
value Groupon at as much as $7.8 billion, exceeding  Google ’s
offer, according to  VCExperts , a website that offers data and
analysis for venture capitalists and private equity investors.  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  is raising
money as he considers an initial public offering in the new
year. Last week, Groupon hired  Jason Child ,  Amazon.com Inc. ’s
former vice president of finance, to be its chief financial
officer. The company, which offers deals in more than 300
cities, will have sales that top $500 million this year, people
familiar with the matter said this month.  “They’ll move into more new markets, and that either means
buying an existing company, which they’ve done in Europe, or
establishing the infrastructure they need on the ground, which
would mean hiring people,” said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at
Internet2Go, an advisory service that’s part of Opus Research in
San Francisco.  New Round  Mason said in a  Twitter message  yesterday that Groupon was
in the process of completing a new round of financing. Julie
Mossler, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to comment when
reached by telephone today.  The last time that Groupon amended its certificate was on
April 16, when the company gave itself the right to issue $135
million in Series F preferred stock. Three days later, Groupon
announced that it raised the same amount from an investment
group led by Digital Sky Technologies.  Sterling, who said last week he expected the company to
file for an IPO next year, now says the funds raised could push
that back until 2012.  “Ultimately, they need to go public unless somebody’s
going to come forward with a super massive offer,” he said.  Founded in 2008, Groupon offers daily group discounts on
restaurants, theme parks, clothes, manicures and other consumer
items. The company has amassed more than 35 million registered
users and a staff of 3,000 people, most of them in sales.  Google Deal  Mason turned down the sale to  Google  because he was
concerned it would sap employee morale and alienate business
clients, said the people with knowledge of the matter. They
asked not to be identified because the talks, which involved
Google CEO  Eric Schmidt , were private.  Groupon will make a decision next year on whether and how
soon to proceed with an IPO, a person familiar with the company
said earlier this month. Groupon is trying to get a bigger piece
of the U.S. local-advertising market, which may reach $133
billion this year, according to consulting firm BIA/Kelsey in
Chantilly, Virginia.  The Digital Sky investment in April gave Groupon a
valuation of about $1.3 billion. LivingSocial, Groupon’s biggest
rival, announced a $175 million investment from Seattle-based
Amazon this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net . 