-- Icahn’s $665 Million Dynegy Bid Wins Antitrust Consent
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-12-28T15:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/icahn-s-665-million-dynegy-bid-wins-antitrust-consent-update1-.html
New York billionaire  Carl C. Icahn ’s
$665 million bid for  Dynegy Inc ., the third-largest U.S.
independent power producer, received U.S. antitrust approval,
the Federal Trade Commission said on its website.  Icahn’s Dec. 15 offer of $5.50 a share still faces several
hurdles, including approval of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission and the opposition of Dynegy’s second-largest
shareholder, Seneca Capital, which wants more money. Dynegy said
it remains open to other bids until at least January 25 at
midnight, when Icahn’s offer expires.  The offer may be extended, according to a Dec. 23 filing.
Icahn is Houston-based Dynegy’s largest holder with almost 15 percent of
shares, according to that filing.  Icahn’s offer, valued at $4.73 billion including debt, came
after shareholders’ rejected a $5 a share proposal in November
from  Blackstone Group LP . Seneca, which owns 9.3 percent of
Dynegy shares, opposes the Icahn bid as too low. The hedge fund
previously joined Icahn in rejecting the Blackstone bid for the
same reason.  Seneca on Dec. 20 urged holders to keep their shares,
saying they are worth as much as $7, and might rise as high as
$18 after economic recovery revives demand for power from
Dynegy’s plants.  Scot Hoffman , a spokesman for Seneca, had no
immediate comment on the FTC’s announcement today that Icahn’s
offer was approved by antitrust authorities.  More Approvals Needed  In addition to the approval still needed from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, the New York Public Service
Commission may intervene in the transaction, according to the
Dec. 23 filing.  Dynegy owns plants in seven U.S. states with the capacity
to power about 9.8 million average U.S. homes.  NRG  Energy Inc.,
based in Princeton, New Jersey, is the largest U.S. independent
power producer by sales, followed by Houston-based  Calpine Corp .
Independent power producers don’t own the electricity lines
connecting their plants with homes and businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 