-- Quinn Weighs $15 Billion Bond-Sale `Option' to Close Illinois Budget Gap
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-28T21:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/illinois-s-quinn-weighing-15-billion-bond-option-to-cover-state-s-bills.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  is
considering borrowing $15 billion to pay overdue bills and
balance the biggest budget deficit in the state’s history.  The plan is among a range of proposals that Quinn is
discussing with state lawmakers as they prepare to return to
Springfield Jan. 3 for the final days of the legislative
session, said  Kelly Kraft , a Quinn spokeswoman.  Illinois faces a budget shortfall of at least $13 billion
because of declining tax revenue. The state Senate in November
didn’t have the votes to approve the borrowing of $3.7 billion
to cover pension-fund contributions for the fiscal year that
ends June 30.  “We are working on a variety of options,” Kraft said in
an interview today. “Nothing has been finalized. We’re talking
with legislators on both sides of the aisle. Our goal is to
stabilize the budget.”  Senate President  John Cullerton  and House Speaker  Michael Madigan  declined through spokesmen to say if the bond sale would
draw enough support to pass.  Cullerton met recently with Quinn to discuss the idea, said
John Patterson, a spokesman for Senate Democrats. Steve Brown, a
spokesman for Madigan, said it’s “difficult” to react to
Quinn’s idea “because it’s not a hard and fast proposal.”  The Senate Republican leader,  Christine Radogno , criticized
the proposal as lacking specifics about how the money would be
paid back.  Republican Response  “A discussion about state finances can’t just be about
raising more taxes and borrowing more money,” said  Patty Schuh ,
a spokeswoman for Radogno.  Other ideas under consideration include a 2 percentage-
point increase in the state income tax that the Senate approved
in 2009. The current rate is 3 percent. The House didn’t take the
measure up for a vote.  Quinn’s new borrowing proposal, which the Chicago Tribune
reported today, drew criticism from one municipal-bond investor.
 Matt Dalton , chief executive officer of Belle Haven Investments
Inc., in White Plains, New York, questioned the wisdom of
borrowing.  “He’s trying to sign up for another credit card,” said
Dalton. “That’s going to put a lot of pressure on Illinois.”  The cost of insuring Illinois’s bonds against default rose
to the highest level in five months as the state headed for the
new year without a plan to finance the pension-fund
contributions.  The cost of credit-default swap insurance on the lowest-
rated state after California has risen 16 percent since Dec. 3
to $330,000 to protect $10 million of debt, from $285,000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most
expensive since July 12, when it reached $335,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  