-- Illinois Default Insurance Cost Rises as Weak States Punished: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-28T20:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/illinois-default-insurance-cost-rises-as-weak-states-punished-muni-credit.html
The cost of insuring Illinois’s
bonds against default rose to the highest level in five months
as the state headed for the new year without a plan to finance a
$3.7 billion pension-fund contribution.  The cost of credit-default swap insurance on the lowest-
rated state after California has risen 16 percent to $330,000 to
protect $10 million of debt, from $285,000 on Dec. 3, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most expensive since
July 12, when it reached $335,000.  “They’re punishing all the states but they’re punishing
the worst states more,” said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-
income research for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a money-
management firm based in Philadelphia. “Illinois has been worse
for a while.”  Insuring Illinois against default now costs more than that
for California, the lowest-rated U.S. state according to
Standard & Poor’s. Covering the most-populous state’s general-
obligation debt averaged $291,000 in December, Bloomberg data
show. S&P ranks California at A-, its fourth-lowest investment
grade, and Illinois at A+, two levels higher.  The cost of insuring Illinois debt is more than three times
that of Texas at $102,000.  Texas , which S&P said felt the
effects of the recession later and began to pull out earlier,
may face a deficit of as much as $25 billion in the next two
years, according to an Oct. 25 report in the  Dallas Morning
News . State officials have already begun asking for spending
cuts in advance of the 2011 legislative session, during which
the next two-year budget will be written.  Gross Comments  Bill Gross , who runs the  world’s biggest  bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California,
said Illinois’s budget may be only 55 percent-funded.  “That means the other 45 percent they can’t pay or have to
borrow,” Gross said today in an interview on CNBC. “How a state
like that can get in that type of position, I’m not quite sure.”  He said he would avoid buying any Illinois debt.  Municipal issuers are selling about $483.4 million in the
last week of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Top-rated 10-year municipal bonds were yielding  3.16
percent  yesterday, unchanged from last week, according to
Municipal Market Advisors data.  The budget Illinois lawmakers passed earlier this year has
a $13 billion gap, about half of total spending. The state sold
securities backed by its share of a settlement with tobacco
companies to help pay $2 billion of bills left over from fiscal
2010.  Illinois issued $3.47 billion of pension bonds in the first
week of 2010 at as much as 4.421 percent on debt that matures in
one to five years. The top rate was 182 percentage points higher
than the yield on five-year U.S. Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Outstanding Contribution  The state was planning a sale of $3.7 billion for its
fiscal 2011 pension contribution until lawmakers refused to pass
a measure authorizing the debt when they met to wrap up
legislative affairs after the November election. The plan still
may be considered when lawmakers meet again starting next week.
 Kelly Kraft , spokeswoman for Illinois governor  Pat Quinn’s 
office of management and budget, didn’t immediately respond to
two e-mails seeking comment.  Quinn yesterday proposed borrowing $15 billion to alleviate
the pressure of the state’s unpaid bills, the Chicago Tribune
reported. The governor approached legislators with the plan to
plug Illinois’s budget hole for a year, the newspaper said.  State and local issuers have been seeing costs for their
credit-default swaps widen since banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  on Dec. 19 predicted “hundreds of billions of dollars”
of municipal defaults during an episode of CBS Corp.’s “60
Minutes,” Schankel said. Those states in worse financial shape
have seen their costs rise more, he said.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO ,
a wastewater utility that serves more than 5 million people,
plans to sell as much as $500 million in taxable and tax-exempt
debt next year. The offering will need to be re-authorized in
January, so a new pricing date hasn’t been set, according to
acting Treasurer  Mary Ann Boyle . The bulk of the issue will be
tax-free bonds, she said. The securities are top-ranked by all
three major credit-rating companies. (Updated Dec. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  