-- Hitachi Says It's in Discussions With Hon Hai on LCD Business Cooperation
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2010-12-28T10:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/hitachi-says-it-s-in-discussions-with-hon-hai-on-lcd-business-cooperation.html
Hitachi Ltd. , Japan’s third-largest
company by sales, is in talks with  Hon Hai Precision Industry
Co.  regarding “cooperation” in the liquid crystal display
business, said  Masanao Sato , a company spokesman.  “We are in talks with Hon Hai about a possible cooperation
in the small- and mid-sized LCD business,” Sato said in a phone
interview today, declining to elaborate.  Hon Hai, flagship of the Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group,
plans to acquire control of an LCD venture between Hitachi and
Canon Inc. for 100 billion yen ($1.2 billion), the Nikkei
newspaper reported yesterday. The Taipei-based company, the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, declined
to comment on the report in a statement to the stock exchange
today.  Hon Hai  shares  ended unchanged for a second consecutive day
at NT$117 at the 1:30 p.m. close in Taipei. Hitachi added 1
percent today to 415 yen at the 3 p.m. close of trade in Tokyo.  Hitachi  spun off its display business in 2002, establishing
 Hitachi Displays Ltd.  as a supplier of LCD panels for phones and
computers.  The company unveiled its so-called in-plane switching
technology in 1995, which offers wider viewing angles and
clearer picture quality than competing systems, according to its
 Website . In-plane switching technology is used in Apple Inc.’s
Mac and iPad tablet devices, according to the computer maker’s
Website.  Chimei Innolux Corp. , the LCD-making affiliate of the
Foxconn Group, became Taiwan’s largest panel maker in March when
it completed a three-way merger with Chi Mei Optoelectronics
Corp. and TPO Displays Corp.  Chimei Innolux on July 1 said it signed a deal with Hitachi
Displays to make panels on contract using the Tokyo-based
company’s in-plane switching technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  