-- J&J, AstraZeneca Halt Experimental Pain Drug Tests on Bone-Damage Concerns
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-12-28T21:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/j-j-astrazeneca-halt-experimental-pain-drug-tests-on-bone-damage-concern.html
Johnson & Johnson  and  AstraZeneca
Plc  stopped studies of experimental painkillers over concerns
that a class of drugs once expected to generate as much as $11
billion in annual sales may raise the risk of joint damage.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration told J&J last week
that the development program for its drug fulranumab had been
put on hold,  Jeffrey Leebaw , a spokesman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, said in an e-mail. London-based AstraZeneca
said yesterday it has voluntarily stopped early-stage research
of a similar medicine.  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.  of
Tarrytown, New York, said yesterday the FDA had halted trials of
its treatment in the class known as anti-nerve growth factors.  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker, suspended
trials of the pain drug tanezumab in June after reports that
patients in one of its studies needed joint replacements. The
move left nerve-growth inhibitors “a tainted class” and has
lowered investor’s expectations, said  Ziad Bakri , a Cowen & Co.
analyst in New York.  “You’d have to have a lot of safety data to ever get a
drug like this approved, so for investors this is not a class
that’s generating very high hopes,” Bakri said in a telephone
interview. “You’re not going to see many companies chasing
these drugs at this point.”  Before New York-based Pfizer halted its trials at the FDA’s
request, tanezumab and similar nerve-growth treatments were
estimated to reach as much as $11 billion in annual sales,
 Catherine Arnold , a Credit Suisse analyst in New York, wrote in
a May 3 note to investors.  J&J, Pfizer  J&J rose 12 cents to $62.05 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading  and has fallen 3.7 percent for the
year so far. Pfizer gained 10 cents to $17.59 and has fallen 3.3
percent this year. Regeneron slipped 19 cents to $33.50 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. It has gained  39 percent 
in 2010.  In light of the Pfizer findings,  AstraZeneca  stopped
studies on its nerve inhibitor, medi578, Janet Milton-Edwards, a
company spokeswoman, said by telephone. The suspension wasn’t
requested by regulators and the company hasn’t seen similar
cases of bone-tissue death, she said. AstraZeneca is
“evaluating how we will go forward” with the research, she
said.  AstraZeneca rose 14 pence to 2,988 pence on Dec. 24, the
most recent day of London  trading .  FDA Concerns  The FDA said it was concerned that J&J’s fulranumab and
other drugs in the class may be associated with rapidly
progressive osteoarthritis, a wearing away of the cartilage
protecting bone joints, or osteonecrosis, the death of bone
tissue due to a lack of blood supply, according to Leebaw, the
company spokesman.  J&J isn’t aware of trial results until researchers release
data, so the company doesn’t know how many side effects have
occurred, if any, he said.  The company “will work with the FDA toward resolution of
this issue,” he said. J&J didn’t notify investors of the
suspension because it is “not a material event for us,” he
said.  Pfizer’s tanezumab may have increased joint problems in
some people because it worked too well, reducing the pain that
could have signaled to patients that they were overusing fragile
bones, researchers said in a study published on Sept. 29 in the
 New England Journal of Medicine . Sixteen of 6,800 patients
taking the medicine needed replacements in knee, hip or shoulder
joints, the study found.  Regeneron on Hold  Regeneron said in a regulatory  filing  today that the agency
halted study of its anti-nerve growth factor, REGN475/SAR164877,
after confirming last week a case of avascular necrosis, or
bone-tissue damage, in the trial of another company’s treatment.
Regeneron didn’t name the other company or drug involved. The
biotechnology company is developing its treatment with Paris-
based  Sanofi-Aventis SA .  There are currently no ongoing trials with the Regeneron
drug that are enrolling or treating patients, the company said
in the filing.  Avascular necrosis occurs when bones don’t get enough
oxygen and nutrient-carrying blood, according to the  website  of
the Rochester, Minnesota-based Mayo Clinic.  Pfizer ’s development program remains on hold, MacKay
Jimeson, a spokesman, said by telephone. Pfizer is preparing a
response and studying data from 15 studies with tanezumab,
Jimeson said. He declined to comment on Regeneron’s statement.  Abbott Laboratories , which is studying another nerve-growth
inhibitor, hasn’t been contacted by the FDA and has seen no
cases of avascular necrosis, said Tracy Sorrentino, a
spokeswoman for the Abbott Park, Illinois-based drugmaker. The
study of the drug, ABT-110, is “proceeding as planned,” she
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Peter Dworkin , a Regeneron spokesman, didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment. Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman,
said the agency couldn’t comment beyond confirming research
suspensions already disclosed by companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  