-- Ozawa, Facing  Indictment, to Appear Before Japan Lower House Ethics Panel
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-12-28T09:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/japan-s-ozawa-facing-indictment-says-he-ll-appear-before-ethics-panel.html
Japanese ruling-party politician
 Ichiro Ozawa  agreed today to appear before a parliamentary
ethics panel over alleged campaign-finance violations, ceding to
pressure from fellow lawmakers and ending a dispute that had
threatened to split the ruling group.  Ozawa, who controls the largest faction in the Democratic
Party of Japan, had previously rejected requests by Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  and others to appear before the panel
voluntarily. Ruling party leaders decided yesterday that the
panel should vote on whether to summon Ozawa against his will
and Kan suggested he should resign from the party should he
continue to refuse.  “If my attendance leads to smooth deliberations in
parliament on the budget and other issues I will join the panel
possibly at the start of the regular session,” Ozawa said today
in a statement to reporters.  Ozawa, 68, who challenged Kan in September’s party
leadership election, is a former DPJ head and helped lead the
party to its landslide August 2009 election victory. The
showdown between Kan and Ozawa over the ethics panel is the
latest flare-up in an ongoing rivalry between the two leaders.  Three Indictments  Kan criticized Ozawa during the September contest, saying
he hadn’t sufficiently explained his involvement in the scandal.
A judicial panel in October said Ozawa must be charged in
connection with a case that has led to the indictments of three
former aides.  “The party decision is that Ozawa should appear before the
panel before the opening of the parliament” in January, Kan
said today. “We want Ozawa to honor this decision.”  Tokyo prosecutors in February indicted DPJ lawmaker
 Tomohiro Ishikawa , Ozawa aide  Takanori Okubo , and former
assistant Mitsutomo Ikeda for under-reporting 545 million yen
($6.6 million) in income for 2004, part of which was used to buy
land in Tokyo for Ozawa’s fund-raising group.  Ozawa has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at +81-3-3201-8641 or
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at +81-3-3201-2195 or
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  