-- Kuwaiti Lawmakers Submit Non-Cooperation Motion Against Prime Minister
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2010-12-28T17:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/kuwaiti-lawmakers-submit-non-cooperation-motion-against-prime-minister.html
Kuwaiti lawmakers submitted a motion
of non-cooperation against Prime Minister  Sheikh Nasser al- Mohammed al-Sabah , a move that could lead to his ouster.  Parliament Speaker Jassim al-Kharafi said legislators will
vote on the proposal on Jan. 5. The motion needs 25 supporters
among the 49 elected members of parliament to pass. If approved,
Emir  Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed al-Jaber al-Sabah  must either remove
Sheikh Nasser from office or dissolve parliament and call
elections.  The premier, a nephew of the emir, was questioned today in
a closed session about alleged violations of the constitution
and suppression of freedoms after a police crackdown at a Dec. 8
political rally. Four lawmakers and several other Kuwaitis were
injured by special forces during the rally, Kuwaiti newspapers
reported.  Musallam al-Barrak , who spoke at the gathering, was
one of three lawmakers who questioned Sheikh Nasser.  “Lawmakers stood up for their dignity today,” al-Barrak
told reporters after the eight-hour grilling in Kuwait City.
“Nasser al-Mohammed has to go.”  The government left parliament after the session without
making any comment to reporters.  Sheikh Nasser survived a non-cooperation motion in December
2009 after being questioned about alleged misappropriation of
funds. Demands to grill Sheikh Nasser early in 2009 led to his
government’s March 16 resignation. The emir dissolved parliament
two days later, saying its relations with the executive were
“ruined.” Parliamentary elections, the second in a year, were
held on May 16, 2009, and Sheikh Nasser was re-appointed prime
minister to head his sixth government since 2006.  Political Opposition  Kuwait has allowed more space for political opposition than
other Gulf monarchies, opening a fault line between an executive
appointed by the hereditary ruler and elected lawmakers seeking
wider powers. Their disputes have repeatedly shut down the
assembly and stalled investment plans. The latest may disrupt a
$110 billion program aimed at luring international companies to
an economy that has failed to keep pace with regional peers.  Kuwait is the fifth-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped 2.3 million barrels of
oil a day in November.  In the past five years, gross domestic product expanded at
an average pace of 2.6 percent, according to International
Monetary Fund data. In the same period, the United Arab Emirates
grew by 4 percent a year, Bahrain by 5.7 percent, Oman by 6.7
percent and Qatar by 19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  