-- New York City-Area Commute Disrupted for Second Day in Winter Storm's Wake
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-28T22:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/new-york-city-area-commute-disrupted-for-second-day-in-winter-storm-s-wake.html
New York City’s heaviest December
snowfall in six decades disrupted commuter travel for a second
straight day, with Metro-North trains running on a Saturday
schedule and portions of subway lines still inoperable.  “It’s definitely a recovery day, but for the most part
people are able to get around,” said  Jeremy Soffin , a
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority  spokesman. “In each part
of our operations, we are dealing with the impacts of two feet
of snow.”  Portions of some subway lines aren’t running because of
drifts that covered the power-carrying “third rail” on above-
ground tracks, mostly in Brooklyn, Soffin said. The MTA has
reduced the number of stuck buses to 300 from 600 last night,
according to Chairman  Jay Walder .  “Almost all of the lines have some changes to normal
service, but for the most part the bulk of the lines are
operating,” Soffin said of the subway system.  City buses continue to maneuver through the snow as best
they can, he said. The MTA is making sure vehicles will be able
to finish routes before they are sent out.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  asked residents to be patient while
the city mounts its biggest-ever effort to clear snow. New York
has marshaled more than 2,000 plows, salt spreaders and other
trucks, the mayor said today at a Brooklyn news conference. The
city has also brought in 70 private tow trucks to augment the 40
police vehicles pulling abandoned cars from the streets.  Unlike Other Storms  “The storm is not like any other that we’ve had to deal
with,” Bloomberg said. “The bottom line is, we’re doing
everything we possibly can.”  Tow trucks have removed 1,000 vehicles from the Van Wyck,
Gowanus and Cross Bronx expressways and reduced the number of
stuck ambulances to 40 from 168, the mayor said. The abandoned
vehicles are making it difficult for plows to move quickly,
Bloomberg said.  Sanitation Commissioner  John Doherty  said the biggest
problem was that the city hasn’t been able to hire enough
private tow trucks to dig out cars.  Metro-North commuter trains will return to weekday service
tomorrow, including previously planned holiday week schedule
changes, the MTA said today in a statement. The agency said it
expected the Long Island Rail Road to operate near-normal rush-
hour service tomorrow morning. Numerous bus routes in the region
remain suspended.  Back to Normal  New Jersey Transit plans to resume normal operations on
most rail and bus lines tomorrow after running on an “enhanced
weekend” schedule, the agency said today in a statement. A few
trains won’t operate, and officials urged commuters to check its
 website  for further information. More than 100 of NJ Transit’s
2,000 buses got stuck in the snow in the storm, the agency said.  The forecast for Central Park calls for a west wind at
about 11 miles an hour (18 kilometers an hour) tonight into
tomorrow, according to the  National Weather Service .
Temperatures tomorrow may reach 36 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees
Celsius), the service said. Winds will diminish and the air will
warm as the week progresses, the forecaster said.  More than a foot of snow fell across the northeastern U.S.,
with some areas in New Jersey getting more than 30 inches (76
centimeters), according to AccuWeather Inc. Winds gusted as high
as 68 miles an hour in suburban Long Island, the weather service
said. Central Park had 20 inches of snow by 8 a.m. yesterday,
the most for a single storm in December since 1948, the weather
service said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  