-- Norilsk Nickel's Buyback Plan May Disadvantage Minorities, Rothschild Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-28T11:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/norilsk-s-buyback-may-disadvantage-minorities-rothschild-says.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s
largest mining company, may disadvantage minority shareholders
through a proposed general buyback, said Nathaniel Rothschild,
chairman of billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s En+ Group Ltd.  Norilsk said yesterday it may offer the buyback to all
shareholders if  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum
producer, reject its at least $12 billion offer to acquire out
Rusal’s 25 percent stake in Norilsk.  Billionaire Vladimir Potanin holds almost 30 percent of
Norilsk and controls management, is locked in a feud with fellow
shareholder and Rusal owner Deripaska over governance and use of
the nickel producer’s cash. Norilsk said yesterday that Rusal
Chairman Viktor Vekselberg supports the offer made on  Dec. 16 .  The proposed share repurchase may result in management and
Potanin’s Interros Holding Co. consolidating “just less than 50
percent of the voting interest in Norilsk and effective control
without the payment of a customary control premium or the right
for minority shareholders to exit at a fair price,” Rothschild
said today by e-mail.  Erzhena Mintasova , a Moscow-based spokeswoman for Norilsk
Nickel declined to comment.  Norilsk said yesterday it won’t be able to propose “such
lucrative terms” for Rusal to exit its investment in Norilsk if
the aluminum producer rejects the current offer, which runs out
today, Norilsk said in turn yesterday in a statement.  Rothschild said the general buyback on top of Norilsk’s
Dec. 20 agreement to sell 8 percent held by its own subsidiaries
to  Trafigura Beheer BV  “could result in as much as $1 billion
of value destruction.” Norilsk has provided insufficient
details on the agreement with Trafigura, an Amsterdam-based
commodity trader, he said.  Norilsk may offer to repurchase stock from all shareholders
at as much as 15 percent more than the market price, similar to
what it offered Rusal, Kommersant reported Dec. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 