-- South Korea Names Kim Jong Il's Regime `Enemy,' Vows Tougher Military Line
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-29T09:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/north-korean-regime-military-declared-enemy-in-south-korean-statement.html
South Korea named the North Korean
regime as its “enemy” and promised to combine a stronger
military deterrent with a renewed push to prepare its
totalitarian neighbor’s 23 million people for reunification.  Plans presented to President  Lee Myung Bak  by the Defense,
Foreign and  Unification  Ministries today signaled a harder line
against the North and a diplomatic drive to win global support.
While Lee said multinational talks were the only option to end
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, policies aimed at
undermining  Kim Jong Il ’s regime and the focus on planning for
reunification are likely to rile the  North .  “As the future of North Korea is becoming increasingly
unpredictable, such preparation is necessary,” said  Park Joon Young , professor of international relations at Ewha Womans
University. “Steering North Korean residents toward that goal
is the thing that North Korea hates the most.”  Lee has found revived public support for the tougher
approach to North Korea he promised when elected in 2008, after
two attacks this year raised tension on the peninsula to its
highest in decades. North Korea shelled a South Korean island
last month, killing four people, and was blamed for sinking the
Cheonan warship in March, in which 46 sailors died.  Lee replaced his defense minister and army head following
the Nov. 23 artillery barrage, vowing to strengthen the military
and respond more harshly to any further North Korean attacks.  A poll by the Seoul-based Asan Institute for Policy Studies
released four days after the shelling showed more than 80
percent of South Koreans believed their government should have
displayed a “stronger military response.” Anger at the
artillery barrage spurred a 37 percent jump in applications to
join South Korea’s  Marine Corps  this month from a year earlier.  ‘Battle-Ready”  The Defense Ministry today pledged an “active deterrence”
strategy with a “battle-ready” military able to immediately
respond to attacks -- including nuclear -- and win the fight.  “The government needs to show resolve in holding North
Korea responsible for the shelling,” said  Kim Yong Hyun , a
professor at Dongguk University. “Still, considering the mid-
to long-term inter-Korean relationship, the South needs to stay
cool.”  The only way to end North Korea’s nuclear weapons program
is through diplomacy and the six-party talks, Lee said today.
Next year should see substantive progress in reviving the
negotiations, he said.  South Korea, the U.S. and Japan have all said they’re not
ready to negotiate with North Korea until it makes concrete
steps to cease military provocation and meet commitments made to
the international community. China last month urged restarting
the talks, which include Russia.  Foes, Allies  South Korea’s Foreign Ministry said today it will continue
to deepen ties with China. South Korea and the U.S. fought
against Chinese and North Korean troops in the 1950-1953 Korean
War, and China remains the North’s biggest benefactor. China has
come under mounting pressure from the U.S., Japan and South
Korea to rein in Kim’s regime.  China’s trade with the U.S., Japan and South Korea is
almost 300 times larger than its commerce with North Korea.  The U.S. and its two North Asian allies have also
strengthened military relations, carrying out drills in the
region that have irked the government in Beijing.  South Korea opted not to reinstate the “main enemy”
designation for North Korea, the  Defense Ministry  said in a
statement on its website today. Reviving it may have been
misinterpreted by neighboring countries, it said.  The term main enemy was dropped in 2004 under South Korea’s
“Sunshine Policy” of engagement with North Korea. The two
countries are still technically at war after the 1950-1953
conflict ended in a cease-fire.  Get Ready  In a shift of focus, the Unification Ministry said next
year’s policy goals would include preparations for unification
with North Korea, rather than the previous strategy of improving
ties. The “North Korean” people would be the priority, it said
in a statement, without giving further details.  The South Korean government has been at pains to draw a
distinction between the regime and the people.  While it is unlikely the ruling elite would change their
habits, the way the country’s civilians think is changing fast,
officials said at a Unification Ministry briefing, according to
a statement from the ministry that didn’t identify the speakers.  Lee said in Malaysia earlier this month that an unstoppable
change was taking place among the North’s population and the
South needed to get ready for reunification now, according to
South Korean newspaper Joongang Daily. The government aims to
complete plans in the first half of next year on how South Korea
could fund reunification, Unification Minister  Hyun In Taek  said
in an Oct. 20 interview.  ‘Regime Change’  Lee in August proposed a “unification tax,” which North
Korea said was as a “petty trick” to conceal the South’s aim
of regime change.  Tensions are rising on the peninsula in part because of
uncertainty over the transfer of power in North Korea, where Kim
is attempting to secure a handover to his son  Kim Jong Un .  The need to prepare for a sudden collapse of the North
Korean government is “increasing slowly, yet steadily,” Ewha’s
Park said. “North Korea is looking for stability as they
transfer power to  Kim Jung Un . The South Korean government is
trying to be prepared in case stabilization fails.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  