-- Loans Make Comeback as New Issuance Doubles: Credit Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-12-29T17:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/loans-make-comeback-as-issuance-doubles-buyouts-increase-credit-markets.html
Leveraged-loan issuance in the U.S.
more than doubled this year, as private-equity firms sought
funds for buyouts and borrowers refinanced debt amid a rebound
from the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  More than $369 billion of loans were raised as of Dec. 28,
led by financing for the purchases of  Tomkins Plc  and  Burger
King Holdings Inc. , up from $170 billion in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Interest rates fell to 3.91
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate on
average, from 10.28 percentage points at the end of 2009,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Cheap financing will bolster the loan market again in 2011,
as buyout firms seek cash for acquisitions and borrowers
refinance some of the more than $288 billion in bank debt due in
the next four years, data from Barclays Capital and S&P LCD
show. The return of collateralized loan obligations should also
create demand as investors seek out higher returns while the
Federal Reserve keeps interest rates near zero.  “You have this great set of fundamentals that are pushing
people into bank debt and you have yield issues driving people
into high yield, which has created a credit market that is
absolutely phenomenal,” said  John Eydenberg , global head of
financial sponsors coverage at Deutsche Bank AG in New York,
where he advises private equity firms. “The rocket fuel that
powers financial sponsors is the credit markets.”  Leveraged-Loan Returns  The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index  returned 9.35
percent this year as of Dec. 28, following last year’s 52.23
percent. In 2008 the index lost 28.2 percent. Gains for junk
bond this year were 14.78 percent as of Dec. 28, based on the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index.  Leveraged loans and junk bonds are typically rated below
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s  and less than Baa3 at  Moody’s
Investors Service .  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. mall owner, got a 3 billion-pound ($4.6 billion)
loan that will help the company bid for  Capital Shopping Centres
Group Plc . The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from
default was little changed, and Austria’s  A-Tec Industries AG 
rose as much as 32 percent in Vienna trading after key creditors
said they support a restructuring plan.  Simon Property Financing  Simon Property Group obtained the 3-billion pound financing
for a group of banks led by Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, the Indianapolis-
based company said today in a statement. The agreement will be
completed next week.  The loan “would enable Simon to satisfy in full
acceptances due under a firm offer for CSC,” Simon said. The
company’s own board has given its approval to make a bid for the
London-based landlord.  The U.K. Takeover Panel gave Simon until Jan. 12 to
announce a “firm intention” to make an offer for Capital
Shopping. Simon made a conditional offer of 425 pence a share on
Dec. 15, valuing the U.K. company at 2.9 billion pounds. The bid
depends on Capital Shopping abandoning a 1.6 billion-pound
purchase of the Trafford Centre in Manchester that would give
Peel Group, the seller, as much as 25 percent of Capital
Shopping.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds was little changed
from near an eight-month low.  Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.24 basis point to a mid-
price of 85.44 basis points as of 12:43 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.
Yesterday’s notional volume on the current CDX series was 95.5
percent less than the average over the last 28 days, Markit data
show.  U.S. businesses probably expanded for the 15th straight
month and pending home sales probably rose, economists said
before reports tomorrow. Data yesterday showed a surge in
holiday spending even as consumer confidence unexpectedly fell
and home values dropped.  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended Dec. 21
at 84.8 basis points, the lowest since 82 basis points on April
15. It has declined from 99.4 basis points on Nov. 30.  Bonds from New York-based Citigroup Inc. were the most
actively traded U.S. corporate securities by dealers, with 40
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  A-Tec Surges  A-Tec’s shares surged as high as 2.799 euros in Vienna
trading, the biggest jump since Dec. 3. The shares rose after
the insolvent engineering group announced told  Austrian state
radio ORF  that key creditors support a debt restructuring plan
that will be the subject of a vote today. The company’s lawyer
Norbert Abel said in the radio interview that approval for a
plan under which creditors would be paid 47 percent of their
claims is “very likely because there is a consensus with the
key creditor groups.” A-Tec will seek investors to buy it or
its assets, which range from copper producers to builders of
power plants. Abel said there have been expressions of interest
already, without giving further detail.  A-Tec filed for insolvency Oct. 20 after efforts by the
Vienna-based company to refinance a bond failed. The insolvency
is Austria’s third-biggest in post-war history. Its largest
unit, AE&E, followed on Nov. 24. Two of AE&E’s subsidiaries have
been sold.  Shrinking Interest Margins  Shrinking interest margins translated into interest savings
of almost $6.5 million this year on every $100 million of loans
borrowed, according to data from S&P’s LCD. While up from 2009,
issuance remains below the record $879.4 billion reached in
2007. Of the amount raised this year, $31 billion was used to
pay dividends to company owners, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Deutsche Bank, which cited S&P LCD.  “I expect issuance to be pretty robust next year,”  Greg Stoeckle , managing director and head of Invesco Ltd.’s $18
billion bank-loan business, said in a telephone interview.  Investors moved into the loan market this year as prices of
the debt rose and the global default rate dropped to 3.3 percent
in November from a high of 13.55 percent in November 2009,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Loan prices improved 5.6
percent this year, trading at 92.68 cents on the dollar Dec. 28,
as measured by the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Loan Fund Inflows  More than $14 billion flowed into leveraged-loan funds in
2010, according to AMG/Lipper data as cited in a Dec. 16 Bank of
America report. GSO Capital Partners LP, which is the credit
investment arm of Blackstone Group LP; and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. were among firms this year that said they were raising
funds to invest in loans.  The most interesting trend “has been the influx of cross-
over investors and new investors coming in and paying attention
to the space, not as an opportunistic play, which I think was
the story in 2009, but as a core allocation,” Stoeckle said.
New investors include pension funds, traditional fixed-income
bond accounts and some hedge funds, he said.  Insurance companies, prime-rate funds and separate-managed
accounts have also expressed interest, said  Tim Broadbent , head
of Americas leveraged-loan syndicate at Barclays Capital in New
York.  “It’s a pretty broad and diversified base of buyers that
is likely to continue,” he said in a telephone interview.  CLO Issuance  New CLOs, a type of collateralized debt obligation that
pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities
of varying risk and return, increased this year. More than $3.4
billion were issued in the U.S., more than double 2009’s $1.22
billion volume though still below the 2007 peak of $91.1
billion, Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley data show. Morgan Stanley
predicts issuance of $15 billion to $20 billion in 2011.  Apollo Global Management LLC  and GSO are among managers
that completed CLOs. Spreads on the highest-rated portion of the
debt, the slice rated AAA by S&P, were 215 basis points more
than Libor as of Dec. 16 after widening to as much as 725 basis
points in April 2009. Spreads were as narrow as 23 basis points
in 2007, according to Morgan Stanley data.  The market for CLOs has “cracked open again but it is not
doing so with any tremendous volume and most aggressive
forecasts are for $15 billion of issuance,” Stoeckle said.
“When you think of that in overall market size, that is still
pretty small.”  The increased loan issuance will help fund buyouts as
private-equity firms sit on the sidelines with about $485
billion of uninvested capital, according to data from PitchBook
Data Inc.  LBO Financings  3G Capital announced in September it was buying Burger King
for $4 billion, while Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and
Onex Corp. said in July they were purchasing Tomkins. KKR & Co.,
Vestar Capital Partners and Centerview Partners plan to raise as
much as $4.6 billion of debt to back their $5.3 billion buyout
of Del Monte Foods Co., according to a regulatory filing.  “The capacity for the market on the LBO side just isn’t
there to do the $30-, $40-, $50 billion dollar deals,” said
Deutsche Bank’s Eydenberg. “The sweet spot in the market is in
the single digits and the biggest deal of the year was Del
Monte, which didn’t crest a double-digit billion. I do think
2011 will hold a $15 billion deal.”  Bank of America remains the top arranger of leveraged
loans, increasing its share to 19 percent as of Dec. 28 from
16.5 percent in 2009, Bloomberg data show. JPMorgan is second
with 13.9 percent of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  