-- Home Prices Probably Fell, Showing U.S. Economy's Weak Link
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-28T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/home-prices-probably-fell-showing-u-s-economy-s-weak-link.html
Home prices probably dropped in
October, a sign housing will remain a weak link as the U.S.
recovery accelerates into the new year, economists said before
reports today.  Property values in 20 cities were down 0.2 percent from
October 2009, the first year-over-year decline since January,
according to the median  forecast  of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Other data may show consumer  confidence  rose to
a seven-month high this month.  A wave of foreclosures waiting to reach the market means
home prices will remain under pressure in 2011, representing a
risk to household finances. Rising stock values and an improving
job market will probably help offset the damage, ensuring that
confidence and spending continue to strengthen.  “It’s going to take a long time for this excess inventory
to clear and that means further downward pressure on prices,”
said  Neil Dutta , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Research in New York. “Consumer confidence has recovered,
but it’s not predicting a boom in the economy.”  S&P/Case-Shiller  home-price index is due at 9 a.m. New York
time. Economists surveyed projected the gauge declined 0.6
percent in October from the prior month, when it fell 0.8
percent. The index was down 29 percent in September from its
July 2006 peak.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Fewer Permits  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
stuck near recession levels even as the broader economy is
recovering.  Housing permits  fell in November to the third-lowest
level on record, while starts rose for the first time in three
months, the Commerce Department reported Dec. 16.  Sales of  new  and  existing  homes last month rose less than
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, reports from the Commerce Department and the National
Association of Realtors showed last week.  The lack of demand has depressed homebuilding stocks this
year. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Homebuilding Index ,
which includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., is up 3.2
percent since Dec. 31, while the broader  S&P 500  has increased
13 percent.  Rising stock prices are helping mend household finances
even as home values slide, one reason why sentiment and spending
are improving as 2010 comes to a close.  More Confidence  The Conference Board’s confidence index increased to 56.4
this month from 54.1 in November, according to the  median 
estimate of economists surveyed. The index averaged 96.8 during
the last economic expansion that ended in December 2007.  Job growth is also helping boost confidence. Employers
added 951,000 workers to payrolls in the first 11 months of the
year, according to figures from the Labor Department. December
data is due Jan. 7.  The gains haven’t been large enough to reduce  unemployment ,
which was at 9.8 percent last month after finishing 2009 at 10
percent.  Growing confidence and more jobs are helping lift household
spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy. The
International Council of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14 revised its
November-December holiday-season sales forecast up by 0.5
percentage point to a range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent.  Carnival Corp. , the world’s biggest cruise-line operator,
last week forecast fiscal 2011 earnings will rise as ticket
prices strengthen.  ‘Strong’ Bookings  “Booking trends have continued to improve for both our
North American and European brands, particularly for our peak
summer season,” Chief Executive Officer  Micky Arison  said in a
Dec. 21 statement. The Miami-based company’s heaviest booking
period, which begins in early January, will be “strong,” he
said.  Economists this month have boosted projections for fourth-
quarter growth, reflecting a pickup in spending and passage of
an $858 billion bill extending all Bush-era tax cuts for two
years. The legislation also continues expanded unemployment
insurance benefits through 2011 and cuts payrolls taxes by 2
percentage points next year.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  