-- Top 2010 Films Feature Firth’s Stuttering King, Duvall’s Hermit
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-28T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/top-movies-feature-firth-s-stuttering-king-duvall-s-hermit-rick-warner.html
A stuttering king, a hillbilly
hermit, a trapped mountain climber and an Internet entrepreneur
are among the varied subjects of my favorite films of 2010.  The list includes movies from England, France and
Argentina. There are dramas, documentaries and animated
features. Some have star-studded casts, others have no stars at
all.  What they all have is a compelling story, well told. Here
are my picks, in alphabetical order:  “Fish Tank”: Katie Jarvis makes an unforgettable film
debut as an alienated British teenager living in a dreary
housing project in Andrea Arnold’s coming-of-age story.  “Get Low”: Based on a real 1938 incident, this tender,
whimsical film stars  Robert Duvall  as a Tennessee hermit who
stages his own funeral while he’s still alive.  “Inside Job”:  Charles Ferguson  brilliantly dissects the
causes of the worst economic meltdown since the Great
Depression.  “Mother and Child”: Rodrigo Garcia’s beautifully written
and acted movie about three women profoundly affected by
adoption. Stars  Annette Bening ,  Naomi Watts  and Kerry
Washington.  “127 Hours”:  James Franco  is practically a one-man show
in this true, harrowing story about a mountain climber pinned
under a boulder in a remote Utah canyon. Warning: Some viewers
have fainted during the scene where he cuts off part of his arm
to free himself.  ‘Rabbit Hole’  “Rabbit Hole”:  Nicole Kidman  and  Aaron Eckhart  play a
couple torn apart by their young son’s death in this moving
adaptation of  David Lindsay-Abaire ’s Pulitzer Prize-winning
play.  “The Illusionist”: Sylvain Chomet’s animated feature
about an aging musician and a teenage admirer is a poetic
meditation on love, friendship and deception. Based on an
unproduced script by legendary French filmmaker Jacques Tati.  “The King’s Speech”: A stirring drama about the unlikely
friendship between King George VI and the eccentric speech
therapist who helped the British monarch overcame his severe
stutter.  Colin Firth  and  Geoffrey Rush  are impeccable.  “The Secret in Their Eyes”: This Argentine thriller about
a retired investigator who reopens a 25-year-old murder case is
a piercing exploration of obsessive love, unfulfilled desire and
fragmented memory. It won the Oscar for best foreign-language
film of 2009, but I’m including it here because it wasn’t
released in the U.S. until 2010.  ‘Social Network’  “The Social Network”: Jesse Eisenberg stars as Facebook
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  in this frenetic, multiviewpoint account
of the website’s creation. Combines screenwriter  Aaron Sorkin ’s
rapid-fire dialogue and director  David Fincher ’s bold visual
style.  “Toy Story 3”: More Pixar magic. With Andy about to leave
for college, Woody, Buzz Lightyear and the rest of his childhood
toys end up at a daycare center run by a dictatorial teddy bear.
Their attempts to escape and return to Andy appeal to the kid in
all of us.  “True Grit”: The Coen brothers remake of the 1969 John
Wayne Western is more violent and funnier than the original.
 Jeff Bridges  leads a sterling cast that includes  Matt Damon ,
 Barry Pepper  and newcomer Hailee Steinfeld as the precocious 14-
year-old who hires a drunken, trigger-happy U.S. Marshal to
track down her father’s killer.  ‘Wildest Dream’  “The Wildest Dream”: A fascinating documentary about
George Mallory, who died in 1924 while trying to become the
first man to summit the world’s tallest mountain. His climb is
recreated by Conrad Anker, who found Mallory’s corpse near the
peak in 1999.  “Winter’s Bone”: Debra Granik’s bleak, heartbreaking tale
is set among the dirt-poor in the Ozark Mountains. Jennifer
Lawrence is mesmerizing as a teenager searching for her druggie
father.  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 