-- Orange Juice Falls as Frost Concern Ebbs; Cotton Drops; Cocoa, Coffee Gain
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-28T20:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/orange-juice-falls-as-frost-concern-eases-cotton-cocoa-coffee-advance.html
Orange-juice dropped the most in
two weeks on signs that damage to citrus groves in Florida, the
world’s second-biggest grower, was less severe than expected.
Cotton declined, while cocoa and coffee climbed.  Florida’s orange crop probably didn’t suffer any
“significant” damage from overnight temperatures that dropped
to the freezing point in Orlando and Tampa,  Jim Dale , a senior
meteorologist at British Weather Services, said today in an e-
mailed comment.  “The panic that gripped the market yesterday has gone as
it was not as bad as was expected,” said  Jimmy Tintle , an
analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa. “So it’s basically buy
on rumors and sell on facts.”  Orange juice for March delivery fell 6.95 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $1.6175 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the biggest drop since Dec. 14. Yesterday,
the most-active contract surged 2.9 percent on concern that the
cold would damage the Florida crop.  The state will produce 143 million boxes of oranges in the
harvest that began in October and runs into July, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said on Dec. 10. That’s down from an
October estimate of 146 million boxes.  In the previous season, output dropped to 133.6 million
boxes, the second-smallest crop in two decades, after a January
freeze damaged fruit. A box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  Cotton, Cocoa  Cotton futures for March delivery declined 1.4 cents, or 1
percent, to $1.4435 a pound on ICE. The price has fallen for
four straight sessions, dropping 9.3 percent.  “We are witnessing end-of-the-year profit-taking,” said
 Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana.  Cocoa futures for March delivery advanced $25, or 0.8
percent, to $3,065 a metric ton in New York. The commodity has
gained 9.2 percent this month on concern that political unrest
may disrupt supplies from Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest
producer.  Exports from the African nation fell 16 percent in
November from a year earlier, according to data supplied by the
ports of Abidjan and San Pedro.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery rose 1.85 cents,
or 0.8 percent, to settle at $2.393 a pound in New York, the
highest closing price since June 1997. The commodity has jumped
76 percent this year.  The NYSE Liffe exchange in London is closed today because
of a public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net . 