-- More States to Follow Arizona Push for Tougher Immigration Laws
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/more-states-seeking-to-follow-arizona-s-push-for-tougher-immigration-rules.html
Arizona’s get-tough approach to
illegal immigration has sparked court challenges likely to take
years to resolve.  Randy Terrill , a Republican state lawmaker
from Oklahoma, won’t be waiting to see what judges decide.  Terrill is among dozens of state legislators across the
U.S. drafting measures that match or go further than the Arizona
law, which requires police to check the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning. He’s readying legislation to
allow Oklahoma authorities to seize and keep the vehicle of
anyone found to be harboring an illegal immigrant who is a
passenger, regardless of whether smuggling is suspected. The
measure would categorize undocumented immigrants as “human
contraband.”  Elsewhere, Missouri and Mississippi are among states where
lawmakers intend to offer bills similar to Arizona’s “probable
cause” law. And legislators in several states want to require
employers to verify the immigration status of workers.  The state-by-state efforts underscore the federal gridlock
on immigration policy. “States are stepping in where the
federal government can’t or won’t act,” said Terrill.  About 300 immigration-related bills were introduced in
statehouses in 2005, said Ann Morse, who directs the Immigrant
Policy Project for the  National Conference of State
Legislatures . In each of the last two years, the figure reached
about 1,500, she said.  In 2011, state legislators could push the number higher.
“Every indication I get is, they’re not done,” Morse said.  Republican Gains  Republican gains in state legislatures will drive some of
the proposals. In November’s elections, the party won enough
seats to take control of 20 additional statehouse chambers. With
these pickups, Republicans now control the legislative branch in
25 states, up from 14, according to the Denver, Colorado-based
NCSL.  In some states, newly-elected Republican governors want to
press ahead with more stringent immigration laws. Governor-elect
 Nikki Haley  of South Carolina said she wants to sign into law a
measure like Arizona’s next year. She also wants to boost state
funding for immigration enforcement and press for increased
deportation of illegal immigrants within her state’s borders.  Florida’s  Rick Scott  campaigned on copying Arizona’s
approach, as did Georgia’s  Nathan Deal  -- who also wants to
revoke birthright U.S. citizenship for babies of illegal
immigrants.  In other states, Democratic chief executives may find
themselves at odds with Republican-controlled legislatures over
immigration policy. Governor  Jay Nixon  of Missouri and
Governor-elect  John Hickenlooper  of Colorado have said they
oppose an Arizona-type “probable cause” law that some
Republican legislators in their states have suggested they
might propose.  Washington Inaction  Behind the push at the state level is the inaction in
Washington. The last broad rewrite of federal immigration policy
was in 1986. In 2007, an effort by Republican President  George W. Bush  for a comprehensive revision collapsed, with Republican
lawmakers and some Democrats calling for increased security at
the U.S.-Mexico border before Congress should tackle the status
of undocumented workers.  The Department of Homeland Security estimates that the
number of illegal immigrants in the U.S. declined to 10.8
million in January 2009, the latest figure available, from 11.6
million in January 2008.  DREAM Act  President  Barack Obama  has yet to propose a restructuring
of immigration policy. A piecemeal approach tried by
congressional Democrats failed on Dec. 19 when the Senate
thwarted a bill, the so-called DREAM Act, to allow legal status
for some illegal immigrants attending college or in the U.S.
military.  The bill was blocked by Senate Republicans and a handful of
Democrats. And with Republicans taking control of the House in
January, chances for changes to immigration law beyond tougher
enforcement measures will drop significantly.  The Arizona law serving as a template for lawmakers in
other states faces a challenge from the Obama administration,
which argues that the statute unconstitutionally veers into
matters of federal jurisdiction. A federal judge has issued a
stay on enforcement of parts of the law.  States where the “probable cause” measure could pass next
year include South Carolina, Florida, Mississippi and Georgia,
said  Tamar Jacoby , president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a network
of business groups that favors more legal immigration.  ‘Looks Plausible’  “Those are states where I see legislators that have a
track record for doing this type of thing, who are making
serious preparations and where the political landscape looks
plausible,” Jacoby said.  In Texas, one legislator in November camped out for two
days outside the House chamber so she could be first in line to
file an Arizona-like measure.  The U.S. Supreme Court this month heard arguments in a
challenge to another Arizona law that revokes the corporate
charters of companies that hire illegal immigrants. The 2007 law
also requires employers to participate in E-Verify, a system
designed to confirm worker eligibility for employment through
federal databases. The system is voluntary under federal law
after the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business lobby, questioned its accuracy and said errors may
force companies to fire legal immigrants.  Mississippi and South Carolina have joined Arizona in
approving a mandatory-use law for all employers. States that
could join them in 2011 include Georgia, Virginia and Texas,
said Van Esser, chief of membership services at  NumbersUSA ,
which supports tougher enforcement measures.  Central Source  Many of the efforts are getting help from a central source,
the  Immigration Reform Law Institute . At the legal arm of the
 Federation for American Immigration Reform , a group that wants
to crack down on illegal immigration, the institute’s attorneys
are drafting measures.  “I’ve been personally approached by lawmakers from all
over the country,” said Kris Kobach, a counsel for the group
who helped to draft Arizona’s “probable cause” law.  Combating their efforts are groups like the  American Civil
Liberties Union  and the  Police Foundation , an association that
says police departments will be overburdened if they take on the
responsibility for enforcing immigration laws.  On another front, lawmakers in at least a dozen states
working with a new group called State Legislators for Legal
Immigration will introduce bills to try to push into the courts
the issue of automatic U.S citizenship rights for children born
in this country of illegal-immigrant parents. That right is
afforded under the U.S. Constitution’s 14th Amendment.  Birthright Citizenship  Past efforts to take on birthright citizenship have failed.
Still, the measures send a message about dissatisfaction with
lack of federal action on immigration, said Morse.  Some states want to advance legislation that denies
children of illegal immigrants access to state benefits. The
measures may also require them to have different birth
certificates that identify their parents as undocumented
immigrants.  “We shouldn’t be granting citizenship” to children of
“someone who has entered our country illegally,” said state
Representative  Daryl Metcalfe  of Pennsylvania, who leads State
Legislators for Legal Immigration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  