-- Housing Starts Seen Rising to Three-Year High With Belated U.S. Jobs Boost
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-12-28T16:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/housing-starts-seen-rising-to-three-year-high-with-belated-u-s-jobs-boost.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may be about to get help in his attempt to boost the
economy, from an industry at rock-bottom: housing.  Job growth, even with  unemployment  at 9.4 percent or higher
since May 2009, and an increasing U.S. population mean home
construction probably will improve in 2011 from its near-record
low, said  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer at
Advisors Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New
Jersey. Mortgage rates are less than 5 percent, further
supporting affordability.  A rise in homebuilding would increase jobs for construction
workers and also for people in industries supplying the stoves
and sinks that go into new homes. As housing shrank to the
smallest share of the economy on record, 2.23 percent, job
growth slowed. The economy added 39,000 jobs in November; 5,000
construction jobs were lost.  “The housing market is going to shock people,” said
Lieberman, former head of monetary analysis at the Fed Bank of
New York. “Once we get the ball rolling, it becomes easy to
roll. The most critical thing the Fed can do, which is not easy,
is to promote job growth. If we see job growth we are going to
see a very strong housing market.”  Jobs will rise by an average of 200,000 a month next year,
pushing the unemployment rate, 9.8 percent in November, down by
almost one percentage point, he said.  Interest Rates  At the Fed’s meeting to discuss monetary policy on Dec. 14,
Bernanke and other members of the Federal Open Market Committee
reviewed their $600 billion bond-purchase program. One hope for
2011 is that the Fed’s near-zero interest rates will finally be
able to start reversing a half-decade slump in housing.  Residential investment’s share of the economy fell to 2.23
percent in the third quarter of 2010, the lowest since records
began in 1946, from 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005,
the highest in 55 years. That plunge has driven job losses in
the construction industry: They fell to 5.6 million this year
from 7.7 million in 2006.  Housing starts probably will reach a three-year high of
739,000 in 2011, creating enough jobs to shave half a percentage
point off the unemployment Rate, said  David Crowe , chief
economist of the National Association of Home Builders in
Washington.  Ugly Cycle  “This is an ugly economic cycle,” he said in a telephone
interview. “We need job creation to get people comfortable with
buying a home. If they do that, we’ll create jobs that will
reinforce that home buying and fuel additional job growth.”
More building in 2011 will add almost 500,000 jobs, he said. The
 homebuilders’ association  expects an unemployment rate of 9.1
percent by the end of 2011.  A bottom in the housing market would improve the prospects
of companies in the  Standard and Poor’s Midcap Homebuilding
Index , which has declined 68 percent since its peak in July
2005.  Douglas Yearley , the chief of index-member Toll Brothers
Inc., said in a Dec. 8 interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters that the worst is over for housing.  “The recovery is here to stay,” said Yearley, whose
company, based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, is the largest U.S.
luxury-home builder. “I think 2011 will be an improving year,
but I think 2012 will be a big year for us.”  The number of signed contracts to purchase Toll Brothers
homes rose 6.3 percent in the 12 months ended in October,
compared with a year earlier, the first gain since 2005, the
company said in a Dec. 2 report.  Homebuilders ETF  The average price rose 6.1 percent to $565,079, the first
increase since 2006. The builder’s shares are up 8 percent this
month, compared with a 6.5 percent gain for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index .  The S&P Homebuilders Exchange-Traded Fund, which includes
Los Angeles-based KB Home and Fort Worth-based D.R. Horton Inc.,
has risen 13.3 percent since November 18, compared with 4.8
percent for the S&P 500 ETF.  Builders in the U.S. began work on 555,000 housing units in
November at an annual rate, compared with the 477,000 units in
April 2009 that was the lowest in census records dating to 1959.  Meanwhile, the U.S. population has continued to grow. Data
from the 2010 census, released last week in Washington, show the
population climbed to 308.7 million from 281.4 million in 2000,
an average increase of 2.7 million a year.  More Households  The number of U.S. households, an indicator of real estate
demand, probably will rise 0.7 percent to 118.7 million in 2011,
the biggest annual gain since the beginning of the mortgage
crisis in 2007, according to  Patrick Newport , an economist with
 IHS Global Insight  in Lexington, Massachusetts.  The lack of new housing starts has been “holding back the
recovery, but arguably that drag is fading now that the
financial system is recovering,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York. He expects a 12 percent
increase in residential investment in 2011, along with job
growth of 200,000 a month by June, as much as 225,000 a month by
the second half and an unemployment rate of 8.8 percent by the
fourth quarter.  Housing starts  will probably improve from their current
lows while remaining well below their long-term trend, he said.
A key to that forecast is support from low interest rates, which
boosted home-buying capacity to record levels in October.  Affording Housing  Housing  affordability , measured by the ease with which a
family with median income can afford a median-priced home,
reached a record of 184.2 in October, the highest index reading
in more than two decades of data, according to the National
Association of Realtors in Washington.  Home prices continued to decline. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values fell 0.8 percent from October 2009, the
biggest year-over-year decline since December 2009, the group
said today in New York. Eighteen of 20 cities showed a decrease
in prices in October, led by a 2.1 percent drop in Atlanta, and
declines of 1.8 percent in Chicago and Minneapolis.  Still, mortgage rates have shaken off the initial damping
effect of the Fed’s purchase program, known as QE2 for the
second round of quantitative easing. The average U.S. rate for a
30-year  fixed mortgage  rose to 4.81 percent during the week
ended Dec. 23 from an all-time low of 4.17 percent in mid-
November, according to Freddie Mac, the McLean, Virginia,
mortgage buyer.  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses unexpectedly jumped
by a record 10 percent in October, the Realtor group said
earlier this month, indicating the industry may be stabilizing.
Completed transactions in November rose 5.6 percent to 4.68
million at an annual pace, NAR said last week. Purchases of new
houses rose 5.5 percent to a 290,000 annual rate in November,
the Commerce Department said Dec. 23, less than the 300,000
median forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Gradual Improvement’  Robert Niblock , chairman and chief executive officer of
 Lowe’s Cos. , the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
and  Ian McCarthy , CEO of Beazer Homes USA Inc., expressed
qualified optimism for the housing outlook. Niblock said in a
Nov. 15 earnings teleconference that “even in a difficult
environment, we are seeing gradual improvement in the
fundamentals of the housing market.”  Atlanta-based Beazer, a builder of entry homes, expects
national single-family housing starts to increase in 2011,
“likely in low double-digit percentages,” McCarthy said in a
Nov. 5 earnings call.  The diminished share of the economy for building new homes
means that improvement from record lows won’t boost growth as
much as in the past, said  Paul Dales , U.S. economist for Capital
Economics Ltd. in Toronto. He agreed that residential investment
is poised to be a modest boost to gross domestic product.  No Drag  “Previously if you had a 10 percent increase it boosted
GDP by 0.6 percentage points,” Dales said. “Now, if it climbs
10 percent that’s a 0.2 percent boost. Housing starts are really
at rock bottom. They’re not going to be a drag on growth.”  In October, 1.4 million  construction workers were
unemployed  with only 46,000  job openings , a ratio of 31 workers
for every available job, according to Labor Department data.  The Fed has  completed $155.7 billion  of its intended $600
billion in purchases. The central bank is also reinvesting
proceeds from its holdings of maturing housing debt.  Its decision to begin a second round of asset purchases
sparked a political backlash in Washington, with Republican
lawmakers criticizing the move as likely to be inflationary.
Indiana Representative  Mike Pence  and Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  have proposed eliminating the Fed’s dual mandate for full
employment and price stability, and have the central bank focus
only on stable prices.  Can’t Get Weaker  Bernanke appeared on CBS Television’s “60 Minutes” on
Dec. 5 to address critics, saying he was “one hundred percent”
confident the central bank could control inflation.  Asked about his outlook for the economy, Bernanke said a
return to recession wasn’t likely, adding “that’s because,
among other things, some of the most cyclical parts of the
economy, like housing, for example, are already very weak. And
they can’t get much weaker.”  Fed policy makers weren’t optimistic about the housing
outlook at their Nov. 2-3 meeting, citing the elevated supply
due to foreclosures. Some “saw disputes over mortgage and
foreclosure documents as likely to delay the eventual recovery
in housing markets,” according to the minutes of that meeting.  “Residential investment has failed to make a positive
contribution to growth in this recovery,” said Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  in a Dec. 6 speech in Charlotte, North
Carolina.  ‘Legacy of Overbuilding’  “This contrasts with the two other severe recessions of
the past 60 years, in which residential investment increased an
average of 40 percent in the first year of the recovery,” he
said. “Given the significant legacy of overbuilding, unique to
this recession, I do not expect housing to contribute
significantly to growth over the next two years.”  An elevated rate of  foreclosure  may not derail a rebound in
housing, said Lieberman of Advisors Capital. The firm managed
$55.7 million of U.S. stocks as of Sept. 30, including real
estate investment trusts Sun Communities Inc. and Colonial
Properties Trust, according to Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.  Foreclosures are “half the story,” said Lieberman,
because people who lose their homes must find residences
elsewhere. “They neither disappear nor move to Mars. They take
another rental off the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net . 