-- Out of Lehman's Ashes Wall Street Gets Most of What It Wants
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/out-of-lehman-s-ashes-wall-street-gets-what-it-wants-as-government-obliges.html
Wall Street’s biggest banks, whose
missteps caused a global financial crisis and economic slowdown
two years ago, were more agile when it came to countering the
political and regulatory response.  The U.S. government, promising to make the system safer,
buckled under many of the financial industry’s protests.
Lawmakers spurned changes that would wall off deposit-taking
banks from riskier trading. They declined to limit the size of
lenders or ban any form of derivatives. Higher capital and
liquidity requirements agreed to by regulators worldwide have
been delayed for years to aid economic recovery.  “We continue to listen to the same people whose errors in
judgment were central to the problem,” said  John Reed , 71, a
former co-chief executive officer of  Citigroup Inc. , who
estimated only 25 percent of needed changes have been enacted.
“I’m astounded because we basically dropped the world’s biggest
economy because of an error in bank management.”  The last two years have been the best ever for combined
investment-banking and trading revenue at  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
 Morgan Stanley , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman
Sachs CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, and his top deputies are in line
to collect more than $100 million in delayed 2007 bonuses -- six
months after paying $550 million to settle a fraud lawsuit
related to the firm’s behavior that year. Citigroup, the bank
that needed more taxpayer support than any other, has a  balance
sheet  14 percent bigger than it was four years ago.  Army of Lobbyists  Wall Street’s army of lobbyists and its history of
contributions to politicians weren’t the only keys to success,
lawmakers, academics and industry executives said. The financial
system’s complexity gave bankers an advantage in controlling the
narrative and dismissing the ideas of would-be reformers as
infeasible or dangerous. A revolving door between government and
banking offices contributed to a mind-set that what’s good for
Wall Street is good for Main Street.  To make their case, bankers and lobbyists characterized
proposed regulations as stifling innovation, competitiveness and
economic growth. They said the industry had learned its lessons
and that firms were adopting changes voluntarily to be more
transparent and accountable. Successful companies shouldn’t be
punished for the sins of those that failed, they said.  “It is important to look beyond the rhetoric and ask the
tough questions about underlying structural changes that promote
responsible reforms and stability to our financial system, yet
support the ability of financial firms to innovate and serve the
needs of families and employers,”  Timothy Ryan , CEO of the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , an
industry lobbying group, wrote in a Feb. 5 op-ed piece for the
Washington Post.  ‘Culture of Greed’  That argument resonated with lawmakers under pressure to
boost a fragile economy and bring down an  unemployment rate  that
has hovered near 10 percent since August 2009, its highest level
in more than a quarter of a century.  “The big financial industry has convinced a lot of people,
particularly in Congress and on the regulatory side, that they
bring value to the economy with new instruments and new
approaches,” said  Byron Dorgan , a Democratic senator from North
Dakota who is retiring this year. “Anybody who wants to do
things that seem aggressive is called a radical populist.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  was elected in 2008, weeks
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in the largest
bankruptcy and the Federal Reserve and government provided
unprecedented support to insurance company  American
International Group Inc.  as well as nine of the largest banks.
Obama, who raised $15 million on Wall Street, promised that his
administration would “crack down on the culture of greed and
scheming” that he said led to the financial crisis.  Geithner, Summers  While Obama vowed to change the system, he filled his
economic team with people who helped create it.  Timothy F. Geithner , 49, who had been responsible for
overseeing banks including Citigroup while president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, became Treasury secretary and
named a former Goldman Sachs lobbyist as his chief of staff.
 Lawrence H. Summers , 56, who is stepping down as Obama’s
National Economic Council director, opposed derivatives
regulation and supported the 1999 repeal of the Depression-era
Glass-Steagall Act, which separated commercial and investment
banking, when he served as deputy Treasury secretary and
Treasury secretary in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  ‘Free Pass’  “It was very clear by February 2009 that the banks were
going to get a free pass,” said  Simon Johnson , a former chief
economist for the International Monetary Fund who is now a
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s  Sloan
School of Management . “You could see from the hiring of Tim
Geithner and from the messages that he and his team were putting
out that this was going to go very badly.”  Even when changes were advocated by people who couldn’t be
characterized as radical populists, their ideas were dismissed
as unrealistic, misinformed, advancing ulterior motives or
damaging to U.S. competitiveness.  Such tactics helped bat back suggestions from billionaire
hedge fund manager  George Soros  and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Vice
Chairman  Charles Munger  that regulators ban purchases of
so-called naked credit-default swaps -- contracts that allow
speculators to profit if a debt issuer defaults.  Geithner was an early opponent of any such ban, arguing at
a March 2009 House Financial Services Committee hearing that it
wasn’t necessary and wouldn’t help.  “It’s too hard to distinguish what’s a legitimate hedge
that has some economic value from what people might just feel is
a speculative bet on some future outcome,” he said.  ‘Unbelievably Complicated’  Dorgan, 68, who offered an amendment to the Dodd-Frank bill
that would have banned such swaps and who wrote a 1994  article 
for Washington Monthly warning about the dangers posed by
over-the-counter derivatives, said supporters in Congress backed
down because they didn’t get pressure from their constituents.  “The debate that’s necessary on these subjects is a debate
that is so unbelievably complicated that the larger financial
institutions have always controlled the narrative,” Dorgan
said. “Even things that were fairly mild were contested as
anti-business and going to injure and ruin the economy.”  Instead Dodd-Frank gave regulators at the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission
the responsibility of writing rules governing the $583 trillion
market in over-the-counter derivatives. The law, named after
Connecticut Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Massachusetts
Representative  Barney Frank , requires that most derivatives be
traded on third-party clearinghouses and regulated exchanges.  Private Swaps  The CFTC withdrew a proposed rule on Dec. 9 after at least
one commissioner,  Scott O’Malia , a former aide to Republican
Senator  Mitch McConnell , objected. The rule would have required
dealers of private swaps to quote prices to all market users
before trades could be executed on an electronic system. A new
version, approved Dec. 16, will save dealers billions of
dollars, according to Moody’s Investors Service, because they
will be able to limit price information to select participants.  An amendment requiring banks to spin out their
swaps-dealing operations into separately capitalized units, so
they wouldn’t have access to government backstops, made it into
the Dodd-Frank bill. It was diluted at the end to exempt
interest-rate and foreign-exchange contracts that make up more
than 90 percent of the derivatives held by U.S. banks.  Banks were also allowed to trade derivatives used to hedge
their own risks and given up to two years to trade other types
of derivatives, such as credit-default swaps that aren’t
standard enough to be cleared through a central counterparty.  Too Big  A suggestion that banks deemed too big to fail should be
broken up or made small enough to fail -- an idea backed by
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan , Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  and hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  --
also failed to win support from U.S. policy makers, as bank
executives argued that size alone didn’t make a company risky
and that it could be essential for banks to compete.  Jamie Dimon , JPMorgan’s CEO, said in a January 2010
interview that most of the financial firms that collapsed during
the crisis were narrowly focused investment banks, insurers,
mortgage brokers or thrifts, not big integrated conglomerates.  “A lot of companies are big because they’re required to be
big because of economies of scale,” he said.  Glass-Steagall  The closest the Obama administration came to trying to
limit the size of banks was in January, when the president
proposed levying a fee on financial firms with assets of more
than $50 billion. The idea was never adopted by Congress.
Instead, it supported Geithner’s plan for a so-called resolution
authority that would give regulators the ability to manage an
orderly wind-down of a large financial company. Critics say the
authority is unlikely to work in practice because regulators
won’t have power over a bank’s international operations.  “The resolution authority as drawn up by Dodd-Frank does
not apply to the megabanks and doesn’t apply to JPMorgan Chase,
nor can it because that authority only applies to U.S. domestic
financial entities,” said MIT’s Johnson, a Bloomberg 
contributor. “If anything, it’s gotten worse because we have 
fewer big banks. The ones that remain are undoubtedly too big 
to fail.”  Even before Obama took office in January 2009, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul A. Volcker , an economic adviser to
the president-elect, was calling for clear distinctions between
banks that take deposits and make loans and those that engage in
riskier capital markets businesses. The recommendation, a modern
version of Glass-Steagall, was put forward in a  report  by the
Group of 30, an organization of current and former central
bankers, financial ministers, economists and financiers whose
board Volcker chairs.  Volcker Rule  Reed, the former Citigroup co-CEO, and  David Komansky , a
former CEO of Merrill Lynch & Co., were among those who said
publicly that they regretted having played a role in overturning
Glass-Steagall. Both of their former companies were crippled by
investments in mortgage-linked securities during the crisis, and
Merrill was sold to Bank of America in a hastily reached
agreement the same weekend Lehman Brothers went bankrupt.  “We have to think of the original reasons why
Glass-Steagall was brought down in the first place, and that is
the U.S. banks were competing with large, universal banks around
the world,” Goldman Sachs CEO Blankfein said in a March 2009
interview with Bloomberg Television. “So I don’t think we’d
turn the clock back.”  The idea was left out of Geithner’s original financial
regulation proposals and didn’t gain much support until January,
after a Republican upset a Democrat in a Massachusetts senate
race. Obama and his economic team, including Volcker, then
announced they were supporting a so-called Volcker rule that
would ban proprietary trading at regulated banks and prohibit
them from owning hedge funds and private equity funds.  Proprietary Trading  E. Gerald Corrigan , a former New York Fed president who
worked under Volcker at the Fed and is now a managing director
at Goldman Sachs, told a Senate hearing that banks shouldn’t be
prevented from owning and sponsoring hedge funds or private
equity funds because they promote “best industry practice.” He
urged a distinction between proprietary trading and “market
making” for clients or hedging related to such market making.  In the final version of Dodd-Frank, the Volcker rule ended
up looking much more like the Corrigan rule. Banks were allowed
to own or sponsor hedge funds and private equity funds and even
to invest in them as long as their holdings didn’t account for
more than 3 percent of the bank’s capital or 3 percent of the
fund’s capital.  The ban on proprietary trading exempted dealing in
government and agency securities. Regulators were charged with
deciding what other types of trading would be considered
proprietary and which would be deemed market-making.  Volcker was disappointed with the final version, according
to a person with knowledge of his views.  Dodd-Frank  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar , who
told analysts in January that “pure walled-off proprietary
trading” accounted for about 10 percent of the firm’s revenue,
said in October that the company had closed one such business
and was waiting to see if the rules would require other changes.  While the Dodd-Frank Act is the most sweeping financial
legislation in decades, creating a consumer-protection office
for financial products and a council of regulators charged with
monitoring systemic risk, it won’t fundamentally change a U.S.
banking system dominated by six companies with a combined $9.4
trillion of assets, MIT’s Johnson said.  ‘Falls Short’  The law won’t prevent lenders with federally guaranteed
deposits from gambling in the derivatives markets, though it
will place restrictions on some types of contracts and require
more transparent trading and central clearing. It does little to
solve the danger posed by leveraged firms reliant on fickle
markets for funding.  “It’s not my point to say that the legislation enacted is
worthless,” said Dorgan. “It requires more transparency and
disclosure and a series of things that are useful, even though
it falls short of what I think should have been done.”  The Treasury Department takes a more positive view. The law
“fundamentally changes the landscape of our financial
regulatory system for the better,” said  Steven Adamske , a
Treasury spokesman, in an e-mailed statement.  “The Obama administration and Secretary Geithner fought
hard to enact a tough set of reforms that reins in excessive
risk on Wall Street, protects the economic security of American
families on Main Street, and makes certain taxpayers are never
again put on the hook for the reckless acts of a few
irresponsible firms,” Adamske said. “It also creates a safer,
more transparent derivatives market through comprehensive
reform, bans risky pay practices, and it puts in place the
strongest consumer protections in history.”  2,300 Reasons  The biggest financial companies increased their spending on
lobbying in the first nine months of 2010 as they sought to
influence the legislative outcome, according to Senate records.
JPMorgan’s advocacy spending grew 35 percent, to $5.8 million
from $4.3 million, while Goldman Sachs’s jumped 71 percent to
$3.6 million.  Banks had “2,300 pages worth of reasons” for spending,
said  Scott Talbott , a lobbyist at the Financial Services
Roundtable, which represents the largest lenders and insurance
firms, referring to the size of the Dodd-Frank bill. “The
issues on Capitol Hill required more attention.”  ‘Always There’  Spending during 2010 probably played only a small role in
the ability of financial companies and trade groups to influence
legislators, according to  Anthony J. Nownes , a political science
professor at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville whose
books on the role of lobbyists include “Total Lobbying: What
Lobbyists Want (and How They Try to Get It)” (Cambridge
University Press).  “The idea that they stepped up their activity has some
truth, but the larger truth is that they always spend a lot of
money and this was no exception,” Nownes said. “They’re always
there, their viewpoints are always heard and it is a cumulative
effect -- they’ve been saying the same things for years and
years and years.”  Even as they were spending more on lobbying, the largest
U.S. banks cut their political giving for the 2010 elections. Of
the 10 biggest financial firms, only Goldman Sachs,  MetLife Inc. 
and the U.S. subsidiary of  Deutsche Bank AG  spent more from
their political action committees during the 2009-2010 election
cycle than they did in 2007-2008, according to Federal Election
Commission filings.  Talbott said the decrease was partly because of the
economic slump, and also because some members of Congress
refused to take donations from banks that received federal funds
during the crisis.  Orszag, Lubke  The financial industry is adept at hiring people with
experience in Congress and government, which gives it an edge in
understanding the best tactics to use, Nownes said. This month
Citigroup recruited former Obama administration budget director
 Peter Orszag  as a vice chairman in its global banking business,
and Goldman Sachs hired  Theo Lubke  from the New York Fed, where
he oversaw efforts to make the derivatives market safer.  Research shows that lawmakers are more susceptible to
lobbying on issues that are complex, technical or economic,
which benefits the banks, Nownes said.  “This certainly was a huge advantage for them, especially
in designing some of the more intricate details of this piece of
legislation,” he said. “The more technical and complex, the
bigger the informational advantage they have.”  Tax on Bonuses  Even in areas that weren’t technical, such as bonuses, the
financial industry was able to resist tough regulation.  With polls showing strong popular support for limits on
pay, former British Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  pressed for a
tax on banker bonuses and one on financial transactions to deter
speculative trading.  Obama didn’t go that far. Instead, the administration
appointed Washington lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg  to review pay for
the 100 top executives at firms receiving “exceptional
assistance” from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Feinberg
ordered cuts at Bank of America, Citigroup and AIG, as well as
at two bankrupt car companies and their finance divisions.  The administration, while opposing any pay caps, urged
regulators to require changes that would better align
compensation with risk, such as paying bonuses in restricted
stock. Several banks responded by raising bankers’ salaries. So
far this year, five Wall Street banks -- Bank of America,
JPMorgan, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley -- have
set aside more than $91 billion for salaries and bonuses.  Money ‘Paralyzes’  In early 2010, Virginia Senator  James Webb  and California
Senator  Barbara Boxer , both Democrats, proposed an amendment to
a jobs bill that would have imposed a 50 percent tax on any
bonuses above $400,000 collected in 2009 by executives at banks
that received at least $5 billion in TARP funds.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which opposed the tax, urged
senators to reject the idea because it “would likely hamper
efforts to resolve the ongoing financial crisis, restore
economic growth, spur job creation and is likely
unconstitutional.” The bill never made it to a vote.  “Neither party wanted to touch that issue,” Webb said at
the  Washington Ideas Forum  on Oct. 1. “Quite frankly, the way
that money affects the political process sometimes paralyzes us
from doing what we should do.”  In a Bloomberg News National Poll conducted Dec. 4 through
Dec. 7, 71 percent of Americans said big bonuses should be
banned this year at Wall Street firms that took taxpayer
bailouts, and 17 percent said bonuses above $400,000 should be
subject to a one-time 50 percent tax. Only 7 percent of the
respondents said they consider bonuses a reflection of Wall
Street’s return to health and an appropriate incentive.  Protecting Stockholders  Reed, the former Citigroup executive, said he didn’t
understand why lawmakers gave so much credit to arguments made
by financial-industry participants whose job it is to put the
interests of their shareholders above any concern for the safety
of the financial system.  “I’m surprised that the people in Washington think that
the stockholders are the people that they should protect,” Reed
said. “It would seem to me that the people who should be
protected are the overall banking system and the many, many,
many companies that depend on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 