-- Palm Oil Advances to a 33-Month High as Dry Weather Curbs Soybean Outlook
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-12-28T10:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/palm-oil-advances-to-a-33-month-high-as-dry-weather-curbs-soybean-outlook.html
Palm oil climbed to a 33-month high
on concern that a prolonged drought in regions of South America
may reduce output of soybeans, boosting the demand outlook for
vegetable oils made from other plants.  March-delivery palm oil on the Malaysia Derivatives
Exchange gained for a seventh day to close at 3,778 ringgit
($1,221) a metric ton, the highest level since March 2008.
Soybeans advanced to a 28-month high.  Drought in Argentina caused by the La Nina weather event
may expand to parts of Brazil, depleting soil moisture and
increasing stress to crops in the area, Telvent DTN Inc. said in
a forecast yesterday. The two countries are the world’s second-
and third-largest shippers of soybeans and corn.  “Soybeans are the main driving factor,” Vijay Mehta,
director at Commodity Links Pte, said from Singapore today. The
expectation is that “there will be a drop in output,” he said.  Argentina’s soybean harvest may shrink 21 percent next year
as dry weather delays planting and worsens growing conditions,
Oil World said on Dec. 21. Output in five South American growing
nations may drop by 8 million to 10 million tons, the researcher
said. This year’s planted soybean crop in Argentina may fall by
200,000 hectares to 18.5 million hectares because of dry
conditions, the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said on Dec. 23.  “The supply outlook is very tight and significant crop
failure in Argentina would only further increase the strain on
U.S. supplies,” Phillip Futures Pte wrote in a report today.
“Forecasts for Argentina show extremely high temperatures for
some of the key growing areas, with lower-than-normal
rainfall.”  Soybeans Rise  Palm oil, which competes with soybean oil in food and
biofuel uses, has risen 42 percent this year, heading for a
second annual gain, on concern that rising demand from China and
India may strain global cooking-oil supplies.  Soybean futures for March advanced as much as 0.9 percent
to $13.9675 a bushel, the highest price for the most-active
contract since August 2008. March-delivery soybean oil in
Chicago gained 0.2 percent to 57.84 cents a pound at 6:06 p.m.,
taking this year’s gain to 42 percent.  The La Nina weather event has lowered oil-palm yields and
disrupted harvesting in Indonesia and Malaysia, the two largest
producers, while drought in South America has affected soybean
crops. Increased food demand in Asia will help boost prices next
year, fueling faster inflation,  Yougesh Khatri , a senior
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said on Dec. 24.  Still, demand from South Asian countries including India,
Pakistan and Bangladesh is “dead,” Mehta said. Palm oil buyers
in particular are “very quiet, due to the high prices and huge
disparity in the local market.”  “The market has almost reached a point where it really
needs” to undergo a correction, Mehta said. Only then will some
buying interest return, he said. He expects palm oil prices to
reach 4,000 ringgit a ton in January.  Palm oil for September on the Dalian Commodity Exchange
gained 0.8 percent to close at 9,814 yuan ($1,481) a ton. Dalian
soybean oil rose 1.1 percent to settle at 10,606 yuan a ton. CME
Group Inc.’s March palm-oil contract gained 0.9 percent to
$1,222.25 a ton at 4:17 p.m. Singapore time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  