-- Petrobras Jumps to Six-Week High on Libra, Production
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-12-28T20:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/petrobras-jumps-to-six-week-high-on-record-brazilian-production.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, advanced to a six-week high after
Brazil found more evidence of oil at the offshore Libra field
and a report showed crude production rose in November.  Petrobras jumped 2.3 percent to 26.66 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 3:15 p.m. New York time, the biggest
gain since Dec. 1.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , the oil
company controlled by billionaire Eike Batista, rose 2.7 percent
to 19.55 reais. The Bovespa stock index climbed 0.4 percent.  Brazil’s oil regulator, known as the ANP, found a second
layer of hydrocarbons at Libra, according to records on its
website dated Dec. 27. The regulator first discovered crude at
the field in late October and said it holds as much as 15
billion barrels of recoverable oil, which would make it the
largest discovery in the Americas in more than three decades.  “Every new discovery made at this reservoir is helping not
just Petrobras but other companies that are working in this
area,” said  Lucas Brendler , who helps oversee 7 billion reais
($4.1 billion) at Banco Geracao Futuro de Investimentos,
including Petrobras stock.  Libra may hold almost twice as much oil as Petrobras’s
nearby Tupi field. Congress passed legislation this month to
make Petrobras the operator of Libra and other deep water oil
fields in the so-called pre-salt area with a minimum 30 percent
stake.  Field Estimates  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said Dec. 9 that
Brazil’s deepwater fields hold more oil than Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  has said they contain.
 BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-largest energy company and a
partner with Petrobras at Tupi, said last month that the field
holds 9 billion barrels of oil, higher than Petrobras’s
estimates of as much as 8 billion barrels.  Brazil’s oil output rose to a record 2.089 million barrels
a day last month, the ANP said on its website yesterday.
Petrobras’ total November oil and gas production was 2.6 million
barrels a day, of which 2.03 million barrels was in Brazil,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “Petrobras’ production release was strong,” said  Diana Litewski , an equity analyst at Oren Investimentos in Rio de
Janeiro, which manages 290 million reais. For OGX, “elevated
oil prices and positive news flow may be a new trigger for the
stock.”  Crude oil traded near a 26-month high after a report showed
U.S. crude supplies were forecast to extend their biggest
monthly decline since December 2006. Oil  inventories  shrank for
the fourth consecutive week, according to the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the longest stretch of declines
in a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  