-- Gramley Says Plosser, Fisher May Dissent From Fed Ease Plan
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2010-12-28T19:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/plosser-fisher-may-dissent-from-time-to-time-on-fed-plan-gramley-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  and Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  may dissent from Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to
purchase $600 billion in Treasuries, former Fed governor  Lyle Gramley  said.  “I think Charles Plosser of Philadelphia and Richard
Fisher of Dallas probably will dissent from time to time,”
Gramley said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Fast Forward” with  Peter Cook . “It probably isn’t going to
affect the outcome of monetary policy decisions.  Ben Bernanke 
still has control of the committee.”  Plosser said in an interview last week it was a “close
call” on whether he would have dissented from the Fed’s Dec. 14
reaffirmation of plans to buy $600 billion in  Treasuries  through
June, expanding record stimulus to try to reduce 9.8 percent
unemployment and keep inflation from dropping. Fisher said in
November that the move may be “the wrong medicine” for the
U.S. economy.  As part of an annual rotation in voting on Fed policy,
Plosser, Fisher and the heads of the Chicago and Minneapolis Fed
banks will cast votes in 2011. The leader of the New York Fed
has a permanent vote.  “This is a year in which the Fed probably won’t have to do
a thing, just sit still, let the economy take care of itself,”
said Gramley, senior adviser at Potomac Research Group in
Washington. “We’re looking at an economy that is improving, so
the Fed isn’t going to have to add more stimulus.”  This month, Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig , the
longest-serving policy maker, voted against Fed policy for the
eighth straight time, reiterating his view that the “continued
high level of monetary accommodation” may eventually
“destabilize the economy.” He tied former Governor Henry
Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in one year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  