-- Prisa Sells Stakes in Digital Plus Pay-Television Unit for $1.29 Billion
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-12-28T14:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/prisa-sells-stakes-in-digital-plus-pay-television-unit-for-1-29-billion.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA , the
publisher of Spain’s El Pais newspaper, sold stakes in pay-
television unit Digital Plus for 976 million euros ($1.29
billion) to reduce debt.  Prisa, as Spain’s largest media company is known, sold a
22 percent stake in Digital Plus to Telefonica SA and a same-
sized stake to Gestevision Telecinco SA, it said today in an e-
mailed statement. Prisa will keep the remaining 56 percent.  “Today’s announcement was just a matter of time after
Prisa won antitrust approval” in November,  Tiago Veiga Anjos ,
an analyst at Banco BPI SA in Porto, Portugal, said in a phone
interview. “Now that the debt restructuring is done, Prisa will
probably cut costs and focus on its strategic businesses like
radio, editorial and audiovisual.”  The publisher and broadcaster is selling assets to help
reduce 4.7 billion euros of  debt  amassed after an expansion into
television services. Of the 488 million euros that Telefonica
agreed to pay for the Digital Plus stake, 228 million euros will
be covered by canceling debt owed by Prisa’s Sogecable unit to
the Madrid-based telecommunications company, Telefonica said.  Prisa said it’s also paying down a syndicated  loan  of
638 million euros.  Prisa also completed the sale of its free-to-air channel
Cuatro to Telecinco in return for a 17.3 percent  stake  in the
rival broadcaster, which was valued at 590 million euros as of
Dec. 27, Prisa said.  The company’s shares were unchanged at 1.56 euros as of
2:51 p.m. in Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
 Manuel Baigorri  in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 