-- Puerto Rico Plans New-Money General-Obligation in 2011, First in Two Years
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 2010-12-28T16:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/puerto-rico-plans-new-money-general-obligation-in-2011-first-in-two-years.html
Puerto Rico , a U.S. territory with a
credit rating lower than any state, plans to sell its first
general-obligation bond not earmarked for refinancing in more
than two years, said  Carlos Garcia , president of the Government
Development Bank.  The Caribbean commonwealth will decide the amount and timing
of the sale in “the next weeks,” Garcia said in an interview
yesterday in San Juan, the capital. Puerto Rico also intends to
sell as much as $2.1 billion of other bonds next year, said
Garcia, who heads the government’s borrowing authority.  “It will be for infrastructure, for projects of
significance,” said Garcia of the general-obligation sale. “We
have not decided on the whole plan.”  Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook on Puerto Rico’s
general-obligation credit to positive from stable in November,
saying cost cuts and measures to collect more revenue may help
balance the government’s budget “within the next two years.”  Governor  Luis Fortuno , the first Republican governor
elected in 40 years, inherited a $3.3 billion budget gap when he
took office in January 2009. He has cut 23,000 government jobs,
reduced expenses almost 20 percent and stepped up enforcement of
tax collections, according to the development bank. The
 government estimates  a deficit of $1 billion in the current
fiscal year, which ends June 30, Garcia said.  Frozen Out  S&P rates Puerto Rico’s general-obligation debt BBB-, the
last level before higher-risk non-investment grade. Moody’s
Investors Service has a negative outlook on the debt and rates
it A3, three levels from non-investment grade.  With the low ratings effectively freezing Puerto Rico out
of the credit markets, the Legislature created the  Sales Tax
Financing Corp.  in 2006 to sell revenue-backed debt for the
government and to service existing bonds. Debt of the
corporation, known by its Spanish acronym Cofina, is rated AA-
by S&P and A2 by Moody’s.  Puerto Rico sold general-obligation bonds last year to
refund outstanding debt. It last issued general-obligation bonds
that weren’t used for refunding with a $250 million sale in
September 2008. The debt is exempt from federal and state taxes.  A 6 percent security maturing in 2038 was sold at a price
of 103.8 to yield 5.5 percent, about 1.1 percentage points more
than 30-year U.S. Treasuries at the time. It traded on Dec. 23
to yield 6.1 percent, 1.6 percentage points more than similar
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  Refunding Debt  In addition to the new-money general-obligation debt,
Puerto Rico intends to sell from $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion of
other bonds in 2011, Garcia said in the interview. About half
the sales will be to refund existing debt, including $530
million of outstanding general obligations and $420 million of
building-authority securities, he said.  The territory will also sell $145 million to $395 million
of revenue bonds for the electric authority’s capital-
improvement plan and a natural-gas project, Garcia said.  It also plans $756 million of qualified school-construction
bonds, which receive a 100 percent federal interest-cost subsidy
under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, he said.  “We’re taking full benefit of the ARRA program,” said
Garcia. “The cost of it is substantially lower than what the
private sector could do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in San Juan at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net :
 Jerry Hart  in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 