-- Queensland's Bligh Returns From Leave to Oversee State's Response to Flood
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2010-12-29T05:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/queensland-s-bligh-returns-from-leave-to-oversee-state-s-flood-response.html
Queensland Premier  Anna Bligh  cut
short her Christmas vacation to oversee the emergency response
to floods inundating parts of the sugar and coal producing state
in Australia’s northeastern corner.  “Many communities remain at risk of flooding,” Bligh said
in a  statement  today. “Our priority is ensuring communities are
prepared and that they are getting the support they need.”  Weeks of rain in Queensland and northeastern parts of
neighboring New South Wales have forced the evacuation of
hundreds of people, Queensland Emergency Services says. The
floods threaten to delay coal deliveries into next month, while
Cotton Australia says some 7,500 hectares of the crop planted
near Theodore in the state’s east have been destroyed.  More rain may be on the way. Australia’s Bureau of
Meteorology says southeastern Queensland and eastern New South
Wales have a 60 percent to 70 percent chance of getting higher-
than-average rainfall between January and March.  Economists are starting to tally the financial toll and
consider whether revised outlooks would affect the Reserve Bank
of Australia’s forecasts.  Queensland accounts for about 20 percent of Australia’s
A$1.3 trillion ($1.31 trillion) economy, with trade contributing
most to the state’s growth in the 12 months ended June 30. The
state’s unemployment rate of 5.5 percent in November was higher
than the national average of 5.2 percent.  Impact on GDP  Flooding may reduce the nation’s gross domestic product by
0.25 percent in the fourth quarter, said  Ivan Colhoun , head of
Australia economics at ANZ Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney.  “The RBA would be looking at what the effects will be on
the economy in the big picture,” Colhoun said. “But I can’t
remember a period where flooding has caused more than a small,
short-term impact on the economy.”  Bligh today inspected the flood-affected areas of the state,
including the towns of Bundaberg and Rockhampton, according to a
Queensland government statement on its website.  The Bureau of Meteorology has issued 14 flood  warnings  in
the state today.  Evacuation of 300 people in the town of Theodore continues,
with the assistance of two Blackhawk helicopters from the
Australian air force,  Emergency Services  said. Theodore has been
cut off by flood waters. Chinchilla and Dalby were declared
disaster areas with about 60 people evacuated from each of those
towns, according to the Emergency Services.  Television pictures show whole towns consumed by muddy
floodwaters. Traffic has been brought to a standstill, with some
residents waiting out the floods in pockets of high ground.  Coal Delays  QR National Ltd., Australia’s largest coal transporter by
rail, expects deliveries to be “adversely” affected for at
least this month and next. The wet weather and flooding is
“hampering access to the track and hence recovery efforts,”
Brisbane-based QR said in a statement today.  The effect of heavy rain on the state’s cotton yields will
depend on weather in coming weeks,  David Bone , communications
manager for industry group Cotton Australia, said in a telephone
interview today.  Flooding in October in Queensland contributed to a 2
percent decline in the nation’s coal and other non-farm exports,
said  Spiros Papadopoulos , a senior economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  With the latest damage and transportation disruptions,
“there is likely to be a larger negative impact on our mining
and resource exports in December,” he said.  A Wet Spring  The damage may cut Australia’s economic output by 0.5
percent, or A$6 billion ($6 billion), as farming and mining
exports are curtailed, the Australian newspaper  reported  today,
citing  AMP Ltd.  Chief Economist  Shane Oliver .  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record, prompting mining companies including  Xstrata Plc  and
 Vale SA  to declare they wouldn’t be able to fulfill coal-
delivery contracts because of reasons beyond their control,
known as force majeure.  Xstrata’s Oaky Creek mine reported a spill of mine water
Dec. 27, according to a statement from the Queensland Ministry
of Climate Change and Sustainability. The breach poses a “very
low” risk of environmental harm, Acting Climate Change and
Sustainability Minister Andrew Fraser said in a statement.
Xstrata spokesman  James Rickards  didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  Rio, BHP  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-largest mining company,
said all its coal mines in the state have been affected by the
rains. The company is trying to resume output where it can and
hasn’t declared force majeure,  Alison Smith , a spokeswoman for
Rio Tinto, said in a phone interview yesterday.  BHP Billiton Ltd.,  the world’s largest mining company, will
report any significant impact on its coal mines in the region in
its next quarterly production report, spokeswoman  Kelly Quirke 
said yesterday.  The flooding could mean weather-damaged wheat and chick pea
crops that have yet to be harvested in southern Queensland will
be left in the fields,  Wayne Newton , grains president of farmer
group Agforce, said by phone yesterday from Dalby. Some recently
planted cotton and sorghum crops were under water, he said.  “There has been very little harvest progress in the last
fortnight because of continual wet weather and I would suspect
that a lot of that wheat would not be harvestable,” he said.
Reduced quality and crop losses this season likely cut the value
of the state’s winter grain production by a range of about A$300
million to A$400 million, he said.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  