-- Reserve Bank of India Allows Iran Trade in Currencies Besides Dollar, Euro
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-28T12:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/reserve-bank-of-india-allows-iran-trade-in-currencies-besides-dollar-euro.html
India’s central bank allowed
companies from the South Asian nation to trade with Iran in
currencies other than the dollar and euro, a move that may help
the Middle Eastern country hit by United Nations sanctions.  Companies will be allowed to settle current account and
trade transactions with Iran outside the  Asian Clearing Union  or
ACU, a regional payment settlements arrangement, the Indian
central bank  said  in a notification yesterday. Participants in
the ACU settle transactions in either dollar or euro, according
to the ACU’s website.  The change will make it flexible “to an extent” for
Indian importers and exporters to step out of the ACU’s
settlement mechanism and deal in more currencies, said Rahul
Tripathi, assistant professor in international political economy
at Goa University in the Indian state of Goa. Iran is facing
United Nations sanctions and measures from the U.S. and the
European Union aimed at curbing the country’s nuclear program.  “It may certainly help Iran as it gives the country
greater flexibility to conduct its operations outside the ambit
of ACU,” Tripathi, who did his doctoral thesis on the union,
said in an interview today.  The United Nations in June stepped up punitive measures
against Iran over its nuclear ambitions, applying a fourth round
of sanctions, and the U.S. and European Union later imposed
additional restrictions. Iran says it is enriching uranium for
peaceful purposes.  ACU, based in the Iranian capital Tehran, settles trade
transactions among Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Iran, Nepal,
Pakistan, Maldives, Myanmar and Sri Lanka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  