-- Rubber Declines From Record as Strengthening Yen Weakens Contract Appeal
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-28T08:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/rubber-declines-from-record-as-strengthening-yen-weakens-contract-appeal.html
Rubber declined as investors sold
the commodity to lock-in gains after it climbed to a record for
a sixth day and as a stronger Japanese currency weakened the
appeal of yen-denominated contracts.  June-delivery rubber lost as much as 2.6 percent to 406.6
yen per kilogram ($4,933 a metric ton), the lowest level since
Dec. 20, before settling at 407.8 yen on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange. The most-active contract climbed to a record 419.3 yen
yesterday, extending this year’s advance to 51 percent.  The dollar dropped to a three-week low against the yen
after China raised interest rates for the second time in two
months.  China’s stocks  fell for a fifth day, the longest losing
streak since July, on concern the government will raise interest
rates further to curb inflation.  “A higher yen spurred sales as the market was ripe for
profit-taking,” Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at Tokyo-based
broker Fujitomi Co., said today by phone. “Concern about
further rate increase in China is another drag on futures.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 0.9 percent to 2,756.197
at 2:18 p.m. local time, extending yesterday’s 1.9 percent drop,
after the People’s Bank of China increased key one-year lending
and deposit rates by a quarter percentage point on Christmas
Day.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai dropped 2.5 percent to
36,180 yuan ($5,461) a ton 2:27 p.m. local time. It retreated
from a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11 amid concern China may take
steps to cool inflation and economic expansion.  “Investors’ response towards the rate increase was divided
yesterday,” said  Deng Changrong , a strategist at Huaxi
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “As the market moves downward, the
pessimism and uncertainty seem to get stronger.”  Supply Shortage  Losses in rubber futures were limited by expectations a
supply shortage may worsen early next year as top exporter
Thailand enters a low-production period, Saito at Fujitomi said.  Latex production in Thailand is set to shrink as growers
will reduce tapping of rubber trees from February to April
during the so-called “wintering” period. The seasonal drop in
output may worsen a supply shortage as global demand will keep
rising, led by car sales in China and India.  The cash rubber  price  in Thailand stayed at a record 149.55
baht per kilogram today after rising 0.3 percent yesterday,
boosted by limited supply from the country’s southern provinces
amid strong demand for tires, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand.  China Cars  China’s sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and
sport-utility vehicles increased 29.3 percent to 1.34 million
last month, higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in
January, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  The yen gained to 82.42 per dollar at 3:32 p.m. in Tokyo
from 82.81 yesterday. The dollar also came under pressure on
speculation a U.S. report today will show home prices fell.  The median forecast of a Bloomberg News survey of
economists showed the  S&P/Case-Shiller  Index of property values
dropped 0.2 percent in October from a year earlier, the first
decline since January.  China’s central bank raised one-year lending and deposit
rates by 25 basis points on Dec. 25 in its second move since
mid-October. China may raise rates as many as three times in the
first half of next year, according to Morgan Stanley, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts two increases in that period.  China reported an  inflation  rate of 5.1 percent for
November, the highest in 28 months. Exports last month reached a
record $153.3 billion and the  trade surplus  exceeded $20 billion
for the fifth time in sixth months, indicating a recovery in
international trade from the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  