-- Saints Make NFL Playoffs by Sending Atlanta Falcons to First Home Loss
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-28T05:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/saints-make-nfl-playoffs-by-sending-atlanta-falcons-to-first-home-loss.html
The New Orleans Saints moved a step
closer to defending their Super Bowl title by securing a spot in
the National Football League playoffs with a 17-14 win over the
Atlanta Falcons.  Saints quarterback  Drew Brees  bounced back from two fourth-
quarter interceptions by throwing a 6-yard touchdown pass to
tight end  Jimmy Graham  with 3:24 remaining last night at the
Georgia Dome.  The Saints ended Atlanta’s NFL-best eight-game winning
streak and prevented the Falcons from capturing the National
Football Conference’s South Division title.  “It feels good,” Brees, who had 302 yards passing, said
in a televised interview. “You just want to punch your ticket
to the big show and we’ve done that. We just want to get better
every week and get geared up for these playoffs.”  The Saints improved to 11-4 and remain in contention for
the NFC South title and home-field advantage in the playoffs,
trailing the Falcons (12-3) by one game with one week left in
the regular season.  With the NFC South runner-up assured of a wild-card playoff
berth, the other NFC wild-card spot will be decided in Week 17
among the Green Bay Packers, New York Giants and Tampa Bay
Buccaneers. The Packers hold the advantage, needing a home win
against Chicago to advance, while the Giants and Buccaneers need
to win and hope the Packers lose.  92-Yard Drive  New Orleans sent the Falcons to their first home loss of
the season as Brees engineered a late 92-yard scoring drive that
took more than seven minutes off the clock.  Brees had been intercepted by Atlanta linemen on the
Saints’ previous two fourth-quarter drives. Defensive end
 Chauncey Davis  put Atlanta ahead 14-10 less than one minute into
the final quarter with a 26-yard interception return for a
touchdown.  “I was telling myself, ‘Put that behind you, you just have
to stay composed,’” Brees said. “It was a one-possession game
and we had to go 90 yards, but we did it effectively and guys
made plays down the stretch.”  Falcons quarterback  Matt Ryan  lost for just the second time
in 21 career games at the Georgia Dome. Ryan passed for 148
yards and one touchdown for Atlanta, which punted the ball to
New Orleans with 2:44 remaining and never got it back as the
Saints converted two late first downs.  “Unfortunately we didn’t get it done there at the end,”
Falcons coach  Mike Smith  said during a news conference.  The Saints close the regular season Jan. 2 with a home game
against the Buccaneers (9-6). The Falcons host the Carolina
Panthers (2-13) and would clinch the NFC South title and home-
field advantage throughout the playoffs with a win.  The Philadelphia Eagles host the Minnesota Vikings tonight
in the final game of Week 16 after their contest was postponed
two days by an East Coast snowstorm. The Eagles locked up the
NFC East title and a playoff berth two days ago when the Giants
lost in Green Bay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  