-- Shanghai Stocks Fall on Concern Faster Inflation Will Spur Rate Increases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-28T07:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/shanghai-stocks-fall-on-concern-faster-inflation-will-spur-rate-increases.html
China’s stocks  fell for a fifth day,
capping the benchmark index’s longest losing streak since July,
on concern the government will need to step up increases in
interest rates to curb inflation.  China Vanke Co.  dropped more than 4 percent, leading a two-
day slump for developers, after the government boosted rates
over the weekend and Premier Wen Jiabao reiterated his goal for
home prices to return to a “reasonable level.”  Jiangxi Copper
Co.  and  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  led declines for metal
stocks on prospects tightening policies may slow economic growth.  “Investors’ response towards the rate increase was divided
yesterday,” said  Deng Changrong , a strategist at Huaxi
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “As the market moves downward, the
pessimism and uncertainty seem to get stronger.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 48.41, or 1.7 percent, to
2,732.99 at 3 p.m., extending a 1.9 percent plunge yesterday,
after the People’s Bank of China increased key one-year lending
and deposit rates by a quarter percentage point on Christmas Day.
The CSI 300 Index lost 1.8 percent to 3,044.93 today. The  CSI
Smallcap 500 Index  retreated 2.5 percent, adding to a five-day,
9.4 percent slump.  The benchmark measure has fallen 17 percent in 2010, making
it the worst performer among the world’s 14 biggest stock
markets. The government has ordered banks to set aside more
reserves six times this year and boosted interest rates twice to
tame inflation and curb asset bubbles after record gains in
 lending  and property prices. China reported inflation of 5.1
percent in November, exceeding the previous month’s 4.4 percent.  Property Bubbles  “China’s inflation rate may remain at a comparatively high
level in the first half of next year,” said  Liu Jianwei , a fund
manager at Bosera Asset Management Co., which manages about 19
billion yuan in Shenzhen.  A rate increase earlier rather than later more effectively
manages inflation expectations,  Jian Chang , an economist at
Barclays Plc, said in a report. Boosting borrowing costs before
the new year will also have a greater tightening effect, the
economist wrote in a report dated yesterday.  A gauge tracking developers in  Shanghai Composite  slid 3.5
percent, after falling 2.2 percent yesterday. Vanke, the
nation’s biggest listed property developer, dropped 4.8 percent
to 8.33 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second biggest,
fell 6.2 percent to 12.91 yuan.  Premier  Wen  said on  National Radio  yesterday that measures
to curb the country’s property market weren’t well implemented
and reiterated his goal for  home prices  to return to a
“reasonable level” during his term that ends in 2012.  The government will also increase the supply of affordable
housing and introduce more measures to curb speculation, he said.  Commodity Stocks  China’s home prices rose for an 18th month in November as
measures including suspending mortgages for third-home purchases
and a pledge to speed up trials of property taxes failed to
limits foreign capital inflows and cool property prices. The
central bank boosted interest rates for the first time in three
years in October and raised them for a second time on Dec. 25.  The decision to raise rates will help the nation curb
bubbles in the domestic property market and stabilize inflation
expectations,  Yi Xianrong , a researcher with the Institute of
Finance and Banking under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
wrote in a commentary published in today’s China Daily.  Gauges of material and energy producers in the  CSI 300 
declined 1.7 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively.  Jiangxi Copper , China’s biggest producer of the metal, lost
1.5 percent to 41.18 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of China, the listed
unit of nation’s largest maker of the lightweight metal and also
called Chalco, dropped 2.1 percent to 9.86 yuan.  Policy Views  Central bank advisor Li Daokui said more adjustments in
China’s deposit rate, lending rate, and reserve requirement
ratio are “very necessary” in 2011, especially in the first
half, the 21st Century Business Herald reported in an interview.  The country may raise its reserve requirement ratio more
frequently than interest rates next year, the 21st Century
Business Herald, citing central bank adviser  Xia Bin .  Consumer price increases may exceed 5 percent in 2011, the
same paper reported, citing  Liu Yuhui , a researcher with the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Consumer prices in the
country may rise more than 5.5 percent in January, Liu said.  China Shenhua Energy Co., the biggest coal producer,
retreated 3.6 percent to 24.16 yuan after benchmark power-
station coal prices at Qinhuangdao Port fell to a seven-week low.
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the nation’s second-largest coal
producer, slid 3 percent to 27.26 yuan.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from  Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  