-- Time Warner Cable May Lose Sinclair Stations Amid Spat
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-28T22:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/sinclair-says-fee-talks-with-time-warner-cable-end-after-offer-rejected.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. , locked in a
dispute over fees with  Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. , rejected a
proposal by the TV-station operator, leading to a possible
blackout at the end of the year.  Time Warner Cable rejected an offer that would raise fees
an average of 10 cents per subscriber, Hunt Valley, Maryland-
based Sinclair said today in a statement. Time Warner Cable
refused to make a counteroffer, meaning Sinclair stations may
not be carried on the second-largest U.S. cable company’s
systems after Dec. 31, the broadcaster said.  The fallout is the latest in several negotiations between
content providers and pay-TV operators. A blackout would affect
33 stations reaching more than 5 million  Time Warner Cable 
customers and block channels such as Fox and ABC in Columbus,
Ohio, and CBS in Portland, Maine, Sinclair said.  Time Warner Cable remains willing to negotiate a
“reasonable agreement” and has no intention of declaring talks
to be over even if Sinclair pulls its signals Dec. 31, according
to an e-mailed statement from the New York-based cable carrier.  “I don’t know why Time Warner bothers,”  Ed Atorino,  an
analyst at Benchmark Co. LLC in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Sinclair will shut off its signals and eventually
force Time Warner to come to some decision.”  In October, News Corp. blocked Fox programs from
Cablevision Systems Corp. customers for two weeks as the
companies tried to reach a deal on fees. Disputes over fees have
caused at least seven blackouts of cable and broadcast channels
this year, the most in more than in a decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Time Warner Cable  rose  9 cents to $66.06 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Sinclair dropped 16 cents
to $8.16 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  