-- South Korea's Won Strengthens as Global Recovery Signs Spur Risk-Taking
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-28T07:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/south-korea-s-won-strengthens-as-global-recovery-signs-spur-risk-taking.html
South Korea’s won reached a two-
week high after Japan’s industrial production increased for
the first time in six months in November, spurring demand for
riskier assets on speculation the global economy is improving.  Japan’s factory output climbed 1 percent from October,
when it dropped 2 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo
today. The benchmark  Kospi  index climbed for the first time
in four days and  overseas investors  were net buyers of Korean
shares for a fifth day.  Japan’s economic data “can be a factor that will help
Asian currencies strengthen,” said  Yun Se Min , a currency
trader at Busan Bank in Seoul. “The Korean won is viewed by
the market as undervalued, and strong fundamentals will help
strengthen the currency.”  The won climbed 0.1 percent to 1,147.90 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier touched 1,146.50, the strongest level
since Dec. 15. The currency is forecast to appreciate 9.3
percent by the end of next year.  Trade data will show exports rose 21 percent from a year
earlier this month, based on the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists before a Jan. 1 report. The
government plans to raise its forecast for next year’s
current-account surplus to around $15 billion from June’s
projection of $7 billion, Edaily reported on Dec. 2. Overseas
sales account for about 40 percent of gross domestic product.  South Korean government bonds fell for a fourth day. The
yield on the 4 percent notes due September 2015 rose two
basis points to 4.06 percent, the highest level in a week,
according to the Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 