-- Stranded Passengers Face Wait as Storm Recovery Starts
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-28T23:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/stranded-passengers-face-long-wait-after-storm-halts-flights.html
Passengers stranded when airlines
canceled more than 7,000 flights amid a winter storm in the
eastern U.S. may wait days for another flight as carriers move
aircraft and search for seats on crowded planes.  Migel Arras was stuck in Dallas since yesterday, when his
 American Airlines  flight to New York was canceled. He wasn’t
booked on another flight until Jan. 1, and was No. 88 on a
standby list today for an earlier flight.  “They’re all overbooked,” he said.  While the three major airports in the New York area
reopened, flights into Newark’s Liberty airport were delayed
more than eight hours because of snow and ice, according to the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates all
three sites. Flights into New York’s Kennedy were delayed more
than five hours, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration , while LaGuardia was under a “traffic management
program” with arriving flights about two hours behind schedule.  Both runways at LaGuardia were open, while Newark and
Kennedy were using one runway each as of this afternoon, said
 Steve Coleman , a Port Authority spokesman.  Stuck on Tarmac  Four international flights remained on the tarmac for hours
at Kennedy after landing between 2:15 a.m. and 4 a.m. without
gate assignments, Coleman said. One of the planes, flown by
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., was on the ground with passengers
aboard from 2:15 a.m. to about 1 p.m., or almost 11 hours, and
another Cathay Pacific flight was on the tarmac for about an
hour less than that, Coleman said.  The Port Authority found gates for the two Cathay Pacific
flights, he said. It’s the responsibility of airlines to have
gate assignments before leaving their point of origin, Coleman
said.  A third Cathay Pacific flight also was stranded on the
tarmac, said Gus Whitcomb, a spokesman for the airline.  “We dispatched these flights with the belief we were going
to have gates available,” he said. “There were no gates
available and our options were limited. Unfortunately we ended
up with passengers on airplanes for far too long before were
able to get them to the gates.”  A British Airways Plc flight from London arrived at JFK at
10:30 p.m. yesterday and its 316 passengers and crew weren’t
able to deplane until 6 a.m. today, said  John Lampl , a spokesman
for the airline.  All gates were occupied by flights that already had arrived
and couldn’t depart because the airport was shut down, he said.
“The airplane was fully self-sufficient, it was just the
frustration that there were no gates available.”  Canceled Flights  US Airways Group Inc. , Delta Air Lines Inc., Continental
Airlines and American canceled at least 927 flights today
because of the weather, spokesmen for the carriers said.  “We are utilizing all available resources to reinstitute
flights as quickly as possible,” said  Christen David , a
spokeswoman for Continental Airlines. The airline is urging
customers not to travel to New York-area airports until they
have a confirmed reservation for a flight.  Six U.S. carriers canceled at least 3,299 flights
yesterday, mostly in Philadelphia and the New York area. That
built on 3,334 flights grounded Dec. 26 by snowfall of as much
as 20 inches (51 centimeters) and winds gusting to 30 mph.  Carriers struggled to relocate aircraft and crews while
factoring in airport employees unable to travel to work after
New York’s heaviest December snowfall  since 1948  hampered local
train service.  “One plane could fix the issue,” said Arras, 26, who is
trying to return home to New York after a trip to Mexico. “The
200 people who are on the list for standby, they could take them
there. But they’re just making us wait.”  ‘Passenger Rights’  The flights are also getting costlier, with the three
biggest U.S. airlines raising round-trip fares by $20. The
increases, put into place yesterday, won’t affect people
rebooking canceled flights.  The FAA, which doesn’t offer assistance to stranded
passengers, didn’t comment on what, if any, action it could take
in this case.  “The Department of Transportation believes airline
passengers have rights and should be able to expect fair
treatment when they fly,”  Olivia Alair , a Transportation
Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail without elaborating.  The FAA doesn’t gather real-time data on flight delays or
stranded passengers. The Air Transport Association, which
represents major U.S. carriers, doesn’t track numbers of
stranded passengers or canceled flights either.  AMR Corp.’s American and Delta Air Lines Inc. both said
today they are trying to add extra flights. To do so, the
carriers have to find a spare plane, then two pilots who can fly
that type of aircraft, a crew of flight attendants and space to
get it into the affected airport.  Clearing the Backlog  “You can’t snap your fingers and airplanes magically
appear,” said Ed Martelle, a spokesman at American’s Fort
Worth, Texas, headquarters. “There are times when there are not
even any spares. We’re trying to make sure we can get some
airplanes passengers can get on and go.”  Airlines are having significant difficulties getting
personnel to Newark, JFK and LaGuardia airports, said the Port
Authority’s Coleman, who emphasized the reports are anecdotal.  US Airways Group Inc.  added two extra flights today between
Charlotte, North Carolina, and New York’s LaGuardia and between
Charlotte and Philadelphia to help clear the backlog, said
 Michelle Mohr , spokeswoman for the Tempe, Arizona-based airline.  Separately, American, Delta and  United Continental Holdings
Inc.  raised most domestic round-trip fares by $20, according to
FareCompare.com, website that reviews ticket prices. American
and Delta boosted fares yesterday, and United and Continental
followed today, said  Graeme Wallace  of Dallas-based FareCompare.  ‘Man A Phone’  Spokesmen for Delta, United and Continental confirmed their
increases, while Martelle said he couldn’t do so for American.  American added reservations agents yesterday, after a flood
of calls from passengers on canceled flights Dec. 26, Martelle
said. The volume of calls from people trying to rebook flights
is more than double the normal level, he said.  “We are calling people in off their vacation, trying to
find people who can man a phone anyway we can,” Martelle said.
“We’re extending part-timers so there will be additional
manpower.”  The time needed to accommodate affected passengers will
depend on the length of the shutdowns, he said. “It’s a moving
target. I don’t know how fast we can get them on planes.”  Rebooking passengers is more difficult because the holidays
are a high-demand travel time, and because carriers have spent
the past two years cutting flight capacity to better match
demand eroded by the recession.  Load factor, or the percentage of seats filled, already was
on pace to finish the year at its highest since 1944, according
to data from the airlines, the  Air Transport Association  and the
U.S. Transportation Department.  Both JetBlue Airways Corp. and Delta have been “quite
responsive” to customers, reaching them through social-
networking website Twitter, said  Genevieve Shaw Brown,  a senior
editor with Southlake, Texas-based travel website
Travelocity.com. Travelers should check in for flights as soon
as possible, up to 24 hours before the departure time, she said.  “There are going to be a lot of stranded people trying to
get your seat,” Brown said. “If you’re late to the airport and
miss the cutoff for check-in, it’ll be given away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  