-- Sugarloaf Mountain Chairlift Derails, Injuring Six People at Maine Resort
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-12-28T18:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/sugarloaf-mountain-chairlift-derails-injuring-six-people-at-maine-resort.html
Six skiers were injured when their
chairlift derailed at Sugarloaf Mountain, Maine’s second-highest
peak, causing them to drop as much as 30 feet (9.1 meters) to
the ground.  The accident occurred around 10:30 a.m. at the Spillway
East lift, according to a  statement  posted on the resort’s
website today. All injured have been treated and are being
transported to local hospitals.  Sugarloaf’s  Twitter feed  identified three lifts, including
the one that derailed, as being closed for portions of the
morning before the accident. Five chairs on the lift fell to the
ground, and skiers riding on the remaining chairs were stranded
when the lift halted. A similar accident in the Swiss resort of
Grindelwald three years ago left one person dead.  “It’s not unusual for a lift to start the day on wind hold
and come off later,” Ethan Austin, a spokesman for the ski
resort, said in a telephone interview, referring to the
temporary closure of a lift because of wind.  Austin said the mountain’s maintenance department and ski
patrol decide together when to close lifts. There is no set wind
speed at which lifts are closed, he said. The decision depends
on wind speed and direction, precipitation, icing and mechanical
factors, he said.  Sugarloaf is investigating the incident to determine what
caused it, Austin said.  At the time of the accident there were an estimated 220
people on the lift, according to the statement. The 4,237-foot
mountain is in the midst of one of its busiest weeks of the ski
season, Austin said.  The mountain has 54 miles of trails, according to its
website. Its lifts can carry 21,810 passengers per hour. The
Spillway East lift is 1,454 feet long, according to the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 