-- Sweden Shows Central Bankers How to Fight Next Asset Bubble
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-12-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/sweden-shows-central-bankers-how-to-fight-against-next-asset-price-bubble.html
Sweden’s central bank may set the
direction for other policy makers as it looks beyond
conventional inflation targets to asset-price growth in an
effort to prevent the next bubble.  “Not countering asset-price increases has been the
conventional wisdom among central banks, but what has it
actually resulted in?” said  Tina Mortensen , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “Surely the current crisis has made
central bankers rethink policy; Sweden is actually facing this
problem” because “asset prices and monetary policy are a hot
topic,” she said.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves  has raised the repo rate
four times since July even as inflation remains below the bank’s
2 percent target. The increases occurred as house prices move
above pre-crisis levels and credit growth hovers near 9 percent.
While Sweden raises rates, the U.S., the euro region, Japan and
the U.K. are keeping borrowing costs at record lows.  The financial crisis that started more than two years ago
was exacerbated by central banks holding rates too low as
inflation gauges failed to capture asset-price growth, according
to  Johnny Akerholm , president of the Helsinki-based Nordic
Investment Bank. He says most policy makers are repeating the
mistake.  “We are practically re-running the same situation these
days,” he said in his bank’s Dec. 17  newsletter . “Rates are
low and the central banks are ‘printing money’ while virtually
all prices, except the consumer prices in industrial countries,
are increasing rapidly.”  Rates ‘Normalized’  Policy makers in Europe and the U.S. have started to warn
of the risks associated with low rates. Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee member  Andrew Sentance  voted for a seventh
month to raise the benchmark from a record-low 0.5 percent at
the bank’s Dec. 9 meeting.  Paul Fisher , the bank’s markets
director, told the Daily Telegraph last week that rates should
be “normalized” to about 5 percent.  European Central Bank Executive Board member  Juergen Stark 
says monetary policy should address the threat of financial
imbalances and wants forecasting models to provide broader
gauges of the economy. He’s spent the past year warning that an
extension of the ECB’s liquidity program risks sowing “the
seeds for new imbalances.”  Still, ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said as recently
as Dec. 2 the bank will keep providing emergency funds to banks
through the first quarter. The ECB’s  benchmark rate  has remained
at a record low 1 percent since May 2009.  Mopping Up Bubbles  In the U.S., Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  said
this month the “continued high level of monetary
accommodation” may “destabilize the economy.” The Fed has
kept its main rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.
The Fed said last month it will buy $600 billion of Treasuries
through June, helping keep yields low.  “There’s a risk that if policy makers react to a bubble
bursting by aggressively loosening monetary policy, it may lead
to new damaging bubbles emerging,” said  Ben May , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “The conventional wisdom
amongst policy makers has been that you shouldn’t lean on
bubbles and that the best thing to do is just to try to mop them
up when they burst. In hindsight, that looks like a mistake.”  Swedish  headline inflation  has lagged behind the Riksbank’s
target since December 2008. Inflation adjusted for mortgage
costs will remain below target through 2013, the bank estimates.  Growth vs Debt  House prices, by contrast, rose for a 19th consecutive
month in the quarter through November, gaining at an annual rate
of 5 percent. The Riksbank, which raised its repo rate to 1.25
percent on Dec. 15, said then higher rates are needed to slow
credit growth.  The bank is also trying to steer the fastest economic
rebound in the European Union as it estimates growth of 5.5
percent this year. It expects the repo rate to average 3.3
percent in 2013, while economic growth will slow to 2.3 percent
in 2012.  “The focus on issues such as the level of household debt
suggests the Riksbank might rather have a period of slightly
weaker growth or below-target inflation than a surge in
indebtedness and perhaps another boom in house prices,” May
said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Nov. 16 speech that
policy makers “have to keep an open mind” on the possibility
of using interest rates to pop asset bubbles. He added that the
“best approach here, if at all possible, is to use supervisory
and regulatory methods.”  Bypassing Rules  Outside Europe and the U.S., Bank of Israel Governor
 Stanley Fischer  has incorporated bubble fighting into policy in
a country where housing supply is shaped by government control
of land. Fischer, who also oversees Israel’s banking regulation,
left the benchmark rate at 2 percent this week in part because
house prices cooled.  According to Mortensen at Citigroup, regulation alone has
done little to cool Sweden’s house-price growth. Banks, which
have had to cap mortgage lending at 85 percent of a property’s
value since Oct. 1, “just seem to come up with alternative
products” to bypass the rule, Mortensen said.  “I wouldn’t be surprised, given what we have just been
through, if this leads to some kind of rethinking, also
globally,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  