-- Swiss Franc Appreciates to Record Against Dollar, Strengthens Versus Euro
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-28T16:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/swiss-franc-appreciates-to-record-against-dollar-strengthens-versus-euro.html
The Swiss franc strengthened to a
record against the dollar and snapped a three-day decline versus
the euro after a government report showed French economic growth
slowed more than originally estimated.  The franc climbed against all 16 of its most-traded peers.
French gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent in the third
quarter, compared with a preliminary estimate of 0.4 percent on
Nov. 12 and down from a 0.6 percent gain in the previous period,
the Paris-based statistics office Insee said today in its final
report. A UBS AG  index of Swiss consumption , which aims to
predict developments about three months ahead, stayed above its
long-term average in November, the Zurich-based bank said.  “It’s still the safe-haven function of the Swiss franc
that causes it to gain,” said  Ursina Kubli , a currency analyst
at Bank Sarasin & Cie in Zurich. “Still, we shouldn’t forget
that currencies are traded at small volumes between Christmas
and New Year’s Eve. So the recent fluctuations may be balanced
out over the next few days.”  The franc strengthened as much as 1.8 percent against the
dollar to 94.35 centimes, an all-time high, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and traded at 94.94 centimes at 3:50 p.m.
in London. The Swiss currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 1.2494
per euro.  The UBS index decreased to 1.63 in November from a revised
1.71 a month earlier, the bank said.  “The UBS consumption indicator is still above its long-
term average of 1.50 points,” UBS said. “Continuing strong
immigration, low interest rates and declining unemployment
should also bolster consumption next year.”  The indicator is based on new car sales, retail sales, the
number of overnight hotel stays by Swiss residents within the
country, the consumer sentiment indicator and credit-card
transactions registered by UBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  