-- U.S. Property Values Decline More Than Forecast in S&P/Case Shiller Index
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-12-28T14:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/u-s-property-values-decline-more-than-forecast-in-s-p-case-shiller-index.html
Home prices dropped more than
forecast in October, a sign housing will remain a weak link as
the U.S. recovery accelerates into the new year.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller  index of property values fell 0.8
percent from October 2009, the biggest year-over-year decline
since December 2009, the group said today in New York. The
decrease exceeded the 0.2 percent drop projected by the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A wave of foreclosures waiting to reach the market means
home prices will remain under pressure in 2011, representing a
risk to household finances. Federal Reserve policy makers this
month said “depressed” housing and high unemployment remained
constraints on consumer spending, reasons why they reiterated a
plan to expand record monetary stimulus.  “We’ll remain in negative territory for several more
months,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York, who forecast a year-on-year drop of
1.3 percent. “The housing market does remain weak and none of
the recent data suggest a substantial pickup.”  After retreating briefly, stock-index futures remained
higher after the report as a jump in holiday sales boosted the
outlook for consumer spending. The contract on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index maturing in March rose 0.2 percent to 1,255.5
at 9:23 a.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note rose to 3.36 percent from 3.33 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  The  median forecast  was based on projections of 17
economists surveyed. Estimates ranged from an increase of 1.4
percent to a decline of 1.3 percent. Year-over-year records
began in 2001. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the year ended
September.  The gauge fell 1 percent in October from the prior month
after adjusting for seasonal variations, matching September’s
drop which was larger than previously estimated. Unadjusted
prices decreased 1.3 percent from the prior month.  Eighteen of 20 cities showed a decrease in prices in
October, led by a 2.1 percent drop in Atlanta, and decreases of
1.8 percent in Chicago and Minneapolis. Denver and Washington
were the only two that posted gains.  Six markets, including Atlanta, Charlotte, Miami, Seattle,
Tampa and Portland, Oregon, reached their lowest levels in
October since prices started to retreat.  “The double-dip is almost here,” said  David Blitzer ,
chairman of the index committee at S&P. Sales aren’t “giving
any sense of optimism.”  Since 2006  The 20-city index was down 30 percent in October from its
July 2006 peak.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  The Case-Shiller gauge is based on a three-month average,
which means the October data was influenced by transactions in
September and August.  The drop in prices represents a setback for housing after
values recovered earlier this year, thanks to an $8,000
homebuyers’ tax credit that lifted purchases.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
stuck near recession levels even as the broader economy is
recovering.  Housing permits  fell in November to the third-lowest
level on record, while starts rose for the first time in three
months, the Commerce Department reported Dec. 16.  Sales of  new  and  existing  homes last month rose less than
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, reports from the Commerce Department and the National
Association of Realtors showed last week.  Price Outlook  Atlanta-based Beazer Homes USA Inc, which builds and sells
single-family starter homes in the southern part of the country,
projects prices will not increase.  “We expect new-home selling prices to be somewhere between
flat and down 3 percent in 2011,” Beazer’s Chief Executive
Officer  Ian McCarthy  said on a conference call last month.
“While there are clearly risks of further home-price declines,
we believe that new homes are well positioned relative to non-
distressed existing homes.”  Today’s report may be a reminder why Fed policy makers, who
met Dec. 14 for the final time this year, say housing is lagging
while the economy rebounds. They cited declines in home values
as one of the constraints on consumer spending.  “The housing sector continues to be depressed,” Fed
officials said in a statement after the gathering, at which they
reiterated a plan to expand record monetary stimulus and said
economic growth is “insufficient to bring down unemployment.”  Even so, economists in the past two weeks have boosted
projections for fourth-quarter growth, reflecting a pickup in
consumer spending and passage of an $858 billion bill extending
all Bush-era tax cuts for two years. The legislation also
continues expanded unemployment insurance benefits through 2011
and cuts payrolls taxes by 2 percentage points next year.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  