-- Mumbai Developers to Cut Record Home Prices as Sales Decline, IIFL Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-28T06:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/mumbai-developers-to-cut-record-home-prices-as-sales-decline-iifl-says.html
Mumbai developers may cut record-
high home prices to revive flagging sales after banks curbed
credit to the sector, according to  IIFL Ltd.   Registrations for home sales, leases and property transfers
fell 15 percent this quarter from the three months ended Sept.
30, the brokerage said in a note yesterday. “Selective price
cuts” are expected in the quarter ending March, it said.  Real estate companies face rising borrowing costs and
shrinking access to credit after a corruption probe into loans
to some developers, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit and Ambit Capital Pvt. Lenders may cut back on funds
to the real estate industry for the next three to six months,
Merrill Lynch said in a note to clients on Dec. 1.  “Fresh lending to real estate developers by state-run
banks is taking longer than in the past,” Bhaskar Chakraborty
and Avi Mehta, Mumbai-based analysts at IIFL, said in the note.
“We see developers with debt refinancing requirement in the
second half of the fiscal year ending 2011 increasingly coming
under pressure to cut prices to monetize inventory.”  Property prices in Mumbai have climbed between 15 percent
and 25 percent since April to all-time high levels, according to
IIFL, ranked India’s third-best domestic brokerage in an
Asiamoney poll this year.  The increase in home prices affected affordability and in
turn sales volumes in a quarter that’s seasonally the strongest
for real estate sales because of the holiday season, it said.  Registration data is a lagging indicator of demand as
properties are registered two to three months after the actual
purchase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  