-- Muslim Group Claims Christmas Eve Attacks in Nigerian Towns That Killed 86
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-28T10:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/muslim-group-claims-attacks-on-two-nigerian-cities-update1-.html
A Muslim group in Nigeria
identifying itself as  Jama’atu Ahlus-Sunnah Lidda’Awati Wal
Jihad  said it carried out Christmas Eve attacks on the cities of
Jos and Maiduguri that killed at least 86 people.  The group is “avenging the atrocities committed against
Muslims in those areas, and the country in general,” according
to a statement on its website. “Therefore we will continue with
our attacks on disbelievers and their allies and all those who
help them.”  Multiple bomb blasts in Jos, capital of the central state
of Plateau, targeted public places, including a Catholic church,
killing at least 80 people, according to Nigeria’s  National
Emergency Management Agency . Two churches were also attacked by
gunmen on the same day in Maiduguri, capital of Borno state in
northeast Nigeria, killing six people, said Mohammed Abubakar,
the commissioner of police.  Africa’s top oil producer and most populous country of more
than 140 million people, roughly split between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south, has suffered periodic
outbursts of sectarian violence. At least 14,000 people have
died in ethnic and religious violence since 1999 in Nigeria,
according to the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  Sectarian Violence  Sectarian violence between Christians and Muslims in Jos
has left hundreds of people dead this year. At least 492 people
were killed in an attack on a predominantly Christian village by
Muslim Fulani herders near Jos on March 7, according to Civil
Rights Congress, a rights group based in the northern city of
Kaduna.  Police blamed the attack on churches in Maiduguri Boko
Haram, an Islamic sect opposed to western education and modeled
after Afghanistan’s Taliban.  The attacks in Jos sparked reprisal violence by rival
gangs, prompting additional police and military reinforcements
to the city. At least four people were killed and 20 houses
burned in different parts of the city, Abdulrahman Akano, the
police commissioner in charge of the city, told reporters
yesterday.  A special military task force deployed to help quell the
violence yesterday arrested three men who were trying to attack
buildings with dynamite in the Dogon-Karfe district of the city,
Captain Charles Okocha, a military spokesman, said at a news
conference yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 