-- Vinashin Gets Vietnam Government Loans at 0% Interest Rate to Pay Workers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-28T05:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/vinashin-gets-vietnam-government-loans-at-0-interest-rate-to-pay-workers.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group,
the state-run company that is struggling to repay debt, will be
allowed to get interest-free loans from the government to pay
its workers, according to a directive from the prime minister.  The loans to Vinashin, as the company is known, will have a
maximum maturity of 12 months, the directive from Prime Minister
 Nguyen Tan Dung  said on the government’s website, without giving
a value. They will help the company pay wages, severance
allowances and social, health and unemployment insurance.  Vinashin’s debts have swelled to 86 trillion dong ($4.3
billion) following its expansion into areas ranging from
securities to tourism as part of a government strategy of
building industry through state firms. The nation’s debt is also
under scrutiny, with Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors
Services this month downgrading Vietnam’s credit rating.  Moody’s said last week that Vietnam and its state-backed
companies will face greater difficulties borrowing money after
reports Vinashin failed to make a payment on a loan to foreign
creditors.  Moody’s on Dec. 15 lowered the country’s credit rating to
B1, four steps below investment grade. A week later, S&P cut
Vietnam to BB-, three levels below investment grade.  Vinashin will be offered the interest-free loans through
Vietnam Development Bank, a state-run lender that funds national
projects, and Vietnam Bank for Social Policies, a government
lender for social welfare programs, Dung said in the statement.  The Ministry of Finance will work with the Ministry of
Planning and Investment to allocate some funds to help the two
banks make the loans, the statement said. Vinashin will give the
lenders a list of employees at its units who need to be paid.
The premier’s decision will become effective from Feb. 15.  -- Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi. Editors:  Russell Ward , Linus
Chua  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  