-- Washington Dysfunction's Cure Is in Sight: Michael Waldman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 2010-12-28T02:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/washington-dysfunction-s-cure-is-in-sight-commentary-by-michael-waldman.html
Set your watches to noon on Jan. 5.
That’s the first minute of the first hour of the first day of
the new congressional session. And that is when the U.S. Senate
can change its rules by simple majority, 51 votes, rather the 67
needed otherwise.  A large group of Democratic senators, frustrated by the
chamber’s delay and obstruction, are preparing to use that brief
window to challenge the filibuster. It should get interesting.  The Senate, long styled as the world’s greatest
deliberative body, much of the time could compete for most
dysfunctional. When we see a burst of activity, as in this
productive lame-duck session, it’s easy to think the pace has
picked up. Only next to a snail does a turtle look like
Secretariat.  Consider: The 2009-2010 Congress saw 136  cloture motions  --
attempts to assemble 60 votes to break a filibuster -- compared
with 68 in 2005-2006 and just 54 in the half-century from 1921
to 1971.  Compounding the overuse of the filibuster is the practice
of secret “holds.” By tradition, any senator can quietly put
his or her thumb on a pending measure, often a nomination
offered by the president. These holds can pitch nominees into
Kafkaesque limbo. As of last month, 150 nominees awaited votes.
Washington insiders know this can cripple the executive branch
and keep talented appointees from accepting government jobs.  Judicial nominations have reached a crisis point. The
Alliance for Justice  reports  that there are 111 vacancies and
that President  Barack Obama  has won confirmation of only 60
judges, compared with 100 for  George W. Bush  and 126 for  Bill Clinton  at the same point in their terms.  Work Undone  Filibusters and holds have had a profound effect on the
work of Congress. The Senate hasn’t passed any of the 12
appropriations bills for 2011. A proposal to require better
disclosure of spending on political advertising was backed by 59
senators, yet failed to become law.  Is this problem new? After all, we remember  Jimmy Stewart 
holding forth with a filibuster on the Senate floor in “ Mr.
Smith Goes to Washington ” (1939).  Mr. Smith’s Senate no longer exists. Long governed by
arcane rules and a tradition of unlimited debate, the chamber
has lost the genteel bipartisan ethos that made it possible to
still get things done.  The filibuster once was rare, reserved for epochal battles,
such as when senators talked all night, reading the phone book,
to block civil-rights legislation. Major laws such as the one
creating Medicare avoided a filibuster. Now, in a time of rigid
party discipline conveyed by tweeted talking points, rules
crafted for a gentler time are used to bring Congress to a halt.  Supermajority Rule  This imposes a supermajority requirement unprecedented in
U.S. history. We routinely slip into saying, “The president
needs 60 votes” in the Senate to win passage of this or that
bill. If high-school students say on a test that the answer is
51, are they right or wrong?  Sixty isn’t what America’s founders had in mind. As
 Alexander Hamilton  noted, requiring a supermajority substitutes
“the pleasure, caprice, or artifices of an insignificant,
turbulent, or corrupt junto, to the regular deliberations and
decisions of a respectable majority.”  The Constitution makes clear there are seven times when a
supermajority is needed. Treaties, for example, need approval by
two-thirds of the Senate. Normal legislation is supposed to be
passed by a majority.  Defenders of the filibuster cite  George Washington , who
likened the Senate to a saucer that cools the hot coffee,
presumably poured by the tempestuous House. Be that as it may,
the Senate under current practice throws the coffee in the
trash. That can’t be what our first president had in mind.  Fresh Eyes  Some senators, especially younger ones, share the
frustration.  Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat who joined the
Senate in January 2009, has proposed limits on the use of the
filibuster. One of his ideas: filibustering senators should have
to come out of their offices and actually hold forth on the
Senate floor. Last week, all 53 Democratic senators returning in
2011 signed a letter to Majority Leader  Harry Reid  demanding
action on these ideas.  This is the perfect time for reform. Democrats will have
the majority in the next Senate. Republicans, confident after
the last election, may hold the majority starting in 2013. We
don’t know who will be president then, either. Rules changes
today could make it harder for liberals to obstruct conservative
policies and nominees.  Changing the Rules  Usually, it takes 67 votes to change Senate rules. (Says
who? Senate rules.) But when a new Congress starts, there’s
solid precedent to argue that the 67-vote requirement doesn’t
apply. As presiding officer of the Senate, two U.S. vice
presidents -- Democrat  Hubert Humphrey  and Republican  Richard Nixon  -- have ruled that a majority is good enough.  Reid and Vice President  Joseph Biden  both need to be on
board.  Robert Caro , in “Master of the Senate,” recalls the
high drama in 1957 when Nixon, working with Senate liberals on
behalf of civil rights, tried to curb the filibuster at the
start of the session -- only to be outwitted by Majority Leader
 Lyndon Johnson  in a scene of senators leaping to their feet,
arms flailing, yelling to be recognized.  Biden has said, “No democracy has survived needing a
supermajority.” Reid has said, “We are likely to have to make
some changes” to the filibuster. So where will they stand on
Jan. 5?  Set your clocks -- or at least program your DVRs to C-SPAN.
Reality TV doesn’t get any better.  ( Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President
Bill Clinton, is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at New York University School of Law and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  