-- Hyundai Elevator Rises to Three-Year High as Schindler, Parent Buy Shares
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-28T12:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/hyundai-elevator-rises-to-three-year-high-as-schindler-parent-buy-shares.html
Hyundai Elevator Co. , South Korea’s
largest elevator maker, rose to the highest level in more than
three years in Seoul trading after share purchases by  Schindler
Holding AG  and parent Hyundai Group stoked takeover speculation.  The  Hyundai Group unit  climbed by the daily 15 percent
limit to 127,500 won at the 3 p.m. trading close, the highest
price since November 2007. Affiliate  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. 
gained 2.2 percent, the most since Dec. 16, to 37,150 won.  Hyundai Elevator rose by the limit for a second day after
Schindler, the world’s largest maker of escalators, said Dec. 24
it had raised its stake to 35 percent. Hyundai Group’s  Hyundai
Logiem Co.  also boosted its stake last week, to 27 percent.  “The share purchases by Schindler and Hyundai Logiem have
spurred speculation that Hyundai Elevator may be a target,”
said  Ryu Jae Hyun , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co.  Schindler bought 1.9 percent of Hyundai Elevator on the
market for 12.9 billion won, according to a Dec. 24 statement
from unit  Schindler Deutschland GmbH .  “We increased our investment to protect our interests,”
Barbara Schmidhauser, a spokeswoman for Hergiswil, Switzerland-
based Schindler, said by phone today. “At this time, I can’t
say whether Schindler has any plans to buy more shares or
increase its investment.”  Hyundai Logiem announced its stake increase in a regulatory
filing on Dec. 21.  Controlling Shareholder  Hyundai Group, including Hyundai Logiem and the family of
Chairwoman  Hyun Jeong Eun , owns 51 percent of Hyundai Elevator,
which is enough to maintain control, said  Lee Mae Hee , a Hyundai
Elevator spokeswoman.  Hyundai Elevator said on Dec. 10 that it intends to sell
3.6 million new shares next month. The sale was part of Hyundai
Group’s fundraising plans as it sought to buy a controlling
stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  The group was
stripped of its preferred bidder status last week after failing
to allay concerns about its ability to pay for the stake.  Hyundai Merchant also last week raised 326.4 billion won
selling 10.2 million new shares at 32,000 won each in a rights
offering. Hyundai Elevator, the shipping line’s biggest
shareholder, bought 1.8 million shares.  Daishin Securities Co. and NH Investment & Securities Co.
agreed to purchase new shares that were originally offered to
existing Hyundai Merchant shareholders including Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. and KCC Corp. These shareholders turned down the
opportunity to buy the stock in the rights offering.  The purchases by Daishin and NH Investment will ease the
financial burden on Hyundai Group as it will no longer need to
buy the stock itself, Mirae’s Ryu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  