-- Zardari Seeks to Win Back Former Allies as Pakistan's Government Wobbles
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-29T11:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-28/zardari-s-leading-ally-exits-pakistan-cabinet-over-karachi-violence-claim.html
Pakistan’s President  Asif Ali Zardari  began talks to regain the support of former allies whose
surprise decision to quit the cabinet further weakened a
government besieged by Taliban attacks and a slowing economy.  “The president met one of our leaders, the governor of the
province of Sindh, but nothing substantial came from the
meeting,” said Wasim Akhtar, a lawmaker for the  Muttahida Qaumi
Movement , which withdrew its two ministers from Prime Minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s administration on Dec. 27 while vowing to
continue for now its support in parliament. “The party will
reconsider its options if the government matches our demands.”  The Muttahida, which with a combined 31 members in both
houses of the legislature was Gilani’s top coalition partner,
says it’s not being consulted in economic policymaking and wants
a crackdown on official corruption. Widening the rift, a senior
member of Zardari’s party accused the Muttahida of inciting
deadly violence in Karachi, a port city in Sindh province of 18
million people and Pakistan’s financial capital.  “It’s the biggest challenge faced by this government,”
said  Zafar Nawaz Jaspal , professor of international relations at
Quaid-e-Azam International University in Islamabad. If the
Muttahida drops its support in the legislature, “it will leave
the government with no power to pass any law,” Jaspal said.  Interior Minister  Rehman Malik  met  Fazalur Rehman , chief of
Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Islam, a small religious party that left the
government earlier this month complaining it was being ignored,
the GEO television channel reported. Malik is also expected to
meet senior leaders of the Muttahida.  Street Battles  Political street battles in Karachi between ethnic Mohajirs,
immigrants from India that the MQM represents, and a burgeoning
population of Pashtuns who have moved from Taliban-dominated
parts of the northwest, have escalated this year. At least 66
people were killed over four days in October.  The Muttahida’s exit adds to the pressure on Zardari, who
already faces Supreme Court hearings into corruption cases
against him and thousands of former and present officials, and
is being pushed by the U.S. to extend army offensives against
Islamic guerrillas.  Pakistan’s $167 billion economy is lagging behind as
emerging markets from neighboring India to China help lead the
global economic rebound from the deepest postwar recession.
Growth is forecast by the government at 2.5 percent in the year
through June, compared with a 9.1 percent estimate for the
current fiscal year in India.  IMF Loan  The International Monetary Fund Dec. 27 announced it had
approved a  nine-month extension  of its $10.7 billion program for
Pakistan to Sept. 30, 2011. The move would grant the government
time to “complete the reform of the General Sales Tax,
implement measures to correct the course of fiscal policy,” the
IMF said in a statement.  Gilani’s administration estimates that August’s floods,
which washed away crops, roads and bridges and damaged the homes
or livelihood of 17 million people, may stoke inflation to as
high as 20 percent. Agriculture accounts for more than one fifth
of gross domestic product and almost half of employment.  Pakistan has one of the world’s lowest tax levels, which
leaves the government without enough revenue to provide social
services and forces the central bank to print money to finance
deficits, the IMF said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  