-- Wal-Mart sticks by profit forecast
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 8:21am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-walmart-outlook-dc-idUSWEN176020070104

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) maintained 
its fourth-quarter profit forecast on Thursday, despite 
lackluster holiday season sales. 

  The world's biggest retailer said it still expects earnings 
in the range of 88 cents to 92 cents per share for the period, 
which ends in January. Analysts, on average, had expected 90 
cents per share, according to Reuters Estimates.  Many Wall Street analysts had trimmed their earnings 
forecasts after Wal-Mart posted a decline in November sales at 
its U.S. stores open at least a year.  Wal-Mart confirmed on Thursday that December same-store 
sales rose 1.6 percent, which beat initial expectations of 
same-store sales being flat to up 1 percent during the heaviest 
shopping month of the year. The retailer first gave the 
December sales figure on Saturday.  Sales of electronics, which Wal-Mart promoted heavily 
during the holiday season, were one of the strongest areas for 
the retailer in December, Wal-Mart said.  "We believe Wal-Mart is becoming more of a destination for 
electronics as consumers recognize that we have a leadership 
position on low prices," Eduardo Castro-Wright, president and 
chief executive officer, Wal-Mart Stores Division, U.S., said 
in a news release.  Sales were weak in apparel, with the company cutting prices 
to help move clothing.  Warmer-than-normal temperatures in much of the United 
States hurt sales of winter seasonal items, Wal-Mart said.  Wal-Mart also said special offers and low prices on 
electronics, fitness gear and workout equipment positioned it 
to lure customers looking to spend gift cards in the days after 
Christmas.  Wal-Mart said sales were hurt in relation to a year earlier 
when consumers stocked up in the wake of hurricanes and 
expected that impact to continue in the first quarter of 2007.