-- CVS, Rite Aid post better-than-expected December sales
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 11:52am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-cvs-sales-dc-idUSN0416514820070104

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - CVS Corp. ( CVS.N ) and Rite Aid Corp. 
( RAD.N ) posted better-than-expected sales at stores open at 
least a year on Thursday, as sales of prescription medications 
continued to rise despite the new $4 generic plan from Wal-Mart 
Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) and other low-priced chains. 

  Same-store sales rose 8.5 percent at CVS, the No. 2 U.S. 
drugstore chain, topping the average analyst estimate of 7.9 
percent, according to research firm Retail Metrics.  At Rite Aid, the No. 3 U.S. chain, same-store sales rose 
2.6 percent, while analysts had expected an increase of 2.4 
percent, according to Retail Metrics.  The results came a day after Walgreen Co. ( WAG.N ), the 
largest U.S. drugstore chain, said December same-store sales 
rose 7.9 percent.  Wal-Mart started selling certain generic drugs for $4 per 
monthly prescription in Florida in September. By late November, 
the program was in place at all of its 3,810 pharmacies and was 
matched by rival discount chains.  Shares of all of the major drugstore chains fell sharply 
when Wal-Mart announced its plan.  The major drugstore chains continued with their own 
strategies, saying that consumers would continue to choose 
their stores despite some higher prices, due to their 
convenient locations and customer service.  CVS said total sales rose 24.2 percent to $5 billion. 
Same-store pharmacy sales increased 10.4 percent, while 
same-store sales of general, or "front-end," merchandise, were 
up 5 percent.  At Rite Aid, total December sales fell 17.2 percent to 
$1.49 billion. Rite Aid's December reporting period had four 
weeks, compared with five weeks a year earlier. Rite Aid's 
December pharmacy same-store sales rose 4.1 percent, while 
front-end same-store sales were up 0.6 percent.  CVS said fourth-quarter revenue jumped 24 percent to $12.1 
billion, aided by the acquisition of Albertsons Inc.'s Sav-on 
and Osco chains. Same-store sales, excluding Albertsons 
drugstores, rose 8.7 percent in the quarter.  Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS ranks behind Walgreen in 
terms of revenue, but has more stores than its rival. CVS 
operated 6,202 stores on December 30, while Walgreen had 5,584 
stores on December 31.  Rite Aid trails both chains with 3,321 stores, but plans to 
add more than 1,800 stores by buying the U.S. Eckerd and Brooks 
chains from Canada's Jean Coutu Group (PJC) Inc. ( PJCa.TO ). 
Shareholders are set to vote on the deal on January 18.  CVS is also working on an acquisition. It signed a deal to 
buy pharmacy benefits manager Caremark Rx Inc. CMX.N late 
last year, but Caremark then received a higher bid from rival 
Express Scripts Inc. ( ESRX.O ).  Shares of Rite Aid rose less than 1 percent in midday 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, while CVS stock slipped 
slightly.  (Additional reporting by  Brad Dorfman )