-- Monsanto sees new genes, new products in pipeline
-- By  Carey Gillam
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 2:15pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-monsanto-crops-dc-idUSN0418242720070104

 

 KANSAS CITY, Missouri  (Reuters) - Crop biotechnology 
company Monsanto Co. ( MON.N ), said on Thursday its research and 
development of new products is accelerating at a record pace, 
with a range of genetically altered crop enhancements on the 
horizon. 

  "Our R&D engine is really humming," said Monsanto Chief 
Technology Officer Robb Fraley in a conference call. "We will 
screen and test more genes in 2007 than in any other year in 
our history."  St. Louis-based Monsanto is considered a global leader in 
genetically altering crops to resist pests and tolerate 
weed-killing treatments. The new offerings would include 
soybeans with healthier oils and higher oil yields; 
higher-yielding corn; beans, cotton and corn that grow well in 
drought conditions, and crops that make more efficient use of 
costly nitrogen applications.  Fraley said largely because of the use of molecular 
breeding techniques, which significantly speeds up gene 
selection, "the new data we generate in 2007 across all our 
breeding and testing programs will equal that achieved 
throughout the company's history."  Monsanto officials said while the company has relied in 
large part on two core genes for the insect-protected and 
herbicide-tolerant traits that have driven the company's recent 
growth, it now had made good progress on seven specific 
projects that use new genes across new platforms.  "We have a pipeline that is delivering in the near term and 
will launch game-changing products shortly after the turn of 
the decade," said Fraley.  Including the launch this year of the Roundup Ready Flex 
cotton, Fraley said Monsanto expects to launch five new 
products before the turn of the decade, with a package of 
drought-tolerant traits following shortly after.  Monsanto chairman Hugh Grant called the research portfolio 
"remarkably rich" in a call with Wall Street analysts on 
Thursday.  "All of the growth we've talked about ... is still based on 
two genes," said Grant. "Those two genes will pale in 
comparison to the breadth and depth of our pipeline and the 
pace of innovation here."  "If you look at their pipeline of new products ... that 
should continue to put them ahead of the competition," said 
Argent Capital Management portfolio manager Tom Leritz.  Monsanto posted a higher-than-expected quarterly profit on 
Thursday, citing strong sales of U.S. corn seed and herbicide 
as well as a reduced tax burden, but shares fell as the company 
elected not to raise its fiscal-year earnings forecast.