-- Chrysler expects restructuring plan by February
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 3:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-chrysler-resructuring-dc-idUSN0418345020070104

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler AG's DCXGn.DE DCX.N 
Chrysler Group should have a restructuring plan ready by 
February as it aims to recover from a loss expected to be near 
$1.3 billion for 2006, the automaker said on Thursday. 

  Chrysler also said it has set a target of doubling its 
sales outside North America over the next five years to roughly 
400,000 units, as it targets growth overseas and readies a 
turnaround plan for North America, where sales have fallen.  "That's the overall plan that we will take to the 
marketplace. It will probably be by the end of the second month 
of the year," Chrysler Group Chief Executive Tom LaSorda told 
reporters on a conference call.  He added: "It will outline what we need to do on a wide 
scope of business, and I'm not providing any details until that 
day."  LaSorda also said Chrysler would remain open to 
product-focused alliances like the one it has clinched with 
China's Chery Automobile Co. to produce a new small car for 
export to Europe and the United States.  "The opportunities outside the U.S. are becoming more and 
more important," LaSorda said.  Chrysler announced a partnership with Taiwan's China Motor 
Corp.( 2204.TW ) to export cargo vans to Mexico.  Under the deal, China Motor, which now makes a 
Chrysler-branded minivan for sale in Taiwan, would produce a 
Dodge-branded cargo van at its assembly plant in Yangmei, 
Taiwan, for the Mexican market, Chrysler said.  Chrysler said it would also license China Motor and Fujian 
Motor Group of Fuzhou, China to make a minivan for the Chinese 
market.  "There are ways to capture growth in different ways rather 
than putting a lot of your own capital out there," LaSorda 
said. "So we'll look at those kinds of opportunities."  Chrysler's U.S. sales slipped 7 percent in 2006, although 
sales outside the United States were up almost 7 percent. On a 
global basis, vehicle sales fell 4.5 percent.  In the U.S. market, DaimlerChrysler, which includes the 
parent company's Mercedes brand, slipped to become the No. 4 
player, behind Toyota Motor Corp.( 7203.T ), which saw its own 
sales rise 13 percent.  Like other automakers, Chrysler is expected to face a flat 
to weaker market for vehicles sales in the United States this 
year, and LaSorda said the company would increasingly look for 
growth outside North America.  The company has previously said that its restructuring plan 
would look to cut $1,000 from the cost of each vehicle 
produced. Analysts have expected it to consider shutting a 
plant and asking the United Auto Workers for concessions on 
health care costs.  Chrysler has said it expects to report a 2006 loss of some 
$1.3 billion. Inventories of unsold trucks and sport utility 
vehicles have piled up and strained relations with U.S. 
dealers.  Chrysler is moving toward offering smaller vehicles to 
lessen its reliance on SUVs, trucks and minivans and target a 
segment of the market expected to be boosted by the consumer 
concern over high fuel prices.  The new small car that Chery is to build for Chrysler would 
allow the automaker to compete for very young buyers and those 
for whom a cut-rate price is the most important consideration, 
Chrysler said in a statement.  Chrysler also said it would launch production of its 
Sebring sedan in China for sale in that market later this year.  The production would be at the same plant run in a joint 
venture between DaimlerChrysler and Beijing Automotive Industry 
Holding Co. that currently builds the Chrysler 300C and 
Mercedes-Benz E-Class sedans for sale in China.  Four-cylinder engines for the Sebrings Chrysler will sell 
in China would be manufactured at Chrysler's "global engine" 
plant in Michigan. That plant is a joint venture with 
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. ( 7211.T ) and Hyundai Motor Corp. 
( 005380.KS )