-- Gap December sales weak; reviewing Gap, Old Navy plans
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 8:41am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-gap-sales-dc-idUSWEN177220070104

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Gap Inc. ( GPS.N ) said on Thursday that 
it is reviewing strategies for its Gap and Old Navy chains and 
cut its full-year profit forecast due to weaker-than-expected 
December sales. 

  "We are clearly disappointed with Gap and Old Navy's 
holiday sales and overall performance for the year," President 
and Chief Executive Paul Pressler said in a statement.  Pressler said that Gap's management and board are reviewing 
Gap and Old Navy's brand strategies.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 8 percent in 
December, as the company was forced to slash prices to drive 
sales at the Gap and Old Navy chains.  Analysts had been expecting the San Francisco-based 
clothing retailer to post a same-store sales decrease of 
between 1 percent and 6 percent, with an average view of a 
decrease of 4.2 percent, according to a Reuters survey.  Gap Inc. has lost its footing as discount department stores 
such as Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) have stolen away shoppers with 
lower priced basic apparel. Also, Gap's swings from wardrobe 
staples to fashionable offerings back to basic jeans and 
T-shirts have confused previously loyal customers, sending them 
elsewhere.  Though the operator of the Banana Republic, Old Navy and 
Gap has rolled out aggressive ad campaigns, brought in a slew 
of new designers and streamlined its inventory systems, sales 
have continued to slide.  Same-store sales at Gap stores in North America fell 9 
percent, Old Navy's North American sales fell 10 percent and 
International sales were off 8 percent. The only chain posting 
an increase was the upscale Banana Republic, where North 
America sales rose 2 percent.  Total sales for the five weeks that ended December 30 fell 
4 percent to $2.34 billion.  The company now expects to earn 83 cents to 87 cents per 
share this year, down from its prior expectations of $1.01 to 
$1.06 per share.  Analysts, on average, had expected Gap to earn $1.01 per 
share this year.