-- Express Scripts, CVS defend their Caremark bids
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 3:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-expressscripts-caremark-lett-idUSN0425874620070104

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The high-stakes battle to acquire 
Caremark Rx Inc. escalated on Thursday when Express Scripts 
Inc. urged shareholders of the rival pharmacy benefits manager 
to reject an offer from drugstore chain CVS Corp. 

  Express Scripts ( ESRX.O ) said in a letter to Caremark 
CMX.N shareholders that the CVS deal would have a "lasting 
negative impact" and called the CVS offer insufficient.  CVS ( CVS.N ) fired back in a press release, saying the 
Express Scripts offer carried "significant" antitrust risk that 
could prevent its approval since such a deal would reduce the 
number of major pharmacy benefits managers to two from three.  It added that Express Scripts' proposal would hurt the 
company's financial flexibility, because a combined Express 
Scripts/Caremark would be "one of the most leveraged public 
companies in healthcare services."  In its letter to shareholders, St. Louis-based Express 
Scripts also said it had filed a premerger notification with 
U.S. antitrust regulators on Wednesday and anticipated 
clearance "in a timely manner."  Caremark said that it continues to be bound by the terms of 
its deal with CVS and that its board is reviewing the terms of 
the offer submitted by Express Scripts.  Express Scripts last month offered to buy Nashville-based 
Caremark for about $26 billion in cash and stock, seeking to 
derail the company's planned all-stock sale to CVS, which was 
announced in November.  In its letter to shareholders, Express said based on 
year-end closing prices, its offer of $59.75 per share would 
represent a 16 percent premium to the CVS deal.  Express Scripts also said it would file a proxy statement 
in connection with Caremark's special shareholders meeting to 
consider the CVS deal.  "Express Scripts believes that the proposed acquisition of 
Caremark by CVS will have a lasting negative impact on your 
investment in Caremark," the company said in its letter.  CVS' bid for Caremark already cleared a regulatory hurdle, 
since a waiting period required under Hart-Scott-Rodino expired 
in December without a request for additional information from 
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.  In a statement, CVS Chairman, President and Chief Executive 
Tom Ryan also said that his company was being conservative in 
estimating cost synergies at $400 million, and that the 
combination of Caremark's PBM with CVS' drugstore portfolio 
could lead to significant revenue growth.  When Express Scripts unveiled its offer, it forecast annual 
cost savings of $500 million.  Shares of Caremark and Express Scripts were slightly lower 
in afternoon trading, while shares of Woonsocket, Rhode 
Island-based CVS were up 0.6 percent.  (Additional reporting by  Jessica Wohl  in Chicago)