-- Airbus to start restructuring talks next week
-- By Nicolas Fichot
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 5:21am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-eads-airbus-dc-idUSL0490124420070104

 

 TOULOUSE, France  (Reuters) - European plane maker Airbus 
will next week start talks with labor unions about 
restructuring measures as part of its Power8 cost cutting plan, 
union representatives said on Thursday. 

  "The talks to present details and modalities of Power 8 
will take place in two stages -- first on a European level and 
then on a national level," Xavier Petracchi, a CGT union 
representative, told Reuters. Airbus is a subsidiary of EADS 
( EAD.PA ).  "There are meetings planned next week for the European 
works council," added Jean-Francois Knepper of the FO union and 
co-chairman of the European works council.  He said that Airbus would give details on the Power8 plan 
around eight main themes and the presentations would be made by 
chairman Louis Gallois or other company representatives.  Petrarchi said the French presentations would take place 
between mid-February and end-March.  Gallois said last year he expected to announce details of 
the Power8 plan in early 2007, perhaps February.  The plan, which will streamline production and reduce the 
number of key suppliers, was drawn up by Gallois' predecessor 
Christian Streiff to cut costs sharply after Airbus lost its 
competitive edge to Boeing ( BA.N ) due to the sharp fall of the 
dollar. The aircraft market is dollar-based while Airbus has a 
cost base in euroland.  Gallois has said that Power8 is crucial for the success of 
the key new A350 XWB program.  Power8, unveiled in October 2006, aims to reduce costs, 
save cash and develop new products faster.  The development cycle times are to be reduced by two years 
while the overall productivity is to be increased by 20 
percent. The program aims at annual cost savings of at least 2 
billion euros from 2010 onwards and delivering some 5 billion 
euros in cumulative cash savings by 2010.