-- Service sector gauge slips in December: ISM
-- By  Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 11:50am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-usa-economy-services-dc-idUSN0448198320070104

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The pace of growth in the U.S. service 
sector eased in December, although employment in the sector 
improved and a price index rose to its highest since last 
August, according to a report on Thursday. 

  The Institute for Supply Management's services index edged 
lower to 57.1 in December from 58.9 in November, broadly in 
line with market expectations. The median forecast of Wall 
Street economists was for a dip to 57.0.  A reading above 50 indicates growth in the sector while a 
number below 50 indicates contraction.  U.S. Treasuries and the dollar were steady after the ISM 
report, with markets hardly reacting to the number. By 
contrast, dollar bulls applauded Wednesday's ISM manufacturing 
survey, which showed a broad expansion in the factory sector 
last month.  "Manufacturing bounced a little in December, but the 
flipside of that is that the larger more important services 
sector of the economy finished the year below the stronger pace 
that we saw earlier in the year," said Chris Rupkey, vice 
president and senior financial economist at Bank of 
Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.  "The economy is running at a sub-trend pace and this is 
consistent with real GDP being on the weak side of its 3 
percent potential rate," he added.  The services sector makes up about 80 percent of U.S. 
economy activity, including such businesses as restaurants, 
hotels, hair salons, banks and airlines.  The survey's prices-paid index rose to 59.1 in December -- 
the highest since August 2006 -- from 55.6 in November. The 
employment index also rose to 53.3 from 51.6, but new orders 
were down to 54.4 from 57.1.  Analysts said the report was consistent with the view that 
growth in the world's largest economy was moderating and in 
line with the Federal Reserve's policy to keep interest rates 
steady.  "Overall when you review the report, yes it slowed slightly 
from the previous month, but overall it's still a good report 
and it reflects on everything we're seeing in the 
non-manufacturing sector of the economy," said Anthony Nieves, 
chair of the ISM non-manufacturing business survey committee.  "Respondents feel pretty optimistic about what's going on 
in the economy. There has been a dip in certain areas, but 
overall it still looks pretty good," he added.  Going forward, the ISM is forecasting a slight increase in 
the pace of growth for the U.S. service sector, according to a 
report released last month.  Non-manufacturing purchasing executives expect a 6.4 
percent net increase in overall revenues in 2007 compared with 
a 7.7 percent rise in 2006.  "Non-manufacturing supply managers ... forecast that their 
capacity to produce products and provide services will rise by 
6.2 percent during 2007, and capital expenditures will increase 
by 8.2 percent above the 2006 level," said Nieves.  (Additional reporting by  Ellen Freilich )