-- Time Warner Cable seen public this month: analysts
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 2:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-timewarnercable-adelphia-ban-idUSN0418953120070104

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Time Warner Cable is likely to become 
a publicly traded company by the end of January, after a judge 
approved the bankruptcy plan for Adelphia Communications Corp. 
ADELQ.PK this week, analysts said on Thursday. 

  Adelphia is using a 16 percent stake in Time Warner Cable 
to pay its creditors as part of a 2005 deal for Adelphia's 
cable assets. Once the shares are distributed, Time Warner is 
expected to register them with the New York Stock Exchange to 
pave the way for public trading.  Judge Robert Gerber, who presided over the Adelphia 
bankruptcy proceedings, approved the bankruptcy plan on 
Wednesday at the United States Bankruptcy Court, Southern 
District of New York, after four and half years of wrangling 
with creditors and several altered plans.  Analysts have predicted that Time Warner Cable shares could 
trade as early as two weeks after the approval.  In October, Time Warner Cable had filed an S1 form with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public 
offering, but that is now seen to be unlikely.  "The IPO would be much more expensive due to underwriting 
cost borne by TWC," Michael Nathanson, analyst at Sanford 
Bernstein, said on Thursday.  Time Warner, which is the second-largest U.S. cable 
operator with around 13.5 million subscribers, is seen to be an 
attractive stock for investors, analysts have said.  "If TWC comes out at a discount to asset value, the stock 
would be in demand," said Nathanson.  Adelphia began bankruptcy proceedings back in 2002 
following one of the biggest accounting scandals in U.S 
corporate history. It was the fifth-largest U.S cable operator 
with around 5 million subscribers.  Adelphia is partially using a 16 percent stake in Time 
Warner Cable worth nearly $6 billion to pay its creditors, as 
part of a 2005 deal for Adelphia's cable assets agreed with 
Time Warner Inc. ( TWX.N ) and Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ).  Under the terms of the agreement, creditors who are paid 
with the Time Warner Cable shares must float at least a third 
of their stock.  Time Warner declined to comment. An Adelphia spokesman was 
unavailable for comment.