-- Mergers hinge on US Air bid, says JetBlue CEO
-- By Kyle Peterson
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 12:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/04/businesspro-jetblue-chicago-dc-idUSN0447206720070104

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - The prospects for airline consolidation 
hinge on the ability of US Airways Group ( LCC.N ) to pull off 
its proposed hostile takeover of bankrupt Delta Air Lines 
DALRQ.PK, the chief executive of JetBlue Airways ( JBLU.O ) 
said on Thursday. 

  Merger talks between carriers like UAL Corp's UAUA.O 
United Airlines and Continental Airlines CAL.N probably began 
in earnest only after news of US Airways bid for Delta, David 
Neeleman told Reuters in an interview.  A deal between United and Continental is far less likely if 
US Airways fails to acquire Delta, he said.  "I think that was precipitated by the Delta/US Airways 
(bid)," said Neeleman, who was in Chicago to mark the launch of 
JetBlue service to O'Hare International Airport. Neeleman said 
he had no first-hand knowledge of merger talks.  US Airways announced a takeover bid for Delta in November, 
sparking speculation that other carriers also would attempt to 
merge in order to reinforce their competitive positions.  Delta management rejected the offer, but US Airways was 
appealing to Delta's creditors for permission to proceed with 
the takeover.  Last month, sources said United and Continental also were 
in early merger talks. Neither airline, however, confirmed the 
discussions.
  JETBLUE'S NEW MIDWEST PRESENCE  Neeleman made the comments in Chicago on Thursday as 
JetBlue began nonstop service to O'Hare airport from New York's 
John F. Kennedy International Airport and Los Angeles' Long 
Beach airport.  The expansion makes Chicago its 50th destination and the 
first new one this year.  "Chicago consistently ranked No. 1 on our customers' wish 
list of destinations," Neeleman said in an earlier statement.  The airline plans to offer up to five daily flights to New 
York and up to two daily flights to Long Beach. Regular one-way 
fares will range between $89 and $249 to New York, and between 
$109 and $349 to Long Beach.  JetBlue's move to Chicago puts it in direct competition in 
the Midwest with United and AMR Corp's AMR.N American 
Airlines, both of which have hubs at O'Hare.  Shares of JetBlue were down 19 cents, or 1.25 percent, at 
$15.01 on Nasdaq.  (Additional reporting by  Paritosh Bansal )