-- Natalie Portman, Chef Tom Colicchio, Raise Money to Flag Hunger
-- Patrick Cole
-- 2010-02-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-19/natalie-portman-chef-tom-colicchio-raise-money-to-flag-hunger.html

          
          
             When Craft chef Tom Colicchio did
volunteer work at a soup kitchen on Thanksgiving Day last
November, he discovered that hungry New Yorkers don’t
necessarily look destitute.  
 “I was shocked at the people who were coming in,” said
Colicchio, 47, the head judge on Bravo cable-television show
“Top Chef,” in a telephone interview this week. “If they
walked by you on the street, you wouldn’t think they needed
food.”  
 His wife, Lori Silverbush, learned that a girl the couple
mentors has to scrounge for food at her school in Brooklyn.  
 “She would say she had noodles for dinner because her
mother’s food stamps ran out,” Silverbush said. “That was
their default food.”  
 Silverbush began shooting a documentary last year called
“Hungry in America” with her producing partner, Kristi
Jacobson. Colicchio persuaded chef Mario Batali, owner of the
restaurant Babbo, to serve as co-executive producer on the
project, which is supported by FEED Foundation, a nonprofit that
promotes awareness of child nutrition.  
 The film will show the faces of hunger and look at food
policies and the federal legislative process, Silverbush said.  
 “We haven’t set up any kind of food policy in this
country,” Silverbush said. “We’re the only industrialized
nation that has this massive hunger issue.”  
 She and Jacobson, who have shot 20 percent of the film so
far, plan to release the completed documentary next year.  
 ‘Face of Hunger’  
 “What we’re trying to do is change the face of hunger,”
Colicchio said. “There is that idea of a child in Africa with
flies around him. We want to change that perception.”  
 Colicchio will also help by cooking at a Sunday fundraiser
he’s co-hosting with actor Natalie Portman at Colicchio & Sons,
his new farm-to-table restaurant that replaced Craftsteak. He
hopes the event will raise $500,000.  
 The money will be used to complete the film, which is the
centerpiece of a multimedia campaign known as the Hungry in
America Project. Among the project’s supporters are actor Ben
Affleck, R.E.M. frontman Michael Stipe and actor Julianne Moore,
who is scheduled to attend Sunday’s event.  
 Chef Rocco DiSpirito, star of the short-lived reality
television show, “The Restaurant,” and Michael Schlow, the
executive chef and owner of Boston’s Radius, will help Colicchio
serve up small plates of roast pork shoulder with spicy clams,
white-bean agnolotti and raw tuna with radishes.  
 Colicchio, who began his charity work when he was cooking
at New York’s Mondrian which closed in 1992, said he hopes the
film will broaden public awareness about the need for children
to have more nutritious meals.  
 ‘Better Grades’  
 “School lunch programs should be free and school
breakfasts should be part of first period,” he said. “There are
programs that show that children get better grades when they
have food in their stomachs in the morning.”  
 (The fundraiser for the Hungry in America Project is from 6
p.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday at Colicchio & Sons, 85 Tenth Ave. in
Manhattan and at Craft in Los Angeles, 10100 Constellation Blvd.
on Feb. 28. Tickets for Sunday night’s event are $250 for
general admission and $1,000 for the VIP reception at 6 p.m.
Information:  http://www.thefeedfoundation.org .  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chef Tom Colicchio in the kitchen of his new restaurant, Colicchio & Sons, in New York. He will co-host with Natalie Portman a fundraiser for the Hunger in America project to promote awareness about the starving in the U.S. Photographer: Daniel Krieger/Becca PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Natalie Portman at the 81st Academy Awards ceremony at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles. Portman will co-host a fundraiser with chef Tom Colicchio at Colicchio & Sons this Sunday. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
