-- Total says govt control may hurt Venezuela project
-- By Marie Maitre
-- Tue Feb 27, 2007 7:07am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/27/businesspro-total-venezuela-dc-idUSL2724006920070227

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - French oil major Total ( TOTF.PA ) fears 
Venezuela's drive to take over complex heavy oil projects run 
by foreign oil companies in the Orinoco belt could lead to 
operational problems, chairman Thierry Desmarest said on 
Tuesday. 


  "We are willing to talk, in particular on tax issues, but 
what bothers us today is the Venezuelan state's desire of 
majority control over operations such as Sincor, with all the 
operational constraints that this imposes," Desmarest told 
reporters at a breakfast meeting.  Desmarest, who stepped down as Chief Executive earlier this 
month, said talks continued.  "We continue to negotiate with the authorities to find a 
solution that would allow us to keep a satisfactory 
profitability... We need to wait a little more to know if we 
can find an acceptable solution," Desmarest said.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez extended on Monday by 
several months a deadline to take by May 1 a stake of at least 
60 percent in four projects, including Sincor, which convert 
the heavy, tarry crude of eastern Venezuela's Orinoco Belt into 
synthetic oil.  Desmarest said the 60-percent figure was not yet set.  "Sixty percent or 51 percent, there are several figures 
doing the rounds," he said.  The International Energy Agency said last month that 
nationalization plan could impede investment in the OPEC member 
nation and hinder its ability to boost production.  Chavez said he hoped foreign companies would stay as 
minority partners. The four Orinoco projects have a production 
capacity of around 600,000 barrels per day.
  "PATIENT"  Asked whether Total would be happy to stay in the Sincor 
project with a minority stake, Desmarest excluded nothing.  "(If PDVSA took a 60 percent stake) We would need to know 
what our percentage of interest would be and all the other 
conditions too."  Other companies whose investments are targeted for takeover 
in the vast Orinoco reserve include Chevron Corp. ( CVX.N ), 
Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ), Conoco Phillips ( COP.N ), Norway's Statoil 
( STL.OL ) and Britain's BP Plc ( BP.L ).  On other issues, Desmarest said Total intended to fight 
calls in France for a windfall tax on its record profits, but 
added Total was determined to remain a French-based company.  Asked about Total's plans to develop nuclear energy 
activities, Desmarest said Total was waiting for the results of 
the presidential and legislative elections.  He declined to say whether this would lead Total to take a 
stake in power giant EDF ( EDF.PA ) or increasing its current 
holding in nuclear group Areva CEPFi.PA, both of which are 
currently state-owned.  "We are waiting to see the outcome of the French elections 
and for the new government in place to clarify its intentions 
on both these companies. Then we'll see what we'll do."