-- Ford weighs third China plant to meet demand
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Fri Apr 18, 2008 7:25pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/18/businesspro-autoshow-ford-dc-idUSN1845570620080418

 

 BEIJING  (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co ( F.N ) may build a third 
assembly plant in China to meet fast-growing demand for its 
cars just five years into its push into the booming Chinese 
market, a senior executive said. 

  "We're exploring opportunities to add to our capacity," 
John Parker, executive vice president in charge of Ford's 
operations in Asia, said late on Friday ahead of the Beijing 
auto show.  Ford has an assembly plant in Nanjing, about 300 kilometers 
from Shanghai, in partnership with its affiliate Mazda Motor Co 
( 7261.T ) and China's Chongqing Changan Automobile Co 
( 000625.SZ ).  That $510 million plant, which began operations last year, 
has an initial capacity to produce 160,000 vehicles per year 
that could be expanded so it can produce up to 300,000, Parker 
said. Through its joint venture Changan Ford Mazda, the No. 2 
U.S. automaker also operates a nearby engine plant.  In addition, Changan Ford Mazda has an assembly plant in 
the southwestern city of Chongqing. That facility is running 
near capacity at about 270,000 vehicles per year, Parker said, 
making the area a clear candidate for new investment.  "It's still up for discussion but Chongqing is a likely 
destination," Parker told reporters. "We're currently capacity 
constrained in Chongqing, so it's important to get Nanjing on 
stream this year."  Ford, which lost $2.7 billion last year, is banking in part 
on growth in markets like China to offset losses in the United 
States as it aims to return to profitability in 2009.  Ford sells the European-designed Mondeo sedan and the 
smaller Focus sedan in China. Later this year, Ford will add 
its new small car, the Fiesta.  Jiangling Motor Corp, another joint venture, handles Ford's 
commercial vehicles like the Ford Transit van. "We see 
opportunity on that side of the business," Parker said.  Ford only began operations in China in 2003, but already 
has a roughly 2 percent share of the country's auto market, 
with sales of more than 200,000 vehicles last year.  Parker declined to give a 2008 sales forecast, but said 
Ford had not been slowed by its relatively late start in a 
market that has grown by between 20 and 30 percent over the 
past five years to become the world's second largest.  "A lot of people say, 'You're the Johnny come lately,' but 
look at the growth we've experienced," Parker said. "Toyota 
came to the U.S. market how many decades after GM and Ford? And 
they did very well."  Changan Ford Mazda posted a 58 percent gain in 
first-quarter sales to almost 62,000 vehicles. Including 
commercial ones, Ford sold almost 91,000 vehicles.  Ford's larger Detroit-based rival, General Motors Corp 
( GM.N ), moved earlier to clinch a joint venture in China and 
last year ranked No. 2 in sales with almost 10 percent of a 
highly fragmented market that now includes all of the global 
car companies and some fast-growing Chinese rivals.  Ford Chief Executive Alan Mulally, who joined the No. 2 
U.S. automaker from Boeing Co ( BA.N ) in 2006, has been pushing 
the company toward a heavier reliance on global vehicle 
platforms, cutting engineering and manufacturing costs.  One of the first cars to be rolled out under that plan will 
be the revived Fiesta subcompact, and Parker said Ford had 
established a supplier hub in Nanjing it was using to source 
lower-cost components from China for export to assembly plants 
making that car in other markets.  In addition, Parker said Ford was working with more local 
Chinese component suppliers in a bid to reduce costs on cars it 
is already selling in China, like the Focus sedan.  The Focus now has about 75 percent local content, but Ford 
is targeting sourcing about 90 percent of parts from Chinese 
suppliers when it makes the next generation of the sedan, 
Parker said.  "Working on managing margins is very critical," he said. "I 
just don't see any opportunity to pass on the costs."  (Reporting by Kevin Krolicki in Beijing, editing by Richard 
Chang)