-- Bonds and Betrayal
-- 
-- 2010-02-25T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-25/bonds-and-betrayal.html

          
          
             Jeffrey Gundlach’s returns topped those of Bill Gross before he
was fired by Societe Generale-owned TCW. Now, he faces
allegations of stealing trade secrets and keeping drugs at the
office.  
 By Edward Robinson and Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
Bloomberg Markets, April 2010  
 Jeffrey Gundlach has a black eye and a cut on the bridge of
his nose, and he winces as he rubs his side.  
 “I think I cracked a rib,” Gundlach, 50, says as he
gingerly takes a seat in a conference room in a Los Angeles
high-rise in January.  
 Gundlach, a money manager who ran the second-largest
mortgage bond fund worldwide, got hurt tripping over a computer
cable in his office, not in a fist fight. But he is exchanging
blows with his former investment firm, TCW Group Inc., in a
brawl that has shocked the bond-trading world with allegations
of double-dealing, drug use and workplace pornography, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  
 The feud reaches from TCW’s headquarters in Los Angeles to
Paris, where Societe Generale SA, the firm’s corporate parent,
has been pummeled in the global credit crisis. France’s No. 2
bank has written down at least 11 billion euros ($15 billion)
after losing additional billions in a 2008 trading scandal.  
 A relentless self-promoter who describes himself as a
“money machine,” Gundlach outperformed 99 percent of his rival
fixed-income money managers from 2005 to 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. His lieutenants call him “the
Godfather” for the loyalty he commands and the rich stream of
asset management fees he brings in.  
 ‘Amazingly Brilliant’  
 “I am amazingly brilliant analytically,” says Gundlach, a
wiry man whose short brown hair hugs his skull like a helmet.
“I’m the guy who makes it rain in the desert.”  
 TCW Chief Executive Officer Marc Stern fired his rainmaker
on Dec. 4. Stern, 65, who former colleagues say is as hard-
charging a figure as Gundlach, referred to the ousted money
manager as a “prima donna” on a conference call with TCW
employees on Dec. 7. A month later, TCW accused Gundlach in a
lawsuit of stealing trading and contact data for thousands of
clients so he could open his own firm, Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital LP.  
 Gundlach, who during 24 years rose from a junior analyst to
manage about 70 percent of TCW’s $110 billion in assets, denies
the allegations in the lawsuit. In a countersuit filed on
Feb. 10, Gundlach contends TCW ousted him largely to take
control of the 15 funds he ran and keep $600 million to $1.25
billion in fees his team was due to be paid over the next few
years.  
 Bitter Divorce  
 The feud has wounded TCW, which in February took the
unusual move of slashing its fees in two of Gundlach’s former
funds to induce investors to keep their assets at TCW. With
years of bad blood between Gundlach and Stern, this battle isn’t
just business -- it’s personal.  
 “It’s a bitter divorce,” says Neil Rue, a managing
director at Pension Consulting Alliance Inc., a Portland,
Oregon-based firm that advises institutional investors.  
 This is a story rooted in old grudges over money and the
perennial tension between the suits in the executive suite and
the investment wizards on the trading floor. It begins in July
2001, when Societe Generale pushed into U.S. asset management by
acquiring TCW. Originally known as Trust Company of the West,
the firm went on to invest money for institutions such as the
California State Teachers’ Retirement System and Cornell
University and counted Henry Kissinger and Enron Corp. founder
Kenneth Lay as directors in the 1980s and 1990s.  
 The French bank awarded fresh equity in TCW to its senior
officers and skipped over the money managers, former TCW
executives say. The move diluted Gundlach’s existing stake, and
the money manager says he never forgot the snub.  
 Kerviel’s Losses  
 Paris-based SocGen, a 146-year-old retail bank that had
long lagged behind rivals in mergers advice and underwriting,
became one of the world’s top issuers of equity derivatives
after 2000. Then in January 2008, as the credit crisis was
picking up momentum, SocGen disclosed that it had lost 4.9
billion euros unwinding unauthorized bets that trader Jerome
Kerviel had made on stock index futures.  
 Kerviel, 33, maintains he acted with the knowledge of his
supervisors and hasn’t been accused of personally profiting from
the trades. Following the scandal, CEO Daniel Bouton resigned
and his successor, Frederic Oudea, moved to spin off far-flung
asset management units such as TCW.  
 For Gundlach, who ran his investment team as a quasi-
autonomous fiefdom and who has personally earned $134 million
since 2005, Oudea’s course augured the end of his independence.
Last September, the money manager, who specializes in mortgage-
backed securities, threatened to lead a mass defection of his
65-member investment team to his own firm, Stern wrote in
January in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  
 Rocked Washington’s Boat  
 “This would have had an adverse and negative reaction on
our fixed-income business,” said Stern, who declined to comment
further. Gundlach denies the allegation, saying he wanted to
protect his TCW business, not quit.  
 On the same day in December that Gundlach was sacked for
allegedly stealing client information, TCW announced it was
acquiring Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC, a crosstown
rival, to take over his funds.  
 On a conference call with TCW’s 700 employees on Dec. 7,
Robert Day, the firm’s founder and chairman, said terminating
Gundlach was necessary for the good of the company, according to
a recording of the meeting. Day, 66, had been a father figure to
Gundlach early in the money manager’s career. Now, three days
after Gundlach’s termination, Day likened his one-time protege
to a soldier who rocked George Washington’s boat as it crossed
the Delaware River in 1776.  
 ‘Shoot The Soldier’  
 “Your choices are very simple,” Day told his employees.
“You shoot the soldier and throw him overboard, otherwise
everybody in the boat goes down.” Day declined to comment for
this article.  
 Hours after he was fired, Gundlach returned to a private
office he used in Santa Monica to find the lock on the front
door removed. Inside, he says, about seven private investigators
hired by TCW were searching through his desk and had broken open
his filing cabinets. Gundlach says he protested the intrusion
and one of the investigators told him to leave the office
immediately.  
 The TCW men discovered marijuana stored in jars, drug
paraphernalia, pornographic DVDs and a dozen “sexual devices,”
according to the company’s lawsuit. TCW alleges that Gundlach’s
possession of the material at an office it considered part of
the firm’s workplace violated its employment rules and showed he
wasn’t fit to manage money for clients or supervise employees as
the chief investment officer of the company.  
 Drugs, Porn and Sex Toys  
 Gundlach says the drugs, porn and sex toys are relics from
a closed chapter in his life and were stored in a crate. He says
TCW disclosed their existence to damage his reputation with
investors.  
 “It’s ancient stuff, like a box in an attic,” he says.
“But they figured, ‘Let’s try and destroy the guy and throw
some slander and sleaze on him.’”  
 Gundlach, who favors custom-made Brioni suits, is equally
at home opining on the nuances of the yield curve or the
geometry of Piet Mondrian’s gridlike paintings, which he
collects. He’s also blunt and prone to pounding the table when
making a point. On the trading floor, Gundlach openly chastises
co-workers for mistakes or even their choice of necktie, former
colleagues say.  
 “He’s a principled and honest guy, but sometimes he gets
himself into trouble by speaking his mind without any
sugarcoating,” says Frederick Horton, a money manager at TCW
from 1993 to 2005 and now a managing director in New York at
Strategos Capital Management LLC. “It can come off as
arrogance, but I don’t think he means it that way; it’s just
part of his makeup.”  
 Tops Bill Gross  
 Investors say Gundlach’s performance backs up his bluster.
His former flagship mutual fund, the TCW Total Return Bond Fund,
gained 20 percent in 2009, more than double his peers’ average
of 8.6 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The portfolio’s 7.8
percent annual return during the decade ended on Dec. 4 beat the
7.6 percent performance of the PIMCO Total Return Fund run by
Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, according to
Morningstar Inc.  
 In July, the U.S. Treasury selected TCW largely on the
strength of Gundlach’s record as one of nine managers for its
Public-Private Investment Program to buy distressed mortgage
assets.  
 Theoretical Mathematics  
 Gundlach got into the investing business by chance. He was
born in 1959, in Buffalo, New York, into a German-American
family of scientists. His father, Arthur, was a chemist at a
paint manufacturer, and his uncle Robert Gundlach, a physicist,
was the primary inventor of the modern photocopier at Xerox
Corp., according to the National Inventors Hall of Fame.  
 After graduating from Dartmouth College in New Hampshire
with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy and mathematics, Gundlach
enrolled in Yale University’s Ph.D. program in theoretical
mathematics. His thesis, “The Probabilistic Implications of the
Non-Existence of Infinity,” went against 20th-century
mathematical canon, which is based on the assumption that
infinity exists. He left Yale before completing his degree and
moved to Los Angeles in 1983.  
 Gundlach led a carefree existence on the West Coast,
playing drums for a rock band called Nuisance. One evening in
1985, he watched the TV program Lifestyles of the Rich and
Famous and saw that investment bankers were the top-paid
professionals in America. Inspired, he flipped through the
Yellow Pages, calling investment firms. Gundlach, then 26,
landed a 90-day probationary position as a quantitative analyst
in the fixed-income unit at Trust Company of the West for
$30,000 a year.  
 Inside the Yield Book  
 Day founded TCW in 1971. He’s the grandson of William Keck,
the founder of Superior Oil Co. in Coalinga, California, which
was sold to Mobil Corp. in 1984 for $5.7 billion.  
 Day structured TCW as a confederation of semiautonomous
boutiques rather than a highly centralized firm, says a former
TCW executive who knows him. Day played a paternal role at TCW
by bestowing autonomy and generous fee-sharing agreements on his
favored money managers, with some keeping more than half the
revenue their teams generated, the executive says. Every
Christmas, he threw a gala at his Beverly Hills home for his top
people and their families. A 10-piece band and circus clowns
entertained guests.  
 At TCW, Gundlach says he devoured the 1972 classic primer
on bonds, Inside the Yield Book, and studied its formulas. He
embraced mortgage bonds and set out to solve what he called
“the conundrum of pre-payment risk.”  
 ‘Scenario Analysis’  
 Many investors avoided mortgage bonds in those days because
whenever interest rates fell, borrowers refinanced to settle
home loans long before their terms expired. That wiped out
gains, including those based on higher interest payments.
Gundlach says most money managers erred by using past patterns
to predict rate moves and prepayment levels. There are too many
variables to make accurate forecasts, from Federal Reserve
policy  to the housing market, he says.  
 So working with fellow money manager Philip Barach,
Gundlach developed a system called “scenario analysis.” It
mixed bonds of varying credit risk and duration together to
accommodate any rate move. Those bonds that underperformed when
rates fell were offset by enough winners to produce profits,
Gundlach says.  
 In March 1989, Day agreed to let Gundlach lead his own
mortgage-backed securities investment team and retain about half
of its asset management fees to distribute to his people as
compensation, the money manager says. By late 1992, Gundlach had
attracted $10 billion in investor assets and the following June
unveiled the TCW Total Return Bond Fund.  
 Secretary of State Kissinger  
 Day offered Gundlach the option to buy an equity stake in
TCW, which was coveted by money managers and senior executives.
And the chairman sat his prized pupil next to former U.S.
Secretary of State Kissinger, a TCW director from 1981 to 2003,
at luncheons following periodic board meetings, Gundlach says.  
 “I was happy,” he says. “I believed.”  
 Across the Atlantic, Societe Generale CEO Bouton was moving
in 2001 to become a global player after losing his bid to
acquire rival Paribas SA to Banque Nationale de Paris SA.
SocGen, which was privatized in 1987 following 42 years as a
state-run institution, bought banks in the Czech Republic and
Slovenia.  
 In July 2001, SocGen purchased 51 percent of TCW for $784
million and agreed to pay about $425 million to increase the
stake to 70 percent over five years; Day and TCW retained the
remaining 30 percent of equity.  
 Gundlach Diluted  
 Stern, a lawyer who joined TCW in 1990 after serving as
president of life insurer SunAmerica Inc., played a key role in
negotiating the deal, say two former TCW money man­agers. SocGen
granted new equity stakes in TCW only to senior operating
executives, the money managers say.  
 Gundlach says he was furious because the issuance of new
equity diluted his existing stake by a quarter, decreasing its
value by $15 million. Stern had violated a pledge to never
diminish his holding, Gundlach says. “That’s absurd,” TCW
spokeswoman Erin Freeman says. “Societe Generale’s acquisition
of TCW did involve some dilution, and it was the same for each
shareholder commensurate with the shares owned.”  
 In September 2005, the TCW board elevated Gundlach to chief
investment officer as part of a move to bring the next
generation to power at the firm. Day relinquished his CEO title
to Robert Beyer, then 45, a former fixed-income money manager,
and Stern stepped aside as president to become vice chairman.  
 SocGen’s AIG Exposure  
 When the Kerviel scandal hit SocGen in January 2008, TCW
was immediately affected. French regulators opened an insider-
trading probe of Day, then a SocGen director, after he and his
foundation sold 148 million euros worth of the bank’s stock
before SocGen publicly disclosed the trading losses on Jan. 24,
according to regulatory records. Josh Pekarsky, a spokesman for
Day, says Day used no inside information with respect to the
stock sales and is cooperating with the investigation. Day
resigned from SocGen’s board on Dec. 31.  
 Oudea, 46, SocGen’s former chief financial officer, took
the helm in May 2008 with a mandate to staunch the bank’s
losses. The carnage would have been far worse for SocGen had
Washington failed to execute a $182 billion bailout of American
International Group Inc. in 2008. SocGen held held $16.5 billion
in credit-default swaps issued by AIG, the largest such
exposure, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 Backdoor Bailout  
 Under a deal arranged by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York, then led by Timothy F. Geithner, the insurer settled the
swaps with SocGen and other AIG trading partners at 100 cents on
the dollar. The decision spurred accusations from U.S. Congress
members that Geithner, who is now the U.S. Treasury secretary,
gave the banks a “backdoor bailout” at the expense of
taxpayers.  
 Gundlach, too, was investing in the exotic instruments that
helped fuel the crash. Under his direction, TCW became the No. 1
manager in collateralized debt obligations, with $41.3 billion
under management as of Sept. 30, 2007, according to data from
Standard & Poor’s. That included $35.1 billion of CDOs composed
of asset-backed securities, including mortgages. Gundlach says
his CDOs rotated out of high-risk home loans early in the credit
crisis and escaped the worst of it.  
 In January 2009, Societe Generale said TCW would be spun
off in a stock offering sometime in the next five years as part
of a reorganization of its asset management division. Gundlach
says he assumed the French would sell TCW if the right offer was
made.  
 Gundlach Blows Up  
 At the end of May, Day summoned Gundlach to his home to
meet with him and Stern. The two men told Gundlach that Beyer,
TCW’s CEO, was about to announce his retirement at the age of 49
and Stern was to be named CEO. Gundlach blew up.  
 “I was like, ‘No! No! What do you mean you’re coming back?
You turned this over to the next generation. This is all
completely the opposite of what I was led to expect,’” Gundlach
says. Beyer declined to comment.  
 The two men offered to make Gundlach president, which he
says he rejected. Gundlach had never forgotten the dilution of
his equity stake in 2001, and he says he accused Stern of
stealing $15 million from him. The meeting ended badly.  
 “Gundlach’s claims are without merit,” TCW spokeswoman
Freeman says.  
 In late August, Gundlach says, he heard rumors that Stern
had convened a team of lawyers to fire him. On Sept. 3, the
money manager asked Stern to join him and members of his team in
a conference room off the trading floor to clear the air. The
mood was tense as the money manager and the CEO faced one
another, according to an account by Gundlach and Barach.  
 Threat to TCW  
 Gundlach asked Stern whether he was planning to fire him.
Stern replied no. Gundlach asked whether SocGen was going to
sell the firm. Stern again answered no. Gundlach then made an
oral offer to buy 51 percent of TCW for $350 million. And
several of his top lieutenants, including Barach and money
manager Louis Lucido, voiced support for their boss.  
 “Just so you know, if anything happens to Jeffrey, we’re
going with him,” Lucido, now executive vice president at
DoubleLine, says he told Stern.  
 Stern considered Gundlach’s behavior confrontational and
insubordinate and came away convinced the money manager now
posed a threat to the welfare of the firm, says a TCW executive
familiar with Stern’s views. Gundlach’s informal buyout bid was
rejected, Jacques Ripoll, head of SocGen’s global investment
group, wrote in a January e-mail to Bloomberg News.  
 TCW lawyers started reading Gundlach’s e-mails and
allegedly found some in which he declared war on TCW and
solicited his subordinates’ allegiance to him, according to the
company’s lawsuit. TCW investigators monitored and recorded his
team’s computer activity.  
 Firing Gundlach  
 Beginning in early September, members of Gundlach’s team
allegedly started downloading data on every holding of every
client in the mortgage-backed-securities group and contact
information for more than 24,000 TCW clients firm-wide,
according to the suit. Gundlach’s deputies also engaged a
commercial real estate agent to find an office that could
accommodate a 50-desk trading floor and registered the name
DoubleLine on Nov. 22 in Delaware, the complaint says. At the
end of the month, Stern briefed Ripoll and received his blessing
to take the next step, the TCW executive says.  
 After lunch on Friday, Dec. 4, Gundlach was at his desk on
the 16th floor when he got a call from Michael Cahill, TCW’s
general counsel, asking him to come up one flight to the
executive suite. Stern wasn’t there. Cahill told Gundlach his
TCW career was over, the money manager says.  
 Stairwell Chase  
 The attorney tried to give Gundlach a legal document
describing how he and his team took confidential information.
Gundlach says he refused to take it and turned to go, saying he
had trades to complete. Cahill told him he couldn’t return to
his desk. Gundlach says he ducked into a stairwell and Cahill
and another lawyer followed him down 17 flights to the street,
demanding he take the papers. They gave up as Gundlach took off
along Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles. Cahill declined
to comment.  
 Gundlach says he did ask deputies to find office space and
register DoubleLine in case TCW fired him. He denies directing
employees to steal client data or any other trade secrets. In
the two weeks after Gundlach was ousted, more than 40 members of
his TCW team quit to join DoubleLine. Barach is now DoubleLine’s
president. Oaktree Capital Management LP, a Los Angeles firm
with $67 billion in assets, invested an undisclosed sum in
DoubleLine for a 22 percent stake.  
 $500 Million in Fees  
 In his Feb. 10 answer to TCW’s lawsuit, Gundlach says
DoubleLine has hired a firm to search computers belonging to
former TCW employees and return any data that might be in their
possession.  
 “DoubleLine’s establishment has not involved the use of
any TCW information whatsoever,” Gundlach says.  
 Gundlach contends that TCW canned him largely to capture
all of the fees from funds that he and Barach set up in 2007 to
invest in distressed mortgage-backed securities, including two
with $3 billion in assets. Gundlach says the strategy returned
60 percent in 2009. Along with revenue from his other funds,
Gundlach says he was personally eyeing a payday of about $500
million over the next few years.  
 “They just wanted to broom-sweep me out and shanghai my
business,” he says.  
 Freeman disputes that allegation. “He was let go because
he stole from the company,” she says.  
 Investors Flee  
 TCW said it planned to start an equity-based compensation
plan in the first quarter to retain employees. “The priority
now is to concentrate on moving the business forward,” Ripoll
wrote in an email on Feb. 11.  
 TCW’s standing with clients has been shaken by its firing
of Gundlach: In December, TCW said it would liquidate its $1
billion PPIP fund for distressed assets after Gundlach’s
dismissal triggered a so-called key-man clause and prompted the
Treasury to freeze the firm’s participation in the program.  
 Investors pulled more than $6 billion in assets from the
Total Return fund between Dec. 4 and Feb. 8, according to
Morningstar. In January, pension funds in Colorado, Kansas and
Texas withdrew a total of $1.2 billion from TCW.  
 “We decided to terminate because we’re no longer getting
the team we signed up for,” says Robert Smith, chief investment
officer at the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System.  
 Investors in TCW’s distressed funds are livid that their
holdings have become pawns in the dispute, says Tania Modic, CEO
of Western Investments Capital LLC in Incline Village, Nevada,
which put $10 million in the funds. Clients asked TCW to permit
them to make so-called in-kind transfers of assets to another
firm so they don’t have to liquidate the securities into cash.  
 TCW Slashes Fees  
 TCW says it declined, offering an option to slash fees to
1 percent on assets and 5 percent on profits from 2 percent and
20 percent.  
 Modic says it appears TCW would rather alienate its clients
than see them transfer their assets to DoubleLine, which is what
she wants to do.  
 “Something happened to get their panties in a twist
because their behavior is bizarre,” Modic says. “This shows
gross disrespect for investors.”  
 Freeman says TCW is treating its investors fairly.  
 Gundlach is also feeling the fallout. TCW is seeking at
least $200 million in damages from DoubleLine and wants it to
relinquish its revenue. The lawsuit has hindered DoubleLine’s
ability to raise assets beyond the $3 billion it has brought in
so far, Gundlach says. Pension consultant Rue says he’s advised
institutional investors not to commit capital to DoubleLine
until the litigation plays out.  
 Starting Over  
 At DoubleLine’s offices, located a few blocks from TCW,
Gundlach strides past electricians working on his half-completed
trading floor and points to a spot where he plans to blow a hole
in the ceiling and install a minimalist sculpture by the late
artist Donald Judd. Gundlach, after more than two decades
managing money, is now starting over. This time around, with a
lawsuit threatening his new firm, he may find that repairing a
career can be harder than building one.  
 Edward Robinson is a senior writer at Bloomberg Markets in San
Francisco at  edrobinson@bloomberg.net ; Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
is a reporter in Boston at  sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.35.32688.811>#
-0- Feb/25/2010 20:35 GMT
  
          
          


  


        