-- Olympic Legacy Spans Luge Death, Bobsled Debt: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-02-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-25/olympic-legacy-spans-luge-death-bobsled-debt-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             The Olympics will end on Sunday,
enabling the fine hosts from Canada to reconsider the merits of
trash talk that, truth be told, always seemed a wee bit
artificial.  
 The Canadian contingent entered these Olympics with a
pledge to own the podium. Check the medals table. They did not.
That doesn’t mean they didn’t do themselves proud.  
 But these Games shouldn’t be remembered for what the
Canadian athletes did or didn’t do on the ice or snow, although
the tears shed by figure skater Joannie Rochette were more than
enough to make even the manliest man reach for the Kleenex.  
 Rochette, whose mother died two days prior to her
performance, wasn’t the only one grieving, which is why the
lasting legacy of these Olympics won’t be a record American
medals assault courtesy of household names like Shaun White,
Lindsey Vonn, Bode Miller, Apolo Anton Ohno, Evan Lysacek and
Shani Davis. Not by me, anyway.  
 I’ll remember two athletes in particular from Vancouver,
where a 21-year-old man from the Republic of Georgia lost his
life before anyone had won a single medal.  
 Nodar Kumaritashvili told his father, a former competitive
luger himself, that he was terrified of a track that generated a
96 mph top speed, one that gave the world’s best lugers a 50-50
chance of maintaining control.  
 The father urged his son to show restraint, to put the
break ahead of breakneck speed. The son, however, figured these
were the Olympics, which is no place for measured measures. He
would take what the track gave him, the son told his father in a
telephone call, or die trying. Yes, really.  
 Personal Sacrifice  
 Organizers wasted little time in assessing blame for the
tragedy. The young man made a tactical error, they said. Don’t
fault the course, which, and this is where you have to scratch
your head, was then altered with an eye toward governing the top
speed.  
 It will be some time before I can erase the snapshot of
Kumaritashvili going airborne, like some long-lost Wallenda,
heading toward a metal beam that would end his life. The father
hasn’t seen the footage. Doesn’t want to.  
 Come Monday, things will be back to normal in Vancouver,
although they’ll probably still be hawking those ubiquitous red
mittens. So much hype and anticipation and then, just like that,
the Olympic flame is extinguished.  
 No more games to play, hills or halfpipes to conquer. Pack
the skates and skis; package the heartbreak and euphoria.  
 Olympic Lessons  
 Maybe Canadian officials, and everyone else associated with
the Games, learned a more important lesson: winning isn’t
everything.  
 It never is at the Olympics, where athletes compete for a
host of reasons that have nothing to do with gold, silver and
bronze.  
 In Beijing two years ago I met a Lebanese shooter who used
his gun to convey the message that his homeland is more than
war. And then there was the Polish swimmer who wouldn’t say the
word happy, couldn’t say it, because she feared something
terrible would happen if she did. Like the car crash that killed
her sister.  
 Owning the podium didn’t mean much to them. Or to others
whose names aren’t featured on NBC. Speaking of which, according
to Nielsen, 177 million Americans have watched the Olympics
through the first 13 days.  
 I wonder how many of them are familiar with three-time
Olympian Bill Schuffenhauer, the anti-Shaun White, the snowboard
deity whose flips, twists and mop of red hair have made him an
endorsement darling.  
 Overcoming Obstacles  
 Schuffenhauer, who won a silver medal at the 2002 Olympics
as part of the four-man bobsled, wanted to try again at the age
of 36. Not for that elusive gold, though. He’s a family man now.
He simply wanted to share the experience with loved ones.  
 Here’s a man who quit his job at Wells Fargo & Co. to
train, leaving his family for months at a time, just for the
chance to represent his country. Schuffenhauer wound up in debt,
losing his home in the process. His fiancee doesn’t wear an
engagement ring because he can’t afford one.  
 Here’s a man who grew up with drug-addicted parents. He
lived in the streets and ate from garbage cans. Sports was his
salvation.  
 Schuffenhauer is scheduled to compete today. Unlike Vonn,
White, Davis, Miller and the rest of the golden group, he
probably won’t win.  
 Try selling this guy on the notion of devastation for
failing to own the podium.  
 No, things weren’t perfect.  
 There was a technical glitch at the opening ceremony. The
ice-cleaning machines didn’t work so well at the speed skating
venue. Sometimes there was too much snow. Other times not
enough. Oh, and what a headache that fenced-in flame turned out
to be.  
 So what.  
 The Olympics are about people and struggle, jubilation and,
yes, even devastation. There’s inspiration in all of it.  
 Own that.  
 (Scott Soshnick is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        