-- How to Kill Innovation: Keep Asking Questions
-- Scott Anthony
-- 2010-02-25T20:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-25/how-to-kill-innovation-keep-asking-questions.html

          
          
             I had an epiphany recently. The setting: a multi-billion dollar global giant. The topic of discussion: innovation. My epiphany: A simple two-word phrase that can hamstring innovation. 

 What about... 

 I was helping a cross-functional group review a few ideas to create new growth businesses. Like many early-stage propositions, the ideas blended intriguing potential with high degrees of uncertainty.  

 About 15 minutes into the review, the questions began to come in.  

 What about the competitive landscape? Can we model the impact of someone entering the space early? 

 What about the market size? Are we sure these numbers are right?" another wondered. 

 What about the regulatory regime. Are these timelines really realistic? 

 They were important questions, and robust answers would help bring each opportunity into sharper focus. And the group's intentions were good — figure out which opportunity was the most attractive so that the company could direct its resources appropriately. 

 The problem, though, is what follows "What about..." questions. The next step from almost any discussion like this one is to conduct further research. And, "What about..." questions never stop. Each answer generates questions whose answers lead to further questions. It could become infinite. 

 Even if you do analyze your questions,  frequently the analytical work, no matter how robust, proves wrong because of something that can't be anticipated. To borrow a phrase from the great military strategist Helmuth von Moltke: "No business plan ever survived its first encounter with the market." 

 Further, the greater the demands for comprehensive answers to "What about..." questions, the greater the pull of existing markets populated by powerful incumbents. After all, it's difficult to question the size of the market that already exists — even if history shows that those markets aren't the best targets for growth-seeking companies. 

 It's just hard to have robust answers about an unknown future state. Too frequently, taking the time to answer "What about..." questions doesn't bring you any closer to achieving the goal of creating booming growth businesses. 

 This is part of a category of "abundance" problems that makes it paradoxically hard for resource-rich companies to "pave the first mile" of growth (a broader theme I'll be exploring more deeply in future posts). 

 Resource-rich companies have the "luxury" of researching and researching problems. That can be a huge benefit in known markets where precision matters. But it can be a huge deficit in unknown markets where precision is impossible and attempts to create it through analysis are quixotic. Entrepreneurs don't have the luxury of asking "What about..." questions, and in disruptive circumstances that works in their favor. 

 So what's the alternative? Substitute early action for never-ending analysis. Figure out the quickest, cheapest way to do something market-facing to start the iterative process that so frequently typifies innovation. Be prepared to make quick decisions, but have the driver of the decision be in-market data, not conceptual analysis. In other words, go small and learn. Pitch (or even sell) your idea to colleagues. Open up a kiosk in a shopping mall for a week. Create a quick-and-dirty website describing your idea. Be prepared to make quick decisions. 

 The future can't be analytically derived. Of course it's almost always valuable to think comprehensively about a new idea. But maintain a healthy balance between analysis and action. If you get stuck in "What about..." loops, you'll never get the results you seek. 

