-- Sex Trumps Jobs, as in Steve, in App Flap: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-02-26T02:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-25/sex-trumps-jobs-as-in-steve-in-app-flap-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             Is the iPhone bigger than sex? Not
likely, but we may be about to find out.  
 Last week,  Apple Inc.,  whose iTunes App Store is the sole
official source of programs for the iPhone and iPod Touch,
removed access to thousands of sexually suggestive apps. Among
the casualties: Wobble iBoobs, which allows users to, er,
animate specific portions of photographs, and Private Dancer,
which promises, “Our girls have some serious moves guaranteed
to put you in that special mood.”  
 In an interview with the New York Times this week, Apple
executive  Phil Schiller  explained, “It came to the point where
we were getting customer complaints from women who found the
content getting too degrading and objectionable, as well as
parents who were upset with what their kids were able to see.”  
 A noble sentiment, to be sure. But at the same time Apple
was saying buh-bye to some racy apps, it left untouched others
from the likes of  Playboy Enterprises Inc.  and  Time Warner Inc. ,
which offers an app built around Sports Illustrated’s swimsuit
issue -- you can upgrade it to get “Soccer Stars’ Wives &
Girlfriends in Bodypaint” -- and another called the SI Swimsuit
Challenge Game.  
 When asked about the apparent contradiction, Schiller,
who’s head of worldwide product marketing, said of SI: “The
difference is this is a well-known company with previously
published material available broadly in a well-accepted
format.”  
 In other words: Double standard? There’s an app for that.  
 Whiff of Hypocrisy  
 One doesn’t have to take a position pro or con on the
merits of sexy apps to get a whiff of hypocrisy here. Apple,
after all, is about to launch its much-touted  iPad  media device,
and Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  needs big publishers like
Time Warner to produce compelling content for his new baby. This
would be a particularly inconvenient time to pick a fight with
them.  
 All this wouldn’t matter so much if it weren’t for the
near-iron-clad control Jobs and Apple exercise over software for
the  iPhone  and  iPod touch .  
 It’s possible -- in fact, fairly easy -- to “jailbreak”
the devices, which allows users to download apps from sources
other than Apple’s iTunes App Store. (Jailbroken iPhones and
iPods are also a major factor in the growing problem of app
piracy.) For the vast majority of users, though, the App Store
is the only source of software.  
 Developers must submit their applications to Apple, which
has the sole power to decide whether they gain access to users
of the 75 million or so iPhone OS devices out there. It’s a
power Apple has on occasion shown itself willing to use
selectively for corporate purposes.  
 No App for You  
 For instance, at the behest of its U.S. telecommunications
partner  AT&T Inc. , Apple last year refused to allow  EchoStar
Corp.  to release an app letting users of its  SlingBox  device
access video content from their home televisions over the AT&T
3G data network. Apple accepted the app only after Sling Media
agreed to disable the 3G aspect and make it usable only over a
Wi-Fi connection. (Earlier this month, AT&T and Sling Media
settled their differences, and the app has finally been cleared
for 3G use.)  
 If another company -- say,  Microsoft Corp.  -- had similarly
flexed its muscle, the cries of “antitrust violation” would
have been deafening. Apple gets away with it because _ now why
does Apple get away with it again?  
 When it comes to sex and the iPhone, though, Jobs just
might have met his match. Technology and porn go together like,
well, let’s just say it’s no accident that the annual Adult
Entertainment Expo trade show runs in Las Vegas at the same time
as, and virtually alongside, the Consumer Electronics Show.  
 Sex-Driven Innovation  
 In fact, it’s hard to think of a video-related consumer
technology whose rise wasn’t accompanied by, indeed fueled by,
sexual content. Cable television, the video cassette recorder --
you name it. The New York musical “ Avenue Q ” includes a ditty
entitled, “The Internet Is for Porn.”  
 There’s no reason to think smartphones will be any
different. So maybe, rather than trying to ban such content, it
would be better to regulate it. Segregate adult apps in their
own section of the App Store, strengthen parental controls,
perhaps require a user to re-enter the account’s credit-card
information before downloading anything naughty.  
 Whatever the approach, at least apply it evenly.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        