-- Liberty Says the Value of Its U.K. Malls Declined
-- Simon Packard
-- 2007-11-06T16:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-06/liberty-says-the-value-of-its-u-k-malls-declined-update2-.html

          
          
             Liberty International Plc , owner of
MetroCentre and other U.K. malls, said the value of these
properties fell in the third quarter as higher borrowing costs
and stricter credit controls hurt the commercial property
market.  
 The London-based company's 14 shopping centers were valued
at 6.11 billion pounds ($12.7 billion) as of Sept. 30, down from
6.12 billion pounds three months earlier, according to a
statement today. Net asset value dropped to 1,369 pence a share
from 1,385 pence, said Liberty, which owns eight of Britain's 21
largest retail centers.  
 The decline in the value of Liberty's properties was less
than the 2.9 percent drop for U.K. retail-related real estate in
the  third quarter , according to figures compiled by Investment
Property Databank Ltd. Retail property prices in the U.K. may
drop in 2007 for the first time in 12 years.  
 ``The commercial market is getting some of the backwash of
the problems in the banking sector and the domestic U.S. housing
market,'' Chief Executive Officer David Fischel said today on a
conference call.  
 Liberty shares  declined 8 pence to 1,119 pence in London.
The stock has fallen almost 20 percent this year, reducing the
company's market value to about 4 billion pounds. The FTSE 350
Real Estate Index has dropped  34 percent  during that period.  
 Rental Income  
 Profit excluding the value of Liberty's properties and
derivatives declined to 28.5 million pounds in the third quarter
from 32.1 million pounds in the previous three months. Net
rental income gained 6 percent to 87.3 million pounds in the
third quarter from three months earlier.  
 Liberty's British shopping centers, which account for three
quarters of its assets and have a vacancy rate of 1.5 percent,
would generate an annual rental income of 303 million pounds if
they were leased at current market rates. That's a 0.4 percent
increase in estimated rental value since June 30.  
 ``The key, going forward, is going to be rental growth and
these were quite weak,'' said Harm Meijer, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Meijer said he expect no more rental growth
and further declines in values of U.K. shopping centers.  
 Nine-month net income amounted to 407 million pounds,
Liberty said, without providing a comparable figure for the
year-earlier period, which included the value of its real estate
investments. It was the first time Liberty released third-
quarter figures.  
 Fischel took advantage of the peak in property prices in
the second quarter to sell a 36 percent stake in the Gateshead
MetroCentre, Europe's largest mall, to the Government of
Singapore. That provided additional funds for acquisitions in
London and other cities.  
 Liberty acquired Covent Garden in August 2006, a 50 percent
stake in the London's Earls Court and Olympia exhibition centers
formed a venture to develop offices in London's West End
district, the world's most expensive business location.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rob Urban  at   robprag@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        