-- Peru Mining Strike May Spread as More Workers Join
-- Alex Emery
-- 2007-11-06T19:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-06/peru-mining-strike-may-spread-as-more-workers-join-update2-.html

          
          
             Peru 's national mining strike will
spread as more workers walk off the job during the second day of
protests for more pay and benefits, a union spokesman said.  
 Unions at zinc producers Volcan Cia. Minera SAA and
Cia. Minera Atacocha SA will join the strike today, said Mining
Federation spokesman Cirilo Yarihuaman. Miners taking part in the
nation's second national strike this year want to pressure
companies to improve pensions, profit-sharing and rights for
subcontracted workers, Yarihuaman said.  
 ``We plan to hold talks with the government today,'' he
said. ``But without a solution, the national strike will keep
growing.''  
 Strikes this year, including a five-day national walkout by
Peruvian miners in May, have cut copper output in Peru, Chile and
Mexico, helping to spur a 16 percent rally in the price of the
metal. Peru is the world's third-largest producer of copper, zinc
and tin, the biggest of silver and fifth-largest of gold.  
 The stoppage in Peru has affected mines owned by companies
including  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) ,  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) ,  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and Doe Run Resources Corp.  
 Workers are also on strike at mines run by Cia. De Minas
Buenaventura SA, tin miner  Minsur SA (MINSURI1) , Shougang Hierroperu's iron
mine and zinc producers Cia. Minera Raura SA and Cia. Minera
Santa Luisa, according to the federation.  
 Talks Planned  
 National metals output hasn't been cut and only 6 percent of
Peru's miners have joined the strike, according to the Labor
Ministry.  
 ``Volcan workers are working normally and we are not
informed of any attempt to join the unfortunate strike,'' Volcan
chief financial officer Adolfo Vera said in an e-mail.  
 Union leaders planned to hold talks with cabinet chief
Jorge del Castillo and the president of Congress, Luis Gonzales Posada, to pass laws granting miners a 10 percent share of
profits, up from the current 8 percent, and eight-hour shifts
instead of the 12 hours imposed at many mines, Yarihuaman said.  
 The federation, which represents 70 unions and 28,000
miners, also wants 85,000 subcontracted workers put on company
payrolls.  
 Copper futures for December delivery rose 3.95 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $3.3415 a pound on the Comex division of the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange. Zinc rose $90, or 3.3 percent, to
$2,815 a metric ton in  London  trading, and tin rose $345, or 2.1
percent, to $17,095 a ton.  
 Silver for December delivery rose 59.5 cents, or
4 percent, to $15.38 an ounce. Gold for December delivery rose
$12.60, or 1.6 percent, to $823.40 an ounce.  
 ``The strike in  Latin America  is quite supportive to
prices,''  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in
London, said today by phone.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Alex Emery  in  Lima  at   aemery1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        