-- Aberdeen Is Planning to Introduce $300 Million Asia-Pacific Property Fund
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-20T00:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/aberdeen-in-talks-to-introduce-300-million-asia-pacific-real-estate-fund.html

          
          
             Aberdeen Property Investors, a unit
of  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc , is in talks to create a fund
investing in property funds in the Asia-Pacific to capitalize on
the region’s long-term growth prospects.  
 The property arm of Aberdeen Asset will seek to raise about
$300 million and start the fund by the northern hemisphere’s
autumn, said  Jon Lekander , who helps oversee more than $1
billion as head of indirect property at Aberdeen. It will be the
third Asia-focused fund-of-funds managed by the asset manager’s
indirect property investment division, he said.  
 “Asia will be better positioned due to the stability of
the financial systems and the strength of the underlying
economies,” Stockholm-based Lekander said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We’re entertaining a number of
discussions with investors.”  
 Most Asian property markets, driven by expanding
populations and developing economies, have escaped the declines
that characterized their Western counterparts during the global
financial crisis. The  S&P Asia Pacific Property Index  has almost
recovered to its level before the start of the global financial
crisis.  
 Aberdeen invests more than half the money in its two
existing property funds in developed markets, particularly Japan
and Australia, and, to a lesser extent, Hong Kong and Singapore,
Lekander said. The rest is spread between India, China, Malaysia,
South Korea and Taiwan, he said.  
 It may employ a similar strategy with the new fund, subject
to market conditions, he added. While Aberdeen has invested only
in commercial properties through its existing funds, it will
also consider residential markets in countries like Japan, where
investors are looking to benefit from a recovery, Lekander said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        