-- Abu Dhabi Forecasts $23 Billion Budget Deficit in 2010, Prospectus Shows
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-07-20T16:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/abu-dhabi-forecasts-23-billion-budget-deficit-in-2010-prospectus-shows.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi, the oil-rich Gulf
emirate, forecast a second consecutive budget deficit this year,
the shortfall to be covered by transfers from state-run
investment bodies, according to a government-guaranteed bond
prospectus.  
 Government spending will exceed revenue by 84.9 billion
dirhams ($23.1 billion) this year, compared with 126.5 billion
dirhams in 2009, according to statistics in the Waha Aerospace
BV prospectus obtained today by Bloomberg News. The budget was
based on an assumed average oil price of $60 a barrel.  
 “They needed to spend more to offset the weakness in both
the oil sector and the non-oil sector and also to offset the
fiscal drag from Dubai,”  Rachel Ziemba , London-based senior
analyst at Roubini Global Economics said. “They do need to be
careful to make sure they don’t get into an unsustainable
position.”  
 In February last year the emirate injected 16 billion
dirhams into its banks after foreign investors withdrew funds,
non-performing loans increased and global credit markets
tightened. Abu Dhabi also lent Dubai $10 billion through bond
purchases. An earlier $10 billion for the neighboring emirate
came from the U.A.E. central bank, which is in part funded by
Abu Dhabi.  
 Spending for this year is forecast at 207.5 billion
dirhams, compared with 251.7 billion dirhams in 2009, according
to the prospectus. The deficits from both years will be funded
by transfers from Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Abu Dhabi
Investment Council, it said.  
 Excluded From Budget  
 Revenue and expenditures at ADIA, ADIC, Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co., Abu Dhabi Water & Electricity Authority, International
Petroleum Investment Co. and Mubadala Development Co. aren’t
included in the budget. Royalties and taxes on crude oil and
natural gas production from these entities are included,
according to the prospectus.  
 No one was available to comment on the report at the Abu
Dhabi Department of Finance.  
 Abu Dhabi is the capital of the United Arab Emirates and
holder of most of its oil resources. The U.A.E. is the fifth-
biggest OPEC producer and produced 2.32 million barrels a day of
crude in June, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Oil revenue is forecast at 118.7 billion dirhams this year
compared with 121.8 billion dirhams in 2009, according to the
prospectus. So far this year, oil has averaged about $78 a
barrel, higher than the budgeted price  
 Trade Surplus  
 The emirate’s trade surplus narrowed 12.9 percent last year
as oil prices slumped, the Department of Economic Development
said April 11. It won’t reach its growth target of 7 percent
this year, as stipulated in the emirate’s economic plan, Mohamed
Omar Abdulla, undersecretary at the department, said Feb. 2.
 Shuaa Capital PSC , the U.A.E.’s biggest investment bank, expects
growth of 4.1 percent in Abu Dhabi this year, after a
contraction of 2.7 percent in 2009.  
 Abu Dhabi’s benchmark  index  is down 7.3 percent this year,
after climbing by 15 percent in 2009.  
 The emirate’s government, through its various investment
arms, owns significant shareholdings in  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co.  and  Aldar Properties PJSC , as well as in National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Union
National Bank, Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank and Hilal Bank.  
 Guarantees  
 The Abu Dhabi government has guaranteed certain bonds
incurred by ADWEA and Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank. The principal
amount of such guarantees outstanding at Dec. 31 was
approximately 1.8 billion dirhams.  
 Seven Abu Dhabi companies, among the biggest borrowers in
the Gulf region last year, were downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service March 4, citing the lack of an “explicit formal
agreement” for government support.  Moody’s cut Aldar, the
biggest real-estate developer in the sheikhdom, Mubadala,
International Petroleum Investment Co. and  Tourism Development &
Investment Co.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Abu Dhabi at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        