-- Magic Johnson Says He Wouldn't Have Joined Bird After LeBron James's Move
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-20T20:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/magic-johnson-criticizes-lebron-james-says-he-wouldn-t-have-joined-bird.html

          
          
             Basketball hall of famer  Magic Johnson  said he never would have joined with  Larry Bird  to win a
championship the way  LeBron James  is teaming with  Dwyane Wade .  
 Johnson, who won five National Basketball Association
championships with the Los Angeles Lakers, joins fellow hall of
famer Michael Jordan in saying they would focus more on beating
their rivals than joining them.  
 “We didn’t think about it cause that’s not what we were
about,” said Johnson, whose Michigan State squad beat Bird’s
Indiana State team in the 1979 National Collegiate Athletic
Association championship. “From college, I was trying to figure
out how to beat Larry Bird.”  
 James, the two-time reigning NBA Most Valuable Player, left
the Cleveland Cavaliers on July 8 after seven seasons to sign
with the Miami Heat. There he will join fellow All-Stars Wade
and  Chris Bosh , a free-agent who joined Miami from the Toronto
Raptors. James has never won a title, though he led the
Cavaliers to the NBA Finals and semifinals.  
 Bird, a hall of famer who played for the Boston Celtics,
and Johnson also faced each other in the NBA Finals three out of
four years from 1984-1987, with Magic’s Lakers winning twice.  
 Jordan, a six-time NBA champion and currently the majority
owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, made his comments over the
weekend at a charity golf tournament. Johnson spoke about the
possibility of joining Bird and Jordan on the same team in an
interview this morning at Baruch College in New York.  
 “It was never a question in our mind because nobody has
ever done that,” he said.  
 Johnson’s Career  
 Johnson, 50, joined the Lakers in 1979 and played for them
until 1991. He also played in 32 games in the 1995-96 season. He
won three MVP awards and was inducted into the Hall of Fame in
2002.  
 Johnson now owns Magic Johnson Enterprises, a Beverly
Hills, California-based business that owns retail outlets
including movie theaters and coffee shops around the U.S. His
current project with Chicago-based Aon Corp., an insurance
services company is designed to promote minority businesses.  
 Johnson said James, 25, also has a bright future once his
NBA career is over.  
 “I think he will be, one day, a great businessman,”
Johnson said. “The first order of business for LeBron is to win
championships. If you build your brand on the court, then that
will take care of the off the court brand.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Barry Rothbard  in New York at 
 brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        