-- Alstom Quarterly Orders Fall 36% as Utilities Delay Power-Plant Investment
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-07-20T06:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/alstom-quarterly-orders-fall-36-as-utilities-delay-power-plant-investment.html

          
          
             Alstom SA , the world’s third-
largest power-equipment maker, said orders in the April to June
period slumped 36 percent as utilities continue to postpone the
construction of power plants.  
 Orders for the fiscal first-quarter dropped to 3.07
billion euros ($3.99 billion) from 4.77 billion euros a year
earlier, the company, based near Paris, said in a statement
today. Revenue fell 1 percent to 4.74 billion euros, in line
with the median  estimate  of seven analysts polled by Bloomberg.  
 “Despite the busy tendering activity, the group still
faces challenges to register large orders as customers continue
to delay investment in new power plants,” Chief Executive
Officer  Patrick Kron  said in the statement.  
 Alstom completed the  acquisition  of Areva SA’s power
transmission unit in June to gain market share in countries
including India as European customers struggle to recover from
the economic slump and competition in China intensifies. The
company said the grid unit will be consolidated in first-half
results, accounting for four months.  
 New orders for power systems and services dropped 35
percent in the April to June period to 1.95 billion euros, and
sales fell 6 percent to 3.17 billion euros. New orders for
transport equipment slumped 37 percent to 1.12 billion euros,
while sales rose 9 percent to 1.57 billion euros.  
 “In transport, the market remains sound, offering a
number of opportunities,” Kron said.  
 Profitability Forecast  
 The  company  today reiterated its May  forecast  that that
profitability will weaken over the next two years because
utilities are adopting a “wait and see attitude” toward
projects. Operating profit margins at the French supplier of
turbines and coal-fired generators will narrow to between 7
percent and 8 percent over the next two fiscal years, down from
9.1 percent in the fiscal year ended in March, Alstom said.  
 The company, which also makes high-speed trains and trams,
agreed on March 1 to buy 25 percent of Russian rail-equipment
maker Transmashholding to increase its presence in Europe’s
biggest railway market  
 General Electric Co. and Siemens AG are the world’s
largest power-equipment makers, according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        