-- Apple May Say Profit Jumped on IPad, IPhone 4 Demand
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-20T17:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/apple-may-report-third-quarter-profit-doubled-on-demand-for-ipad-iphone-4.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  will report that profit
rose 58 percent, analysts predict, reflecting demand for the
iPad tablet and early sales of the iPhone 4.  
 In a report later today, Apple may say net income in the
fiscal third quarter surged to $2.88 billion, or $3.11 a share,
according to the  average  estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. A year earlier, Apple’s profit was $1.83 billion, or
$2.01 a share, when adjusted for an accounting change. Last
quarter’s revenue likely surged 52 percent.  
 The results will give the first indication of the impact of
the new tablet, released April 3. Apple sold 3 million iPads in
80 days, a sign Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is building a
market for tablet machines that deliver video, e-books and Web
access. The period includes three days of sales of the iPhone 4,
which broke early records even as it drew fire for a design flaw
that results in diminished call reception.  
 “The issue with Apple is high expectations,” said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Bros. LP in San Francisco who
recommends buying the shares and doesn’t own any. “The company
is held to a very high standard, both by users and the financial
community.”  
 Apple , based in Cupertino, California, rose $1.93, or less
than one percent, to $247.51 at 1:01 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The shares , up 17 percent this year
before today, had slid 8.7 percent since the iPhone 4 landed on
store shelves.  
 Antenna Remedies  
 Revenue likely rose to $14.7 billion from  $9.73 billion ,
analysts predict. The growth came partly as Apple sold 1.7
million iPhone 4s before the quarter ended, a record for the
gadget, Apple’s bestselling product in the second quarter.  
 After the phone’s debut, users complained of lost reception
when they held it in a certain way. Consumer Reports said it
couldn’t recommend the device because of the flaw, the first
time the watchdog hasn’t given its imprimatur to an iPhone.  
 At a press conference last week, Apple said less than 1
percent of users have reported the glitch to its customer
service centers. The company, which has now sold more than 3
million iPhone 4s, is giving away cases to remedy the flaw.  
 Apple’s long-term solution for fixing the antenna may be
placing a nonconductive coating over the antenna, said  Vijay Rakesh , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in Chicago who
recommends buying the shares and doesn’t own any.  
 While initial sales were strong, negative publicity may
eventually erode demand, said Wu of Kaufman Bros. The iPhone is
Apple’s top-selling  product , accounting for 40 percent of its
revenue in the fiscal second-quarter.  
 7.5 Million iPhones  
 “The risk is perception becomes reality,” Wu said. “If
people think there’s something wrong, they won’t buy it.”  
 Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst with Sanford C. Berstein & Co.
in New York, estimates that in the third quarter, Apple sold 3.2
million iPads, 7.5 million iPhones, 3.4 million Macs and 10.1
million iPods. Sacconaghi rates the stock “outperform.”  
 Steve Dowling , an Apple spokesman, declined to comment
ahead of the company’s earnings report.  
 Investors also will scour results for signs that the iPad
is weighing on gross margin, the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting production costs, said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  
 Apple, which posted second-quarter gross margin of 41.7
percent, said in April that the figure would be squeezed amid
“very aggressive” pricing for the device. The company forecast
third-quarter gross margin of about 36 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., talks about the Apple iPhone 4 at a news conference in Cupertino. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Francisco Jeronimo, a technology research analyst at IDC U.K. Ltd., talks about the outlook for Apple Inc.'s earnings growth.
     Analysts forecast Apple's profit more than doubled last quarter reflecting demand for the iPad tablet and early sales of the iPhone 4. Jeronimo speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
