-- Apple Profit, Sales Jump After IPad, IPhone 4 Debut
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-07-20T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/apple-reports-78-jump-in-profit-after-ipad-iphone-4-debut-shares-climb.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.  posted a 78 percent surge
in third-quarter profit as customers flocked to the new iPad
tablet computer and latest version of the iPhone, helping the
company benefit from a rebound in consumer spending.  
 Net income rose to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share, from
$1.83 billion, or $2.01, a  year earlier , the company said today
in a statement.  Analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast per-
share profit of $3.11. Sales also topped analysts’ average
estimate, fueling a gain in Apple shares in extended trading.  
 Apple used low prices and a wide range of features to build
a market for tablet-style computers that can deliver video, e-
books and Web access. After reporting sales of iPads, iPhones
and Macintosh computers that exceeded some analysts’
predictions, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  promised more
new products this year.  
 “This was a blow-out quarter and strong across the board,”
said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San
Francisco. “This really negates the bear argument that the
introduction of the iPad will result in cannibalization of other
Apple products, namely Macs and iPhones.”  
 In the period ended June 26, sales gained 61 percent to a
record $15.7 billion, topping analysts’ $14.7 billion  estimate .  
 Apple , based in Cupertino, California, rose as much as 4.4
percent after the results were reported. It had gained $6.31 to
$251.89 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, leaving the shares up 20
percent this year.  
 Best-Seller Again  
 The iPhone was Apple’s best-selling product for a second-
straight quarter, generating $5.33 billion on 8.4 million units.
Apple also sold 3.27 million iPads, 3.47 million Macintoshes and
9.41 million iPods. “We have amazing new products still to come
this year,” Jobs said in the statement.  
 Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in New York, had estimated that Apple would sell 3.2 million
iPads, 7.5 million iPhones, 3.4 million Macs and 10.1 million
iPods. Sacconaghi rates the stock “outperform.”  
 Gross margin, the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting production costs, will be 35 percent in the current
quarter, a decline from 39.1 percent last period, Apple said.
Apple, which posted second-quarter gross margin of 41.7 percent,
said in April that the figure would narrow because of “very
aggressive” pricing for the iPad.  
 ‘Tickle Me’ IPad  
 This quarter, sales will be about $18 billion and per-share
earnings will be about $3.44, Apple said.  Analysts  on average
forecast sales of $17 billion and profit of $3.83 a share.  
 “It should be able to blow the fourth quarter out of the
water thanks to its product pipeline and the traditional strong
sales during the holidays,” said  Hakim Kriout , a portfolio
manager at Grigsby & Associates in New York, which owns Apple’s
shares.  
 Apple’s forecasts typically fall below analysts’ estimates.
Over the past 16 quarters, its projections have been 3 percent
lower than analysts’ sales estimates and 12 percent below
earnings-per-share predictions, according to  Gene Munster , an
analyst at  Piper Jaffray Cos.  in Minneapolis.  
 Apple may ship 12.9 million iPads this year, according to
ISuppli Inc. in El Segundo, California. Previously, the
researchers had expected 7.1 million.  
 “The iPad is shaping up to be the Tickle Me Elmo of the
2010 holiday season, with product demand expected to vastly
exceed available supply,” said  Rhoda Alexander , an analyst at
ISuppli, referring to the toy that was a hit in the 1990s.  
 Supply Hurdles  
 Sales this quarter will also get a boost amid back-to-
school shopping, said  Shaw Wu , an analyst with Kaufman Brothers
LP in San Francisco.  
 Apple is taking steps to overcome supply shortages for the
iPad as well as the iPhone 4, Chief Operating Officer Tim
Cook said today on a conference call with analysts.  
 “We’re currently selling those products as fast as we can
make them,” said Cook. “In the scheme of things, it’s a good
problem to have.”  
 The company also is contending with criticism over the
design of the iPhone 4 antenna, which results in diminished
signal strength. Wu said consumer demand so far hasn’t been hurt
and he projects that the company will sell 10.5 million iPhones
during the quarter, which ends in September.  
 After the phone’s June 24 debut, users complained of lost
reception when they held it in a way that covers the bottom-left
corner. Consumer Reports isn’t recommending the device, the
first time the group hasn’t given its imprimatur to an iPhone.  
 Cook said on the conference call that the number of
antenna-related returns is “extremely small.” At a press
conference last week, Apple said less than 1 percent of users
have reported the glitch to its customer service centers.  
 To remedy the shortcoming, Apple is giving away iPhone
cases. As a result, it will defer $175 million in revenue from
the September quarter to the period that ends in December, Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said on the conference call.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Jobs, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., talks about the Apple iPhone 4 at a news conference in Cupertino. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bryan Ma, associate vice president of devices and peripherals research for Asia Pacific at research firm IDC, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Apple Inc.'s third-quarter results and outlook.
     Apple posted a 78 percent surge in profit as customers flocked to the new iPad tablet computer and latest version of the iPhone, helping the company benefit from a rebound in consumer spending. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Gartenberg, partner at research firm Altimeter Group LLC, discusses Apple Inc.'s fiscal third-quarter earnings profit.
     Apple posted a 78 percent surge in third-quarter profit as customers began flocking to the new iPad tablet computer and latest version of the iPhone, helping the company benefit from a rebound in consumer spending. Gartenberg talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Francisco Jeronimo, a technology research analyst at IDC U.K. Ltd., talks about the outlook for Apple Inc.'s earnings growth.
     Analysts forecast Apple's profit more than doubled last quarter reflecting demand for the iPad tablet and early sales of the iPhone 4. Jeronimo speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
