-- Aquarius Climbs as South Africa Says Directive Wasn't Meant to Stop Mining
-- Amanda Jordan
-- 2010-07-20T17:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/aquarius-platinum-shares-advance-after-south-african-mine-safety-meeting.html

          
          
             Aquarius Platinum Ltd. , the fourth-
largest producer of the metal, climbed the most in 15 months in
Johannesburg, London and Sydney after South Africa’s government
said a mines safety directive wasn’t intended to halt mining.  
 Aquarius  rose 13 percent to 29.50 rand at the 5 p.m. close
in South Africa, the biggest gain since April 23, 2009. The
stock added 12 percent in London and 14 percent in Sydney,
registering the largest jump in each city since April 9, 2009.  
 The shares sank yesterday after South Africa announced new
rules affecting mines in the platinum-rich North West province,
following the death of five miners this month. The government
subsequently cleared up “misunderstandings” in a meeting with
 Anglo Platinum Ltd. , Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.,  Xstrata Plc 
and Aquarius, according to the Department of Mineral Resources.  
 “The meeting with the DMR was positive and constructive,”
Aquarius said in a statement today. “The company is, together
with its international mining consultant, reviewing mine design
and support parameters to present best-practice guidelines to
the DMR in respect of each of its mines individually.”  
 The North West province’s principal safety officer issued
the directive to reduce the width of rock between supporting
pillars underground by 40 percent to 6 meters (20 feet) to help
prevent rock collapses, Aquarius said in a July 16 statement.
The DMR said yesterday it wanted companies to present safety
measures, not to stop mining.  
 Aquarius shares closed at 255.1 pence in London today, and
at A$4.51 on the Australian stock exchange.  
 The safety directive was issued after five workers were
crushed to death at the Marikana platinum mine owned by Bermuda-
based Aquarius and Anglo Platinum. Last year, nine workers died
in an accident at Impala’s Shaft 14 at the Impala Lease Area
mine. South Africa is the world’s biggest platinum producer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        