-- Warren May Lack Votes for Consumer Agency, Dodd Says
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-07-20T15:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/tarp-panel-s-warren-may-lack-senate-votes-for-consumer-post-dodd-says.html

          
          
             Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard
University professor touted to head a new consumer protection
bureau, may not have sufficient support to win confirmation to
the post, Senator  Christopher Dodd  said in a radio interview.  
 Warren, chairman of a panel overseeing the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, is credited with conceiving the agency included
in the financial-regulation bill awaiting President  Barack Obama ’s signature. Backing from consumer groups and lawmakers
including House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  may not be enough to overcome resistance to her candidacy
to lead it, Dodd said yesterday on NPR’s “ Diane Rehm  Show.”  
 “Elizabeth would be a terrific nominee,” said Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat who leads the Senate Banking Committee.
“The question is, ‘Is she confirmable?’ And there’s a serious
question about it.”  
 Warren, 61, has clashed with financial-industry executives
and Obama administration officials including Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  in her role leading the TARP Congressional
Oversight Panel. Her criticism of the Treasury Department’s
handling of the $700 billion bank bailout program has led to
speculation -- dismissed by Treasury officials -- that Geithner
is working to oppose Warren’s appointment to the consumer post.  
 Short List  
 The Obama administration, which included Warren on its
short list of candidates to run the new regulator, challenged
Dodd’s view that she might lack support in the Senate.  
 “Elizabeth Warren is a champion for consumers and middle
class families and we are confident she is confirmable,” White
House spokeswoman Amy Brundage said today in a statement.  
 Warren has been lauded by consumer advocates and labor
leaders including AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka , who endorsed
her today. Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa and Representative  Carolyn Maloney  of New York, both Democrats, have urged Obama to name
Warren or a like-minded consumer advocate to lead the bureau.  
 Dodd, who didn’t rule out Warren as a possible head of the
new regulator that will be housed at the Federal Reserve, said
“she’s not the only potential nominee.”  
 “I don’t think there’s only one individual who can do this
job,” Dodd said in the radio interview.  
 The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will combine
regulators from six agencies into a central office with the
ability to change the way credit cards, mortgages and other
products are sold.  
 The head of the agency, which was opposed by congressional
Republicans during debate on the regulatory bill, will need 60
votes to be confirmed by the 100-member Senate. That means at
least one Republican will have to support the nominee, since
Democrats control only 59 seats.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Elizabeth Warren  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard University professor touted to head a new consumer protection bureau. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard University professor touted to head a new consumer protection bureau. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
