-- Asean Should Take Lead in Promoting Regional Security, Vietnam's Dung Says
-- Diep Ngoc Pham
-- 2010-07-20T06:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/asean-should-take-lead-in-promoting-regional-security-vietnam-s-dung-says.html

          
          
             Southeast Asian nations should take
the lead in promoting regional peace, Vietnam Prime Minister
 Nguyen Tan Dung  said ahead of a security forum this week
involving the world’s biggest powers.  
 “Asean should further demonstrate its ability and role as
a leading force for the promotion of dialogue and cooperation,”
Dung said at the opening ceremony in Hanoi of a meeting of the
group’s foreign ministers.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and China’s Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi  are among officials set to attend the  Asean
Regional Forum  in Hanoi on July 23, where they will meet with
envoys from 24 nations and the European Union. The U.S. has been
critical of China’s military buildup, and the March sinking of a
South Korean warship that it blamed on North Korea underscored
the potential for conflict in waters vital to global trade  
 “Asean can play a role in helping the two giants manage
their issues,” said  Simon Tay , chairman of the Singapore
Institute of International Affairs. “There is a different
dynamic when everyone is in the room. Everyone has to appeal to
arguments that appear the most rational.”  
 Vietnam holds the chairmanship of the 10-member  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations , which hosts the annual security
gathering. Dung urged participants to “promote the effective
functioning” of regional treaties, including those dealing with
the South China Sea and the outlawing of nuclear weapons in
Southeast Asia. Last month, Myanmar, an Asean member, denied
media reports that it was seeking to acquire nuclear arms.  
 Spratly Islands  
 Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and Brunei, all Asean
members, claim all or part of the South China Sea’s Spratly
Islands, which may contain oil and gas reserves. China asserts
sovereignty over the entire sea for itself and submitted a  map 
to the United Nations last year to press its claim.  
 The Asean gathering also comes as the U.S. and South Korea
prepare to announce a military exercise to deter North Korea
after an international panel said it torpedoed one of the
South’s warships, killing 46 sailors. China, which cut off high-
level military exchanges with the U.S. in January over arms
sales to Taiwan, has declined to blame North Korea for the
sinking. North Korea, which has denied responsibility, plans to
send its foreign minister to this week’s meeting in Hanoi.  
 Vietnam, which joined Asean in 1995, has the third-biggest
population of the group’s member states, with its 87 million
people accounting for about 15 percent of the total. Average
economic growth has exceeded 7 percent during the past decade,
pushing its per-capita income past the $1,000 mark. The
government is targeting a figure of as much as $3,000 by 2020.  
 Asean encompasses Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam.
Its combined gross domestic product of  $1.5 trillion  is about a
tenth the size of the 27-member European Union.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung delivers an address at the opening ceremony of the 43rd Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Ministerial Meeting in Hanoi. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
