-- Asean Presses Myanmar to Allow Its Observers at First Election Since 1990
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-20T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/asean-presses-myanmar-to-allow-its-observers-at-first-election-since-1990.html

          
          
             Southeast Asian nations offered to
send observers to the first election in two decades in Myanmar,
whose military rulers have come under fire in the U.S. for
excluding detained opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi .  
 The proposal was made during a meeting last night of
foreign ministers from the  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations  in Hanoi. Myanmar Foreign Minister Nyan Win responded
positively, Singapore’s Foreign Minister  George Yeo  told
reporters today.  
 “We suggested quite strongly to our Myanmar colleagues that
they consider having Asean observers at elections, bringing in
members of the family into what is really their own domestic
affair,” Yeo said in Hanoi. “I think the foreign minister will
put it back to his government.”  
 Myanmar has yet to disclose an election date. Suu Kyi’s
National League for Democracy, which won the country’s last
elections in 1990, was disbanded after announcing plans to
boycott the poll. She has spent more than 14 of the past 20
years in detention, with her latest stint beginning in May 2003.  
 U.S. envoy  Kurt Campbell  said in May that Myanmar’s planned
elections would lack credibility unless the military regime
permits greater participation.  
 “We would be keen to ensure the election is as Myanmar
itself said, a free, fair, democratic and inclusive one,”
Indonesian Foreign Minister  Marty Natalegawa  said in an
interview in Hanoi today. “We were informed that once the
registration process of the political parties is completed, the
election date would be announced.”  
 Policy of Engagement  
 Regulations announced in March prohibit Suu Kyi and about
2,100 political prisoners from standing for election. Campbell’s
May trip to Myanmar was part of the Obama administration’s
policy of engagement with a regime that remains subject to U.S.
sanctions.  
 Yeo said that the election process was likely to bring
about some change in Myanmar.  
 “Once the generals take off their uniforms and they have to
win votes and kiss babies and tend to local needs, their
behavior will change and the economy will gradually open up,”
Yeo said. “We don’t see a sharp break from what it is today but
we see an important turning which will lead Myanmar into a
different situation.”  
 Myanmar’s foreign minister reiterated that the country has
no nuclear weapons program nor any ambition to start one, Yeo
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        