-- Asian Currency Appreciation Can Allow for Gradual Rate Increases, ADB Says
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-20T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/asian-currency-appreciation-can-allow-for-gradual-rate-increases-adb-says.html

          
          
             The  Asian Development Bank  urged the
region’s economies, including China, to allow greater currency
strengthening to help cope with capital inflows and enable a more
gradual pace of interest-rate increases that can support growth.  
 Asia faces the risk of volatile capital flows as its growth
outpaces the rest of the world, the ADB said. Developing Asia
will probably expand 7.9 percent in 2010, compared with an April
estimate of 7.5 percent, the Manila-based lender said a
statement accompanying the release of its Asia Economic Monitor
 report  today.  
 “It is better to unwind monetary stimulus through a
judicious mix of currency appreciation and interest rate
adjustments rather than entirely through policy rate hikes,”
the lender said. “This strategy would be able to support
domestic demand, address inflationary pressures and help
facilitate global rebalancing.”  
 Asia is leading a global rebound that’s been restrained by
subdued expansions in the U.S. and Europe. Policy makers in the
region have moved to withdraw monetary stimulus, with central
banks from Thailand to Taiwan, Malaysia and South Korea boosting
interest rates in recent weeks.  
 Asian governments pumped more than $950 billion into their
economies after the global credit crunch cut demand for the
region’s cars and flat-panel televisions made by companies from
Nissan Motor Co. to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  
 There is “little rationale” for emerging East Asia, which
includes the 10 Southeast Asian nations, China, Hong Kong, South
Korea and Taiwan, to remove fiscal stimulus before reducing
monetary policy measures as most of the region doesn’t face the
“severe” deficit problems of advanced economies, the ADB said.  
 Unwinding Stimulus  
 “With the region’s relatively rapid recovery from the
global slowdown, there is a presumption unwinding macroeconomic
stimulus should proceed relatively quickly,” according to the
report. “The high degree of uncertainty about the strength of
the global recovery could delay policy unwinding in the region,
which could lead to a gradual build-up of inflationary pressures
and may imply more aggressive tightening later.”  
 Policy makers in India and Malaysia have raised interest
rates three times this year, while the Bank of Korea
unexpectedly increased its benchmark this month. In Taiwan,
Governor  Perng Fai-nan  moved the key rate 12.5 basis points
higher last month, and the Bank of Thailand last week raised its
benchmark for the first time in almost two years.  
 China, Indonesia  
 Hong Kong, Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam may need
to start unwinding stimulus measures soon, with Indonesia and
the Philippines likely to need higher interest rates over the
next 18 months, the ADB said. There is “no clear need” to
speed up “policy normalization” in South Korea, Malaysia,
Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand without a deterioration in the
inflation outlook, the lender said.  
 China should accelerate its plans to remove stimulus from
the economy to curb inflation and prevent a “hard landing,”
the ADB said.  
 “Over the next 12 to 18 months, interest rates may need to
rise significantly depending on how exchange rate policy is
handled, the degree of fiscal consolidation, and whether growth
moderates from its recent high rates,” the lender said.
“China’s recent move to make the renminbi more flexible
indicates that its exchange rate may appreciate, mitigating
rising inflationary pressures, and this could suggest a slower
pace of interest rate normalization.”  
 Government austerity measures to cut debt in advanced
economies are hurting consumer and business confidence, and
about $6 trillion has been wiped from equities worldwide since
this year’s high on April 15.  
 Capital Flows  
 “The uneven pace of recovery between the region and others
implies that capital inflows to Asia could surge again, adding
pressure on asset prices and regional currencies and
complicating macroeconomic management,” the lender said.
“Financial turbulence and uncertainty, exemplified by the
European sovereign debt crisis, also suggest that risk appetite
could change dramatically. Capital flows to emerging economies
could become volatile.”  
 The 45 economies of developing Asia may grow 7.3 percent
next year, the ADB predicted today.  
 “The region will face a more fragile external environment
in 2011, which could reduce demand for the region’s exports and
dampen business sentiment and consumer confidence,” according
to the report. “Policy makers would not withdraw stimulus until
the recovery is more certain and, in so doing, would effectively
be buying insurance against the recovery faltering.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        