-- Asian Stocks Rise for First Time in Four Days on Outlook for China Housing
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-20T08:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/asian-stocks-fall-on-concern-over-u-s-economy-toyota-motor-canon-drop.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose, driving up the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index for the first time in four days, on
speculation China’s government will soon end policies to cool
the housing market.  
 China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-controlled developer,
gained 3.4 percent in Hong Kong as International Strategy &
Investment Group said China will relax tightening policies.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the No. 1 Hong Kong-
traded Chinese developer by market value, climbed 2.4 percent.
 Toyota Motor Corp. , a Japanese carmaker that counts North
America as its biggest overseas market, sank 2.6 percent after
U.S. home-builder confidence dropped more than forecast.  
 “China is a potent force of growth,”  Robert Doll , vice
chairman of BlackRock Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today from New York. “We do think they have the
muscle to help continue the emerging markets being the leader of
the world’s growth scene.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.2 percent to 115.63 at
5:20 p.m. in Tokyo, with about five stocks advancing for every
four that declined. The gauge has slumped 10 percent from this
year’s high on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
steps to curb property prices fueled concern that global
economic growth will slow.  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2.2 percent, and
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.9 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1 percent.  
 U.S. Futures  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropped 1.2 percent, the
only major benchmark index in the Asia-Pacific region to fall.
The market was shut for a public holiday yesterday, when the
MSCI Asia Pacific index retreated 0.8 percent. Stocks declined
yesterday following a July 16 tumble in the U.S. after sales at
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General Electric Co.
missed analyst estimates and a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence
sank to the lowest level in a year.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.3
percent. In New York yesterday, the index rose 0.6 percent as
optimism about earnings from technology and energy companies
overshadowed a drop in financial shares.  
 China Resources Land climbed 3.4 percent to HK$16.24 in
Hong Kong and China Overseas Land increased 2.4 percent to
HK$16.46.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. , the biggest real-estate
company in the southern Chinese city, advanced 5.8 percent to
HK$11.70.  
 China will “back away” from its tightening policies in
the housing market within three months as the economy faces a
bigger risk from a slowdown than inflation, according to Donald
Straszheim, senior managing director for China research at
International Strategy & Investment Group.  
 ‘Relax Restrictions’  
 “The policy launched in April has totally demoralized both
home buyers and developers with no promise of lasting
benefits,” Straszheim said in a note to clients. “We expect
Beijing to quietly relax their lending restrictions and to
launch a variety of supply-side initiatives to increase the
amount of housing for low-and middle-income homebuyers.”  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest lender, gained 1.2 percent to HK$5.74. China
Construction Bank Corp., the No. 2, advanced 1.8 percent to
HK$6.39. Bank of China Ltd., the third-largest, rose 0.5 percent
to HK$4.05.  
 Material companies  increased the most  of the 10 industry
groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index after copper futures rose
in New York yesterday and China’s Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology said the nation won’t face an economic
“double dip” in the second half of this year.  
 Materials Shares Rise  
 China is the world’s biggest consumer of raw materials, and
the International Energy Agency said today the country overtook
the U.S. last year as the world’s No. 1 energy user.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company,
advanced 1.5 percent to A$38.30 in Sydney, the biggest single
contributor to the MSCI index. Rio Tinto Group, the No. 3 mining
company worldwide, climbed 2.3 percent to A$66.50. Jiangxi
Copper Co., China’s largest producer of the metal, gained 2.9
percent to HK$15.50 in Hong Kong. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.,
China’s biggest aluminum producer, rose 3.7 percent, the
steepest increase on the Hang Seng Index.  
 Crown Ltd. , Australia’s largest casino owner, climbed 3.7
percent to A$7.96. Credit Suisse Group AG boosted its investment
rating on the stock to “outperform” from “neutral.”  
 Thai Airways International Pcl , the nation’s biggest
carrier, rose 1.6 percent to 32.5 baht in Bangkok. Thailand may
attract almost 15 million tourists this year as demand rebounds,
Tourism Minister  Chumpol Silapa-Archa  said on July 6.  
 Thai Airways  
 “The airline will return to profitability from its main
operation this quarter after the political crisis severely hurt
its earnings,”  Raenoo Bhandasukdi , an analyst at Capital Nomura
Securities Pcl in Bangkok, said by phone today. “The passenger
demand especially from Asian tourists has recovered faster and
stronger than expected.”  
 The MSCI index’s decline this year of about 4 percent has
cut the average price of stocks in the gauge to 14 times
 estimated earnings , near the lowest level since December 2008.
The index dropped this morning after a report yesterday showed
confidence among U.S. homebuilders fell and sales at Texas
Instruments Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.
missed analyst estimates.  
 “Share prices are very attractive,” said  Seiichiro Iwamoto , who helps oversee about $35 billion in Tokyo at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. “Investor sentiment is mirroring an
overreaction to economic data. Market sentiment was also hurt by
disappointing U.S. corporate earnings.”  
 Japanese Carmakers, Chipmakers  
 Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, fell 2.6 percent to
3,055 yen.  Honda Motor Co. , a carmaker that gets more than 40
percent of its sales from North America, decreased 1.8 percent
to 2,605 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions,
declined 2.8 percent to 2,336 yen.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level
since April 2009, from 16 in June, data from the Washington-
based group showed yesterday.  
 Tokyo Electron Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest
manufacturer of chip-making equipment, dropped 2.9 percent to
4,680 yen. Kyocera Corp., a semiconductor maker, fell 2.1
percent 7,180 yen.  Fujitsu Ltd. , Japan’s biggest computer-
services provider, slipped 1.7 percent to 581 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Rahul Chadha, head of India equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Indian stocks and the economy. 
     Chadha, speaking in Hong Kong, says Indian companies may increase earnings by as much as 25 percent this year, with first-quarter results suggesting that profit growth is "on track".  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
