-- U.S. Stocks Erase Drop, Copper, Oil Rise; Treasuries Trim Gain
-- Michael P. Regan
-- 2010-07-20T20:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/asian-stocks-extend-decline-on-concern-global-growth-to-slow-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, erasing an early
 slide , and Treasuries pared gains as higher oil and copper
prices fueled a rally in commodity producers and banks climbed
amid speculation the Federal Reserve will take steps to spur the
economy. Apple Inc. rose 2.6 percent before reporting earnings.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.1 percent to
1,083.48 at the 4 p.m. close in New York after tumbling as much
as 1.3 percent earlier. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recovered from
a 2.8 percent slump to gain 2.2 percent. The 10-year Treasury
yield slipped to 2.95 percent after falling to 2.89 percent
earlier, while the two-year yield was little changed at 0.58
percent after setting a record low in the morning. Copper jumped
the most in three weeks and oil topped $77 a barrel.  
 Nine of 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced as traders
speculated Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may tomorrow
announce plans to stimulate the economy. Commodity producers and
homebuilders, which defied the earlier slump, led gains in
stocks after better-than-estimated 2.1 percent growth in
building permits spurred optimism in the outlook for demand.  
 “The market is getting a boost here on a story from
somewhere that the Fed is going to announce that they will stop
paying interest on reserves where they are currently paying 0.25
percent,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York. “This would be the Fed’s attempt to
force banks to lend money instead of parking it at the Fed. In
my opinion, this is the last bullet in the gun of the Fed and
therefore is not going to be used so soon.”  
 Financials Advance  
 Financial companies in the S&P 500 erased a 1.8 percent
tumble to gain 1.2 percent. Bernanke will give his semiannual
report on monetary policy to the Senate Banking Committee
tomorrow.  
 “We don’t comment on rumors,” said  Michelle Smith , a
spokeswoman for the Fed.  
 Equities slid earlier after  International Business Machines
Corp.  and Texas Instruments Inc. joined Bank of America Corp.
and General Electric Co. in posting revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates as the slowing economic rebound makes it
difficult to stimulate demand.  
 While second-quarter net income at S&P 500 companies has
topped estimates by 11 percent, revenue has been just 3.3
percent more than forecast, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Of the 42 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported
since July 12, all but nine topped earnings forecasts, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg. Twenty-seven have beaten revenue
estimates.  
 Goldman Sachs Earnings  
 Goldman Sachs, the most-profitable firm in Wall Street
history, reported second-quarter income dropped 82 percent,
missing analysts’ estimates on a slide in trading revenue. Net
revenue of $8.84 billion compared with the average estimate of
$8.94 billion from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  said on a conference
call “we’re not aware of any criminal investigation” of the
company following its settlement with regulators over fraud
allegations in dealings with mortgage securities. He said in an
interview with Bloomberg News that he’s “not aware of any
discussions” about changing the chief executive officer or chief
operating officer.  
 Crude oil for August delivery erased earlier losses, rising
1.2 percent to $77.44 a barrel after a tropical wave formed in
the Caribbean and as volume diminished on the last day of
trading August futures.  
 Copper Rallies  
 Copper prices jumped the most in three weeks, rising 2.2
percent to $3.0015 a pound in New York as U.S. building permits
boosted the demand outlook for the metal used in electrical
wiring and plumbing. A gauge of 12 homebuilders in S&P indexes
rallied 4.2 percent, the most since June 10, as Meritage Homes
Corp. surged 7 percent and Pulte Group Inc. climbed 4.7 percent.  
 Permits, a gauge of future construction, rose 2.1 percent
last month to a 586,000 annual pace, the Commerce Department
said. The gain was the first since March and was more than
economists expected. Housing starts fell 5 percent in June from
the prior month. Builders are the biggest users of copper and
use about 400 pounds (181 kilograms) in the average home.  
 About two stocks fell in the Stoxx Europe 600 for each that
rose. Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc slumped 17 percent after
saying profit will be at the lower end of estimates following
U.K. government spending cuts. Nokia Oyj jumped 2.2 percent
after the Wall Street Journal reported the company is looking to
replace Chief Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo .  
 China Growth  
 The Shanghai Composite Index posted its biggest two-day
advance since May, up 4.3 percent so far this week.
International Strategy & Investment Group said China will ease
policies aimed at curbing real-estate speculation and Morgan
Stanley predicted the government may raise its loan targets.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose less than 0.1 percent, its
first gain in four days, and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
climbed 1 percent.  
 The Australian dollar strengthened at least 1.7 percent
against the U.S., Japanese and euro currencies and the South
Korean won gained against more than 0.8 percent versus the
dollar, euro and yen on the prospect of increased export demand
from China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 “Over recent weeks, the commodities-sensitive markets have
actually held up very well,”  said Fritz Meyer, a Denver-based
senior market strategist at Invesco Inc. “That to me is a sign
that the global economic expansion is continuing at a fairly
healthy clip,” he said. “What we’re seeing is a reduced level of
fear with respect to China specifically.”  
 Spanish Bonds  
 Spanish ten-year securities advanced, sending yields down
eight basis points to 4.32 percent, as the country’s borrowing
costs fell at an auction of 6 billion euros ($7.8 billion) of
bills. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index erased earlier declines to close up
1.3 percent, its first advance in four days. Banco Santander SA
contributed the most to the gain, rising 2.1 percent.  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado ’s comments on bank
stress tests were taken out of context, her spokeswoman said,
after El Pais cited her as saying that no lenders had failed the
tests. The minister was not revealing any results of stress
tests on Spanish banks, said the spokeswoman, who declined to be
named in line with policy.  
 Greek two-year yields rose 11 basis points to 9.96 percent
after the government sold 1.95 billion euros of 13-week debt.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nine of 10 industries in the S&P 500 advanced as traders speculated Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may tomorrow announce plans to stimulate the economy. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose for a second day, erasing earlier losses as speculation the Federal Reserve will take steps to spur lending and an increase in building permits sent homebuilders and commodity producers higher. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Sam Hocking, head of prime-brokerage sales at BNP Paribas, talks about investor sentiment, stock market volatility and investment trends.
     Hocking speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter earnings and outlook.
     Peabody speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
