-- Australia to Use European Stress Tests, Inflation as Rate Gauge
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-20T05:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/australia-s-central-bank-to-gauge-european-bank-stress-tests-inflation.html

          
          
             The  Reserve Bank of Australia 
signaled that Europe’s stress tests on banks, along with local
inflation data, will determine whether it raises interest rates
for the second time in its history during a federal election.  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the bank said in  minutes  of
the July 6 meeting released in Sydney. Board members also said
Europe’s tests, due this week, have “the potential to have a
significant impact on financial markets and global confidence.”  
 Today’s release highlights risks to the global recovery
posed by European financial troubles, which include Germany’s
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG  having insufficient capital, two
people familiar with the stress tests said. At stake for
Australia is determining whether to resume the most aggressive
round of interest rate gains by a Group of 20 member in the
aftermath of the strongest quarter for job gains since 2006.  
 “The clear message is the Reserve Bank is waiting on a few
critical pieces of data,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “The inflation picture going
forward is deteriorating quite quickly. We’ve got terms of trade
that’s set to approach record highs, wage inflation is set to
build quite considerably and the economy is already growing
around trend and doing so with very little spare capacity.”  
 Australian Dollar  
 The Australian dollar traded at 87.67 U.S. cents at 2:47
p.m. in Sydney from 87.38 cents just before the report was
released. The two-year government bond yield climbed to 4.64
percent, the highest in four weeks.  
 Policy makers signaled that consumer-price figures due to
be published by the bureau of statistics on July 28 may prompt
further tightening in borrowing costs to prevent an acceleration
in Australia’s economy from stoking inflation, which the bank
aims to keep between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  
 Next week’s figures are expected to show “further
moderation in the year-ended underlying rate, although
underlying inflation was likely to remain in the top half of the
target range over the period ahead,” the minutes said. Headline
inflation is expected to rise, due to some tax increases, to an
annual rate above 3 percent, they added.  
 Australia’s economy  shows signs of strengthening as Chinese
demand for raw materials stokes a mining boom that has pushed
unemployment down to 5.1 percent, below Japan’s level and almost
half that of the U.S.  
 Interest Rates  
 Speculation increased last week that Governor  Glenn Stevens 
will resume raising interest rates as early as Aug. 3,
potentially hurting Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to
win the federal election on Aug. 21. Gillard, who ousted former
leader  Kevin Rudd  last month, called the election on July 17,
and is relying on holding seats in areas of western Sydney and
Queensland that have large numbers of households with mortgages.  
 Asked at a function in Sydney today whether the election
campaign may prompt policy makers to hesitate on raising
borrowing costs, Stevens said, “the board will meet, consider
all the issues for the economy and do its job. What else would
people expect?”  
 Stevens became the first Australian governor to raise
borrowing costs during an election campaign in November 2007,
when former Prime Minister  John Howard  lost office, partly
because of a failed pledge to help keep interest rates low.  
 Traders are betting there’s a 22 percent chance of a
quarter percentage point increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75
percent at the central bank’s August meeting, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange at 2:33 p.m. today.  
 Job Gains  
 Prior to a report published July 8 showing employers added
almost 330,000 jobs since August, investors saw no chance of a
rate move until next year.  
 “The domestic economy had been growing at a solid rate
over the past year, including a sizeable contribution from
fiscal spending,” today’s minutes said. “The economy was now
entering a period in which private demand was expected to
strengthen due to a pick-up in business investment flowing
from” a rise in income from exports, they said.  
 “There were tentative signs that this ‘hand over’ from
public to private demand may be starting to occur, though this
would warrant careful monitoring,” today’s statement said.  
 Members also said the banking stress tests will result in
“important announcements about the health of the European
banking sector, which had the potential to have a significant
impact on financial markets and global confidence,” today’s
minutes showed.  
 European regulators are examining the strength of the
region’s banks to determine if they can survive potential losses
on sovereign-bond holdings. The results are slated to be
released starting at 6 p.m. Brussels time on July 23.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, speaks during an event in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
