-- Australian, New Zealand Currencies Advance on Growth Prospects in China
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-20T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/australia-s-dollar-advances-against-yen-as-recent-drop-seen-as-too-rapid.html

          
          
             The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose after China said its domestic consumption is
expanding and investors speculated the nation will relax policy-
tightening measures.  
 Both currencies also rose versus the yen as speculation
lingered that the Bank of Japan will intervene to weaken the
currency after it touched a seven-month high last week. China’s
commerce ministry said domestic consumption will expand at a
relatively fast pace and become the most important element of
growth in the country, Australia’s largest trading partner and
New Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  
 “There’s talk about China ramping up the pace of
infrastructure spending and toning down the severity of curbs on
the property markets,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist
in Wellington with Westpac Banking Corp. “China growth means
more demand for Aussie and kiwi commodities, supporting the
currencies.”  
 Australia’s currency gained 1.2 percent to 87.88 U.S. cents
at 12:01 p.m. in New York, from 86.84 cents yesterday. It jumped
as much as 2.1 percent versus the Japanese currency, the biggest
intraday increase since July 8, before trading at 76.69 yen,
from 75.28 yen yesterday. It tumbled 3.3 percent versus the yen
last week.  
 New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.9 percent to 71.21 U.S.
cents. It rose 1.5 percent to 62.13 yen after sliding 2.4
percent last week.  
 ‘Visible Softening’  
 China’s policy cycle has troughed and investors may see a
“visible softening” in the government’s policy tone in the
third quarter, Morgan Stanley said. The nation may revise up its
loan targets while investment project approvals may be eased by
the fourth quarter,  Qing Wang  and  Steven Zhang , Morgan Stanley
economists, wrote in a note to clients.  
 The Bank of Japan may take steps to ease monetary policy
should the yen stay around 85 per dollar, Dow Jones Newswires
reported yesterday, citing people familiar with deliberations at
the central bank. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas
income at Japanese companies.  
 Minutes of the Reserve Bank of Australia’s July meeting
released today showed policy makers plan to use the results of
this month’s European bank stress tests and local inflation
figures to decide whether to resume the most aggressive round of
interest-rate increases in the Group of 20.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        