-- Autopistas Defaulted Bond Offer Sputters After Argentine Debt Settlement
-- Rodrigo Orihuela
-- 2010-07-20T21:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/autopistas-defaulted-debt-offer-fails-to-attract-enough-creditor-support.html

          
          
             Autopistas del Sol SA , the Argentine
highway operator that defaulted on about $357 million of bonds
last year, is struggling to drum up creditor support for its
restructuring plan after months of negotiations.  
 Autopistas, based in Buenos Aires, extended its swap offer
for a ninth time yesterday, eight months after saying it was
halting payments on the dollar-denominated bonds because
government restrictions on toll-rate increases led to a
“progressive deterioration” of its finances. Autopistas
originally sought to conclude the debt exchange by February.  
 The company’s troubles highlight the risks to investing in
South America’s second-biggest economy even after the government
restructured $12.9 billion in defaulted debt last month, said
 Claudio Loser , a former International Monetary Fund official.
Fitch Ratings boosted Argentine debt on July 12 to B, or five
levels below investment grade, from default and real estate
developer  IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones SA  sold $150
million of bonds three days later.  
 “Not everything is as rosy as it looks,” said Loser, who
headed the IMF’s Western Hemisphere department until 2002. “I
think a company like IRSA can go out to the markets because it
has its own resources, but others such as Autopistas that have a
relationship with the government are being affected by the fact
that the situation hasn’t been regularized.”  
 Economy Ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi and Planning
Ministry spokesman Horacio Mizrahi didn’t respond to messages
left at their offices seeking comment.  
 Most Defaults  
 Argentina had the most corporate defaults of any Latin
American country between 1990 and the first half of 2009, with
43 companies missing interest payments on debt with a principal
value of totaling $14.5 billion, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 The company was hurt by rising costs and a mismatch between
peso-denominated revenue and dollar-denominated debt costs that
government-authorized rate increases failed to cover, said
 Luciano Gremone , an analyst with Standard & Poor’s in Buenos
Aires.  
 The company’s filing yesterday said participation in its
exchange offer reached 92.5 percent as of July 16, below a 96
percent target needed to avoid a courtroom settlement. An
official at Autopistas declined to comment further.  
 Argentina has held down utility and toll rates since the
2001 financial crisis that led to the country’s record $95
billion bond default. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
last month closed an offer to restructure defaulted debt held by
creditors who rejected a 2005 settlement offer.  
 Peso Slides  
 “It’s been eight years now and there have been very few
concession contracts that have been integrally renegotiated,”
Gremone said. “That continues, for us, to be a weakness from a
credit point of view. It is hard to predict the financial
performance of a company.”  
 S&P cut Autopistas’s credit rating to default from CC on
Nov. 23, citing a missed $9 million interest payment that day.  
 The peso was little changed at 3.9345 today. The extra
yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar bonds instead of
U.S. Treasuries fell 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point,
to 727 at 4:57 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The difference is down from 846 on July 1.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose four basis points
to 912, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Chubut Debt Sale  
 Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
declined 17 basis points to 11.43 percent, according to pricing
from Deutsche Bank AG.  
 The province of Chubut announced today it will sell $150
million of securities backed by oil royalties. The sale offer
will close July 22, the province said in an advertisement it
published in Buenos Aires-based newspaper El Cronista.  
 Metrogas SA, Argentina’s biggest natural-gas distributor,
began bankruptcy proceedings last week, after it said a
government rates freeze hurt its finances.  
 The Planning Ministry announced it would “oversee” the
company last month and the New York Stock Exchange delisted it
as Buenos Aires-based Metrogas slid into default. Previously,
the government oversaw management at pipeline operator
 Transportadora de Gas del Norte SA  after it defaulted in
December 2008, also citing price controls.  
 The ministry said June 17 that the government-set rates
didn’t spark Metrogas’s financial problems and that the
government would “intervene” in the company to guarantee
service.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Attachment:  Autopistas Filing from July 19 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
