-- Bailed-Out Banks Double LBO Underwriting to Jump-Start European Recovery
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-07-20T09:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bailed-out-banks-double-lbo-underwriting-to-jump-start-european-recovery.html

          
          
             Banks bailed out by the taxpayer
have doubled their commitment to leveraged buyout loans in
Europe, helping kick-start the recovery from the deepest
economic slump in 70 years.  
 Banks account for 65 percent of investment in European
high-yield loans this year, increasing their share of the market
from 36 percent in 2007, according to Standard & Poor’s LCD.
In the U.K., the government has demanded that banks, including
those that didn’t get rescued, set targets to increase lending
to businesses, people familiar with the matter said.  
 “To a certain extent, high-yield lending is actually what
the government wants the banks to do because it helps facilitate
free economy and it’s a positive sign that banks are starting to
feel confident about making these loans,” said  Colin Morton ,
who helps manage $1.5 billion at Rensburg Fund Management in
Leeds, England.  
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc, 41 percent owned by the taxpayer,
arranged one-fifth of all deals to finance private-equity led
acquisitions this year, making it the biggest underwriter of LBO
loans, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Lloyds doubled its share
of LBO loans from 10 percent last year.  
 In an LBO, private-equity firms borrow in the name of the
company they’re acquiring, saddling it with debt and triggering
a downgrade in ratings to the high-yield category, below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  
 ‘Underlent’  
 “Banks have recovered considerably from the credit crisis
two years ago and they remain underlent,” said  Rebecca Manuel ,
global head of loan syndicate at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in London. “The liquidity that has been behind the growth
of high-yield lending this year primarily comes from banks
instead of funds.”  
 RBS, taken over by the U.K. government in 2008 after credit
losses forced it to seek a bailout, is the most active
underwriter of all types of leveraged loans in Europe, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank jumped to fourth place
among LBO underwriters from 36th last year, increasing its
market share to 8 percent from less than 1 percent in 2009.  
 RBS had 13.8 billion pounds ($21 billion) of leveraged
financing on its books at the end of March, compared with 12
billion pounds a year earlier, earnings statements show.  
 British banks received 71.5 billion pounds of taxpayer
support since 2008. London-based Lloyds, which ranked 13th among
underwriters of all high-yield loans last year, said in March it
expects to return to profit this year because of lower charges
for bad loans.  
 CLO Void  
 Loans provided by government banks have fueled $15 billion
of acquisitions by buyout firms in Europe this year, double the
amount in 2009. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
met with chiefs of Britain’s biggest banks July 15 in London to
discuss the availability of credit. Their government stakes
oblige RBS and Lloyds to comply with U.K. lending targets.  
 The bigger presence by European banks hasn’t entirely
compensated for the withdrawal of collateralized loan
obligations, once the most active investors. Leveraged loan
issuance of $31.2 billion in the region this year is the lowest
since 2001.  
 CLOs, which bought 40 percent of European leveraged loans
sold in 2006, took 10 percent of the deals this year, according
to Henderson Global Investors in London. The funds raise money
through asset-backed bonds to invest in leveraged loans.  
 Margins Double  
 Private-equity firms are marketing senior LBO loans with
margins of as much as 500 basis points over benchmark rates,
Bloomberg data show. That’s almost double the average 266 basis
point-margin paid on senior LBO loans in 2007, according to
Fitch Ratings. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Providence Equity Partners Inc. agreed to pay a margin of
as much as 500 basis points to raise acquisition financing for
Dutch childcare operator Catalpa, Bloomberg data show. A loan to
finance the buyout of Belgian diaper maker Ontex NV also pays a
margin of 500 basis points.  
 “Deals are much more conservatively structured today and
pay a lot more to lenders,” Morton said. “In 2007, private-
equity firms just tried to put as much cheap debt as they could
on a company to make their profit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     RBS, taken over by the U.K. government in 2008, is the most active underwriter of all types of leveraged loans in Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyds Banking Group Plc, 41 percent owned by the taxpayer, arranged one-fifth of all deals to finance private-equity led acquisitions this year, making it the biggest underwriter of LBO loans.Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
