-- Bank of Canada Raises Benchmark Interest Rate to 0.75% (Text of Statement)
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-20T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bank-of-canada-raises-benchmark-interest-rate-to-0-75-text-of-statement-.html

          
          
             Following is the text accompanying
the Bank of Canada’s decision to increase its benchmark overnight
rate target to 0.75 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  
 The Bank of Canada today announced that it is raising its
target for the overnight rate by one-quarter of one percentage
point to 3/4 per cent. The Bank Rate is correspondingly
1 per cent and the deposit rate is 1/2 per cent.  
 The global economic recovery is proceeding but is not yet
self-sustaining. Greater emphasis on balance sheet repair by
households, banks, and governments in a number of advanced
economies is expected to temper the pace of global growth
relative to the Bank’s outlook in its April Monetary Policy
Report (MPR). While the policy response to the European sovereign
debt crisis has reduced the risk of an adverse outcome and
increased the prospect of sustainable long term growth, it is
expected to slow the global recovery over the projection horizon.
In the United States, private demand is picking up but remains
uneven.  
 Economic activity in Canada is unfolding largely as
expected, led by government and consumer spending. Housing
activity is declining markedly from high levels, consistent with
the Bank’s view that policy stimulus resulted in household
expenditures being brought forward into late 2009 and early 2010.
While employment growth has resumed, business investment appears
to be held back by global uncertainties and has yet to recover
from its sharp contraction during the recession.  
 The Bank expects the economic recovery in Canada to be more
gradual than it had projected in its April MPR, with growth of
3.5 per cent in 2010, 2.9 per cent in 2011, and 2.2 per cent in
2012. This revision reflects a slightly weaker profile for global
economic growth and more modest consumption growth in Canada. The
Bank anticipates that business investment and net exports will
make a relatively larger contribution to growth.  
 Inflation in Canada has been broadly in line with the Bank’s
April projection. While the Bank now expects the economy to
return to full capacity at the end of 2011, two quarters later
than had been anticipated in April, the underlying dynamics for
inflation are little changed. Both total CPI and core inflation
are expected to remain near 2 per cent throughout the projection
period. The Bank will look through the transitory effects on
inflation of changes to provincial indirect taxes.  
 Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
raise the target for the overnight rate to 3/4 per cent. This
decision leaves considerable monetary stimulus in place,
consistent with achieving the 2 per cent inflation target in
light of the significant excess supply in Canada, the strength of
domestic spending, and the uneven global recovery.  
 Given the considerable uncertainty surrounding the outlook,
any further reduction of monetary stimulus would have to be
weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments.  
 Information note: A full update of the Bank’s outlook for
the economy and inflation, including risks to the projection,
will be published in the MPR on 22 July 2010. The next scheduled
date for announcing the overnight rate target is 8 September
2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        