-- Banks See Wider Credit Spreads as Global Outlook Sours, Survey Shows
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/banks-see-wider-credit-spreads-as-global-outlook-sours-fund-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Credit spreads will widen over the
next three months amid lender concern that there may be a
double-dip recession, according to the  International Association
of Credit Portfolio Managers .  
 The cost of borrowing for investment-grade and junk-rated
companies will rise, according to almost half of the respondents
in the IACPM survey, taken at the end of the second quarter.
Credit portfolio managers from more than 88 banks and financial
institutions in 14 countries reversed their credit default
outlook to “slightly” negative after two periods of improving
sentiment.  
 Group of 20 leaders’ efforts to halve budget deficits by
2013 and stabilize borrowings in the three years after that
might crimp the recovery and lead to another recession,
according to a statement e-mailed by  Jon Teall , an outside
spokesman for the trade group. Portfolio managers are most
concerned about defaults in commercial real estate and worry
that economic growth won’t be strong enough for companies to
meet their debt obligations.  
 “In the short run, many of our members are concerned about
economic conditions as governments cut back on spending to fight
rising deficits,” Som-lok Leung, executive director of IACPM,
said in the statement. “Many respondents are worried about the
possibility of a sovereign default and the potential impact that
could have on the euro and confidence generally.”  
 The default outlook had its first negative reading since
September 2009, with 31 percent of respondents expecting the
rate to increase and 36 percent saying that it would decline,
according to the statement.  
 G-20 members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico,
Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the
U.K. and the U.S.  
 Investment-grade companies are rated at or above Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s; high-
yield, high-risk, or junk, companies are rated below those
levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        