-- Belgian Consumer Confidence Improves to 2-Year High as Jobless Fears Ease
-- Jones Hayden
-- 2010-07-20T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/belgian-consumer-confidence-improves-to-2-year-high-as-jobless-fears-ease.html

          
          
             Belgian  consumer confidence 
increased to the highest in more than two years in July as
concerns about rising  unemployment  eased and the economic
outlook brightened.  
 The consumer sentiment index for Belgium, the sixth-largest
economy in the euro area, increased to minus 7 from minus 9 in
June, the Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium  said in an e-
mailed statement today. That’s the highest since April 2008.  
 Consumers are “clearly more optimistic about future
economic trends in Belgium,” the central bank said in the
statement. “Most notably, fears of a new surge in unemployment
faded away sharply.”  
 The central bank last month increased its economic-growth
forecast and said consumer spending “should gradually  gather
momentum ” in the second half of the year. The bank predicts the
economy will expand 1.3 percent in 2010 and 1.7 percent next
year. Still, the jobless rate is forecast to increase to 8.3
percent in 2010 and to 8.8 percent in 2011.  
 Omega Pharma NV , Belgium’s biggest supplier of pharmacy
products, yesterday forecast  sales growth  will accelerate in the
second half on the introduction of skin-care products after
slowing to 1.8 percent in the latest quarter.  Colruyt NV , the
largest discount food retailer in Belgium, said on June 28 that
its net income increased 8.3 percent for the fiscal year through
the end of March.  
 Van de Velde NV , the country’s largest maker of luxury
lingerie, said on July 8 that  first-half sales  jumped 14
percent, the  fastest gain  in at least nine years. The
Schellebelle, Belgium-based company forecast full-year sales
growth excluding acquisitions of at least 5 percent.  
 Political Uncertainty  
 Belgium faces political uncertainty until a new government
is formed following early elections on June 13.  King Albert II 
on July 8 selected  Elio Di Rupo , president of the French-
speaking Socialists, to work out a basis for the start of
coalition talks. Three years ago, government formation took a
record nine months.  
 A gauge measuring Belgian households’ assessment of the
economy in the coming year advanced to 4 this month from minus 4
in June, today’s report showed. Consumers nonetheless grew less
optimistic about the prospects for their financial situation and
their saving capacity, the bank said.  
 Belgian  business confidence  may decline for a third month
in July as optimism wanes in the manufacturing industry.
Sentiment probably dropped to minus 8 this month from minus 7.7
in June, according to the  median estimate  of 11 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The central bank will publish the business-
sentiment report on July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jones Hayden  in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        