-- BHP Fourth-Quarter Iron Ore Production Rises 16%, Says Outlook is Cautious
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-07-21T07:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bhp-quarterly-iron-ore-output-rises-to-31-million-tons-vs-27-million-tons.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, said fourth-quarter iron ore production
rose 16 percent, driven by expansions at its Australian mines
and surging global steel demand.  
 Output was 31.2 million metric tons in the three months
ended June 30 compared with 27.1 million tons a year ago, the
Melbourne-based company said today in a statement. That compares
with a 32 million ton estimate by Credit Suisse Group AG. Coking
coal production also gained 16 percent.  
 Australia, the world’s largest iron ore exporter, will
boost sales 50 percent this fiscal year, according to government
estimates, as BHP and Rio Tinto Group expand output. Production
of iron ore and petroleum, BHP’s No.1 and No. 3 earners, notched
up annual records, while the company said it remained
“cautious” on the global economic outlook.  
 “Given their key earnings metrics this is a pretty good
result,”  Chris Weston , head of institutional dealing at IG
Markets in Melbourne said today by phone. “The iron ore
production shows they want to continue growing.”  
 BHP  gained  1.2 percent to A$38.75 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
time close on the Australian stock exchange. Weston prefers BHP
to Rio because of its greater exposure to copper, he said.  
 Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron ore producer, rose
yesterday on speculation that China, the world’s fastest
expanding major economy, will ease measures to curb domestic
growth. The International Strategy & Investment Group and Morgan
Stanley said China may loosen measures to cut overheating.  
 Chinese Growth  
 “BHP continues to be cautious on the short term outlook
for the global economy,” the company said in the statement.
“Within China, measures introduced to reduce growth to more
sustainable levels means volatility in commodity end-demand is
likely to persist. BHP Billiton sees these measures as a normal
continuation of China’s economic management policies.”  
 Full-year iron ore output for the year was 125 million tons
and production in Western Australia was a record for a tenth
straight year, BHP said in the statement. Prices will average
93.5 percent higher this year than in 2009, Morgan Stanley said
last month.  
 Rio and BHP, the world’s second-and third-largest producers
of the material used to make steel, are seeking to combine their
operations in Australia’s Pilbara region to save $10 billion.
Rio last week reported a 2 percent drop in ore output to 43.6
million tons for the quarter because of scheduled shutdowns.
Brazil’s Vale SA is the world’s largest producer of iron ore.  
 Ore Projects  
 Sales of the ore contributed 21 percent of BHP’s total
 revenue  in fiscal 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
BHP is expanding its Pilbara iron ore mines to 240 million tons,
including spending $4.8 billion on the fifth part of its so-
called Rapid Growth Projects that will add 50 million tons.  
 Global steel production rose 18 percent to 119 million
metric tons in June, the World Steel Association said yesterday
in a report on its website. The cost of 62 percent iron ore
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin, which fell to a six-
month low on July 14, rose for a fourth day yesterday. It
climbed 3 percent to $121.60 a ton, according to The Steel Index.  
 Output of coking coal, used to make steel and BHP’s second-
biggest earning unit, increased 16 percent to 10.9 million tons
in the quarter, beating Credit Suisse’s forecast for 8.9 million
tons. Energy coal output was 16.3 million tons, down 8 percent.  
 Total production of petroleum, its third-biggest earner,
increased to 41 million barrels of oil equivalent. That compares
to Credit Suisse’s estimate of 42 million barrels. Copper output
declined 5 percent to 291,100 metric tons.  
 Biggest Exporters  
 Vale, BHP and Rio, the biggest exporters of iron ore, this
year abandoned a 40-year custom of annual contracts in favor of
quarterly agreements as they bet on rising prices.  
 BHP said 39 percent of its ore shipments from Australia
were priced using the benchmark system, with the balance sold on
a shorter-term basis. In the second half, the old system was
“substantially” replaced by short-term pricing, it said.  
 “Our expectation is that future Western Australian iron
ore shipments will be priced on,” on a shorter-term basis, the
company said.  
 The company is due to report its  annual earnings  on Aug. 25.
Credit Suisse analyst  Paul McTaggart  on July 20 forecast net
income of $13.7 billion for the period, compared with the $13.2
billion average of 24 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        