-- BNY Mellon Fees Trail as State Street Gains From Purchase of Intesa Unit
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-07-20T20:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bny-mellon-fees-trail-on-low-rates-as-state-street-gets-boost-from-intesa.html

          
          
             Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
biggest custody bank, said fees from servicing client assets
fell in the second quarter as interest rates near zero eroded
its main source of income.  
 BNY Mellon  declined  less than 1 percent in New York trading
after saying servicing fees dropped 2 percent from a year
earlier. Boston-based State Street Corp., the third-largest
custody bank,  rose  5.8 percent after reporting a 20 percent
increase in servicing fees, helped by the purchase of the
securities-servicing unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA.  
 Both firms are relying on takeovers to boost earnings as
income from lending cash and securities is being squeezed by the
Federal Reserve’s decision to keep its main lending rate close
to zero since December 2008. That’s also lowered profit from
fixed income and forced firms to waive fees on money-market
funds. BNY Mellon this month completed its $2.31 billion
takeover of PNC Financial Services Group Inc.’s global-
investment servicing business.  
 “It’s a tough environment to grow revenue,” BNY Mellon
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Kelly  said in a telephone
interview, citing low interest rates, limited issuance of new
debt and “muted” mergers and acquisitions. “We are still in a
fragile environment.”  
 BNY Mellon fell 11 cents to $25.53 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading, bringing the year-to-date
decline to 8.7 percent. State Street rose $2.18 to $39.53. The
 shares  are down 9.2 percent for the year.  
 Relying on Takeovers  
 BNY Mellon’s net income climbed to $658 million, or 54
cents a share, from $176 million, or 15 cents a share, a year
earlier, when earnings were hurt by writedowns on securities
backed by pools of home loans, the New York-based firm said
today in a statement.  
 Fees from servicing securities, which account for about
half of the firm’s fee revenue, fell to $1.27 billion from $1.29
billion a year earlier. Foreign exchange and trading fees fell
7.2 percent to $220 million, and treasury services fees dropped
5.3 percent to $125 million. Asset and wealth management fees
gained 6.1 percent to $676 million.  
 State Street today  reported  net income of $432 million, or
87 cents a share, compared with a loss of $3.31 billion, or
$7.12, a year earlier, when the firm wrote down the value of
investments and repaid government bailout money. Fees earned for
safekeeping assets rose to $957 million from $795 a year
earlier, and investment management fees rose 12 percent to $217
million.  
 “We continue to think the businesses we’re in are
consolidating, and we’re in a pretty good capital position,”
State Street’s Chief Executive Officer  Joseph Hooley  said in an
interview. “Perhaps some of the pressure on European banks
could result in acquisition opportunities.”  
 PNC Purchase  
 State Street’s custody assets rose 13 percent to $14
trillion. State Street also added $686 billion from the
acquisitions of Mourant International Finance Administration in
the U.K.’s Channel Islands and the securities-servicing unit of
Italy’s Intesa. The Mourant deal closed in April and the Intesa
acquisition was completed May 17.  
 “These were more favorable results for State Street, given
the acquisitions,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based
analyst with Guggenheim Partners LLC, said in an interview.
“That’s the driver right now, and Bank of New York Mellon will
have an acquisition benefiting them in the third quarter.”  
 The PNC purchase gave BNY Mellon an additional $855 billion
in custody assets by adding hedge-fund and mutual-fund clients.
The bank in March agreed to buy BHF Asset Servicing for 253
million euros ($327 million) from BHF-Bank AG and Sal. Oppenheim
Jr. & Cie, to expand in Germany.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        