-- Bohemians Shake Up Lithuanian Arts Scene With Corporate Help
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bohemians-shake-up-arts-scene-with-help-from-lithuania-s-biggest-companies.html

          
          
             For the past three-and-a-half years,
Lithuania’s cultural scene has undergone a quiet revolution,
courtesy of a very persistent woman.  
 Dalia Ibelhauptaite  has done the impossible. At a time when
donors are in hiding and opera troupes are begging for
subsidies, the opera director has convinced some of the biggest
companies in the Baltic states to fund a privately sponsored
opera company which she started from scratch.  
 Maxima Group (the largest retailer in the Baltic states),
Svyturys (the biggest brewer in Lithuania) and City (part of  AB
Apranga , a Baltic clothing retailer) are among two dozen
companies providing 90 percent of the funding for the troupe.  
 “This was not a project where you think, ‘How am I going
to profit out of that?’” says  Tomas Kucinskas , who runs his own
agricultural company and also chairs  Carlsberg  A/S’s legal
entities in Lithuania (Svyturys), Latvia and Estonia.  
 A childhood friend of the director, Kucinskas says he was
convinced by the woman known universally as Dalia. “She made it
clear it’s going to be big and important for Lithuania,” he
says. “She was great in selling that story.”  
 Dalia’s  company  was born in October 2006, and gave its
100th performance on March 14. Since its creation, five works
have been staged -- including Puccini’s “La Boheme” and
Sondheim’s “Sweeney Todd” -- a few of which are revived each
year. At a May 14 fundraiser in Vilnius, the company raised
100,000 litas ($36,000), breaking even for the season. Now,
funds are being sought for the next season.  
 Art Business  
 Dalia describes her artistic venture as “young business
meets young art, and creates something which is the new face of
Lithuanian opera -- less traditional, cool and oriented toward a
young audience.”  
 The company has no physical home: Performances are staged
at the 960-seat Congress Palace, where the Lithuanian State
Symphony Orchestra is based. Dalia’s dream is to create
Lithuania’s first privately funded theater, a multipurpose,
1,500- or 2,000-seat venue that would complement the 1,100-seat
state-run opera house.  
 Given the economic situation, those plans are on ice. “We
are completely dependent on private money, and financially now
in Lithuania, it’s an extremely bad situation for big private
companies,” she says, an assessment that Kucinskas confirms.
“Businesses are in a survival stage in most cases.”  
 We meet in her loft-like apartment in Islington, north
London. Warm and enthusiastic, she wears her dark hair in a
fringe, and makes me a cappuccino.  
 Dalia, born in 1967, started directing at 15. Her father
was an engineer, and her mother, a math and physics teacher.  
 Stalin’s Gulags  
 Both spent time in Stalin’s gulags in Siberia. Her mother,
who came from a bourgeois family, was there for 8 years from the
age of 16. Her father spent 4 years in a gulag for playing the
accordion at partisan parties after World War II.  
 Dalia’s mother, who wanted a better life for her, took her
to the theater every Sunday before she could even speak. Dalia
studied piano intensively from the age of 5 to 15, a discipline
she soon gave up for drama.  
 “I didn’t like the world around me, so I wanted to create
the world I liked, obviously on stage,” she says. In Soviet
days, there were “no choices and no possibilities, and only one
truth everybody had to subscribe to.”  
 “At school, we always heard about the great Russian big
brothers who saved our lives,” she says. “Meanwhile, we would
go home and hear stories about wolves in Siberia.”  
 At 15, she teamed up with friends and staged her own work
and Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Juliet.”  
 Drama School  
 At 18, she applied for drama school in Moscow. Turned away
on her first two attempts for being too young, she was admitted
on her third try. She sped up her studies to return to
Lithuania, the first Soviet republic to declare its
independence. “I didn’t want to be left behind in Russia if
suddenly Lithuania was separate,” she says.  
 Months after her return, in January 1991, Soviet forces
crushed the rebel movement, killing at least 14 people.  
 “I realized that the big theater, the big drama is in the
streets,” she recalls. “As a director, I didn’t have a place
there, or wasn’t needed.”  
 She headed for London, invited by a theater producer met at
drama school in Moscow. Her two-week stay turned into a six-
month attachment at the  National Theatre .  
 Director  Stephen Daldry  (of “Billy Elliot” fame) asked
her to put on a play at the  Gate Theatre , she says, and she then
staged another at the Tricycle Theatre.  
 New York  
 By 1994, she was directing opera productions for  Opera
North  -- the northern English company -- as well as in the
Netherlands, Italy and Israel. She also directed the play
“Svejk” at the Duke on 42nd Street theater in New York.  
 Gintautas Kevisas, artistic director of the  Vilnius
Festival , then came to London and coaxed her into working back
home. “He wanted to change the opera, and I was the person to
do it,” she says. “I wanted to bring different people, and
break everything that was stale and dead.”  
 Today, Dalia is a U.K. citizen, married to the British
actor Dexter Fletcher, and divides her time between London and
Lithuania.  
 She has just added a U.S. sponsor -- Detroit-based
Strategic Staffing Solutions -- to her pool of regular backers.  
 “Now we have to move to another level where we need to
create the first example of official public and private
partnership,” she says.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
or  farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dalia Ibelhauptaite  
                       
                         
                           Dalia Ibelhauptaite via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Dalia Ibelhauptaite. Her Vilnius-based opera company receives almost 90 percent of its funding from some of Lithuania's biggest corporations. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Dalia Ibelhauptaite. Her Vilnius-based opera company receives almost 90 percent of its funding from some of Lithuania's biggest corporations. Source: Dalia Ibelhauptaite via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     ''La Boheme'' staged by Dalia Ibelhauptaite. Her opera troupe sang its 100th performance of Puccini's opera in Vilnius, and gets 90 percent of its funding from some of Lithuania's biggest companies. Source: Photographer D. Matvejev/Dalia Ibelhauptaite via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
