-- BP to Keep Damaged Gulf Oil Well Sealed Today
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-07-21T16:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/bp-can-keep-well-shut-another-24-hours-as-no-evidence-of-leak-allen-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  will keep its damaged Gulf of
Mexico well sealed today as it seeks government permission to
make another attempt to pump mud into the top to help
permanently stop the flow of oil.  
 Pressure inside the well has risen to 6,844 pounds per
square inch since BP sealed it July 15, indicating oil and gas
isn’t being forced out elsewhere, the London-based company said
in a statement today on its  website . No leaks have been found
that might expand into a gusher like the one that caused the
largest U.S. oil spill, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen 
said today on a conference call.  
 BP overnight advanced a plan to pump mud into the top of
the well before it is permanently plugged from the bottom with
cement by a relief well next month, Allen said. Government
experts are examining the proposal, which takes into
consideration a storm that may move into the area, he said.  
 “If it’s approved, there’s a 100 percent chance we’ll go
ahead with it,” BP Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  told
reporters on a conference call yesterday. “Working in tandem,
these could have the well killed in less time. It’s worth the
time and effort.”  
 ‘Static Kill’  
 The so-called static kill may begin as soon as July 24
provided BP tomorrow begins pouring the casing that will protect
the final stretch of the relief well, Allen said today. The
cement will need about two days to cure so it can protect the
relief bore against leaks from the damaged well, and as long as
a week before engineers can safely resume drilling, Allen said.  
 A tropical storm may delay drilling of the relief well for
ten days to two weeks because the rig and other vessels will
need to begin evacuating 120 hours before a storm is forecast to
hit the area, Allen said. BP and the government haven’t yet
decided whether the well can remain sealed or valves must be
opened, spilling more oil into the sea ahead of an evacuation,
he said.  
 Filling the top of the well with mud would lower the
pressure at the top, making a rupture there less likely if crews
have to evacuate ahead of a hurricane,  Darryl Bourgoyne ,
director of the petroleum-engineering laboratory at  Louisiana
State University , said yesterday.  
 A storm system near Puerto Rico has a 60 percent chance of
developing into a tropical cyclone in the next two days, the
National Hurricane Center said today. The storm’s track may take
it over the oil slick, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 High Waves  
 Waves at the well site, about 40 miles (64 kilometers) off
the Louisiana coast, are reaching six feet, too high to skim oil
from the surface, Allen said today. Operations at the site also
include seismic and acoustic sensing to check for leaks and pipe
construction to expand BP’s ability to capture oil on surface
ships, should it be necessary, Allen said.  
 BP rose 12.85 pence, or 3.3 percent, to 400.3 pence at 3:03
p.m. in London today after the company agreed yesterday to sell
some oil and gas properties to Apache Corp. for $7 billion. BP
shares have lost 39 percent of their value since an April 20
explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, resulting
in the deaths of 11 workers.  
 The company tried unsuccessfully in May to fill the gushing
well with mud and rubber pieces to stop the oil flow. Pumping
mud into the top of the well now that it’s sealed may resolve a
scientific dispute over the condition of the well bore, Allen
said.  
 Pressure Disagreement  
 BP and the government had said before the test that
pressure of about 8,000 pounds per square inch would establish
the well as safe to seal without the threat of new leaks. If
pressure in the well had failed to reach 6,000 pounds per square
inch, engineers would’ve suspected an unidentified leak, BP and
the government said before testing began.  
 Scientists disagree on whether the pressure readings now
taken by BP are lower than forecast because the well has been
depleted by gushing for three months or because it is leaking
from the bottom, Allen said.  
 “We will not allow BP to move forward with the static-kill
option if we think it’s going to create greater jeopardy and
compromise the integrity of the well,” U.S. Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar  told a House panel investigating the incident
yesterday in Washington.  
 Reassess Flow Rate  
 Now that the oil flow into the Gulf has been stopped
temporarily, Allen said he’s asked a government-led scientific
panel to narrow its estimate of 35,000 barrels to 60,000 barrels
a day being spilled.  
 “There’s still an awful lot of oil meandering around in
the Gulf,” Edward Overton, professor emeritus of environmental
sciences at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, told
 Lizzie O’Leary  today on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track.”
“It’s going to take several months before we get out of the
response mode and into a long-term recovery mode.”  
 Multiple research vessels haven’t detected “alarming”
depletion of subsea oxygen by the spill that would kill fish and
other marine organisms, Overton said.  
 Oil has tarred 631 miles of coastline, the government
reported yesterday, 2 percent more than a day earlier and the
most extensive shoreline pollution since the spill began. About
35 percent of the Gulf of Mexico is closed to fishing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thad Allen, the U.S. official in charge of the response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gianna Bern, president of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc., discusses the outlook for BP Plc's strategy after the company agreed to sell some assets to Apache Corp. yesterday. 
     Bern talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc. 
     BP seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP's talks to sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache Corp. stalled twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Edward Overton, professor emeritus at Louisiana State University, talks about the potential environmental implications of the BP oil leak and the use of dispersants to help break up oil spilling into the Gulf of Mexico.
     Overton speaks with Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
