-- Brazil, India Tightening May Add to Europe's Woes in Cooling China Exports
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T04:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/brazil-india-tightening-may-add-to-europe-s-woes-in-cooling-china-exports.html

          
          
             Monetary tightening in India and
Brazil may add to Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis in curbing
demand for China’s exports, a Chinese official said.  
 The outlook for trade is “complicated and difficult,”  Yao Jian , a spokesman for the Ministry of Commerce, said at a press
briefing in Beijing today.  
 Caps on global demand could exacerbate a slowdown in
economic growth in China, the world’s No. 1  exporter , increasing
the likelihood of Premier  Wen Jiabao  easing policies and
limiting gains by the yuan. A government research body forecasts
second-half export gains will slow to less than half the pace of
the first six months.  
 Demand may be restrained by Europe’s woes, the gradual end
of post-crisis restocking by businesses, and tightening in
emerging economies such as India and Brazil, Yao said.  
 In Brazil, the central bank has lifted the benchmark
lending rate, known as Selic, to 10.25 percent from a record low
of 8.75 percent in April. Traders are betting on another half
percentage point increase this week. India’s next monetary
policy decision is on July 27.  
 Economic growth in China is cooling after the government
tempered credit growth and investment spending and cracked down
on real-estate speculation. Gross domestic product expanded 10.3
percent in the second quarter, down from 11.9 percent in the
first, the government reported last week.  
 Export Growth Slowing  
 Export gains may cool to 16.3 percent in the second half
from a year earlier, the China Securities Journal reported
yesterday, citing a State Information Center report. That would
be down from 35 percent in the first half.  
 The information center, a research body under the National
Development and Reform Commission, cites the removal of tax
rebates, weaker demand because of Europe’s debt crisis, and
comparisons with higher base levels.  
 The commerce ministry and the  Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology  both highlighted today pressures on
Chinese businesses from rising labor and raw-material costs.  
 Still, the nation won’t face an economic double-dip and
industrial-output growth, while slowing in the second half, will
exceed the government’s 11 percent full-year target,  Zhu Hongren ,
the industry ministry’s chief engineer, said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  
 Wages in the Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta
increased by between 20 percent and 25 percent this year, Zhu
said.  
 -- Zhao Yidi ,  Chua Baizhen . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhao Yidi at +86-10-6649-7575
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
