-- British Airways, Solena Plan to Create 1,200 London Jobs at Biofuels Plant
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-20T09:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/british-airways-solena-plan-to-create-1-200-london-jobs-at-biofuels-plant.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc  and Solena Group
Inc. plan to build a waste-to-biofuels plant in east London,
creating 1,200 jobs, sending less trash to the landfill and
reducing jet emissions of greenhouse gases.  
 Solena, which will spend as much as $300 million on the
site, has identified two potential locations near Dagenham, east
of London, Solena Chief Executive Officer  Robert Do  said in an
interview at the Farnborough Air Show in southern England. About
1,000 construction jobs will be created, with 200 employees
needed to operate the factory, he said.  
 British Airways, trying to cut its carbon emissions as
airlines prepare to enter the European Union’s cap-and trade
system in 2012, will buy all of the plant’s 16 million gallons
of biofuel annually for up to 10 years, said  Jonathon Counsell ,
the airline’s head of environment.  
 “Once it’s been proven to be successful, we would look to
build many more of these plants,” Counsell said in an interview
in Farnborough. “We’re trying to encourage other airlines to go
down this route so that there are plants all around the world
and we can pick up this product anywhere we fly.”  
 Subject to planning consent, construction east of London is
scheduled to start next year, with biofuel production beginning
in mid-2014, Do said. The company is in talks with banks,
private equity companies and pension funds to finance the
project, he said.  
 95% Lower  
 The biofuel, with a carbon footprint 95 percent lower than
conventional airline fuels, will be blended with jet fuel,
Counsell said. The amount produced will be about 2 percent of
British Airways’ annual fuel consumption and double what it
uses at London’s nearby City Airport, Counsell said. BA is still
deciding whether to sell the surplus to other airlines at City
Airport or to take it to Heathrow or Gatwick airports, he said.  
 Solena is negotiating with London’s four biggest waste
management companies to get feedstock for the plant, Do said,
declining to name the firms. The Washington-based bio-energy
company will take plastics, paper and food leftovers that would
otherwise go to landfill, saving the waste companies from paying
taxes on trash, he said.  
 “We’ll get it for free essentially, and if there’s a
transport fee, we’ll pay for it,” Do said. The company will use
about 1,500 tons of waste a day, and as well as creating
biofuel, the plant will generate about 40 megawatts of
electricity, he said. Half of that will be used to run the
plant, and the other half exported to the power grid.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        