-- British Airways Flight Attendants Seek Talks With Airline to End Dispute
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-20T16:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/british-airways-cabin-crews-reject-latest-pay-proposal-may-strike-again.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc ’s cabin crew
union will seek talks with the airline to end an 18-month
dispute over compensation and working conditions after members
rejected a pay offer.  
 A total of 3,419 members voted against what the airline
called its final proposal, while 1,686 members backed the plan,
Unite Joint General Secretary  Tony Woodley  said in a phone
interview today. Woodley, who represents about 12,000 cabin
crew, told reporters that the failure of 85 percent of all
flight attendants to back the deal was a “wake-up call” to
British Airways Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh .  
 Walsh told  shareholders  at the company’s annual meeting
last week he was hopeful that the offer would lead to an end of
the stalemate. Flight attendants walked out on 22 days this year
at a cost of 154 million pounds ($234 million), according to
Unite estimates.  
 “The majority of crew might be showing more realism with
regard to the world that British Airways is operating in,” said
 John Strickland , an analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. in London.  
 British Airways is encouraged by the ballot’s result, which
showed that only about a quarter of its cabin crew had rejected
the deal, the carrier said. Unite should sign the pay agreement,
it said.  
 “Support for Unite is ebbing away,” the airline said in
an e-mailed statement. “The union has lost the moral authority
to represent the views of our cabin crew.”  
 Shares Fall  
 British Airways  fell  2.5 pence, or 1.2 percent, to 199.4
pence at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London. The stock has
gained 50 percent in the past 12 months, valuing the company at
2.3 billion pounds.  
 Walsh cut crew numbers on long-haul flights in November and
wants to  save  160 million pounds annually within 10 years. Of
the total, 60 million pounds will come from the staffing
reduction and the rest from establishing a parallel fleet using
crews with separate contracts and bargaining rights.  
 Outside the union’s headquarters in London, Woodley told
reporters that he wanted a deal that all members would accept
and that the low turnout in the vote was a result of the “fear
factor,” after workers had been suspended or sacked in the
course of the dispute.  
 “We’ve got to get back around the table,” Woodley said.
“It’s not a question of what concessions we offer Mr. Walsh.
What we want is common sense.”  
 ‘Instability’  
 Should the CEO’s proposals be rejected, the dispute and
associated “instability” will continue into the autumn,
hurting earnings further, the union said in a letter to British
Airways shareholders last week.  
 In a concession to existing staff, British Airways agreed
on June 25 to lift pay for two years starting in 2011 and drop
benefit cuts that would have funded higher staffing levels on
some flights.  
 Passenger traffic at British Airways fell 11 percent in May
after flights were lost to strike action, just as industry-wide
demand jumped almost 12 percent, based on  International Air
Transport Association  figures. Traffic at the company fell a
further 11.5 percent in June as the walkouts continued.  
 British Airways is seeking to cut the airline’s  costs  after
the global recession pushed it to a record 425 million-pound
 loss  in the fiscal year through March. The carrier also faces
intensifying competition on its long-haul routes from Middle
Eastern carriers such as Emirates, while low-cost carriers
including EasyJet Plc eat into its short-haul business.  
 Chairman  Martin Broughton  said last week that Walsh’s
strategy has his full support and that the company has the
backing of its biggest shareholders and clients, with whom it is
in “constant touch.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Airways Plc CEO Willie Walsh told shareholders at the company’s annual meeting last week he was hopeful that the offer would lead to an end of the dispute. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
