-- British Airways CEO May Get Boost From Crew's `Ballot Fatigue'
-- Louisa Fahy
-- 2010-07-21T07:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/british-airways-chief-executive-may-get-boost-from-crew-s-ballot-fatigue-.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc ’s cabin crew may
find it more difficult to wring concessions from Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  after less than half of the main union’s
members took part in a ballot over a pay offer.  
 Flight attendants voted 3,419 to 1,686 against the June 25
proposal, figures released yesterday by  Unite  showed. About 45
percent of the workers represented by the group turned out, the
lowest rate in the four votes held since November.  
 “It might be indicative of ballot fatigue,”  Andy Cook ,
CEO of Marshall-James, which advises companies on employee
relations, said in a telephone interview. “If that turnout is
indicative of what an industrial action ballot would look like
and therefore the support for industrial action, that will give
British Airways a shot in the arm.”  
 Joint General Secretary  Tony Woodley  said Unite will now
seek further talks with the airline to end the 18-month dispute.
Flight attendants walked out on 22 days this year, costing
Europe’s third-largest carrier 154 million pounds ($235
million). Walsh has repeatedly said that the airline could
operate all long-haul services in the event of another strike.  
 Outside the union’s headquarters in London, Woodley said
yesterday that he wanted a deal that all members would accept
and that the low turnout was a result of the “fear factor,”
after workers had been suspended or fired during the dispute.  
 “We’ve got to get back around the table,” Woodley said.
“It’s not a question of what concessions we offer Mr. Walsh.
What we want is common sense.”  
 Cost Savings  
 Walsh cut crew numbers on long-haul flights in November and
wants to  save  160 million pounds annually within 10 years. Of
the total, 60 million pounds will come from the staffing
reduction and the remainder from establishing a parallel fleet
using crews with separate contracts and bargaining rights.  
 The 48-year-old Walsh, CEO since 2005, gained on another
front yesterday, as the airline and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines won final U.S. approval to jointly set prices, sell
tickets and schedule international flights through their
Oneworld alliance. The airlines won exemptions from antitrust
rules after requests in 1997 and 2001 failed.  
 British Airways  rose  5.9 pence, or 3 percent, to 205.3
pence at 8:35 a.m. in London trading. Through yesterday, stock
had lost 5.3 percent since Unite said on Feb. 22 that members
had voted to strike, versus a 0.2 percent drop in the eight-
member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.  
 ‘More Realism’  
 “The majority of crew might be showing more realism with
regard to the world that British Airways is operating in,” said
 John Strickland , an analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd. in London.  
 In a concession to existing flight attendants, British
Airways agreed last month to lift pay for two years starting in
2011 and drop benefit cuts that would have funded higher
staffing levels on some flights.  
 Unite also wants the CEO to give ground on the withdrawal
of travel perks from workers who went on strike and reinstate
staff that have been suspended in relation to the dispute.  
 “I can’t see British Airways giving in to the demands to
reinstate the travel perks,” said Cook, the former head of
human resources at Transport for London, which runs the U.K.
capital’s buses and subway trains. “For them that will be like
rewarding bad behavior. Why go this far and then give in?”  
 Losing Passengers  
 Passenger traffic at British Airways fell 11 percent in May
after flights were lost to strike action, just as industry-wide
demand jumped almost 12 percent, based on  International Air
Transport Association  figures. Traffic at the company fell a
further 11.5 percent in June as the walkouts continued.  
 British Airways is seeking to cut the airline’s  costs  after
the global recession pushed it to a record 425 million-pound
 loss  in the fiscal year through March. The carrier also faces
intensifying competition on its long-haul routes from Middle
Eastern carriers such as Emirates, while low-cost carriers
including EasyJet Plc eat into its short-haul business.  
 Chairman  Martin Broughton  said last week that Walsh’s
strategy has his full support and that the company has the
backing of its biggest shareholders and clients, with whom it is
in “constant touch.”  
 “This is a wake-up call to BA,” said Unite’s Woodley.
“If Willie Walsh wants to lift the specter of strike action
from his schedule once and for all, he must come back with an
offer acceptable to more than a tiny minority of the cabin crew.
We are ready to talk.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       British Airways CEO Willie Walsh  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Willie Walsh, chief executive officer of British Airways Plc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Willie Walsh, chief executive officer of British Airways Plc. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Poppy Trowbridge reports on U.K. companies' response to new European Union rules requiring firms to increase funding in defined benefit pension plans.
     Diageo Plc has put 2 million barrels of Whisky into a pension fund partnership, while British Airways Plc has used aircraft as security. A defined benefit pension plan links retirement payments to length of service and final salary. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
