-- California Official's $800,000 Salary in City of 38,000 Triggers Protests
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-20T18:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/california-official-s-800-000-salary-in-city-of-38-000-triggers-protests.html

          
          
             Hundreds of residents of one of the
poorest municipalities in Los Angeles County shouted in protest
last night as tensions rose over a report that the city’s
manager earns an annual salary of almost $800,000.  
 An overflow crowd packed a City Council meeting in Bell, a
mostly Hispanic city of 38,000 about 10 miles (16 kilometers)
southeast of Los Angeles, to call for the resignation of Mayor
 Oscar Hernandez  and other city officials. Residents left
standing outside the chamber banged on the doors and shouted
“fuera,” or “get out” in Spanish.  
 It was the first council meeting since the  Los Angeles
Times  reported July 15 that Chief Administrative Officer Robert
Rizzo earns $787,637 -- with annual 12 percent raises -- and
that Bell pays its police chief $457,000, more than Los Angeles
Police Chief  Charlie Beck  makes in a city of  3.8 million people. 
Bell council members earn almost $100,000 for part-time work.  
 City Attorney Edward Lee said the council members couldn’t
discuss salaries in public without advance notice. The council
then adjourned for a private session. About an hour later, the
council members returned, and Hernandez read a statement saying
the city would prepare a report on the salaries and seek public
comment at the next council meeting, scheduled for Aug. 16.  
 Residents shouted in protest. Lee said he would have the
room cleared if people continued to speak out of line. Police
Chief Randy Adams said the fire department wanted to end the
meeting because the crowd outside was blocking the door.  
 Easing Tensions  
 Then, in what appeared to be an effort to ease tensions,
Hernandez announced that the meeting to discuss salaries would
be held instead on July 26.  
 After the meeting,  Bell  resident Ali Saleh read a statement
from a newly formed group called the Bell Association to Stop
the Abuse. He called for an independent audit of city salaries
and contracts.  
 On July 1 Bell took control of many of the city functions
of neighboring Maywood, a city whose council members voted to
contract out almost all services. Saleh also asked that Bell
stop that process until the city’s salary investigations were
resolved.  
 Bell has sold two general obligation bond issues totaling
$50 million in the past six years, according to prospectuses for
the bonds and information in the city’s annual financial
statement for 2009. In that time, its debt has risen to $1,972
per capita in 2009 from $599 in 2004, according to its annual
financial statement.  
 Inquiry Under Way  
 The city’s personal income was $24,800 per capita in 2008,
according to its financial statement. That compares with an
average of $32,819 nationwide, according to 2010 figures from
the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis.  
 Bell’s general fund  revenue  declined 4.6 percent to $14.1
million for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2009, according
to the city’s financial statement. The city’s expenses rose 2.3
percent to $15.9 million in same period.  
 The Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office has begun
an inquiry into Bell council member pay, according to Dave
Demerjian, head of the office’s Public Integrity Division. He
said Bell council members were receiving $8,083 a month, mostly
by serving on city-related commissions.  
 “We’re reviewing the council member salaries to see if
they conform to state law,” Demerjian said in a telephone
interview.  
 California law limits the salaries of council members to
several hundred dollars a month, depending on the size of the
city, according to  Hector De La Torre , a state assemblyman from
nearby South Gate, who sponsored legislation in 2005 that limits
how much council members can get paid from other city-related
assignments to $150 a month.  
 ‘Obscene Pay’  
 De La Torre said that after his bill was passed, Bell’s
City Council voted to operate under its own charter, rather than
adhere to state laws on how cities should be run.  
 “It seems obscene to me,” De La Torre said in a telephone
interview. “People making $30,000 a year are paying taxes so
that their council members can make $80,000.”  
 Adams, Bell’s police chief, said in an interview after the
council meeting that he had retired as chief of police in the
much larger city of Glendale, California, when Bell officials
approached him.  
 “I told them they would have to pay me what I was making in
retirement and the $165,000 I would make as chief of police,”
Adams said.  
 Adams said he had been brought in to end corruption in
Bell’s police department.  
 “Some of the former members of this force are in the
federal penitentiary,” he said.  
 ‘Streets Are Cleaner’  
 Hernandez, the mayor, defended the salaries in an interview
with the Los Angeles Times.  
 “Our streets are cleaner, we have lovely parks, better
lighting throughout the area, our community is better,”
Hernandez said, according to the newspaper. “These things just
don’t happen, they happen because he had a vision and made it
happen.”  
 Carmen Avalos , the city clerk in South Gate, said she
attended the Bell council meeting to help educate people about
the political process.  
 “This is what we are trying to avoid,” she said in an
interview at the meeting. “The lack of fiduciary
responsibility, the lack of transparency.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        