-- Cameron Resists Inquiry Into Release of Libyan Lockerbie Bomber
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-21T09:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/cameron-meeting-with-obama-vows-u-k-review-of-lockerbie-bomber-release.html

          
          
             British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is resisting calls for a full inquiry into the release of the
Lockerbie bomber from a Scottish prison as U.S. lawmakers said
they would press their effort to examine the case.  
 Cameron met last night with a group of senators who will
lead a congressional hearing into the matter, aiming to deflect
their calls for a full probe with the offer to review documents
and release more information. He and President  Barack Obama 
repeated their condemnations yesterday of the release of Libyan
 Abdel Basset al-Megrahi  by authorities in Scotland last year.  
 U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether  BP Plc  lobbied to
get al-Megrahi freed as the company sought agreements to drill
for oil in Libya. Both BP and the U.K. government have denied
that it did so, and Cameron said an inquiry would be pointless.  
 “I don’t need an inquiry to tell me what was a bad
decision,” Cameron, who opposed al-Megrahi’s release, said at a
news conference yesterday with Obama at the White House. “The
decision to release Megrahi was a decision made by the Scottish
government, and I haven’t seen anything to suggest that the
Scottish government were in any way swayed by BP.”  
 The renewed attention to the Lockerbie case has added to
the friction between the U.S. and U.K. resulting from the oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico triggered by the April 20 blowout of
a BP well that also killed 11 rig workers. The incident was the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 Review Welcomed  
 Obama said he welcomed the review, saying all the facts
must be revealed to satisfy questions.  
 “All of us here in the United States were surprised,
disappointed and angry about the release of the Lockerbie
bomber,” Obama said, adding that his administration expressed
“very clearly our objections” before and after the decision
was made.  
 “We welcome any additional information,” he said. “We
should have all the facts. They should be laid out there.”  
 Al-Megrahi was freed by Scotland, which has an independent
justice system, on compassionate grounds in August 2009 because
he was dying of cancer. He remains alive. The Libyan was jailed
in 2001 for the 1988 killing of 270 people in the bombing of Pan
Am Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.  
 Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand  of New York
and  Robert Menendez  and  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey, all
Democrats, are pressing for an inquiry into the matter. The
Senate Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to hold a
hearing on the case July 29.  
 ‘Encouraging’  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in a July 19
 letter  to the four senators that the U.S. is “encouraging”
U.K. and Scottish authorities to review the circumstances of al-
Megrahi’s release “and to consider any new information that has
come to light since” then.  
 After last evening’s meeting with Cameron, Lautenberg told
reporters that the lawmakers “tried to get the point across
that there’s so much suspicion that surrounds this that we have
to understand what happened.”  
 “It’s a question of believability between two countries
that have had such a hard and fast relationship,” Lautenberg
said.  
 “Our request for an independent investigation is still on
the table,” Schumer said. “He said that it’s not case
closed.”  
 BP previously has said that while it had lobbied the U.K.
government to speed up a prisoner transfer deal with Libya, it
never had any discussions about al-Megrahi with either the U.K.
or Scottish government. Al-Megrahi was freed on compassionate
grounds, rather than under the transfer agreement.  
 ‘Violent Agreement’  
 Cameron said he and Obama were in “violent agreement”
that the release of the Lockerbie bomber “was completely
wrong.”  
 Cameron said that while he understands the anger felt in
the U.S. toward BP because of the gulf oil spill, it is in the
interest of both countries that such an economically important
company remain viable. He said he agreed with Obama that BP has
an obligation to clean up the oil and compensate residents and
businesses in the area.  
 Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  today defended his
government’s decision to let al-Megrahi return to Libya, saying
he had no regrets about the release because it had followed
“due process.”  
 ‘Good Faith’  
 “You can only take a decision in good faith,” Salmond
told BBC Radio 4’s Today program. “If you take a decision in
good faith you don’t regret it.”  
 The Scottish government had not been lobbied by BP, nor had
any kind of contact with the oil company, Salmond said.  
 While visiting the U.S., Cameron also brought an invitation
from  Queen Elizabeth II  for Obama and his wife Michelle to make
a state visit to the U.K.  
 “The president and first lady are delighted with the
queen’s invitation for a state visit to the United Kingdom and
are very much looking forward to it,” National Security Council
spokesman  Mike Hammer  said in an e-mailed statement. He said a
date for the visit hasn’t been set.  
 The two leaders said they focused much of their meeting on
Afghanistan and the discussions also touched on the global
economic recovery, the Middle East peace process and keeping up
pressure on Iran over its nuclear program.  
 Obama said his administration will be “very aggressive”
in dealing with U.S. debt and that the country will face “tough
choices” to cut the  deficit .  
 ‘Big Structural Reforms’  
 Obama said he is committed to “big structural reforms”
that will be politically difficult to undertake. Some of those
may be part of a report of his commission on the deficit, which
is due to deliver its recommendations in December, he said.  
 The Group of 20 nations endorsed halving deficits by 2013
at their meeting last month in Canada, while leaving it to
individual governments to decide how soon to pare spending.  
 The White House projects the U.S.  shortfall  will hit a
record of almost $1.6 trillion this year, about 10.6 percent of
U.S. gross domestic product. Still, Obama has warned against
cutting back on stimulus measures before the economic recovery
takes hold.  
 Cameron’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats
is proposing spending cuts and tax increases totaling 113
billion pounds ($172 billion) to slash a deficit that amounts to
11 percent of economic output. Some government departments have
been told to plan for spending cuts of as much as 40 percent.  
 Cameron is scheduled to stop today at Arlington National
Cemetery and the Pentagon before leaving for New York to meet
with business leaders and local officials.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cameron Vows Review of Lockerbie Bomber Release  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, speaks at a press conference at the White House in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Cameron, U.K. prime minister, speaks at a press conference at the White House in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc. 
     BP seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP's talks to sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache Corp. stalled twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
