-- Canadian Committee Hears Delek Would Still Buy Shell's Montreal Refinery
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-07-20T19:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/canadian-committee-holds-hearing-on-shell-s-move-to-create-fuel-terminal.html

          
          
             Delek U.S. Holdings Inc.  told
Canadian lawmakers it would be willing to purchase a Montreal
refinery that  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  is planning to convert into
a fuel terminal in November, after talks failed last month.  
 “We continue to be interested” in buying the refinery,
Jim Boles, Delek’s business development executive, said during a
Parliamentary hearing in Ottawa today. “We want this
business.”  
 Lawmakers at the Parliamentary  industry committee  were
looking into Shell’s decision to convert its Montreal refinery
into a terminal instead of selling it to another company.
Opposition parties, including the provincial Parti Quebecois and
the national New Democratic Party, have said the closing would
cost thousands of direct and indirect jobs.  
 Shell had been trying to sell the refinery for a year and
said last month it would proceed with the conversion after the
last potential buyer withdrew.  
 Earlier today, Delek said in a statement that it was “no
longer evaluating the asset for possible purchase and is not in
discussions with Shell Canada.”  
 When asked by lawmakers today about that statement, Boles
said that while Delek isn’t currently holding talks to buy the
refinery, it would be willing to begin new discussions.  
 ‘Substantial Efforts’  
 “Shell has made substantial efforts to sell the Montreal
refinery in a difficult economic environment,” Richard Oblath,
Shell’s vice president of downstream portfolio, told lawmakers.
“Not one out of all the over 100 prospective purchasers saw an
acceptable future for this site as a refinery and none presented
us with an offer.”  
 Oblath said a C$600 million ($570 million) investment would
be required to make the refinery competitive.  
 Speaking to reporters after the hearing concluded, Oblath
said Shell is still willing to sell the refinery for C$150
million to C$200 million “if we can close fast enough for Delek
to conduct the turnaround and ensure supply continuity,” adding
that “the time is incredibly short.”  
 Shell says the refinery can process about 130,000 barrels
of oil a day. Delek was the last reported bidder for the
refinery, offering C$420 million for the refinery and Shell’s
gas stations in Quebec and the maritime provinces, according to
a July 17 report by Le Devoir newspaper.  
 Boles said Delek offered C$150 million for the refinery. He
said the company didn’t make a formal offer to also buy the gas
stations.  
 “We found several buyers,”  Michael Fortier , a former
minister in Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s cabinet who was
appointed to lead a special committee to find a buyer, told the
committee. He said he agreed to end his committee’s work when
Delek and Shell began negotiating.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        