-- Canada Raises Key Rate, Cuts 2010-11 Growth Forecasts
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-20T15:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/canada-raises-lending-rate-will-weigh-future-moves-against-slower-growth.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada increased its
benchmark lending rate for a second month, and said  economic
growth  will be slower through next year, giving policy makers
more leeway in deciding how fast to raise rates.  
 Governor  Mark Carney  raised the  target rate  for overnight
loans between commercial banks a quarter point to 0.75 percent,
a decision expected by all 20 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News. At the same time, he cut the growth forecast to 3.5
percent from 3.7 percent for this year and to 2.9 percent from
3.1 percent for 2011, according to a statement today from the
Ottawa-based bank.  
 Carney has led his colleagues in the Group of Seven with
rate increases as Canada’s economic growth and job creation
rebound faster from last year’s global recession. The bank may
stop raising rates later this year as evidence mounts that the
recovery is waning, economists said.  
 “The bank has more wiggle room” with today’s statement,
said  Sherry Cooper , chief economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto. “The Canadian economy seems to be slowing now.”  
 Since recording a 6.1 percent annualized growth rate for
the first quarter, reports have shown  economic growth  stalled in
April while the bank said June 21 that global financial strains
have increased since the end of last year.  
 Canada’s dollar rose 0.3 percent following the report,
trading at C$1.0514 per U.S. dollar at 11:33 a.m. in Toronto,
compared with C$1.0549 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 95.11
U.S. cents. The six-month overnight index  swap  rate, which
measures what investors predict the bank’s policy rate will
average over that period, rose 2 percent to 0.9050 percent.  
 Longer to Capacity  
 Policy makers also said the economy won’t be operating at
its full capacity until the end of next year, six months later
than predicted in April. The growth forecast was increased for
2012, to a 2.2 percent expansion from 1.9 percent. The central
bank will release a quarterly economic forecast paper on July 22
followed by a press conference by Carney.  
 “Given the considerable uncertainty surrounding the
outlook, any further reduction of monetary stimulus would have
to be weighed carefully against domestic and global economic
developments,” the central bank’s statement said, repeating a
phrase used in the June 1 rate  increase .  
 “The same language in June didn’t preclude a rate hike in
July, investors shouldn’t be surprised if the Bank of Canada
carries forward with rate hikes in September and October,” said
 Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World Markets in
Toronto. “Odds are that by December they will have seen enough
of a slowing to stay on hold for a while.”  
 U.S. ‘Uneven’  
 European governments have taken steps to lower the chance
of “an adverse outcome” from the continent’s debt crisis,
which will slow global growth, the Bank of Canada said. Private
spending in the U.S., Canada’s biggest  trade  partner, is
“picking up but remains uneven,” the bank said.  
 Ireland  yesterday had its credit rating cut one level to
Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “significant
loss of financial strength” and the cost of bank bailouts. In
the U.S., consumer confidence fell in July to the lowest level
in a year, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  preliminary index  of consumer sentiment.  
 “The global economic recovery is proceeding but is not yet
self-sustaining,” the bank said. Slower growth abroad, and
reduced domestic consumer spending, will cut Canada’s economic
growth. Today’s rate increase “leaves considerable monetary
stimulus in place” and both core and total  inflation  will
advance at about a 2 percent annual rate through 2012, the bank
said.  
 Cooler Housing  
 The U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank will
keep their key rates at record lows this year, according to
Bloomberg economist surveys, and the Reserve Bank of Australia
signaled July 6 it’s prepared to refrain from further increases
in coming months as signs mount that economies around the world
will slow.  
 Canada’s housing market, which helped lead the country out
of recession last year, has cooled.  Housing starts  fell for a
second month in June, and  building permits  fell 10.8 percent in
May.  
 “Housing activity is declining markedly from high levels,
consistent with the Bank’s view that policy stimulus resulted in
household expenditures being brought forward into late 2009 and
early 2010,” the statement said.  
 Executives at Canadian auto-parts maker  Linamar Corp . and
electricity producer TransAlta Corp. say Carney should remain
cautious about rate increases to sustain a shift from an
expansion led by government stimulus to one led by private
spending. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said he’s ending the
second year of emergency stimulus next March.  
 “You are seeing so many companies being conservative with
their cash right now,”  Linda Hasenfratz , Linamar’s chief
executive officer, said in a July 9 telephone interview. “I
don’t think you want to do anything rapidly, you want to be
cautious in potentially uncertain times.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of Canada, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
