-- Goldman, Cantor, Abu Dhabi Bank, JPMorgan, Drill Ban, Toyota in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-20T10:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/cantor-abu-dhabi-bank-jpmorgan-drill-ban-bp-toyota-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Fabrice Tourre, the  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  executive director sued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fraud, disputed the claims and said he
relied on his firm’s legal and compliance department.  
 Tourre, in a filing July 18 in federal court in Manhattan,
denied making any materially misleading statements or omissions
related to the 2007 sale of the Abacus 2007-AC1 collateralized
debt obligation linked to subprime mortgages.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable  securities firm  in Wall
Street history, agreed five days ago to settle its role in the
case for $550 million and admitted making a “mistake” in
marketing materials about the investment. The firm is
cooperating in the SEC’s investigation of Tourre, 31, who
remains an employee. He is on leave, with legal expenses being
paid by New York-based Goldman Sachs.  
 “The purported claims against Mr. Tourre and the
allegations upon which they are based are improperly vague,
ambiguous and confusing, and omit critical facts,” the filing
said. “Mr. Tourre, a French citizen and engineer by training,
reasonably relied on Goldman Sachs’ institutional process to
ensure adequate legal review and disclosure of material
information, and cannot be held liable for any alleged failings
of that process.”  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDO, which was linked to
subprime mortgages, without disclosing to investors  ACA
Management LLC  and  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG  that Paulson &
Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet against the
vehicle, the SEC said.  
 Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman in New York,
declined to comment on Tourre’s filing. John Heine, an SEC
spokesman in Washington, declined to comment. Tourre is being
represented by Pamela Rogers Chepiga, David C. Esseks and
Brandon D. O’Neil of the law firm Allen & Overy LLP in New York.  
 In the filing, Tourre said he was aware that Paulson “was
considering taking some or all of the short side” of the
transaction. He added that the offering document for the CDO
contained all relevant information for investors, including the
complete portfolio of assets, the fact that no one was
purchasing the equity portion of the deal and that a Goldman
Sachs affiliate had a short interest and could transfer that
interest.  
 For more, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Cantor Says Broker Fired Over EcoSecurities Talks  
 Former carbon credits brokerage executive Stephen Drummond
is suing for wrongful dismissal after a unit of Cantor
Fitzgerald LP fired him in March 2009 for discussing a job with
a competitor.  
 At a High Court trial that began yesterday in London, Paul
Nicholls, a lawyer for Cantor’s environmental-markets specialist
 CantorCO2e , said the firm was within its rights to dismiss
Drummond when it learned he kept secret an approach from
EcoSecurities.  
 “He was CO2e’s most senior employee, the CEO of its parent
and plainly central to its business,” Nicholls said in court
papers. “CO2e has a legitimate interest in knowing if its staff
are considering a move to a competitor.”  
 In late 2008 and early 2009, Drummond met a headhunter to
talk about a job at EcoSecurities, and met the full board of the
company at a meeting in Dublin, Nicholls said in court papers.
He also told EcoSecurities how they could buy him out of his
contract with Cantor. At the time, Drummond had just signed a
five-year contract, Nicholls said.  
 Cantor Chairman Howard Lutnick is scheduled to testify at
the trial on July 21.  
 In a separate claim, Cantor is suing Drummond for the
return of $2 million it says it lent him in 2008 to buy a home
in Oxford, England. Cantor said the loan would only be called if
Drummond broke a contract.  
 Drummond, according to court papers, said Cantor paid him
the money in return for his shares in CantorCO2e LLC. Drummond
didn’t return a call to his mobile phone. His lawyer, Tom Leech,
will argue his case later in the trial.  
 “Cantor Fitzgerald is seeking to recover money owed to it
after Mr. Drummond failed to repay a $2 million loan that the
firm provided,” Cantor spokesman Robert Hubbell said in an e-
mailed statement. “Instead of safeguarding the funds to assure
its use for their expected purpose, including providing Cantor
with security for the loan, Mr. Drummond deposited the money
into an account with high interest rates in an Icelandic bank
which later went into receivership.”  
 The cases are Cantor Fitzgerald LP v. Stephen Drummond and
Stephen Drummond v. CantorCO2e Ltd.  
 Conrad Black Granted Bail While Appealing Conviction  
 Conrad Black, the former Hollinger International Inc.
chairman jailed since March 2008 following a conviction for
fraud, was granted bail by an appeals court.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago yesterday sent the
case back to U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve, who presided over
Black’s trial, delegating to her the responsibility of setting
conditions for Black’s release.  
 Black’s request for bail followed a U.S. Supreme Court
decision in June that narrowed the scope of a federal statute
used at his trial, returning the Hollinger executive’s case to
the appeals court.  
 Black is “granted bail pending the disposition of his
appeal in this court,” the appeals court wrote in yesterday’s
order. The case is sent back “for the limited purpose of
permitting the district court to determine the conditions of
release.”  
 Black and three associates were found guilty in the theft
of $6.1 million from Hollinger International -- once the world’s
third-largest publisher of English-language newspapers -- as
they engineered its sale of assets.  
 “We’re working very hard to get in front of the district
court as soon as we can so we can get him out,” said Miguel
Estrada, Black’s appellate lawyer.  
 Black has been serving a 6 1/2-year sentence at a low-
security federal prison in Coleman, Florida.  
 The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (Chicago). The tax case is Conrad M. Black v.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 8928-10, U.S. Tax Court
(Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 Abu Dhabi Bank Seeks $32 Million From Saad Group in U.K. Trial  
 Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC  told a U.K. judge that a
unit of the Saudi conglomerate Saad Group owes it about $32
million for defaulting on a foreign-currency swap agreement.  
 Saad Trading Contracting & Financial Services Co. defaulted
when its credit rating was downgraded in June 2009, the bank’s
lawyer, Peter Cranfield, said at a trial yesterday at the High
Court in London.  
 Saad Trading has argued that the default applied only to
other deals between the parties and that Abu Dhabi didn’t serve
a termination notice about the swap agreement on time.  
 “Saad Trading’s defense to the bank’s claim is without
merit and designed only to delay judgment day against it,”
Cranfield, with the firm  3 Verulam Buildings  in London, said in
court papers.  
 Saad Group’s press office in London declined to comment.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Valeant Sued by Investor Over Biovail Merger Terms  
 Valeant Pharmaceuticals International’s  $3.2 million merger
with  Biovail Corp. , Canada’s largest publicly traded drugmaker,
shortchanges Valeant investors while enriching the company’s
executives, a shareholder said in a lawsuit.  
 The combination of the drug companies, which includes a
total cash payment of $18.55 for each share of Valeant stock, is
being carried out “at an unfair price via an unfair process,”
Valeant shareholder Donald Porto said in a Delaware Chancery
Court complaint made public yesterday.  
 Valeant shareholders are left without “fair value for
their interests” while the company’s chief executive officer
and directors “are reaping windfall benefits and profits” from
the deal, Porto contends.  
 Officials of Aliso Viejo, California-based Valeant said
June 21 that they were combining the drugmaker with Mississauga,
Ontario-based Biovail to create a company with $1.75 billion in
annual sales. Valeant is best known as the maker of the
antiviral drug ribavirin.  Biovail  sells the antidepressant
Wellbutrin XL in the U.S.  
 Laurie Little, a Valeant spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the suit. Nelson Isabel, a Biovail spokesman, didn’t return
calls for comment.  
 The case is Porto v. Valeant Pharmaceuticals International,
CA 5644, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For more, click here.  
 JPMorgan Sues Rangers for Transferring Stadium Lease  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  sued the Texas Rangers, claiming the
bankrupt baseball team breached the terms of a loan by taking
over the lease for its stadium, Rangers Ballpark.  
 Transferring the lease to Texas Rangers Baseball Partners
made it harder for lenders to collect at least $411 million owed
by the team’s owner, Tom Hicks’s HSG Sports Group LLC, JPMorgan
said in a lawsuit filed July 16 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort
Worth, Texas.  
 When HSG borrowed the money, it agreed that certain units
and affiliates would help pay back the loan if necessary,
according to court papers. The HSG unit that controlled the
lease was obligated to repay the full amount while Texas Rangers
Baseball Partners was liable only for $75 million, New York-
based JPMorgan said in court documents.  
 JPMorgan, the agent for investors who loaned the money to
HSG, asked the judge to declare the transfer null and void
because it violated the mortgage on the property. The lease on
the stadium in Arlington, Texas, is collateral for the loan,
according to court documents.  
 Mark Semer, a spokesman for the Rangers, declined to
comment.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Drilling Ban Judge Won’t Step Down Due to Investments  
 The judge who threw out the government’s deep-water
drilling ban refused to step aside over alleged conflicts of
interest because of his energy investments.  
 “The motion for disqualification is without merit,” U.S.
District Judge Martin Feldman said in an order posted yesterday
on the New Orleans federal court’s website.  
 The Obama administration imposed a six-month ban on
drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet in May in response to
the worst oil spill in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the coast of Louisiana.
The  Transocean Ltd.  rig is leased to  BP Plc .  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. , more than a dozen
offshore-service providers and Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal
sued to overturn the ban, claiming the drilling suspension is
turning an “environmental disaster into an economic
catastrophe.”  
 Feldman threw out the ban on June 22, declaring it was
overly broad and punitive to a regional economy dependent on the
oil and gas industry. Feldman’s order is being appealed by the
government. As the trial judge, he will preside over any future
proceedings in the district court.  
 Environmental groups asked the judge to withdraw from the
moratorium case on July 2. The organizations said they
investigated Feldman’s investments after joining the case in
support of the government’s attempt to restore the drilling ban.  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar,
2:10-cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 BP Fund Claimants May Sue Firms Tied to Spill, Feinberg Says  
 Oil-spill victims paid from  BP Plc’s  $20 billion fund
retain the right to sue companies such as rig owner  Transocean
Ltd.  and BP partner  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the administrator
of the independent claims facility said.  
 The escrow account established by the London-based oil
producer has “nothing to do with anybody but BP,” Kenneth
Feinberg told the Economic Club of Washington yesterday.  
 Feinberg, a Washington-based attorney, said he plans to
offer emergency payments covering about six months of costs to
individuals and businesses damaged by the spill. Accepting final
lump-sum payments requires recipients to waive their rights to
sue BP for additional compensation.  
 Feinberg said individuals and companies with costs or
losses tied to the spill are “crazy” not to file a claim with
his program, which he has pledged to make “more generous” than
any court ruling on a lawsuit.  
 Asked if companies with some role in the spill should
contribute to the claims fund established by BP, Feinberg called
it a “legal issue as well as a political one.”  
 “It’s up to those companies,” he said.  
 Companies that could face litigation include The Woodlands,
Texas-based Anadarko, which owns 25 percent of the ruptured Gulf
well, and a subsidiary of Mitsui & Co., which owns 10 percent.  
 Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Jim Hackett said on June
18 that his company will look to BP to pay all claims from the
spill.  
 Transocean, the Geneva-based owner of the drilling rig that
exploded and touched off the largest spill in U.S. history, also
may face lawsuits.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Toyota Settles Infringement Case Over Hybrid Patent  
 Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s biggest automaker, settled
a patent-infringement dispute that had threatened U.S. imports
of its newest hybrid vehicles, including the Prius.  
 The agreement with Paice LLC, ending six years of
litigation, was announced yesterday as a hearing was to begin on
a claim against Toyota before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. Terms weren’t disclosed and lawsuits
pending in Texas and at a U.S. appeals court will be dismissed.  
 Paice founder Alex Severinsky, a Soviet emigrant who began
his career developing antitank-warfare instrumentation, had said
his 1994 patented system for a high-voltage method to power gas-
electric hybrid cars was used by Toyota without permission.
Severinsky, 65, has sought royalties from the automaker.  
 “Finally people understand the merits of what I invented
and give it the proper value,” Severinsky said yesterday in an
interview. “Toyota is the leading technology company and
finally appreciates the value of the invention.”  
 Ford Motor Co., maker of the Fusion hybrid car, agreed to
license Paice’s technology, the companies said on July 16
without revealing terms.  
 The Paice patent covers a way to supply torque to a car’s
wheels from both an electric motor and internal combustion
engine using a combination of high voltage and low current.  
 Toyota, which was found to have infringed the patent in an
earlier case, had said its hybrid vehicles are the result of its
own research and asked the  trade commission  to deny Severinsky’s
latest claims.  
 “The parties agree that, although certain Toyota vehicles
have been found to be equivalent to a Paice patent, Toyota
invented, designed and developed the Prius and Toyota’s hybrid
technology independent of any inventions of Dr. Severinsky and
Paice as part of Toyota’s long history of innovation,” both
companies said in separate statements.  
 The issue in the trial that was to begin yesterday hinged
on what is more important: Severinsky’s right to protect the
millions of dollars invested in his invention or the potential
economic harm of banning Toyota’s hybrid-vehicle imports.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Hybrid Electric Vehicles,
337-688, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
civil cases are Paice LLC v. Toyota Motor Corp., 04-cv-211;
07cv180 and 08-cv-261, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  
 For more, click here.  
 Father, Son Fined $274,000 by FSA Over Tower Resources Trades  
 The Financial Services Authority said it fined a father and
son a total of 179,200 pounds ($274,000) for market abuse
related to shares of  Tower Resources Plc , an oil and gas
exploration company.  
 Jeremy Burley, who was a director at BMS Minerals, a
Ugandan company that provides services to Tower, passed on
confidential information about Tower’s first oil well in the
region to his father, Jeffery, the FSA said in a  statement 
yesterday. His father opened an account and used it to trade on
behalf of his son, the FSA said.  
 Lawyers at Challinors, representing Jeremy Burley, and
Crowell & Moring, representing Jeffery Burley, didn’t return a
message seeking comment.  
 Jeremy Burley was fine 144,200 pounds, including
disgorgement of the 21,700 pounds he made from the trades.
Jeffery Burley was fined 35,000 pounds, the FSA said.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Kagan Says She Would Weigh Health Law Recusal ‘Case by Case’  
 Elena Kagan told Republicans on the  Senate Judiciary
Committee  that, if confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court, she
would decide on a case-by-case basis whether to recuse herself
from considering challenges to the new health-care overhaul.  
 Kagan, who as U.S. solicitor general represents the Obama
administration in high court arguments, said she has had almost
no role in the government’s response to a suit challenging the
health-care law filed by states. Judiciary Committee Republicans
pressed her to say whether as a justice she would disqualify
herself.  
 “I neither served as counsel of record nor played any
substantial role” in the case, Kagan wrote to Senator Jeff
Sessions of Alabama and other Republicans on the panel. “I
would consider recusal on a case-by-case basis, carefully
considering any arguments made for recusal and consulting with
my colleagues and, if appropriate, with experts on judicial
ethics.”  
 More than 20 states, led by Florida, oppose the health-care
law signed by President Barack Obama in March. They say the
federal government lacks the authority to require almost all
Americans to purchase a health insurance policy or pay a fine if
they don’t.  
 Kagan said that while she attended “at least one meeting”
of administration officials where the litigation was “briefly
mentioned,” she was never asked her views on the case or
reviewed any government court papers in the dispute.  
 The Judiciary committee will vote today on  Kagan’s 
nomination to the Supreme Court, in time for her to be confirmed
by early August. That would allow two months before the
beginning of the next court term on Oct. 4.  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by Obama on May 10 to replace
Justice John Paul Stevens, who retired from the nine-member
court. Kagan formerly was dean of  Harvard Law School  and worked
for four years in President Bill Clinton’s White House as a
lawyer and policy adviser.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        