-- Carlyle Among Bidders for San Miguel's Hotdog Unit, Valued at $1.8 Billion
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-20T11:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/carlyle-among-bidders-for-san-miguel-s-hotdog-unit-valued-at-1-8-billion.html

          
          
             The Carlyle Group is vying with
three Philippine groups to buy a stake in  San Miguel Corp. ’s hot
dog and poultry unit, according to the Philippines’ biggest food
and drinks company, which values the unit at $1.8 billion.  
 The Washington-based private equity firm company and the
Gokongwei, Aboitiz and Campos families have submitted bids,  San
Miguel  President  Ramon Ang  said today in a mobile-phone text
message. A decision on a sale will be made this week. Talks
between Carlyle and San Miguel may falter because of price, said
two people familiar with the matter.  
 Carlyle and Gokongweis’  JG Summit Holdings Inc.  declined to
comment on the deal, which offers them the chance to run  San
Miguel Pure Foods Co. , the biggest hot-dog maker in the
Philippines.  San Miguel  is raising funds to expand into faster-
growing businesses including energy, telecommunications and
mining, and today said it may build a $1 billion dam near Manila.  
 “Pure Foods’ brand name has been synonymous to hot dogs in
the Philippines and has good name recall,”  Jose Vistan ,
research head at AB Capital Securities Inc. in Manila said in a
phone interview today.  
 The company may attract bids of about $1 billion or less, two
other people familiar with the matter said.  
 San Miguel’s  A shares , which are reserved for Filipinos,
declined 0.7 percent to close at 67.50 pesos in Manila. The
company’s  B shares , which don’t have ownership restrictions,
fell 1.5 percent to 67.50 pesos.  
 ‘Maximum Potential’  
 Manila-based San Miguel may opt to publicly sell shares in
 Pure Foods  if it doesn’t get an acceptable offer, Ang has said.
He had earlier said he planned to sell a 49 percent stake.  
 “Pure Foods, in my opinion, might have taken the back seat
relative to other San Miguel units,” Vistan said. “It’s a
matter of re-channeling or implementing fresh marketing efforts
for  Pure Foods  to reach its maximum potential.”  
 Pure Foods’ profit  will probably rise 10 percent to 15
percent this year, President  Francisco Alejo  said on May 14.
Sales may grow about 10 percent to 83 billion pesos, Alejo said.  
 Ang has said he plans to raise $1 billion selling assets to
accelerate San Miguel’s  expansion  into industries whose return
on equity is triple that of its “traditional” food and
beverage businesses. The company has raised about $3 billion
from asset sales since 2008.  
 Aboitiz, Campos  
 JG Summit , controlled by the family of billionaire  John Gokongwei , was in talks with San Miguel over the possible sale
of Pure Foods, Ang said in May. JG Summit is the parent of
Universal Robina Corp., the second-largest publicly traded food
and drinks company in the Philippines. JG Summit Vice-President
B.J. Sebastian declined to comment.  
 The Aboitiz family controls  Aboitiz Power Corp. , which owns
power plants and electricity retailers, and Aboitiz Transport
System Corp., the nation’s largest shipping company. The family
is also the largest shareholder in  Union Bank of the Philippines ,
the nation’s fifth-biggest bank by sales. Holding company
Aboitiz Equity Ventures Inc. also owns flour miller  Pilmico
Foods Corp.   
 The Campos family owns closely held  United Laboratories
Inc. , the largest Philippine drugmaker, and Nutri Asia Group,
which bought out San Miguel in Del Monte Pacific Ltd. They also
own closely held ketchup maker Southeast Asia Food Inc.  
 Aboitiz Equity Ventures Inc. President  Erramon Aboitiz 
didn’t pick up calls to his mobile phone or respond to a text
message seeking comment. United Laboratories Inc. Vice Chairman
 Clinton Andrew Campos Hess  couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 The Financial Times today reported that Carlyle and the
Philippine groups had submitted bids for Pure Foods.  
 Washington-based Carlyle is the most acquisitive buyout
firm this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net 
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        