-- Carney May Raise Canada Lending Rate and Signal Slower Pace of Tightening
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-20T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/carney-may-raise-canada-lending-rate-and-signal-slower-pace-of-tightening.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada will probably
raise its benchmark lending rate for a second month today and
may use an accompanying statement to downplay the need for
future increases on signs that economic growth is slowing.  
 Governor  Mark Carney  will raise the  target rate  for
overnight loans between commercial banks a quarter point to 0.75
percent in the decision at 9 a.m. New York time, say all 20
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The statement may also
cut the bank’s growth forecast for the second half and add a
reference to risks of slower U.S. growth, economists said.  
 “They will raise rates and grumble about the outlook --
that is the pattern,” said  Sheryl King , head of Canadian
economics and strategy at Merrill Lynch Canada in Toronto.
“They are very worried about growth in the rest of the world,
especially the U.S.”  
 The bank’s June 1 increase was the first in the Group of
Seven after last year’s global recession, and Carney has said
future moves aren’t “pre-ordained.” Canadian economic data
since then have been mixed:  Economic growth  stalled in April,
while  job creation  was almost five times stronger than expected
in June.  
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict Carney will raise
rates again in September before pausing at one of two meetings
in the fourth quarter, when economic growth may slow to a 3.1
percent pace instead of the 3.5 percent the bank predicted in
April.  
 ‘Lot of Uncertainty’  
 “There will be a lot of uncertainty about whether the U.S.
economy will slow and augment the risks that are already out
there in Europe,” said  Michael Gregory , an economist at Bank of
Montreal in Toronto. This month, Gregory reduced his forecast
for the central bank’s rate at the end of this year to 1 percent
from 1.25 percent.  
 Ireland yesterday had its credit rating cut one level to
Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “significant
loss of financial strength” and the cost of bank bailouts. The
Bank of Canada cited “recent tensions” and “the possibility
of renewed weakness in Europe” in its June interest rate
statement.  
 In the U.S., consumer confidence fell in July to the lowest
level in a year, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  preliminary index  of consumer sentiment. The U.S.
Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank will keep their
key rates at record lows this year, according to Bloomberg
economist surveys, and the Reserve Bank of Australia signaled
July 6 it’s prepared to refrain from further increases in coming
months as signs mount that economies around the world will slow.  
 Sustain Shift  
 Executives at Canadian auto-parts maker  Linamar Corp . and
electricity producer TransAlta Corp. say Carney should remain
cautious about rate increases to sustain a shift from an
expansion led by government stimulus to one led by private
spending. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has said he’s ending the
second year of emergency stimulus next March.  
 “You are seeing so many companies being conservative with
their cash right now,”  Linda Hasenfratz , Linamar’s chief
executive officer, said in a July 9 telephone interview. “I
don’t think you want to do anything rapidly, you want to be
cautious in potentially uncertain times.”  
 The central bank’s rate-setting panel said in a June 21
report that the country’s financial system faces a higher level
of risk than at the end of last year because of global strains,
including concerns that countries are taking on too much debt
amid an unbalanced economic recovery.  
 Blow Lid Off  
 Canada’s housing market, which helped lead the country out
of recession last year, has cooled.  Housing starts  fell for a
second month in June, and  building permits  fell 10.8 percent in
May.  
 “The rate of economic growth is something that doesn’t
support eight rate hikes a year,” said  Eric Lascelles , chief
economics and rates strategist at TD Securities in Toronto.  
 The bank’s statement today will probably retain language
saying there’s no set path for interest rate increases, said
Lascelles and  Paul Ferley  at Royal Bank of Canada.  
 “Each meeting will weigh out the risks,” Ferley said.
“They will probably reiterate that line: ‘Don’t take it as a
given that we are just going to continue to take rates
higher.’”  
 The bank’s June 1 statement said that “any further
reduction of monetary stimulus would have to be weighed
carefully against domestic and global economic developments.”  
 The central bank also said that inflation will be
“slightly higher” than its 2 percent target in the next year.
Even with the recent job gains, there’s little evidence
inflation is becoming a bigger risk than the damage to the
economy from rate increases that could drive up Canada’s dollar,
said  Peter Dungan , an associate economics professor at the
University of Toronto. Canada’s dollar has risen 5.6 percent
against the U.S. dollar in the past year, threatening shipments
of industrial goods to Canada’s largest trade partner.  
 “If they raise by a quarter point every meeting we would
be up 2 percentage points a year from now -- that would just
blow the lid off the Canadian dollar,” Dungan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of Canada. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
