-- Chavez Says Government Will Own Stake in Globovision, Name Board Member
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-20T21:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/chavez-says-government-will-own-stake-in-globovision-name-board-member.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said the government will obtain a minority stake in opposition
television network  Globovision  and will name a director to the
company’s board.  
 The government closed Banco Federal CA and over the past
month seized more than 20 companies held by  Nelson Mezerhane ,
who owns a 20 percent of Globovision. One of the companies holds
an additional 5.8 percent stake in Globovision, Chavez said.  
 Chavez has repeatedly threatened to close Globovision, the
last broadcast television station that’s openly critical of the
government, for what he said was its actions in support of a
2002 coup that removed him from power for several days.
Globovision’s principal owners -- Mezerhane and  Guillermo Zuloaga  -- are both in the U.S. after arrest warrants were filed
against them in Venezuela on various charges.  
 “This is going to cause an uproar in the opposition, but I
was reviewing this last night and the state will hold 25.8
percent of shares from Mezerhane,” Chavez said today on state
television. “We’ll defend the interest of shareholders, pure
capitalism.”  
 Chavez said the state may receive another 20 percent of the
television channel after an unidentified shareholder died. Media
ownership stakes aren’t inheritable, so the stake will be
transferred to the government, Chavez said.  
 “No one can say that we’re expropriating anything, we’re
incorporating ourselves into the business,” he said.  
 Media Attacks  
 Mezerhane is accused of fleeing the country with deposits
from his clients and Zuloaga is wanted on usury charges for
hoarding new vehicles in his Caracas residence, according to the
 Attorney General . Both men deny any wrongdoing.  
 Chavez says that he’s unfairly criticized by private
newspapers, radio broadcasters and television stations that are
seeking to oust him from power. The 55-year-old former
paratrooper refused to renew a broadcasting license for Radio
Caracas Television in 2007, which was the most widely-viewed
television network, for its criticism of the government.  
 The state may also revoke the license of a television
network run by the Roman Catholic Church, Chavez said.  Vale TV ,
was given to the church by former president  Rafael Caldera , and
should be returned to the people of Venezuela, Chavez said.  
 Chavez ordered a review of ties with the church and the
Vatican after church leaders led by Cardinal Jorge Urosa Savino
criticized government policies July 14.  
 “Caldera gave the church hierarchy a television channel, a
state channel. I want to review that to put it into the hands of
the people, not the cardinal,” Chavez said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        