-- Chile Breakeven Inflation Rises to Highest Since 2008 as Frost Hits Crops
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-20T19:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/chile-breakeven-inflation-rises-to-highest-since-2008-as-frost-hits-crops.html

          
          
             Chilean inflation expectations rose
to the highest level in 20 months on prospects that a cold snap
will reduce vegetable harvests and push up prices, swap rates
show.  
 Interest-rate swap rates rose for a seventh day on
speculation of faster inflation and more interest-rate
increases. Chile’s peso strengthened after copper, the country’s
main export, gained on an increase in U.S. building permits.  
 One-year breakeven inflation, which tracks the gap in
yields between nominal and real interest rates to show
expectations for average 12-month inflation over the next year,
rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.31
percent, the highest since November 2008, according to Bloomberg
data. Cold weather in central Chile may push up the price of
vegetables by 50 percent, La Nacion reported today.  
 “With the weather, there’s an expectation that the frosts
have destroyed some crops and that will push up prices,” said
 Juan Pablo Castro , an economist at Banco Santander SA in
Santiago. “The last time this happened, in 2007, prices rose.”  
 Some crops may face supply “problems” in Chile because of
the cold, Agriculture Minister  Jose Antonio Galilea  said in an
interview today with National Television.  
 The one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of average future borrowing costs, rose four
basis points to 3.37 percent, the highest since February last
year. The yield on a one-year inflation-linked swap contract
fell five basis points to minus 0.9 percent.  
 Inflation Forwards  
 The inflation forwards market is pricing in a gain of 4
percent this year, according to Banco Santander prices, up from
3.92 percent yesterday and 3.52 percent a month ago. Consumer
prices may rise 0.65 percent in July from June, inflation
forwards show, up from the 0.16 percent priced in on July 1.  
 Chile’s peso appreciated to its highest level since May as
copper jumped by the most in three weeks. The peso strengthened
0.7 percent to 529.55 per U.S. dollar from 533.05 yesterday.  
 The price of copper rose for a second day after the U.S.
Commerce Department reported a 2.1 increase in  building permits 
last month, boosting the demand outlook for the metal used in
plumbing and wiring. Copper for September delivery gained 2.3
percent to $3.006 a pound.  
 “Copper futures are very positive,” said  Ruben Catalan ,
an economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        