-- China Pipeline Blast, Port Oil Spill Caused by `Catalyst,' Government Says
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-20T02:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/china-pipeline-blast-port-oil-spill-caused-by-catalyst-government-says.html

          
          
             A pipeline explosion at a port in
northeastern China which led to an oil spill covering more than
60 square kilometers (23 square miles) was caused after a
“catalyst” was added to a crude-oil storage tank, the
government said.  
 The error was made when an oil tanker was unloading at
Dalian port on July 16, according to  statement  on the Ministry
of Transport’s website, which didn’t say what the substance was
or who was responsible for the incident.  
 The oil spill may take about five days to clean up,  Xu Guochen , secretary of the Dalian municipal government, told
reporters yesterday. The oil terminal was closed and a
 PetroChina Co.  refinery was forced to draw on crude stockpiles,
said a company official in Dalian, who couldn’t be named because
he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  
 More than 500 fishing vessels joined the clean-up operation
off the coast of Dalian yesterday, according to the China Daily.  
 About 260 tons of oil had been collected by 12 p.m. local
time yesterday, according to a separate  statement  from the
Ministry of Transport. About 1,500 tons of the fuel spilled into
the Yellow Sea after the blasts on July 16, according to China
National Radio.  
 The oil pipeline exploded late on July 16 near Dalian’s
Xingang harbor, causing a smaller pipeline nearby also operated
by a unit of PetroChina to blow up, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported. The fire was extinguished the next day, 15
hours after the initial blast, Xinhua said.  
 PetroChina Chairman  Jiang Jiemin  is heading a team
overseeing the energy company’s response to the accident,
according to a  statement  released by parent China National
Petroleum Corp. today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        