-- China's Camelot Information Systems Raises $147 Million in U.S. Offering
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-07-20T22:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/china-s-camelot-information-systems-raises-147-million-in-u-s-offering.html

          
          
             Camelot Information Systems Inc. ,
which helps companies install and maintain business-management
software, raised $147 million in an initial public offering
after selling shares at the low end of its forecast range.  
 Camelot Information, founded in 2000, sold 13.3 million
American depositary receipts at $11 each after seeking as much
as $13 apiece, Bloomberg data and the Beijing-based company’s
 filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission showed.
Camelot Information, which works on behalf of International
Business Machines Corp. and Accenture Plc, will get 69 percent
of the proceeds. Owners such as New York-based Citigroup Inc.’s
venture capital funds will receive the rest.  
 The sale comes after four companies from 3-D movie
projector maker  RealD Inc.  to interactive whiteboard designer
 Smart Technologies Inc.  raised more than $1 billion combined
last week and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rallied from a 10-
month low. Filings for initial offerings last quarter climbed to
the highest level since 2007 even as deals worldwide were
canceled at the fastest rate since the collapse of New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Camelot Information, which gets most of its sales in China,
Japan and Taiwan, begins trading tomorrow on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker CIS. Each ADR, which represents an
ownership stake in an overseas company that is issued by U.S.
banks and usually trades on American exchanges, will give
investors four common shares of Camelot Information.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in New York and London-based
Barclays Plc led the offering.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        