-- China Longyuan, Xinjiang Goldwind Shares Surge After Deutsche Bank Report
-- Stuart Biggs
-- 2010-07-20T14:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/china-longyuan-xinjiang-goldwind-shares-surge-after-deutsche-bank-report.html

          
          
             China Longyuan Power Group and
 Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.  surged in Asian
trading after Deutsche Bank AG began coverage with ‘buy”
ratings and China overtook the U.S. as the biggest energy user.  
 China Longyuan , the nation’s largest wind power company by
market size, closed 9.6 percent higher at HK$7.77 on the Hong
Kong Stock Exchange, the biggest percentage gain since the
company began trading in December. Second-ranked Xinjiang
Goldwind rose the most in almost a year, closing up 9.7 percent
on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. They were the top gainers of the
88-member WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index.  
 Growing power demand, rising coal prices and strong state
support make China a more favorable market for wind power than
the U.S. or Europe,  Michael Tong , a analyst at Deutsche Bank,
wrote in a report. Last year China, which erected more wind
turbines than any other nation, overtook the U.S. as the biggest
energy user, according to the International Energy Agency.  
 “We are confident in China’s wind power sector growth
outlook in the near, mid- and long term,” Tong, who’s based in
Hong Kong, wrote in the report dated yesterday. “Cheaper
valuations offer good buying opportunities for established
Chinese wind players.”  
 Shares of global wind-power companies have slumped this
year on investor concern that demand will be reduced. European
countries are debating reductions to subsidies for renewable
energy, and a bill in U.S. Congress to expand alternative energy
was set aside pending a review of offshore-drilling safety
following the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Vestas, Gamesa Comparison  
 Global investment in wind power also eased during the
economic slump in the U.S. and Europe, lowering the prices paid
for wind farms, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the
London-based research firm owned by Bloomberg LP.  
 Shares of Randers, Denmark-based  Vestas Wind Systems A/S ,
the world’s largest maker of wind turbines, have fallen about 13
percent this year, compared with a 41 percent drop for Spanish
wind-turbine maker  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA , a 23
percent decline for China Longyuan and a 0.04 percent drop for
Xinjiang Goldwind.  
 Investors may be underestimating the potential for wind
power in China compared with the U.S. and Europe, Tong wrote in
the report. China’s central government may raise its target for
wind power to 200 gigawatts by 2020 compared with its current
target of 150 gigawatts, the report said.  
 China had 27.9 gigawatts of installed onshore wind power
capacity as of the end of May, according to New Energy Finance.
A gigawatt can power about 800,000 average U.S. homes.  
 Coal Price  
 The nation may install a record 18 gigawatts of wind power
capacity this year, New Energy Finance estimates. Second-quarter
financing of renewable energy in China surged 72 percent to
$11.5 billion, more than Europe and the U.S. combined, the
Bloomberg research arm said on July 13.  
 A 20 percent rise in coal prices year-on-year also makes
wind power more attractive in China as the country’s energy
demands increase, Tong wrote. China burned 1,537 million tons of
coal last year, compared with 498 million in the U.S.,  BP Plc 
said in its annual Statistical Review of World Energy in June.  
 China consumed 2,252 million metric tons of oil equivalent
in 2009 in the form of crude, coal, natural gas, nuclear power
and renewable sources, IEA Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said
yesterday. That exceeded the 2,170 million tons used by the U.S.  
 Xinjiang Goldwind, based in Urumqi city in Xinjiang
province, shelved a plan in June to sell 395.3 million new
shares in Hong Kong, equal to a 15 percent stake, citing poor
market conditions. China Longyuan raised a net $2.2 billion
through an initial public offering in Hong Kong in December.  
 China may spend about 5 trillion yuan ($738 billion) in the
next decade developing cleaner sources of energy to reduce
emissions from burning oil and coal, Jiang Bing, head of the
National Energy Administration’s planning and development
department, said in Beijing today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        