-- Christie Won't Raise New Jersey Taxes to Fill $10.5 Billion Budget Gap
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-20T20:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/christie-won-t-raise-new-jersey-taxes-to-fill-10-5-billion-budget-gap.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
won’t raise taxes to close a $10.5 billion deficit next year, a
gap almost matching the record hole he and lawmakers filled in
the current $29.4 billion budget, his spokesman said.  
 The fiscal 2012 deficit estimate by  David Rosen , chief
budget officer for the non-partisan Office of Legislative
Services, is based on using existing revenue sources to fund all
state programs and obligations. Christie, a Republican who took
office in January, cut services and spending to close a $10.7
billion gap in this year’s plan without raising taxes.  
 “New Jersey doesn’t have a revenue problem, it has a
spending problem and it is not our intention to tax our way out
of this problem,” Christie’s spokesman  Michael Drewniak  said in
an interview today.  
 The state will need $3.53 billion to fully fund its pension
contribution and $2.3 billion for public schools, Rosen wrote in
a July 12 memo to Assembly Democrats, who requested the
information. It also faces the loss of $1 billion in federal
stimulus money. Rosen projected a total spending increase of
$11.5 billion, and only $1 billion in increased revenue.  
 “Last year was the largest -- and this year will be of the
same magnitude,” Rosen said of the deficit in an interview
today. “It’s always a moving target and things could change.”  
 Christie’s budget for the fiscal year that began July 1
skipped a $3 billion pension payment and lowered aid to schools
and towns by $1.3 billion. The  plan  also suspended property-tax
rebates until next year, when the state will owe $2.1 billion,
according to Rosen.  
 ‘Cost Avoidance’  
 Assembly Majority Leader  Joseph Cryan , a Democrat from
Union, said Christie’s municipal and education funding
reductions, missed pension payment and rebate cuts amounted to
“cost avoidance.” New Jersey will need to look at ways to
increase revenue, through a rebounding economy or new sources,
as a way of fixing its finances, Cryan said.  
 “He just didn’t pay the bills,” Cryan said. “We’ve got
to look at ways to grow revenue. We haven’t solved anything yet
and clearly there’s a whole lot of work that needs to be done
for next year.”  
 Spending Increases  
 Rosen’s $11.5 billion estimate of spending increases
includes $800 million to maintain funding for transportation
projects, $400 million of growth in state employee salary and
health-benefit costs, $330 million to fully fund municipal aid
programs and $300 million of higher Medicaid costs. Rosen said
his estimate is speculative given that it’s just three weeks
into fiscal 2011.  
 Assembly Budget Committee Chairman  Louis Greenwald , a
Democrat from Cherry Hill, today said he has scheduled an Aug. 5
hearing on the looming budget hole. The hearing will focus on
“real change and plans to stimulate our economy, create jobs
and put people back to work,” he said.  
 Ben Dworkin , director of the Rebovich Institute of New
Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said
plugging the deficit without raising revenue will be a
“significant challenge” for Christie that depends largely on
an economic recovery.  
 Further complicating the matter, the entire 120-member
Legislature faces re-election next year in districts that will
be redrawn after the 2010 U.S. Census, Dworkin said. Lawmakers
from both parties may hesitate to approve cuts to municipal and
school aid less than six months before they stand in front of a
new crop of voters, he said.  
 ‘Shared Sacrifice’  
 “He’s already gone to the well and asked for what he
deemed shared sacrifice,” Dworkin said. “To go there again and
say he wants more sacrifice is going to be tough. He’s already
eliminated a lot of the low-hanging fruit. The big money is in
education and municipal aid, so that’s where he’s going to go.”  
 Drewniak said Christie’s 2 percent cap on local property-
tax increases enacted this month, coupled with health-care and
pension expense-cutting initiatives, will “bend the cost
curve” and control the levies without requiring additional
state money. New Jersey aid and grants aimed at lowering local
tax burdens comprise nearly three-quarters of the budget,
according to state treasury  documents .  
 “This is not a surprise,” Drewniak said of the deficit
projection. “If someone had the idea that there would be a
moment of instant gratification it would be delusional. This is
a transitional time.”  
 Health Insurance  
 In March, the governor signed measures requiring teachers
and government workers to contribute 1.5 percent of their pay
toward health-insurance costs and removing future part-timers
from the system. Christie, the first Republican elected New
Jersey governor since 1997, has said he’ll seek additional
changes for current workers later this year.  
 “This is not a problem that is going to lend itself to a
single bold, dramatic solution,”  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for
Treasurer  Andrew Eristoff , said in a telephone interview today.
“It’s going to take many actions by the governor over the next
four years to change this.”  
 In April, voters turned down a record 59 percent of school
budgets after Christie urged residents to reject them in
districts where teachers refused to accept wage freezes. Unions
representing teachers and public workers have warned of higher
property taxes and service cuts as towns and boards of education
deal with Christie’s cuts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        