-- Chrysler Financial Said to Explore Resuming Loans to Consumers, Retailers
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-20T19:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/chrysler-financial-is-said-to-explore-resuming-loans-to-consumers-dealers.html

          
          
             Chrysler Financial Co. may resume
large-scale loans to consumers and dealers after losing its
status as the main lender to its namesake dealers last year,
said a person familiar with the company’s plan.  
 Chrysler Financial  aims to start with loans to buyers with
near-prime credit, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private. It is also looking to
raise capital and considering a name change, the person said.
The company has also asked dealers about financing their
inventory, said retailers who have been contacted.  
 The shift in strategy shows how the lender that President
 Barack Obama  said wasn’t viable a year ago is benefiting from
the  rebound in used-car prices , which have soared from the
lowest in more than 13 years in December 2008 to the highest on
record in May. Now that its collateral is more valuable, it may
be able to raise money and accelerate lending.  
 “There’s always a place for another lender,” said  Maryann Keller , president of Maryann Keller & Associates in Stamford,
Connecticut. “Chrysler Financial has to come up with a business
plan that identifies who its dealer partners are and how the
company will raise capital.”  
 The company used to operate as a captive finance unit of
Chrysler LLC, providing loans to dealers to buy inventory as
well as financing sales and leases to consumers. When the
automaker went bankrupt last year, Chrysler Financial was
replaced by GMAC as the primary lender for Chrysler dealers.
Since then it has mostly collected payments on outstanding
loans.  
 Chrysler Financial, which has a loan portfolio of $26
billion, issued less than $100 million in loans this year, said
the person familiar with the company’s plans.  
 Contacting Dealers  
 Chrysler Financial has already contacted dealers to do
market research and gauge interest, said Dan Frost, who co-owns
five dealerships in Michigan. He said he was contacted by
Chrysler Financial Chief Executive Officer  Tom Gilman  in May.  
 A Chrysler Financial spokesman,  Kelly Mankin , declined to
comment on specifics of the plan.  
 “Chrysler Financial remains focused on successful
collections from its legacy portfolio of auto loans and
continues to evaluate new business opportunities, including but
not limited to originating new receivables,” he said in an e-
mail.  
 Cerberus agreed to acquire Chrysler and its lending
operations in May 2007 from Germany’s  Daimler AG  for $7.4
billion and renamed it Chrysler LLC. The Auburn Hills, Michigan-
based automaker got into financial trouble when sales plummeted
industrywide last year and ended up in bankruptcy. Its best
assets were sold to the new Chrysler Group LLC, which is
controlled by managers from  Fiat SpA .  
 Ownership Stakes  
 Cerberus kept Chrysler Financial. The private-equity giant
holds a 20 percent stake and controls the company, while a
syndicate of investors holds the remaining 80 percent.  
 When Chrysler filed for bankruptcy-court protection April
30, 2009, Obama said that its captive lender could survive only
with a “large stream of money,” which he refused to provide.  
 At the time, used-car values were down, reducing the value
of the collateral that backed up the loans in Chrysler
Financial’s portfolio. As a result, automotive lenders had
trouble raising capital, Keller said.  
 Obama’s Automotive Task Force decided to make former
General Motors Corp. subsidiary GMAC Inc., now called Ally
Financial Inc., the dedicated lender for Chrysler Group dealers.
Cerberus has collected on its loans and used some of the cash to
pay off Chrysler Financial’s debt, including a payment in June
of $1.5 billion to the Treasury Department.  
 Used-Car Inflation  
 Since April of last year,  used-car prices  have risen 13
percent, according to the Manheim Used-Vehicle Value Index, a
monthly report compiled by Manheim Consulting, an Atlanta-based
research firm.  
 Chrysler Financial wants to make retail auto loans, the
person said. The company could do that to build relationships
with dealers and eventually loan them money to buy inventory
from carmakers, called floor-plan lending, said Frost, who was
contacted in May by Gilman.  
 “I think he has $1 billion in funds he can put on the
street,” said Frost. “The way to get to a dealer is to finance
retails deals. Then we might come back for floor-plan.”  
 Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills, Michigan,
will focus on borrowers who are just above sub-prime credit
ratings, said the person familiar with its plans. While those
car buyers have spotty credit, many also have a good history of
paying their car loans.  
 ‘Good Niche’  
 The company has always been deft at lending to those
customers, said  Sid DeBoer , CEO of Lithia Motors Inc., a
Medford, Oregon-based dealer chain.  
 “Chrysler Financial knows how to do that kind of
lending,” DeBoer said. “There’s a good niche there.”  
 The company still has relationships with Chrysler dealers
and has contacted some of them to see if they are interested in
working together, said Chuck Eddy, co-owner of Bob & Chuck Eddy
Chrysler  Jeep  Dodge in Austintown, Ohio. Eddy said it would be
tough for him to get his floor-plan loans from a lender other
than Ally, which he still calls GMAC.  
 “We had contact from Chrysler Financial a little while
back to see if we wanted to do business with them,” Eddy said
in an interview. “It was mostly about floor plan. I doubt I’d
do it because I have built such a good relationship with GMAC.”  
 Ally finances 42 percent of Chrysler retail auto sales and
76 percent of the floor plan for its dealers, according to its
financial statements. Ally is 14.9 percent owned by Cerberus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        