-- Clinton, Gates to Commemorate Korean War Anniversary With Visit to DMZ
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-20T19:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/clinton-gates-to-commemorate-korean-war-anniversary-with-visit-to-dmz.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  will visit the armed border
dividing North and South Korea tomorrow, in a show of U.S. unity
with its ally after the sinking of one of the South’s warships.  
 The tour of the so-called Demilitarized Zone is part of
commemorations of the 60th anniversary of the Korean War. The
visit coincides with the arrival of the 97,000-ton aircraft
carrier USS George Washington at the southeastern port of Busan
before U.S.-South Korea military exercises that have raised
tensions with China.  
 The exercises are intended as “a strong sign of
deterrence” to North Korea, Gates told American troops at Camp
Casey in South Korea today. The trip to the Demilitarized Zone
will highlight how important operations are there to the
security of the Peninsula as well as the region, he said.  
 Clinton and Gates will conduct talks with their South
Korean counterparts in a demonstration of unity after the March
sinking of the Cheonan, which both countries have blamed on a
North Korean torpedo. The meeting will cover the planned
military exercises as well as diplomatic, political and trade
issues. Clinton also will dine with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak .  
 Clinton said the trip was planned long ago to mark the
Korean War, in which more than 55,000 Americans died.  
 Showing Support  
 “Because of the Cheonan, I think it’s particularly timely
to show support,” she told reporters traveling with her in the
Afghan capital Kabul today.  
 Clinton compared the U.S. commitment to South Korea through
its years of economic struggle and instability to the Obama
administration’s pledge to stick with Afghanistan after it
emerges from the war that has raged since 2001. South Korea now
ranks as one of the Group of 20 economic powers and a leader in
Asia, she said.  
 “The U.S. has stayed with countries a lot longer than
eight years,” Clinton said.  
 In East Asia, the aircraft carrier arrives tomorrow on its
first visit to South Korea since October 2008, the Department of
Defense  reported  on its website. Three destroyers will accompany
the carrier.  
 While the series of exercises isn’t the largest the two
nations have conducted, it is unusual in its timing, said
Admiral  Robert Willard , commander of the U.S. military’s Pacific
region.  
 ‘Other Provocations’  
 “Its significance is the fact that it is in response to
what has occurred with Cheonan,” Willard told reporters in
Seoul today, according to a transcript. “If we go back in
history and look at other provocations that have occurred by
North Korea directly toward the South, very often there has not
been a military response like this show of force.”  
 The exercises will involve 10 U.S. ships and eight from
South Korea and “a lot of aircraft,” Gates told the troops
stationed at Camp Casey, according to a Pentagon transcript.  
 “There are going to be anti-submarine warfare operations.
There’ll be aircraft operations using the Air Force training
range,” Gates said. “So it’s going to be a large exercise and
a pretty broad-ranged exercise.”  
 Gates arrived in South Korea yesterday. Clinton will be
flying from Afghanistan to Seoul before heading to Hanoi for a
meeting with counterparts from the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations. The foreign ministers of China and both Koreas
will also attend.  
 Chinese Concerns  
 Plans to hold the drills in the Yellow Sea off South
Korea’s west coast have raised Chinese concerns. The scheduled
joint navy drill is “hostile to China,” Li Jie, a researcher
at the Chinese navy’s military academy, said earlier this month
in a commentary published in the China Daily newspaper.  
 China opposes foreign planes or vessels conducting
activities that undermine China’s security interests,  Qin Gang ,
a spokesman for the foreign ministry, said this month in
response to questions about the naval drills.  
 The exercises are being conducted in international waters
and are intended as a signal to North Korea, not China, Gates
spokesman  Geoff Morrell  told reporters at the Pentagon last
week.  
 “These exercises are off the coast of Korea, not off the
coast of China,” Gates told reporters traveling with him,
according to a transcript. “There’s nothing provocative about
them at all.”  
 Beyond Military Issues  
 The joint talks are an outgrowth of last year’s meeting
between Lee and President  Barack Obama  in Washington, when they
laid out a plan to extend ties beyond military issues to include
areas such as economic development, human rights and
counterterrorism.  
 The Korean War ended in a cease-fire that was never
replaced by a peace treaty, and the two nations have remained
technically at war ever since. South Korea’s 680,000 military
personnel face as many as 1.2 million troops across the border
in North Korea, which has built atomic bombs and long-range
ballistic missiles.  
 Tensions between the two foes rose following the sinking of
the Cheonan on March 26, in which 46 sailors were killed. South
Korea, the U.S. and their allies have said a North Korean
torpedo fired by a mini-submarine was to blame. The North has
denied any involvement, and China has so far refused to fall in
line with international condemnation of its ally.  
 Obama and Lee agreed on June 27 during an economic summit
in Toronto that the countries would delay a planned transfer of
wartime operational control.  
 Under the revised timetable, South Korea will assume
wartime control of its forces on Dec. 1, 2015, rather than in
April 2012. The delay was favored by some officials and former
military officers in the East Asian nation who expressed concern
that South Korea wasn’t ready for the transfer.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Kabul, Afghanistan, at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        