-- Oil Little Changed After Rising on Drop in U.S. Supplies, Gains in Stocks
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-20T11:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/crude-oil-rises-for-a-second-day-on-optimism-fuel-demand-will-increase.html

          
          
             Crude oil declined in New York as
tumbling equity markets wiped out gains spurred by a forecast
that U.S. crude inventories declined for a fourth week.  
 Oil retreated with European equities and U.S. stock-index
futures after International Business Machines Corp. and  Texas
Instruments Inc.  reported revenue that missed analyst estimates.
U.S. crude oil supplies probably fell 1 million barrels last
week, according a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report.  
 “There’s still a very relaxed supply-and-demand situation,
and all the medium-to-long-term indicators on the economic side
are getting worse,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader at Bayerische
Landesbank in Munich. “There’s more chance of going below $70
than above $80.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery fell 39 cents to $76.15 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 12:36 p.m. London time after rising as high as $77.03. Brent
crude oil for September settlement was 33 cents lower at $75.29
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  
 The August contract in New York expires today. The more-
active September contract dropped 37 cents to $76.53 a barrel.
Futures have lost 4 percent this year.  
 European stocks declined, reversing an earlier gain, as
automakers and telecommunication shares fell, and mining stocks
pared their advance. The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
slipped 0.6 percent to 244.77, after earlier rising as much as
0.7 percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
in September fell 0.7 percent.  
 U.S. Stockpiles  
 U.S. crude inventories  probably dropped  in the seven days
ended July 16, the fourth consecutive week of declines,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report.  
 Refineries  probably operated  at 90.15 percent of capacity
last week, down 0.35 percentage point from the previous week,
according to the Bloomberg News survey. Utilization rates in the
week ended July 9 were at the highest level since January 2008.
 Gasoline inventories  probably increased 1 million barrels.  
 The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute will
publish its own weekly report on supply and demand levels at
4:30 p.m. local time in Washington D.C. today.  
 “Oil is certainly looking more bullish than bearish,”
said  Peter McGuire , managing director of CWA Global Markets Pty
in Sydney. “We still think it has upward traction from here.
Traditionally, there is more demand this time of the year.”  
 China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user
last year, according to the International Energy Agency.  China 
consumed 2,252 million metric tons of oil equivalent in 2009 in
the form of oil, coal, natural gas, nuclear power and renewable
sources, IEA Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said yesterday. That
exceeded the 2,170 million tons used by the U.S.  
 Recent patterns indicate China may surpass the U.S. as an
oil importer within a decade, sooner than the IEA expects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        