-- Cuban Prisoner Gonzalez Recalls Rage, Rats, Starving: Interview
-- Sharon Smyth
-- 2010-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/cuban-prisoner-gonzalez-talks-of-cockroaches-rage-starvation-interview.html

          
          
             After seven years and four months in
some of Cuba’s most infamous prisons, journalist and poet
Normando Hernandez Gonzalez is finally free.  
 Last week, the ailing writer was hastily released and flown
to Madrid along with 10 other prisoners and their families. Nine
more are expected to arrive today in Madrid, thanks to the
Catholic Church, which negotiated their release to Spain.  
 He spoke to us at the dingy Welcome Hostal in the
industrial outlands of Madrid, far from the Plaza Mayor. Right
now, the International Red Cross seems overwhelmed with the task
of housing the Cubans, many of whom are very ill from years of
maltreatment.  
 Gonzalez had no celebratory Spanish meal of eels upon his
arrival; even baby food leaves him with painful cramping. “My
digestive system,” he said, is “shot to pieces.” So far, he’s
only had one perfunctory medical examination.  
 His gratitude at being reunited with his wife, Yarai Reyes,
and their daughter, Daniela, is untainted by his anger over the
years lost to himself and his family for the “crime” of
speaking truth to power.  
 “Our release is purely for political means,” Gonzalez
said. He was dressed in a blue and white checked short-sleeve
shirt and jeans, his nose and Adam’s apple visibly deformed by a
poorly treated tumor.  
 Bad Press  
 “The real catalyst of our release was the death of Orlando
Zapata Tamayo, who died on February 23 after a hunger strike
that lasted 83 days,” he continued. “His death echoed around
the world, it was terrible press for the regime.”  
 Now 40, Gonzalez was the youngest of 75 Cuban journalists,
artists and others arrested in what became known as the “Black
Spring” of 2003. He infuriated the regime by writing
investigative stories critical of Fidel Castro’s social services
agencies. As the world focused its attention on the U.S.-led
invasion of Iraq, the Cubans were found guilty of advocating the
overthrow of the government and sentenced to long prison terms.  
 “The first month I spent in jail, I only ate eight times
because the food they gave us was subhuman and so rotten that if
you offered it to a dog, he’d turn away,” Gonzalez recalled.
“For refusing to wear prison overalls, I was sent to a dark
cell for 101 days without seeing the light of day. There wasn’t
a single inch of my skin that wasn’t covered in septic mosquito
bites. I was forced to sleep on the concrete floor with rats and
cockroaches crawling over me.”  
 Emotional Reunion  
 The bitterest part of his experience, Gonzalez said, his
voice trembling with emotion, was the separation from Yarai and
Daniela, who was a year old when he was arrested.  
 “They came to arrest me three days before her first
birthday,” he recalled. “I’ve spent her entire life behind
bars, only seeing her every three months for two hours when my
wife was allowed to visit me. I cannot put into words how much
my mother, wife and daughter have suffered since I was kidnapped
by the Cuban state. The only thing that has made me smile is my
daughter.”  
 Gonzalez said he plans to petition the U.S. embassy in
Madrid for visas that would allow him and his family to join his
mother in Miami.  
 He does not think that Raul Castro is much different from
his brother. After we spoke, Gonzalez and six other former
prisoners of conscience signed a petition to the foreign
ministers of the European Union, imploring them not to regard
their release as evidence that Raul Castro’s regime is softening
its treatment of dissidents. Some members of the EU have
proposed changing the union’s position on Cuba’s human rights
abuses.  
 Stay the Course  
 “Our departure for Spain must not be considered a good-
will gesture but a desperate action on the regime’s part in its
urgent quest for credits of every type,” the petition stated.  
 “I’m relieved to be free but I’m sad, hugely sad, I’ve
been exiled from my country,” Gonzalez said in the interview.
“My brothers are still there rotting in its jails, mothers wake
up every day and don’t have milk to give their babies, fathers
go to work every day and their minimum salary isn’t enough to
get their families to the end of the month.”  
 ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.  Sharon Smyth  is a reporter in the Madrid bureau of
Bloomberg News.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cuban dissidents from left, Ricardo Gonzalez Alfonso, Julio Cesar Galvez Rodriguez and Normando Hernandez Gonzalez at a press conference in Vallecas, Spain on July 19, 2010. Seven Cuban dissidents arrived in Spain on July 14, 2010, following Cuba's surprise deal with the Roman Catholic Church on July 7 to gradually free 52 detainees. Photographer: Dominique Faget/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
