-- China's Dalian Port Reopens Terminals as Cleanup of Oil Spill Continues
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T12:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/dalian-port-says-terminals-resume-operation-as-oil-spill-cleanup-continues.html

          
          
             Most of northeast China’s Dalian
port resumed operations today after a pipeline explosion caused
an oil spill that spread across more than 183 square kilometers
(70 square miles) of sea.  
 Dalian Port (PDA) Co.  said all its terminals in the Xingang
and Dayaowan areas resumed operations. The company’s crude oil
terminal remained closed, it said in a statement to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange today. Navigation through the harbor resumed from
5 p.m. local time today, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported.  
 The cleanup of the spill has been delayed by heavy rain and
strong winds that forced many of the 800 fishing boats that
joined the effort to withdraw, Xinhua reported. Authorities are
aiming to finish the work before July 24, Xinhua said.  
 “Dalian has been experiencing heavy rain which will put
additional pressure on restoring port operations,”  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New York-based Commodore Research, said
in an e-mailed statement today. “More dry bulk vessels are
still expected to become congested at the port.”  
 The July 16 explosion was caused after a “catalyst” was
added to a crude-oil storage tank, according to the Ministry of
Transport. The error was made when an oil tanker was unloading
at Dalian port on July 16, according to statement on the
transport ministry’s website, which didn’t say what the
substance was or who was responsible for the incident.  
 Restricted Access  
 Dalian Port, which operates China’s largest crude-oil
terminal, said ground operations at its oil terminal restarted
today and the company will take “active measures” to resume
vessel loading and unloading operations in the “near future.”  
 Local authorities had restricted access to the port as part
of the cleanup efforts. The oil terminal was closed and a
 PetroChina Co.  refinery was forced to draw on crude stockpiles,
said a company official in Dalian, who couldn’t be named because
he isn’t authorized to speak to the media. China’s grain market
may also be “slightly affected” by the restricted port access,
the China National Grain & Oils Information Center said.  
 China National Petroleum Corp.  had diverted a very large
crude carrier away from the port, Reuters reported, citing an
unidentified shipbroker. The oil company has four other tankers
of the same class scheduled to arrive in Dalian in the next two
weeks and may also have to divert those, the report said.  
 Shipments Reduced  
 Shipments of oil from Dalian to southern China have been
reduced, Xinhua reported. PetroChina’s shipments are usually
30,000 tons to 50,000 tons a day, Xinhua reported, citing  Chu Jiewang , an analyst at Shanghai-based C1 Energy Co.  
 Southern China’s refiners are reducing operations and
processing mostly inventory, Xinhua said. At least three China
National Petroleum subsidiaries have reduced sales of refined
oil in the region, according to the report.  
 Dalian Port said the scale of the damage and losses caused
by the explosion and its impact on the company’s operations are
still being assessed. Some ancillary facilities including
pipelines and control systems were damaged and part of the
handling and storage operations for crude oil have been
“temporarily affected.”  
 Handling and storage for refined oil and liquefied
chemicals weren’t affected by the blast, according to the
company’s statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  
 The  Ministry of Transport  ordered harbors across the
country that offload oil to check their operations and halt
operations at any deemed to be unsafe, according to a statement
on its website yesterday. Dalian Port said it is conducting a
“thorough inspection” of its facilities at the oil terminal.  
 The company has started the process of claiming on its
insurance policies for the accident, according to today’s
statement. Its shares rose 2.67 percent in Hong Kong today after
dropping 5.06 percent, the most in two months, yesterday, the
first trading day after the explosion was reported.  
 -- Feiwen Rong  and  Sophie Leung . With assistance from William Bi
and  John Liu  in Beijing. Editors:  Richard Dobson ,  Nerys Avery   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net 
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        