-- China's Stocks Post Best 3-Day Gain in 2010 on Energy, Consumption Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-21T07:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/daqin-railway-co-huaxia-bank-xinjiang-bayi-hebei-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose for a third day
as the outlook for increased investment in the clean energy
industry and higher domestic consumption overshadowed concern
the government won’t relax its policy tightening measures.  
 Jiangsu Huasheng Tianlong Photoelectric Co.  paced gains for
alternative fuel stocks as China said it may spend 5 trillion
yuan in the next decade developing cleaner energy sources.  Air
China Ltd.  and China Southern Airlines Co. climbed more than 2
percent after domestic carriers flew more passengers last month.
 China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. slid 0.8 percent
on concern the government may maintain lending curbs.  
 “The new energy industry represents structural change for
China’s economy and has huge growth potential,” said  Wu Kan ,
Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “The market still has some doubts about
cyclical stocks as the government hasn’t make clear its attitude
towards easing tightening measures.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 0.3 percent to 2,535.39 at the 3
p.m. close. The measure has gained 4.6 percent in the past three
days, the most for such a period since December 2009. It also
breached its 50-day moving average intraday for the first time
in three months. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.2 percent to 2,747.33.  
 The Shanghai index has advanced this week on the
expectation the government will ease tightening measures and
boost investment in low-income houses to counter a slowdown in
economic growth. It’s still down 23 percent this year on concern
measures to control real-estate speculation and rising consumer
prices will damp earnings.  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production cooled more than
forecast in June. The central bank has raised reserve
requirement ratios three times this year to rein in consumer
prices and investment growth.  
 New Energy Stocks  
 The government will submit plans to develop cleaner energy,
including nuclear power and gas from unconventional sources, in
2011 to 2020 to the State Council, or Cabinet, for approval,
Jiang Bing, head of the National Energy Administration’s
planning and development department, said in Beijing yesterday.  
 Jiangsu Huasheng added 3.3 percent to 24.83 yuan. Baoding
Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., which has units making solar
panels, gained 4.3 percent to 21.42 yuan.  
 China is developing new fuel sources after overtaking the
U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user last year.  
 Airline stocks rose. The companies carried 21.8 million
passengers in June, 23 percent more than a year earlier, the
Civil Aviation Administration of China said on its website
yesterday. Passenger numbers rose 18 percent to 126.3 million
people in the first half from a year earlier, the regulator said.  
 Airlines Gain  
 Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier
advanced 2.6 percent to 12.06 yuan. China Southern, the nation’s
biggest carrier by fleet size, gained 3.3 percent to 6.95 yuan.  
 “We’re mega-bullish on airlines” given their valuations
and profit potential,  Ally Ma , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  
 Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said in a report July 19
slowing economic growth won’t reduce demand for air travel.  
 The industry will benefit from the government’s plan to
encourage domestic consumption, boosting airlines and tourism
stocks, Shenyin & Wanguo analysts led by  Zhou Meng  said.  
 The Shanghai Composite’s “false breakdown” below 2,500
sets the stage for a rally that may take the measure past the
50-day moving average for the first time in three months to
2,720, said Auerbach Grayson & Co.  
 ‘False Breakdown’  
 “The Shanghai Composite is displaying some very nice price
action and the inertia generated by the ‘false breakdown’ below
2,500 has potentially set the stage for a meaningful reversal in
trend,”  Richard Ross , global technical strategist at Auerbach
Grayson in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “A move above
the 50-day moving average could provide the catalyst for a test
of our initial upside target of 2,720.”  
 A gauge of property stocks in the Shanghai Composite fell
0.3 percent. Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property
developer, declined 0.8 percent to 7.75 yuan. Poly Real Estate
Group, the second largest, slid 0.8 percent to 11.83 yuan.  
 The banking regulator reiterated previous orders for bank
to step up scrutiny of lending to local government financing
vehicles and to curb credit to new investment projects run by
local authorities, Chairman  Liu Mingkang  said yesterday.  
 Banks must adhere to restrictions on lending to property
developers and mortgage loans to individuals, Liu said. They
should also conduct “stress tests” on their lending for real-
estate projects and other sectors related to property to ensure
they properly understand and can cope with the risks they’ve
taken on, the regulator said.  
 No Relaxation  
 China won’t relax policies aimed at restraining property
prices any time soon, according to HSBC Holdings Plc’s Greater
China Chief Economist  Hongbin Qu .  
 “It is unrealistic for the market to expect policy easing
in China any time soon,” Qu said in an interview in Hong Kong.
“Yes, the economy is slowing and that is controlling upside
pressure on inflation. But premature easing could easily fuel
inflationary expectations and lead to a quick rebound in
property prices.”  
 -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Nick Gentle  in Hong Kong.
Editor:  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ally Ma, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Chinese airline stocks. 
     Chinese airlines carried 21.8 million passengers in June, 23.2 percent more than a year earlier, the Civil Aviation Administration of China said on its website yesterday. Ma also discusses China's aerospace industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
