-- Dodd-Frank Trade Rules Unlikely to Win Global Adoption, Fed's Tarullo Says
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-20T16:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/dodd-frank-trade-rules-unlikely-to-win-global-adoption-fed-s-tarullo-says.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said some countries will decline to follow the U.S. in
adopting limits on proprietary trading at banks and other
regulatory restrictions scheduled to be signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  this week.  
 “There are aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act that are unlikely
to become part of the international financial regulatory
framework,” Tarullo said today during a Senate banking
subcommittee hearing on international financial cooperation.  
 Obama plans to hold a signing ceremony tomorrow enacting
the toughest set of U.S. financial-market rules in seven
decades. The legislation was passed by Congress last week, in
response to the crisis that pushed the banking industry to the
brink of collapse, froze credit markets and led to taxpayer
bailouts to firms such as Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and American International Group Inc.  
 Testifying at the same hearing, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s top international adviser called on financial
regulators around the world to “extend the perimeter” of
supervision and enact regulations similar to those of the U.S.  
 “The challenge before us now is to ensure that the world’s
standards are every bit as strong as America’s,” said  Lael Brainard , the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
international affairs.  
 ‘Reform Efforts’  
 “Our efforts are focused on the largest and most
consequential economies in order to reinforce our domestic
reform efforts,” she said. For financial firms such as hedge
funds whose collapse could threaten the global financial system,
“international consistency is at a premium.”  
 Tarullo said new U.S. regulations limiting banks from
investing in private investment funds and engaging in some types
of derivatives transactions probably won’t be widely implemented
abroad.  
 “In the United States, activity restrictions have long
been a part of the bank regulatory regime,” he said. “Many
other countries follow a universal banking model and are
unlikely to adopt the sorts of activity restrictions contained
in the act.”  
 The bill, known as the Dodd-Frank Act, creates a consumer
bureau at the Fed, a council of regulators to monitor firms for
systemic risk to the economy and a mechanism for liquidating
large financial firms whose collapse could threaten economic
stability.  
 Total Liabilities  
 The legislation also prevents the Fed from approving bank
acquisitions that would result in a firm exceeding 10 percent of
the total liabilities of the U.S. banking system, Tarullo said.
“Other countries with more concentrated banking systems are
unlikely to impose this type of concentration limit on financial
firms in their jurisdiction.”  
 “Not all elements of financial reform can be designed on a
national level in a way that is perfectly consistent across
countries,” Tarullo said. The new regulations shouldn’t put
U.S. firms at a “competitive disadvantage,” he said in
response to a senator’s question.  
 Kathleen Casey , a commissioner of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, also testified at the hearing.  
 The capital position of big U.S. banks has been
“substantially strengthened” during the past year and the
“funding capacities” of those firms “is quite strong,”
Tarullo said in response to a question.  
 Global Basis  
 The financial crisis showed the need for a “considerable
strengthening” of existing capital requirements, Tarullo said.
He said in reply to a senator’s question that he supports the
implementation of minimum capital standards on a global basis.  
 “Large institutions should be sufficiently capitalized so
that they could sustain the losses associated with a systemic
problem and remain sufficiently capitalized to continue
functioning effectively as financial intermediaries,” he said.
Such an objective will require “a considerable strengthening of
existing requirements, both with respect to the amount of
capital held and to the quality of that capital.”  
 Tarullo, 57, the first Fed governor appointed by Obama,
didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or monetary
policy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Tarullo, governor of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
