-- Yen Declines as Recovery in Equities Reduces Risk Aversion Among Investors
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-20T20:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/dollar-gains-against-euro-yen-as-global-stocks-housing-starts-decline.html

          
          
             The yen dropped against all of its
major counterparts as equities erased losses and growth
prospects in Asia offset a drop in U.S. housing starts, easing
concerns the global economic recovery is slowing.  
 The Canadian dollar rose from a two-week low against the
greenback after the nation’s central bank boosted borrowing
costs for the second time in two months. The Australian currency
surged as China’s commerce ministry said domestic consumption
will expand at a relatively fast pace and become the most
important element of growth in the country, Australia’s largest
trading partner.  
 “There are better feelings about mainly Asian growth,”
said  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist
in Toronto. “We’re seeing commodity currencies outperform.”  
 The yen declined 0.9 percent to 87.46 per dollar at 4:05
p.m. in New York, from 86.69 yesterday. It climbed to 86.27 on
July 16, the strongest level since Dec. 1. Canada’s dollar rose
1 percent to C$1.0449 per U.S. dollar. The Aussie, as
Australia’s currency is known, gained 2.7 percent against the
yen and 1.6 percent against the greenback.  
 The euro weakened against most of its major traded
counterparts before European regulators release results on July
23 from tests determining whether 91 banks can survive potential
losses on sovereign-debt holdings. Firms failing to meet the
standard will be required to raise extra capital.  
 Stress Tests  
 “The market is positioning a bit more for the results of
the stress tests,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at
FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain Capital
in Bedminster, New Jersey. “The market is starting to have a
bit more second thoughts, expressing more caution on the
results.”  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado ’s comments on bank
stress tests were taken out of context, her spokeswoman said,
after El Pais cited her as saying that no lenders had failed the
tests. The minister was not revealing any results of stress
tests on Spanish banks, said the spokeswoman, who declined to be
named in line with policy.  
 U.S. stocks advanced, erasing earlier losses on speculation
the Federal Reserve will take steps to spur lending. Traders
speculated Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  could announce a
lowering of the interest rate the Fed pays on banks’ excess
reserves to stimulate economic growth. Bernanke is scheduled to
give his semiannual report on the economy to
Congress tomorrow and the next day.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.1 percent after
earlier falling as much as 1.3 percent.  
 Bank of Canada  
 Equities had declined as  housing starts  fell in June to the
lowest level since October as a slump in sales following the
expiration of a government tax incentive caused U.S. builders to
cut back. Work began on 549,000 houses last month, fewer than
forecast by the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 5 percent from May, Commerce Department
figures showed.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  raised the  target rate 
for overnight loans between commercial banks a quarter point to
0.75 percent, a decision expected by all 20 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The growth forecast was cut to 3.5 percent
from 3.7 percent for this year and to 2.9 percent from 3.1
percent for 2011, according to a statement from the bank.  
 The yen dropped versus all of its 16 major counterparts as
speculation lingered that the Bank of Japan will intervene to
weaken the currency after it climbed to a seven-month high last
week.  
 Bank of Japan  
 The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the
yen, a gauge that compares the magnitude of gains and losses,
was at 29 yesterday, below the 30 threshold that some traders
see as a sign a price has fallen too far and is poised to rally.  
 The Bank of Japan may ease monetary policy if the yen stays
around 85 against the dollar, Dow Jones Newswires reported
yesterday. Central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said last
week a stronger yen and stock declines may hurt the economy.  
 Australia’s dollar strengthened versus all of the 16 major
currencies, snapping a three-day losing streak, on speculation
the Chinese government will relax policy tightening measures.
China’s commerce ministry said domestic consumption will expand
at a relatively fast pace and become the most important element
of growth in the country, Australia’s largest trading partner.  
 “China is leading a band of emerging nations where growth
is expanding, that’s extremely good for Australia,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “People keep shooting themselves
in the foot with concern over a slowdown in China.”  
 Reserve Bank of Australia officials said in minutes of
their July 6 meeting released today that they’ll use the results
of European bank stress tests and local inflation figures due
next week to decide whether to resume raising interest rates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        