-- Yen Rises as European Stress Tests, Slowdown Concerns Boost Safety Demand
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-21T11:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/dollar-trades-near-to-seven-month-low-against-yen-on-signs-u-s-is-slowing.html

          
          
             The yen rose, snapping a two-day
decline against the dollar and the euro, as concern over the
pace of the U.S. recovery and the financial health of European
banks boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 The yen climbed against all of its 16 major counterparties.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  speaks today on the
economy. Reports tomorrow may show initial jobless claims
increased and existing home sales fell, according to surveys of
economists by Bloomberg. The euro weakened against 15 of its 16
most actively traded counterparts.  
 “The yen benefits in times of risk aversion, and Bernanke
has to tread a very fine line,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency
strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London. “He has
to be frank about downside risks, while reassuring that the
economic recovery is intact. The European bank stress tests add
to the uncertain backdrop.”  
 The yen appreciated to 111.37 per euro at 7:04 a.m. in New
York, from 112.70 yesterday. The currency gained to 87.02 per
dollar, from 87.51, after advancing to 86.27 on July 16, the
strongest level since Dec. 1. The dollar traded at $1.2794 per
euro, from $1.2880. The euro reached $1.3029 yesterday, its
strongest level since May 10.  
 “The euro’s failure to sustain a breach of $1.30 has
prompted some selling ahead of the major risk event posed by
Bernanke’s testimony,” Mellor said.  
 Bernanke delivers his semiannual report on monetary policy
to the Senate Banking Committee today, and testifies to the
House Financial Services Committee tomorrow. U.S. policy makers
trimmed growth forecasts for this year and next at the Federal
Open Market Committee’s June meeting, according to minutes
released July 14.  
 ‘Undermine the Dollar’  
 There is speculation the Fed may announce fresh stimulus
measures, such as cutting the interest paid on excess reserves,
 Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, wrote
today in a note.  
 “The downgrades to the Fed’s growth forecasts and recent
relatively dovish FOMC minutes have helped to fuel such
speculation, which if in any way confirmed by Bernanke, will act
to undermine the dollar further,” he wrote.  
 Initial jobless claims rose to 445,000 last week from
429,000 in the prior period, according to a Bloomberg survey
before tomorrow’s Labor Department report. The same day, the
National Association of Realtors will say sales of existing
homes fell 9.9 percent in June, according to a separate survey.  
 Rate Futures  
 “Disappointing economic data and diminishing expectations
the Federal Reserve will raise rates have pushed down the
dollar,” said  Satoru Ogasawara , a foreign-exchange analyst and
economist in Tokyo at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The dollar may
fall to 85 yen in the short term.”  
 The extra yield offered by U.S. swap rates over their
Japanese counterparts has shrunk to near a two-decade low,
fueling the yen’s rally toward the strongest against the dollar
since 1995.  
 The premium U.S. rates offer to same-maturity instruments
in Japan dropped to as little as 38 basis points last week amid
fading expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest
rates, said  Tohru Sasaki , chief strategist in Tokyo at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Swap rates are fixed payments made to receive
floating rates.  
 The dollar-yen rate “has been closely tracking” the two-
year swaps gap, said Sasaki, a former chief currency trader at
the Bank of Japan. The exchange rate “in the near future” may
reach the 84.83 yen level touched on Nov. 27, the strongest for
the Japanese currency since July 1995, he said.  
 Futures Outlook  
 “The view that there will be no rate hike in the
foreseeable future is strengthening,” Sasaki said. Traders
“are scaling back expectations for rate increases in the U.S.,
broadening declines in swap rates from three- and six-month
instruments to two-year ones.”  
 Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 48
percent chance the Fed will keep its benchmark rate between zero
and 0.25 percent through its March 2011 meeting, up from 43
percent odds a month earlier.  
 European regulators plan to detail three scenarios when
they publish their stress-test results for 91 of the region’s
lenders on July 23, according to a document by the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors.  
 Banks will publish their estimated Tier 1 capital ratios
under a benchmark for 2011, an adverse scenario and a third test
that includes “sovereign shock,” according to a template
prepared by  CEBS  for the banks and obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 ‘Unlikely to Overwhelm’  
 The euro may fall as low as $1.2750 as trading thins before
the publication of the stress test results, Lloyds Banking Group
Plc said.  
 “Commitment is unlikely to overwhelm as volumes recede
ahead of Friday’s stress test results,”  Kenneth Broux , a senior
market economist at Lloyds in London, wrote in a note today.
“We are not huge fans of euro-dollar rally over $1.30 and
target a return to the area around $1.2750.”  
 The euro has declined 8.3 percent this year, the biggest
loss among its developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained
3.9 percent, and the yen has advanced 11.9 percent.  
 Australia’s dollar fell versus the yen on speculation a
slowing global economy will prompt the nation’s central bank to
keep interest rates unchanged next month.  
 The statistics bureau will release inflation data on July
28. Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the most since late 2008, data showed in April.
The Reserve Bank of Australia meets on Aug. 3.  
 Australian Dollar  
 “Until CPI comes out, it’s difficult to see where the
market’s going to get the next thrust in terms of pushing higher
yields in the money market and therefore the Aussie dollar,”
said  Michael Katz , a currency fund manager at Tallship
Investments in Sydney. “The odds are the RBA won’t be hiking in
August, and the idea of the Aussie going back into the 90s would
require a rate hike.”  
 Australia’s dollar declined 0.6 percent to 76.91 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The U.S. currency was at 87.29 yen as of 9:28 a.m. in Tokyo. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
