-- Foes of Gulf Drilling Moratorium Challenge U.S. Bid to Dismiss Lawsuit
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-20T20:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/drill-ban-foes-challenge-u-s-bid-to-dismiss-suit-update1-.html

          
          
             Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and
other oil-service companies asked a judge to reject a U.S.
request to dismiss their lawsuit challenging the federal
moratorium on deep-water oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  in New Orleans on June
22 threw out the six-month ban imposed by federal regulators on
oil and gas drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, finding it
was too broad. A three-judge panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in New Orleans on July 8 refused regulators’ request
to put Feldman’s order on hold while the government appeals.  
 Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  issued a revised ban on
July 12 that may allow new wells if the industry shows it has
strengthened safety standards. The government also asked both
courts to dismiss the Hornbeck lawsuit. The new policy
“repackages the prior moratorium,” lawyers for offshore
service companies said in court filings.  
 The new halt “in all critical respects, is a mirror image
of the moratorium the secretary issued on May 28 and which the
court preliminarily enjoined,”  Carl Rosenblum , a lawyer for
companies suing to overturn the ban, said in papers filed today
in New Orleans federal court. The new ban uses “post hoc
rationalizations created in an attempt to justify an action
identical to the one the court has already enjoined.”  
 Biggest Spill  
 President  Barack Obama  imposed a six-month suspension on
deep-water drilling in reaction to the  BP Plc  oil spill, the
worst in U.S. history, caused by the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig off the Louisiana coast in April. Obama
said the moratorium is needed to give a presidential commission
time to study the safety of offshore operations.  
 The new moratorium on drilling supersedes the government’s
earlier policy and renders the challenge to it moot, the U.S.
said in court filings July 12 seeking dismissal of the lawsuit.  
 The new directive was based on “additional information,
separate analysis and a separate administrative record,” the
U.S. told Feldman. The lawsuit should be withdrawn “because the
decision challenged by the plaintiffs’ complaint no longer
exists,” the U.S. said.  
 “There is a live dispute between the parties concerning
the legality of the drilling moratorium, and the case is not
moot under well-established legal principles,” Rosenblum said.  
 ‘No Meaningful Difference’  
 “The July 12th order did not create a new regulatory
framework; it reimposed the prior moratorium in conflict with
this court’s prior ruling,” he said. “There is no meaningful
difference in the terms of the two orders.”  
 Justice Department spokeswoman  Laura Sweeney  didn’t
immediately respond to telephone or e-mail requests for comment
on today’s filing.  
 Hornbeck  and more than a dozen other offshore service and
supply companies sued U.S. regulators, including Salazar, last
month, seeking to block the moratorium.  
 They were joined by Louisiana’s Governor  Bobby Jindal  and
Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell , who said the drilling
suspension is turning an “environmental disaster into an
economic catastrophe.”  
 Government lawyers told Feldman the ban was based on
findings in a U.S. report following the sinking of the Deepwater
Horizon. Feldman said the six-month ban was too broad a response
to its investigation.  
 In rejecting the government’s first drilling moratorium,
Feldman said it failed to set a firm end date, failed to consult
with state government or business interests affected by the ban,
and shut down all floating rigs when individual rigs might be
able to continue working with heightened regulatory oversight.  
 New Rules  
 Lawyers for the U.S. said in court filings that Salazar’s
new rules addressed Feldman’s concerns. Under the new
moratorium, individual rigs can go back to work after satisfying
new unspecified safety and environmental requirements, the
government said.  
 The new moratorium will last until Nov. 30, or until
Salazar finds that “drilling operations can proceed safely,”
the government said in a July 12 statement.  
 Rosenblum said federal regulators are required to show
Feldman, in a report due tomorrow, how they have complied with
his order not to enforce the ban. “They cannot possibly meet
this burden because the alleged wrong has already been
repeated,” the lawyer said.  
 Ensco Suit  
 Lawyers for Ensco Offshore Co., an offshore-drilling
company, asked separately in an amended complaint today that
Salazar’s second ban be declared an unlawful attempt to “end-
run” both the regulatory process and the court order
overturning the initial ban.  
 “The second moratorium is substantially the same as the
first,” Lawrence R. Demarcay III, Ensco’s lawyer, said in court
papers filed in New Orleans federal court.  “It was a pre-
ordered result that was announced the very same afternoon this
court enjoined the first moratorium.”  
 The case is Hornbeck Offshore Services LLC v. Salazar, 2:10-
cv-01663, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans). The appeal case is 10-30585, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        