-- Drogba May Move to Manchester City in $30 Million Deal, Sun Says: Roundup
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-07-20T10:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/drogba-may-move-to-manchester-city-in-30-million-deal-sun-says-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Drogba’s City Move?  
 Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba ’s agent said he’s negotiating
a 20 million-pound ($30.1 million) transfer to Manchester City,
the  Sun  reported.  
 The 32-year-old, who represented Ivory Coast in the World
Cup in South Africa, may move to City on a three-year contract,
the newspaper said.  
 Jol Set to Stay at Ajax  
 Martin Jol  is likely to stay at Ajax, Dutch newspaper  De
Telegraaf  said, citing comments by the manager.  
 Jol, who has been linked to the managerial position at
London side Fulham after  Roy Hodgson ’s move to Liverpool, told
the paper, “They were interested, but I will in principle stay
at Ajax.”  
 Fabregas May Force Exit  
 Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas may make an official transfer
request to force a move to Barcelona after opposition from the
London club, the  Daily Mail  reported.  
 “I totally understand that Arsenal are reluctant to let go
of a player like Cesc Fabregas,” the newspaper quoted Barcelona
manager Pep Guardiola as saying. “If they don’t want to
negotiate, he won’t come.”  
 Croatia striker Eduardo is on the brink of leaving Arsenal
for Shakhtar Donetsk for a fee of 6 million pounds, the paper
said.  
 England’s Flop Prompts Price Cut  
 The Football Association has cut ticket prices for
England’s match against Hungary at Wembley Stadium on Aug. 11 by
up to one-third amid slow sales,  the Sun  reported.  
 England’s 4-1 loss to Germany in the round of 16 at the
World Cup in South Africa was the team’s worst defeat in
tournament history.  
 City Eyes Balotelli  
 Manchester City officials have flown to Italy to close a 35
million-pound transfer deal for Inter Milan striker Mario
Balotelli, the  Daily Mail  reported.  
 Balotelli fell out of favor last season with fans and
former Inter manager  Jose Mourinho  because of his behavior on
the field and the training ground.  
 Inter’s new manager  Rafael Benitez  wants to spend the
proceeds from the Balotelli deal on buying  Javier Mascherano ,
whom he managed at Liverpool.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        