-- Lack of Sales Leaves Dubai Property Buyers Guessing on Prices
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-07-21T09:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/dubai-s-lack-of-home-sales-auctions-leaves-purchasers-guessing-on-prices.html

          
          
             A dearth of Dubai home sales and
foreclosure auctions is stalling a recovery because buyers
aren’t able to gauge how far prices have fallen during the
market’s two-year slump.  
 “There are very few transactions at the moment,” said
 Craig Plumb , head of Middle East research at broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. “We are not going to see the bottom of the market
until we see transactions through the foreclosure process.”  
 Home prices in the sheikhdom have dropped about 50 percent
from their peak two years ago and Credit Suisse estimates a
further decline of as much as 20 percent. Though at least 70
foreclosure cases have been filed under Dubai’s 2008 mortgage
law, none has resulted in the sheikhdom’s first auction, said
 Jody Waugh , a partner at law firm Al Tamimi & Co.  
 “People are only going to buy if they believe the price is
realistic,” Plumb said. Data provided by the Dubai Land
Department is too incomplete to provide a valuable guide to
selling prices, he said.  
 The credit crunch prompted some Dubai property buyers to
abandon investments and leave the country while others tried to
renegotiate contracts after finding they owed more than their
property was worth. Purchases fell about 80 percent in 2009 from
the previous year, said  Jesse Downs , director of research at
Dubai-based Landmark Advisory. They increased 24 percent in the
first half of 2010 from a year earlier.  
 A dozen banks have filed foreclosures, mostly involving
residential properties, since London-based  Barclays Plc  won the
first judgment at the end of last year,  Waugh  said. His firm has
secured about 12 rulings under the emirate’s 2008 mortgage law
and the same number involving Islamic mortgages.  
 Months More  
 The first auction is unlikely to take place before the end
of the year, following a “quiet” summer and the holy month of
Ramadan set to start in mid-August, according to  Deepak Tolani ,
an analyst at Al Mal Capital.  
 Auctions “might help us get to the bottom faster since
prices are likely to be considerably less than asking prices in
the market now,” said J.P. Grobbelaar, director of research and
advisory at property consultant Colliers International. “But I
don’t believe prices won’t drop below what is achieved at
auctions.”  
 Credit Suisse’s estimate of a 20 percent decline would take
average prices to about 837 dirhams ($227) a square foot, based
on its June estimate of 1,046 dirhams. Deutsche Bank AG analyst
 Nabil Ahmed  predicted a price of 850 dirhams by the end of 2010.
UBS AG analyst  Saud Masud  sees a drop to about 600 dirhams.  
 ‘Significant Oversupply’  
 Colliers estimated in a May 9 report that 41,000 new homes
would be put on the market by the end of this year. That will
lead to “significant oversupply” and downward pressure on
prices, regional director  Ian Albert  said in the report.  
 Banks that have seized real estate outside of the
foreclosure process have been reluctant to put properties up for
auction, said Mohammed Sultan Thani, assistant director general
at the Land Department.  Developers  have preferred renegotiating
repayment terms with customers to foreclosures.  
 “The majority of banks are not eager to sell properties
through auctions because the prices fetched may drag the market
down,” Thani said. “Many prefer to reach deals allowing them
to rent the properties for a few years.”  
 Barclays’s foreclosure case hasn’t been implemented, Dubai-
based Faisal Iqbal, head of secured lending for the bank in the
United Arab Emirates, said by e-mail. The Land Department “is
in control of the sales process on the instructions of the Dubai
courts,” he said.  
 Minimum Prices  
 Foreclosure sales will only provide a reliable guide if
prices are set at a realistic level, said Al Mal’s  Tolani . In
Dubai’s last auction, which didn’t involve foreclosures, only
one of four properties listed was sold, according to Thani of
the Land Department. Minimum prices at auctions are usually set
by the courts in consultation with the land department, which
conducts the sales.  
 If a property doesn’t sell, the court can reduce the
minimum price over subsequent auctions, said Al Tamimi’s Waugh.
However, by the time a new auction is scheduled, the  market  may
have slipped further and the decreased price may still be too
high to attract a buyer.  
 “You’re constantly trailing a market that is declining and
that most likely won’t result in transactions for a while,”
Landmark’s Downs said.  
 Dubai developers have renegotiated thousands of mortgages
and extended payment schedules rather than face defaults that
would cut off their cash flow. Though that slowed the decline in
prices by limiting distress sales, it has prevented the market
from reaching its natural bottom.  
 Reality Check  
 “People are holding on as much as they can, refusing to
adjust to market realities,” Downs said. “It’s delaying the
inevitable. If people accept the reality faster, prices will
come down faster and in a way recover faster as well.”  
 Other property markets hurt by the global financial crisis
reached bottom last year and began to recover. U.K. house prices
began to slump in November 2007, falling more than 20 percent
before starting to rise in March 2009, according to mortgage
lender Nationwide Building Society. The S&P Case-Shiller Home
Price Index, which tracks residential prices in 20 U.S. cities,
began its slide at the start of 2006 and reached a bottom in
January 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Home prices in the sheikhdom have dropped about 50 percent from their peak two years ago. Photographer: Charles Crowell/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Dubai Property Buyers Guessing on Prices  
                       
                         
                           Charles Crowell/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Laborers work on a construction site in Dubai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Laborers work on a construction site in Dubai. Photographer: Charles Crowell/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
