-- E.ON, GDF Suez Among 9 Companies Trading in Hungarian Electricity Auction
-- Lars Paulsson
-- 2010-07-20T15:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/e-on-gdf-suez-among-9-companies-trading-in-hungarian-electricity-auction.html

          
          
             GDF Suez SA of France and E.ON AG,
Germany’s biggest utility, were among nine companies that bought
and sold power today in the first auction on Hungarian
electricity exchange  HUPX Ltd.   
 The auction, which also attracted Norway’s largest power
producer, Statkraft SF, boosted the options available to
utilities, banks and trading companies for buying and selling
Hungarian power. Brokers including Tradition Financial Services
and GFI Group Inc. are already offering electricity trading in
the central European country, and EXAA AG in neighboring Austria
holds a daily auction.  
 “It’s now off the ground with quite nice volumes,” HUPX
Chief Executive Officer  Zoltan Medveczki  said today in a
telephone interview from Budapest, where the market is based.  
 Baseload supplies, for around-the-clock deliveries, settled
at 47.80 euros ($61.98) a megawatt-hour on the bourse, according
to the HUPX website. Peakload supplies for the hours 8 a.m.
through 8 p.m. local time traded at 55.37 euros, it showed.  
 Participants in the auction traded a total of 3,383
megawatt-hours, according to HUPX’s website.  
 “We’re pleased with the volumes on the first day,” Egbert
Laege, E.ON Energy Trading SE’s Dusseldorf-based director of
dispatch and prompt trading, said by e-mail. “We support the
development of the HUPX, as we believe it will help to increase
transparency, promote trust, and boost liquidity in the
Hungarian market.”  
 10 Members  
 Ten companies are members of the exchange, which is owned
by Hungarian grid operator  Mavir Zrt. , and another five plan to
join soon, Medveczki said.  
 “We consider to join the market place, but a decision has
not been made yet,” said  Michael Rosen , an Essen, Germany-based
spokesman at  RWE AG ’s trading unit. “Every initiative to
promote liquidity in the Hungarian power wholesale market,
particularly in the spot and day-ahead window is appreciated.”  
 European Commodity Clearing AG is responsible for clearing,
or guaranteeing the settlement, of trades for HUPX. ECC is a
subsidiary of continental Europe’s biggest power exchange,
European Energy Exchange AG.  
 “ECC is expanding its network of exchange partnerships
towards eastern Europe for the first time,”  Hans Bernd Menzel ,
chief executive officer of ECC and its parent company, said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 HUPX plans to add contracts for continuous trading in a
project that’s still under evaluation, Medveczki said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        