-- EDF Said to Plan Putting French Power Grid Into Nuclear Dismantling Fund
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-07-20T16:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/edf-said-to-plan-putting-french-power-grid-into-nuclear-dismantling-fund.html

          
          
             Electricite de France  SA, Europe’s
biggest electricity generator, plans to place half the French
power grid into a fund to help pay for the dismantling of
nuclear reactors, according to a person familiar with the
project.  
 State-controlled EDF aims to complete the transfer of a 50
percent holding in Reseau de Transport d’Electricite by the end
of the year in a move that could provide about 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) to finance taking apart old nuclear reactors, the
person said, declining to be identified because the plan is
confidential.  
 EDF is in talks with the government to pass a decree that
would make the move compatible with existing rules on paying for
decommissioning and would allow the utility to remove RTE debt
from its balance sheet, the person said.  
 The transfer would allow Paris-based EDF to sidestep a French
law that requires RTE shareholders to be either EDF or other
state entities. The sale of a stake in RTE was being considered
about a year ago, while the latest plan would leave the grid
wholly-owned by EDF.  
 The Confederation General du Travail labor union, the
largest at EDF, warned this week against “manipulation” of
RTE’s shareholding.  
 RTE spokesman  Michel Derdevet  declined to comment on the
plan. An EDF spokeswoman also declined to comment.  
 Set Aside  
 EDF, owner of 58 nuclear reactors, has to have set aside
enough money by the end of June 2011 for decommissioning of all
of its nuclear assets and resulting waste storage. A planned
power law under consideration in the Senate would give the
utility a five-year extension on the deadline.  
 At the end of last year, EDF reported provisions of 12.5
billion euros for decommissioning, which are held in a dedicated
asset portfolio holding stock and bond investments, according to
the utility’s annual report. EDF allocated 1.9 billion in cash
for decommissioning last year after temporarily suspending
contributions amid 2008 financial market turmoil, according to
the report.  
 RTE, which charges regulated rates for power transmission,
reported net debt of 6.36 billion euros last year. The grid
needs to invest about 12 billion euros by 2020 to upgrade its
network, according to its head  Dominique Maillard .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 Tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        