-- Egypt's El Sewedy Cables Sees Prospects to Sell and Invest in Asia, Africa
-- Ola Galal
-- 2010-07-20T10:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/egypt-s-el-sewedy-cables-sees-prospects-to-sell-and-invest-in-asia-africa.html

          
          
             El Sewedy Cables Holding Co. , the
Middle East’s biggest publicly traded maker of power cables, is
seeking to sell and invest in Asia and Africa as demand for its
products slows in Europe, the company’s chief executive said.  
 The electrical equipment manufacturer is in talks about
projects for power generation in Pakistan and wind energy in
Turkey, Chief Executive Officer Ahmed El Sewedy said in a July
15 interview. El Sewedy is also considering building plants to
produce wind turbines in Brazil and India, he said.  
 “Europe will be flat for the next two to three years, but
Asia, Africa and the Middle East will keep on expanding,” El
Sewedy said at his headquarters office in Cairo. In the wake of
the global financial crisis, “we are trying to secure other
markets, to see where we can fit,” he said.  
 The chief executive said he would be happy if energy demand
in Africa and Asia grew by 5 percent to 7 percent a year. The
company plans to boost its output by an additional 30,000 metric
tons this year to 165,000 tons, with a further increase to
190,000 tons planned for 2011.  
 Net income will rise about 25 percent this year, he said,
from the 630 million Egyptian pounds ($110.6 million) the
company earned in 2009.  
 “We opened 12 new factories, and all that will start to
produce revenue this year,” he said.  
 The economic contraction and decline in the euro’s
purchasing power prompted the Egyptian cable-maker to lower its
growth forecasts for European countries, which together
represent less than 10 percent of its business, El Sewedy said.  
 Weaker Euro  
 “The decline in the euro will impact our business, but not
that much, as most of our business is in dollars.”  
 The company owns 90 percent of Spanish wind-turbine maker
Manuel Torres Olvega Industrial SA, and it operates a factory
making electrical meters in Slovenia.  
 The company said on May 25 that it was in talks with the
Pakistani government over a 50-megawatt power plant, with local
banks willing to finance up to 70 percent of the project’s
costs. Pakistan has “huge demand for energy and very big plans
for the next ten years for energy,” El Sewedy said.  
 The company’s shares have fallen 3.1 percent so far this
year, closing at 66.97 Egyptian pounds yesterday. They declined
10.4 percent last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        