-- Egypt's Budget Deficit Beats Government Targets as Tax Returns Rise
-- Abdel Latif Wahba
-- 2010-07-20T12:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/egypt-s-budget-deficit-beats-government-targets-as-tax-returns-rise.html

          
          
             Egypt’s budget deficit beat the
government’s target for the fiscal year through June after tax
returns increased, the finance ministry said today.  
 Initial figures show that the shortfall widened to less
than 8.3 percent of gross domestic product, below the
government’s target of 8.4 percent, the Cairo-based  ministry 
said in an e-mailed statement. The deficit was 6.9 percent in
the previous year.  
 Egypt’s tax revenue for the fiscal year through June rose
to 148 billion Egyptian pounds ($26 billion), a 6 percent
increase on the previous year, the ministry said.  
 “Income tax came slightly ahead of our expectations and so
did revenue from customs,”  Mohamed Abu Basha , an economist at
Egyptian investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE , said in a
telephone interview. He had forecast a deficit of 8.1 percent.  
 Revenue declined to 269 billion Egyptian pounds, compared
with 282.52 billion the previous year, though it exceeded the
government’s forecasts by 1.2 billion pounds, the ministry said.
Expenditure met its target of 367 billion pounds.  
 The government expects the economy of the most populous
Arab country to have grown about 5.3 percent in the fiscal year
through June, compared with 4.7 percent the previous year.  
 Growth is still below the average of 7 percent achieved in
the three years to June 2008, after the global financial crisis
hurt revenue tourism, foreign direct investment and revenue from
the Suez Canal.  
 ‘Decent Growth’  
 “Recovery is progressing much faster than anticipated,”
Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali  said in the statement.
“We were able to secure a decent growth, and we were also able
to outperform our deficit and debt targets in the midst of one
of the worst systemic global financial and economic crises.”  
 The ministry aims to bring the shortfall to about 3 percent
by 2015 and to lower the debt-to-GDP ratio to 60 percent from as
much as 82 percent.  
 “The measures that they announced to bring the deficit to
3 percent are reasonable to a large extent,” said Abu Basha.
“But the question is whether they will execute them and how
effective will they be.”  
 Among these measures are the introduction of a value added
tax and efforts to improve tax collection, which remains “very
weak,” he said.  
 Egypt’s benchmark EGX30 stock index has lost 4.7 percent
this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Orascom Construction
Industries , a company that undertakes infrastructure projects
with the government, has shed 10.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        