-- Televisa, NII Prepare to Challenge America Movil After Airwaves Auction
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-20T14:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/televisa-nii-prepare-to-challenge-slim-s-america-movil-after-auction.html

          
          
             Grupo Televisa SA  and partner  NII
Holdings Inc.  are preparing to challenge America Movil SAB’s
dominance of Mexico’s wireless market after the government
concluded an auction of airwaves.  
 The auction of mobile-phone airwaves in the 1.7 gigahertz
spectrum band ended yesterday,  Federal Telecommunications
Commission  President  Mony de Swaan  said on  his Twitter  account.
He didn’t say who had the highest bids in the auction.  
 Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster,
and NII will win one-third of the 90 megahertz of airwaves
auctioned because they were the only participants qualified for
that spectrum under rules that limit each company’s total
holdings.  NII  said it will offer third-generation services such
as high-speed Internet within 12 to 18 months after it receives
the airwaves.  
 “The arrival of a new competitor provokes a drop in
prices,”  Gustavo Cantu , vice president of NII’s Mexican unit,
said in a phone interview. NII, the smallest of Mexico’s four
mobile-phone carriers, plans to use the new airwaves to extend
its customer reach beyond its traditional niche of business
users, Cantu said.  
 NII plans to spend 18.9 billion pesos ($1.47 billion) over
six years to upgrade its Mexican network to offer new services,
the Reston, Virginia-based company said in a statement.  
 Bundled Packages  
 Televisa and NII aim to begin offering packages that
combine mobile-phone services with the voice, video and data
plans offered by the broadcaster’s satellite and cable
television units, Cantu said. Those plans should be available
before the end of 2010, he said.  
 The Federal Telecommunications Commission must still review
the auction before it can officially award the spectrum. If NII
does receive the airwaves, the company’s value should increase,
said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York, in a
research note.  
 “The new spectrum both increases the potential Ebitda
growth and reduces the technology risk of the company,” Piecyk
said, referring to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization.  
 NII  fell  49 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $36.23 at 10:35 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Mexico City-based
Televisa dropped 27 centavos to 47.30 pesos in Mexico City
trading, and America Movil rose 18 centavos to 31.15 pesos.  
 Telefonica Threat  
 America Movil, based in Mexico City, will also face a new
threat from Telefonica SA, which won enough spectrum in a
separate auction of 1.9 gigahertz spectrum to begin offering 3G
services across the country for the first time. America Movil
has 71 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone market, followed by
Madrid-based Telefonica with 21 percent, Grupo Iusacell SA with
4.4 percent and NII with 3.6 percent.  
 The 1.7 gigahertz auction raised 5.25 billion pesos. That
doesn’t include 36.3 billion pesos in annual fees the winners
must pay over two decades, according to rules set by Congress.  
 There is a risk that the telecommunications agency could
decide not to award NII the airwaves it won,  Andres Coello , an
analyst at BBVA Bancomer SA in Mexico City, said in a research
note today. That’s because NII was the only bidder for the 30-
megahertz swath, meaning it would obtain spectrum more cheaply
than its rivals, Coello said.  
 NII ’s bid for the spectrum was 180.3 million pesos, the
minimum required. An additional 30 megahertz of airwaves, split
among nine regions of the country, raised 5.07 billion pesos.
The final third of the available spectrum went without bids
because no participant was qualified under the spectrum limit.  
 Including the annual payments required by Congress, NII
will pay 18.3 billion pesos over 20 years if the government
awards the company the airwaves. The winners of the other 30
megahertz sold in the auction would pay 23.2 billion in the same
two-decade span.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        