-- Telmex Profit Falls 40% as Land-Line Phone Clients Defect to Mobile, Cable
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-21T15:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/telmex-second-quarter-profit-falls-as-land-line-customers-defect-to-mobile.html

          
          
             Telefonos de Mexico SAB , the
nation’s largest land-line phone company, said second-quarter
profit fell 40 percent as clients switched to mobile services or
cable providers’ voice plans.  
 Net income dropped to 3.57 billion pesos ($280 million), or
20 centavos a share, from 5.92 billion pesos, or 32 centavos, a
year earlier, Mexico City-based Telmex said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. Sales slipped 4.6 percent to 28.4 billion
pesos, below the estimate of 29.1 billion pesos by  Gregorio Tomassi , an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Mexico City.  
 Telmex, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is doubling
the top speed of its Internet service for home users to keep
customers from switching to cable companies such as Grupo
Televisa SA’s Cablevision unit. Telmex added 183,000 high-speed
Internet subscriptions in the period, the fewest in four years.  
 “This was very bad,” said  Martin Lara , an analyst with
Itau Securities in Mexico City, who had forecast 300,000 high-
speed Internet additions. “They need more broadband Internet
users to compensate partially for the loss of traditional voice
clients.” He predicts Telmex shares will underperform the
broader market.  
 The company lost 67,000 land-line accounts in the second
quarter, ending the period with 15.7 million subscribers. It had
6.95 million high-speed Internet customers at the end of June.  
 Telmex fell 12 centavos, or 1.3 percent, to 9.17 pesos at
11:44 a.m. New York time in Mexico City trading.  The shares  had
dropped 15 percent this year before today.  
 Slowing Growth  
 The company is seeking to increase demand for high-speed
Internet by selling computers on installment plans and investing
in digital-education projects, Chief Financial Officer  Adolfo Cerezo  said today on a conference call.  
 “The good news is, there is room for growth,” he said.
“The bad news is, it won’t be as fast as it was in the past.”  
 Excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
profit fell 13 percent from a year earlier to 11.3 billion
pesos, 6 percent below Lara’s forecast. Net income declined in
part because of higher interest expenses and a smaller foreign-
exchange gain than a year earlier.  
 Telmex has seen evidence that Mexico’s economy is beginning
to strengthen, Cerezo said.  
 “There are signs of economic recovery in some areas of the
local market,” he said. “The markets here and in other
financial centers remain unsettled, and this is likely to remain
the case until these signs of economic recovery settle into a
more stable and predictable pattern.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        