-- Temasek's First Sterling Bond Sale Oversubscribed on U.K. Investor Demand
-- Shelley Smith
-- 2010-07-20T02:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/temasek-s-first-sterling-bond-sale-oversubscribed-on-u-k-investor-demand.html

          
          
             Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s
state investment company, said investors bid for more than it
offered in its first sale of sterling-denominated bonds.  
 Temasek priced 500 million pounds ($762 million) of 5.125
percent bonds due in 2040 to yield 90 basis points more than
similar-maturity U.K. gilts, and 200 million pounds of 12-year,
4.625 percent notes at a 95 basis-point spread, it said in a
stock market filing today.  
 The oversubscribed sale was “in response to enquiries from
U.K.-based institutional investors about long-dated, high-grade
sterling bonds,” Treasury Head  Alyssa Ong  said in the filing.
Buyers bid for double the securities on offer, said a person
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified.  
 Investors speculating that inflation won’t spur central
banks to raise interest rates are buying longer-term corporate
bonds at the fastest pace in more than three months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies issued $14.6 billion of
notes due in 10 years or more last week, the most since the
period ended March 26.  
 Sterling bond sales halved to 53 billion pounds this year
from 106 billion pounds in the same period of 2009, when
borrowers rushed to sell notes as bank lending froze, Bloomberg
data show.  
 “The sterling market will welcome this new sale as there
hasn’t been a huge amount of issuance in this sector and it’s
always good to see a different type of issuer,”  Benjamin Bennett , a credit strategist at Legal & General Investment
Management, said in a phone interview from London yesterday.  
 U.K. Assets  
 Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UBS AG managed Temasek’s sale, which is part of
the company’s $10 billion medium-term note program, according to
today’s statement. Proceeds will be used by Temasek and its
units “to fund their ordinary course of business,” the
statement shows.  
 “Temasek typically don’t reveal much about their
operations,”  Brayan Lai , a credit analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview. “It’s highly
likely they went for sterling-denominated bonds because they
either have, or are taking on, U.K. assets which require long-
term funding. This would be a natural hedge for them.”  
 Temasek owns about 18 percent of London-based Standard
Chartered Plc, according to its annual report. Founded in 1974
to foster development of the island’s banks, airlines and ports,
it owns shares of Singapore’s biggest bank and its largest
telephone company.  
 Temasek is  rated AAA , the highest investment-grade ranking,
by Standard & Poor’s and an equivalent Aaa by Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        