-- Embraer Trumps Bombardier With $1.9 Billion of Jet Orders at U.K. Airshow
-- Joanna Starritt
-- 2010-07-20T20:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/embraer-wins-a-1-3-billion-order-for-35-aircraft-from-u-k-carrier-flybe.html

          
          
             Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica
SA , the world’s fourth-largest planemaker, won orders for 50
regional jets worth almost $1.9 billion at list prices, trumping
larger competitor  Bombardier Inc.   
 Flybe, Britain’s biggest domestic airline, purchased 35 88-
seat Embraer 175 planes worth $1.3 billion, while  Steven Udvar- Hazy ’s Air Lease Corp. said at England’s Farnborough Air Show
that it would buy 15 larger E190 jets valued at $600 million.  
 “We’ve come through the recession on a profitable basis
and we’ve spoken to the manufacturers and decided now is the
time to expand the business,” Flybe Chief Executive Officer  Jim French  said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “This is an
ideal time to negotiate really good discount deals.”  
 Including contracts announced yesterday, Embraer has won 55
orders at the air show compared with 9 for Bombardier, which
failed to unveil a new buyer for its CSeries jet at the event.
Bombardier had a CSeries deal with Qatar Airways Ltd. snag on
issues concerning engine maker Pratt & Whitney.  
 The Embraer planes ordered by Air Lease take the number of
contracts placed by the company in Farnborough to 66, with
commitments likely for 50 more, according to people familiar
with the situation. Exeter, England-based Flybe has options to
buy a further 65 Embraer aircraft valued at $2.3 billion,
together with so-called purchase rights for another 40.  
 Embraer  rose 59 centavos, or 6.1 percent, to 10.20 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 4:04 p.m. New York time for the biggest
gain since Dec. 11. Montreal-based  Bombardier  climbed 22 cents,
or 5 percent, to C$4.65 in Toronto, the largest advance since
April 29.  
 Brazil Orders  
 Embraer yesterday announced orders in Farnborough for five
120-seat 195 jets worth $211 million from Azul Linhas Aereas
Brasileiras, and one valued at $80 million for two 100-seat 190s
from Trip Linhas Aereas. Both carriers operate in Brazil, where
Sao Jose Dos Campos-based Embraer is based.  
 Bombardier, Embraer’s biggest rival in the regional jet
market and the No. 3 planemaker after  Airbus SAS  and  Boeing Co. ,
today won six business jet orders worth $277 million from Swiss
air-charter company VistaJet Holding SA.  
 The contract comprises four Global Express planes and two
Challenger 605s, VistaJet said in a statement.  
 Qatar Airways yesterday placed an order for two Bombardier
Global 5000 business jets and a single Challenger while failing
to sign a contract for the CSeries plane, which competes with
the single-aisle Boeing 737 and Airbus A320 types.  
 ‘Commercial Issues’  
 Qatar CEO  Akbar al-Baker  said an order was hung up on talks
on “commercial issues” with United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt.  
 Air Lease’s Embraer deal marks a departure for founder
Udvar-Hazy, who at International Lease Finance Corp. only ever
purchased Boeing and Airbus aircraft over a 37-year period. The
agreement also includes five options.  
 The Los Angeles-based lessor said on July 15 that it had
secured $3.3 billion in financing and had begun buying aircraft
with the aim of exceeding 100 planes by early next year.  
 Flybe’s deliveries, which start in September next year,
will extend the expansion of its network. The company on July 13
entered a code-sharing pact with  Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
biggest carrier, allowing it to sell tickets on five new
services to France, seven domestic French routes and 11
international flights in competition with British Airways Plc.  
 CEO French said Flybe will continue with a dual fleet
strategy under which it currently operates 14 Embraer 195 jets
and more than 50 Bombardier Q400 turboprop planes.  
 New Model  
 The airline also said it will be working with  Embraer  on a
design for an “evolution” of the manufacturer’s regional jets
that may be ready by 2017.  
 Flybe was founded in 1979 as Jersey European Airways, named
after the island in the English Channel to which it flew. The
company was renamed British European in 2000, taking its current
name two years later after switching to a lower-cost strategy.  
 Flybe, which is closely held, will seek to raise money
through a share sale “as and when the market recovers,” French
said, though the priority now is to integrate the new aircraft
into its fleet and expand the business.  
 “The airline is in great shape, the stock market is not,”
French said. “At the right time we will go to the market.”  
 About 69 percent of Flybe is owned by the family trust of
the late steel tycoon  Jack Walker , with employees holding 16
percent. British Airways controls a 15 percent stake after
selling its BA Connect regional unit to the company in 2006.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Joanna Starritt  in Farnborough, England, via 
 jstarritt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jim French, chief executive officer of Flybe Ltd., reacts at a news conference on the second day of the Farnborough International Airshow. Photograher: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jim French, chief executive officer at Flybe Ltd., talks about the U.K. domestic airline's order for 35 regional jets from Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA and the strategy to expand its network overseas.
     He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
