-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for First Time in Four Days on China, India
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-20T21:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/emerging-market-stocks-rise-first-time-in-four-days-on-china-micex-falls.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days as investors speculated China may relax
efforts to cool its economy, offsetting lower-than-estimated
revenue at U.S. companies from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
Johnson & Johnson.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.9 percent to
953.68 at 4:36 p.m. in New York. The 21-country gauge rose even
as second-quarter results from Goldman Sachs and J&J, the
world’s largest health-products company, heightened concern the
global profit recovery may stall.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  surged 2.2 percent after
International Strategy & Investment Group said China will ease
policies that were aimed at curbing real-estate speculation and
Morgan Stanley predicted the government may raise its loan
targets. The South Korean won gained 0.8 percent versus the
dollar and the Malaysian ringgit rose 0.5 percent after the
Asian Development Bank urged the region’s economies to allow
currency gains.  
 “For now, we remain in the bullish camp,” said  Audrey Kaplan , the New York-based lead manager of the $695 million
Federated InterContinental Fund, which holds almost half its
assets in emerging markets. “We are still entering a fifth
consecutive quarter of recovery.”  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-biggest publicly
traded developer by market value, advanced 2.9 percent. China
Vanke Co., the largest, gained 0.9 percent.  
 Relaxing Restrictions  
 China will “back away” from its tightening policies in
the housing market within three months as the economy faces a
bigger risk from a slowdown than inflation, according to  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director for China research at ISI.
The curbs introduced in April have “totally demoralized both
home buyers and developers with no promise of lasting
benefits,” Straszheim wrote in a note to clients.  
 Chinese stocks are among the world’s worst performers this
year, with the Shanghai Composite Index down 23 percent after
the government introduced curbs ranging from a ban on third-home
mortgages to higher down payments for second homes. Economic
expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter, while
property prices fell in June from the previous month, data
released last week showed.  
 “The Chinese government has more reason to ease lending
and property curbs after China showed possible signs of slower
growth for the economy,” said  Steve Tse , a research manager of
BEA Union Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 Brazil’s benchmark stock index, the  Bovespa , rose 1.8
percent to 64,462.50.  
 Brazil  
 MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA , Brazil’s fifth-biggest
homebuilder, tumbled after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the
stock and said investors are underestimating the risk of a
slowdown in government housing aid.  Empresa Brasileira de
Aeronautica SA , the world’s fourth-largest planemaker, jumped
6.1 percent after winning $1.9 billion in orders.  
 Brazil’s consumer prices unexpectedly fell in the month
through mid-July. Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15
index dropped 0.09 percent in the June 15-July 13 period, the
first monthly deflation in four years, the national statistics
agency said today.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points to 3.05
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  
 Hungary sold 35 billion forint ($156.9 million) of three-
month Treasury bills at its first debt auction since
international creditors suspended talks with the government July
17, falling short of the 45 billion forint planned, according to
the debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  
 Bids at the weekly auction totaled 52.5 billion forint. The
average yield climbed to 5.47 percent, the highest since March
2, from 5.28 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        