-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise First Time in Four Days on China; Micex Falls
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-20T15:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/emerging-market-stocks-rise-first-time-in-4-days-on-china-policy-india.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days as investors speculated China may relax
efforts to cool its economy, offsetting lower-than-estimated
revenue at U.S. companies from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
Johnson & Johnson.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 0.7 percent to
951.38 at 10:59 a.m. in New York. The 21-country gauge pared a
0.8 percent rally after second-quarter results from Goldman
Sachs and J&J, the world’s largest health-products company,
heightened concern the global profit recovery may stall.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  surged 2.2 percent after
International Strategy & Investment Group said China will ease
policies that were aimed at curbing real-estate speculation and
Morgan Stanley predicted the government may raise its loan
targets. The South Korean won gained 0.8 percent versus the
dollar and the Malaysian ringgit rose 0.5 percent after the
Asian Development Bank urged the region’s economies to allow
currency gains.  
 “For now, we remain in the bullish camp,” said  Audrey Kaplan , the New York-based lead manager of the $695 million
Federated InterContinental Fund, which holds almost half its
assets in emerging markets. “We are still entering a fifth
consecutive quarter of recovery.”  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-biggest publicly
traded developer by market value, advanced 2.9 percent. China
Vanke Co., the largest, gained 0.9 percent.  
 Relaxing Restrictions  
 China will “back away” from its tightening policies in
the housing market within three months as the economy faces a
bigger risk from a slowdown than inflation, according to  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director for China research at ISI.
The curbs introduced in April have “totally demoralized both
home buyers and developers with no promise of lasting
benefits,” Straszheim wrote in a note to clients.  
 Chinese stocks are among the world’s worst performers this
year, with the Shanghai Composite Index down 23 percent after
the government introduced curbs ranging from a ban on third-home
mortgages to higher down payments for second homes. Economic
expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter, while
property prices fell in June from the previous month, data
released last week showed.  
 “The Chinese government has more reason to ease lending
and property curbs after China showed possible signs of slower
growth for the economy,” said  Steve Tse , a research manager of
BEA Union Investment Management Ltd. in Hong Kong.  
 Russia’s Micex index dropped 0.6 percent, paced by crude
producer OAO Rosneft. Crude oil for August delivery fell as much
as 89 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $75.65 a barrel in New York.  
 Extra Yield  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 3.10
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index. The so-called yield spread for Hungary jumped 31 basis
points to 373, the highest level in more than a month, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  
 Hungary sold 35 billion forint ($156.9 million) of three-
month Treasury bills at its first debt auction since
international creditors suspended talks with the government July
17, falling short of the 45 billion forint planned, according to
the debt management agency’s Bloomberg page.  
 Bids at the weekly auction totaled 52.5 billion forint. The
average yield climbed to 5.47 percent, the highest since March
2, from 5.28 percent.  
 Brazil’s benchmark stock index, the  Bovespa , rose 0.9
percent. The index of 65 companies rose 556.512 to 63,853.55.  
 MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA , Brazil’s fifth-biggest
homebuilder, tumbled after Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the
stock and said investors are underestimating the risk of a
slowdown in government housing aid.  Empresa Brasileira de
Aeronautica SA , the world’s fourth-largest planemaker, jumped as
much as 5.9 percent after winning $1.9 billion in orders.  
 The Bovespa rose the most in a week yesterday on
speculation companies will report second-quarter profit growth
and as rising commodities prices boosted producers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
