-- Emirates Plans to Equip 90 A380 Planes for Wi-Fi, Phone Calls, Web Surfing
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-20T09:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/emirates-plans-to-equip-90-a380-planes-for-wi-fi-phone-calls-web-surfing.html

          
          
             Emirates, the biggest international
airline, will equip all 90 Airbus SAS A380s it has on order with
Wi-Fi networks allowing passengers to make mobile phone calls,
download data and browse the Internet during flights.  
 Emirates, which has taken delivery of 11 superjumbos, will
make the paid-for service available in June 2012 under an
agreement with Geneva-based  OnAir NV . The technology will permit
the use of devices including laptop computers, Apple Inc.
iPhones and Research In Motion Ltd. BlackBerry smartphones.  
 The Persian Gulf carrier’s order is the biggest contract
yet for a combination of in-flight voice and data telephony and
could lead to more orders from the 555-seat Airbus model, OnAir
Chief Executive Officer  Ian Dawkins  said today in an interview.  
 “We’re talking with everyone else who’s got an A380,”
Dawkins said. “I think Emirates is key for us because it’ll
help it become the standard for the A380 and also hopefully
start moving into other long-haul fleets.”  
 Singapore Airlines Ltd., Air France-KLM Group, Deutsche
Lufthansa AG and Qantas Airways Ltd. all operate A380s and
carriers including Korean Air Lines Co. and China Southern
Airlines Co. have ordered the double-decker plane.  
 OnAir’s 25 existing customers include British Airways Plc,
which offers the complete package of voice and data on a single
business-only route between London City airport and New York.
Dawkins said about 20 percent of passengers use the service and
that a similar level should be achievable with Emirates.  
 OnAir and the Dubai-based airline will share revenue from
the service. Airbus owns 30 percent of OnAir, with the other 70
percent owned by SITA, the world’s biggest provider of air
transport-related applications and communications.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        