-- Epson Will Pay $7 Million to Settle Class Action by Direct Buyers of LCDs
-- Joel Rosenblatt
-- 2010-07-21T01:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/epson-settles-class-action-by-direct-purchasers-of-liquid-crystal-displays.html

          
          
             Seiko Epson Corp.  agreed to pay
$7 million to settle a class-action antitrust lawsuit with
direct purchasers of liquid-crystal displays, according to a
court filing.  
 Two units of Nagano, Japan-based  Seiko Epson , Epson Imaging
Devices Corp. and Epson Electronics America Inc., were accused
in the suit of price fixing. They filed a notice of the
settlement in federal court in San Francisco today.  
 The companies previously agreed to pay $5 million to settle
a class action filed by indirect LCD purchasers,  Stephen Freccero , a lawyer for the units said in a phone interview.  
 Today’s settlement doesn’t include ongoing lawsuits filed
by direct purchasers including  Dell Inc. , Motorola Inc. and
Nokia Oyj, which aren’t part of the class action, Freccero said.
Both settlements require final court approval, he said.  
 In March, customers of the Seiko Epson units,  Samsung
Electronics Co. ,  Sharp Corp.  and other flat-screen makers were
cleared to sue the manufacturers as a group, increasing
financial risks for the industry.  
 Since 2008, six LCD makers have pleaded guilty and been
fined more than $860 million in a criminal investigation in the
U.S., while European regulators are probing the industry.  
 Sharp ,  LG Display Co. ,  Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd. , Hitachi
Displays Ltd.,  Epson Imaging Devices Corp.  and  Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp.  have pleaded guilty in the U.S.
investigation. Epson pleaded guilty in August and agreed to pay
a $26 million fine.  
 Richard Heimann , a lawyer representing the direct
purchasers, didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment
today.  
 The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-1827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        