-- Hermes Raises 2010 Sales Growth Forecast, Expects Higher Operating Profit
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-20T17:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/hermes-international-increases-its-2010-sales-growth-forecast-to-10-12-.html

          
          
             Hermes International SCA , the French
maker of luxury handbags and silk scarves, raised its 2010
revenue forecast after second-quarter sales increased faster
than analysts estimated on demand in Asia.  
 Full-year revenue may grow as much as 12 percent, excluding
currency swings, Paris-based Hermes said today. The 173-year-old
company in March forecast revenue would gain at least 5 percent.  
 Demand for luxury goods is accelerating as Chinese shoppers
buy more high-end clothing and accessories, and U.S. and
European retailers replenish inventories after the recession.
Hermes sales gained 23 percent in the first half and the company
said operating profit rose at a faster pace, helped by growth in
high-margin products such as textiles, leather wear and watches.  
 “The second-quarter was quite significantly better than I
had expected,” said  Dennis Weber , an analyst at Evolution
Securities in London. “The surprise was driven by a better-
than-expected performance in Hermes’s own store network, which
showed underlying growth of 20 percent,” he said.  
 Hermes gained 4.15 euros, or 3.6 percent, to 118.95 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Paris. The stock has risen
27 percent this year, giving the company a market value of
12.6 billion euros ($16.2 billion).  
 Second-quarter sales rose 27 percent to 567 million euros,
compared with the 533.3 million-euro average  estimate  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The maker of Birkin and Kelly
bags reports first-half results on Aug. 31.  
 Wider Margins  
 Over the year, the operating margin is expected to widen by
at least 1 percentage point compared with 2009, depending on
currencies, Hermes said.  
 “The margin increase is coming partly from the currency
and partly from the product mix,” Chief Executive Officer
 Patrick Thomas  said in a phone interview.  
 The pace of sales growth in the first six months won’t be
sustained in the second half, Hermes said in the statement. The
second quarter was beyond expectations, leading to the higher
full-year sales growth target, the company said. The target
doesn’t take into account economic factors that could
significantly alter the business environment, Hermes also said.  
 That Hermes cannot sustain the first-half growth over the
year “is not at all disappointing,” said  Antoine Belge , an
analyst at HSBC in Paris, who has a “neutral” rating on the
shares. “It’s still very robust.”  
 Silk Ties  
 Second-quarter revenue jumped 57 percent in Asia, excluding
Japan, where sales gained 10 percent, Hermes said. Sales
increased 20 percent in Europe and 36 percent in the Americas.
Hermes plans to open or renovate about 20 stores this year,
including a new boutique on Rue de Sevres in Paris.  
 Sales of leather goods increased 32 percent, while revenue
from silk ties and scarves gained 24 percent, Hermes said.
Apparel sales climbed 26 percent. Revenue rose 36 percent for
watches and 17 percent for perfumes. Sales of both product lines
were hurt last year as third-party distributors ran down
inventories. Tableware sales slipped 2.2 percent.  
 Sales of apparel, accessories, fragrances and watches will
probably recover this year, particularly in the company’s own
stores, CEO Thomas said in March. Leather items as a percentage
of sales will fall to 45 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        