-- Tessenderlo, FMC Among Feed Makers Fined $226 Million for European Cartel
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-20T18:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/tessenderlo-fmc-among-feed-makers-fined-226-million-for-european-cartel.html

          
          
             Tessenderlo Chemie NV , the world’s
third-biggest maker of animal-feed phosphates,  FMC Corp.  and
Ercros SA are among companies fined a total of 175.6 million
euros ($227 million) by the European Union’s antitrust agency
for fixing the prices of an animal-feed chemical.  
 Yara International ASA , the largest publicly traded
nitrogen-fertilizer maker, and  Kemira Oyj  received immunity from
a fine, the European Commission said today. All companies,
except French company Timab, a unit of Groupe Roullier, agreed
to the fines as part of a settlement, said the commission.  
 “I am again surprised that the main producers of a vital
compound for animal feed abused a substantial part of the
European animal-feed market for nearly 35 years,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s antitrust commissioner, said in a statement
today. “While companies that cooperate with the commission”
can get a reduced fine, “there should be no doubt about our
determination to unearth and punish cartel members.”  
 The settlement is the second between companies and the
commission after  Infineon Technologies AG  and eight other
chipmakers in May agreed to a total of 331.2 million euros to
end a price-fixing probe. Timab was the only company that
“decided to discontinue the settlement proceedings,” said the
commission.  
 Tessenderlo, based in Brussels, got the biggest fine of
83.8 million euros, followed by a 59.9 million-euro penalty for
Timab. Ercros was fined 14.9 million euros and FMC got 14.4
million euros.  
 Tessenderlo Provision  
 Tessenderlo, which set aside 97 million euros to cover the
fine, will reverse what remains of the provision in its second-
quarter income statement, said  Geert Dusar , a spokeswoman for
Tessenderlo in Brussels. “That will add about 13 million euros
to profit,” she said. “The  cash  payments we have to make are
spread equally over a three-year period.”  
 FMC is “pleased” about the agreement with the commission,
the Philadelphia-based company said in an e-mail.  
 “This is a matter involving activity by former FMC
employees dating back many years and all of those employees have
since left the company,” FMC said. “Total sales for animal-
feed phosphates in the European market represent a very small
portion of FMC’s European business.”  
 FMC in a Nov. 4 U.S. regulatory filing said it has made a
$21 million provision to reflect its “best estimation” of the
amount needed to resolve the case.  
 Colluding  
 Animal feed phosphates weren’t yet part of Yara’s business
at the time of the colluding, the company said. Yara bought
Kemira GrowHow Oyj in September 2007. Kemira, based in Helsinki,
Finland, is the world’s second-biggest maker of chemicals used
in papermaking.  
 Kemira had approached the commission to signal its
willingness to cooperate four years before Yara’s acquisition of
the Kemira unit, said Yara spokesman Asle Skredderberget by
telephone.  
 “The illegal activity had therefore come to an end before
Yara acquired Kemira GrowHow in 2007, and it has been important
for us to do our utmost to continue to assist the European
Commission in their efforts to investigate,” said
Skredderberget, welcoming the decision not to fine the company.  
 “We have been cooperating from the beginning of the
investigation so this was expected,” Klaus Korhonen, director
of legal at Kemira, said about the company’s immunity from a
penalty.  
 Conchita Orti, a spokeswoman for Barcelona-based Ercros,
declined to comment. Spokespeople for family-owned Groupe
Roullier couldn’t immediately be reached for a comment.  
 Joint-Fine  
 Portuguese companies Jose de Mello SGPS SA and
Quimitecnica.com - Comercio e Industria Quimica SA were given a
joint 2.8 million-euro fine.  
 Jose de Mello said in an e-mailed statement that it sold
Quimitecnica.com in 2008. It said it had an “attitude of active
collaboration” toward the commission’s investigation and will
comply with the outcome. No one was immediately available to
comment at Quimitecnica.com, based near Lisbon.  
 Under EU  rules , the Brussels-based commission sends
statements of objections as one of the final measures before
reaching a settlement. All companies that agree to settlement
terms receive a 10 percent reduction in the fine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        