-- EU Agrees to Pay $257 Million Loan Installment to Latvia Following Review
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-07-20T13:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/eu-agrees-to-pay-257-million-loan-installment-to-latvia-following-review.html

          
          
             The European Commission agreed to
pay Latvia 200 million euros ($257.3 million) in September
following the third review of its international loan program.  
 “The program is on track, financial conditions have
largely stabilized and the economic situation is showing signs
of improvement,” said  Olli Rehn , economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The Baltic nation’s  economy  is rebounding from last year’s
18 percent slump as manufacturing and  exports  advance. Output
expanded a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent in the first three
months, the first quarterly growth in 2 years.  
 Latvia, which required an international loan to avoid
bankruptcy last year, has reserves equal to about 10 percent of
gross domestic product, said Jevgenija Jalovecka, director of
the treasury’s financial planning department, in an interview
with  Latvijas Radio  today.  
 The government must take measures equal to as much as 440
million lati ($725.7 million) to bring down the budget deficit
to about 6 percent of GDP in 2011, Rehn said in the statement.  
 The country’s supplemental memorandum of understanding,
which will be released on July 22, “puts strong emphasis on
steps to improve the business environment, competitiveness,
public procurement, public sector efficiency, EU funds
absorption and other elements important for Latvia’s economy to
be efficient and competitive,” Rehn said.  
 The commission is providing the biggest share of the 7.5
billion-euro loan. The International Monetary Fund may hold a
meeting on paying about 100 million euros of its share tomorrow,
Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  said on July 12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        