-- European Union Carbon Poised to Rise on Stochastic Low: Technical Analysis
-- Catherine Airlie
-- 2010-07-21T10:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/eu-carbon-permits-set-for-rebound-after-stochastic-low-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             European Union carbon permits have
broken out of a downtrend and are poised for a rebound after
prices fell too fast, according to technical signals.  
 Losses in EU emissions permits for December delivery may be
limited as technical charts that some traders use to predict
price movements signal this month’s 7.2 percent drop was an
overreaction.  
 The EU permits’ 14-day slow stochastic oscillators crossed
over last week and the lower one was at 19.13 percent at 11:15
a.m. in London, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A level
below 20 suggests the contract may have fallen too fast. A slow
oscillator measures the closing price of a security relative to
its highs and lows during a particular period to try to predict
whether it will rise or fall.  
 “The stochastic level is one of the bullish signals,”
Carine Hemery, a Paris-based analyst at Orbeo, a carbon venture
between Societe Generale SA and Rhodia SA, said yesterday. “The
fact the two indicators crossed could be interpreted as a buying
signal.”  
 In technical analysis, investors study charts of trading
patterns to predict changes in prices. A stochastic chart
measures the closing price of a security relative to its highs
and lows during a particular period to try to predict its
direction.  
 A stochastic chart signals prices may rise when its “k-
line,” based on a formula that uses the highest and lowest
prices in a set period, climbs above its own moving average, or
“d-line.”  
 ‘Moderately Bullish’  
 “We remain moderately bullish” Orbeo said in an e-mailed
technical analysis today. “We expect the bullish trend to be
confirmed.”  
 EU emissions permits are trading above a so-called down
channel for the fourth day, Orbeo said. Prices may rise to 14.70
euros ($18.84) a metric ton, Orbeo said July 19. EU permits for
December slipped 8 cents, or 0.6 percent, to 14.15 euros a
metric ton at 11:27 a.m. in London.  
 Prices had been under pressure since July 6, and the
contract traded yesterday above its 100-day moving average for
the first time in a week. Moving average charts don’t yet
provide a buying signal, Orbeo said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        