-- Most European Stocks Drop as Cable & Wireless Plunges; Mining Stocks Rally
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-20T16:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/european-stock-index-futures-advance-ryanair-shares-may-rise-on-earnings.html

          
          
             Most European stocks declined after
Hungary raised less than planned in a debt sale and U.S.
companies reported revenue that missed analysts’ estimates,
overshadowing a rally in  mining  shares.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc slumped 17 percent after
saying profit will be at the lower end of forecasts as the U.K.
government cuts spending. Daimler AG retreated as Morgan Stanley
rated the stock “underweight.” Rio Tinto Group and BHP
Billiton Ltd. led a surge in mining shares as metals advanced.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.1 percent to 246.35 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, even as two shares fell for every
one that rose. The gauge declined as much as 1.1 percent earlier
today as the Hungarian government raised 10 billion forint
($44.5 million) less than was planned at a sale of Treasury
bills, reigniting concern that Europe’s governments will
struggle to finance their debt.  
 “Everybody is cutting their budget deficits at the same
time and nobody actually knows how this will play out for the
economy,” said  Philippe Gijsels , head of research at BNP
Paribas Fortis Global Markets in Brussels. “It will be a very
hard and painful exercise. Everybody knows the economy is going
to slow down quite severely in the second half of this year.”  
 Losing Steam  
 The Stoxx 600 has fallen 9.5 percent from this year’s high
in April on concern that the global recovery is losing steam as
indebted European governments slash spending and China takes
steps to cool growth.  
 In the U.S., I nternational Business Machines Corp.  and
Texas Instruments Inc. reported sales that missed forecasts and
Johnson & Johnson lowered its forecast for the current fiscal
year. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported second-quarter revenue
of $8.84 billion, missing analysts’ estimates of $8.94 billion.  
 Of the 42 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
reported since July 12, all but nine beat earnings-per-share
forecasts, according to  Bloomberg data . While second-quarter net
income has topped analysts’ projections by 13 percent on
average, revenue has been only 3.3 percent more than estimated,
Bloomberg data show.  
 U.S.  housing starts  fell in June to the lowest level since
October as a slump in sales following the expiration of a
government tax incentive caused U.S. builders to cut back.  
 Work began on 549,000 houses last month, fewer than
forecast by the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 5 percent from May, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  
 U.K. Deficit  
 Britain’s Office for National Statistics said the U.K.’s
budget deficit narrowed in June, while the 14.5 billion-pound
($22 billion) shortfall was above the 13 billion-pound median
forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 National benchmarks declined in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.2 percent,
France’s CAC 40 tumbled 0.5 percent and Germany’s DAX slid 0.7
percent.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide slumped 17 percent to 69 pence,
the lowest close since March. The company said it now expects
“somewhat slower growth” in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, “with our forecast now around
the lower end of the range of expectations.”  
 Discretionary government spending has “slowed very
significantly,” the company said in a statement today.  
 Daimler, Infineon  
 TeliaSonera AB , Sweden’s largest telephone company, lost
1.7 percent to 52.10 kronor. The company said second-quarter net
sales fell 1.7 percent.  
 Daimler lost 2.8 percent to 41.42 euros as Morgan Stanley
rated the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars
“underweight” in assumed coverage. European carmakers posted
the worst performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600
today, falling 1.8 percent.  
 Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker, tumbled 1.2 percent to 4.87 euros. Texas
Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, said after
trading hours yesterday that second-quarter profit rose to 62
cents a share from 20 cents a year earlier. Sales increased 42
percent to $3.5 billion. Analysts had estimated profit of 63
cents a share and sales of $3.52 billion, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Replace CEO  
 Rio Tinto and BHP jumped 4.1 percent to 3,173 pence and 3.1
percent to 1,872 pence, respectively, as European basic-resource
shares posted the biggest gain among 19 industry groups in the
Stoxx 600.  
 Copper prices jumped the most in a week after a gain in
U.S. building permits boosted the demand outlook for the metal
used in electrical wiring and plumbing. Lead, nickel, tin and
zinc also rose on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Nokia  Oyj jumped 2.2 percent to 6.92 euros after the Wall
Street Journal reported the company is looking to replace Chief
Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo . “We do not comment on
market speculation or rumors,” Nokia corporate communications
chief  Arja Suominen  said in a telephone interview today.  
 Hermes International SCA raised its 2010 sales growth
target to between 10 percent and 12 percent from a previous
forecast of at least 5 percent. The shares climbed 3.6 percent
to 118.95 euros.  
 Banco Santander SA  rallied 2.1 percent to 9.80 euros, the
first advance in five days. HSBC Holdings Plc raised its share-
price estimate for Spain’s biggest bank to 10.30 euros from 8.20
euros previously, saying the risk of a downgrade of Spanish debt
by rating agencies has decreased.  
 Stress Tests  
 Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said all the Spanish
banks that underwent European Union stress tests passed, El Pais
reported. Salgado’s comments were taken out of context, her
spokeswoman said. The minister was not revealing any results of
stress tests on Spanish banks, said the spokeswoman, who
declined to be named in line with policy.  
   Husqvarna AB , the world’s largest garden power-equipment
company, surged 11 percent to 51.50 kronor, the biggest gain on
the Stoxx 600, after reporting profit that beat analysts’
estimates on recovering demand in Europe.  
 Alfa Laval AB , the world’s largest maker of heat
exchangers, rose 6.2 percent to 109 kronor, the biggest gain in
in more than a year, after second-quarter profit beat analysts’
estimates.  
 Edenred, the former voucher-service unit of hotelier Accor
SA, gained 5.2 percent to 14 euros after the company said first-
half revenue rose, helped by business in South America, and that
volume growth is meeting the company’s targets.  
 On Europe’s Stoxx 600, 25 companies of the 32 that have
reported sales since July 12 have beaten estimates, Bloomberg
data  show .  
 “Europe is a much more interesting area for investors
right now,”  James Bevan , the chief investment officer at CCLA
Investment Management said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Everybody has been gloomy about Europe. The challenge of the
euro and fiscal consolidation look overdone relative to the
fundamentals of many great companies across Europe.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- James Bevan, chief investment officer at CCLA Investment Management Ltd., talks about the outlook for European, U.S. and Japanese equities. 
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown" with Maryam Nemazee.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for global stocks. 
     Orlando, speaking from New York, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
