-- European Union Appeals WTO's Ruling That Some Aid to Airbus Was Illegal
-- Jennifer M. Freedman
-- 2010-07-21T08:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/european-union-will-appeal-wto-ruling-that-some-aid-to-airbus-was-illegal.html

          
          
             The European Union appealed a World
Trade Organization ruling that Airbus SAS got illegal subsidies
from European governments to build some aircraft.  
 WTO judges said on June 30 that Airbus, a unit of  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , benefited from the support of
European governments, with money for the A380 jumbo topping the
list of violations. Judges agreed with the U.S. and Boeing Co.
that loans by European governments constituted unfair aid and
that in the case of the A380, the assistance constituted the
strongest violation, because interest rates on loans were too
low and the support was linked to export performance.  
 “This dispute is too important to allow the legal
misinterpretations of the panel to go unchallenged,” EU Trade
Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  said in a statement from Brussels.
“Not appealing would allow for an unhelpful precedent for the
WTO membership as a whole.”  
 Boeing , which lost its industry lead to Toulouse, France-
based Airbus in 2003, hailed the WTO ruling as a “sweeping
legal victory” and said the verdict called for Airbus to repay
$4 billion in illegal launch aid for the A380. Airbus said that
statement was “deliberately misleading” and “wrong.”  
 The appeal covers the major panel findings, including its
ruling that certain instances of repayable launch aid granted by
Germany, Spain and the U.K. for the A380 were export subsidies.
The 27-nation bloc is also challenging the judges’ finding that
all 21 instances of launch aid granted to Airbus were subsidies
because the interest rates were below market rates.  
 ‘Squarely Behind’ EU  
 The EU is further appealing the panel’s ruling that
infrastructure provided in Hamburg and Bremen in Germany and
Toulouse as well as several equity infusions by the French
government, were subsidies. The bloc is also asking appellate
judges to reject the initial panel’s conclusion that the Airbus
support had adverse effects on Chicago-based Boeing.  
 Britain, Germany, Spain and France “stand squarely behind
the EU,” U.K. Business Minister  Mark Prisk  said on July 19
after meeting with French, Spanish and German counterparts at
the Farnborough Air Show in southern England. “We know the
commission will robustly appeal the findings in the case against
the EU.”  
 WTO judges are set to issue their preliminary report on the
EU’s complaint about U.S. government subsidies to Boeing in
September. The report is confidential.  
 “The gap between the cases makes it difficult to reach a
negotiated settlement, but we feel that once we finally see the
case against U.S. subsidies and tax breaks, we will look forward
to agreeing a mandate and assisting the commission on pursuing
negotiations at the right moment with the U.S.,” Prisk said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        