-- Ex-SSGA Manager Wu, Citigroup Strategist Said to Start China Hedge Fund
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-07-20T04:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/ex-ssga-manager-wu-citigroup-strategist-said-to-start-china-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             Trivest Advisors Ltd., led by former
State Street Global Advisors Inc. fund manager  Wu Huimin , raised
$93 million for its first hedge fund, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  
 The equity long-short fund, run by Wu and  Xue Lan , former
 Citigroup Inc.  head of China research, started trading on July 1
and will invest in Chinese stocks, said the people who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  
 Investors are seeking fund managers with experience in
China, who have worked for international firms and who can
articulate their strategies in English, one of the people said.
Funds that can control risks are in demand, another added.  
 “Trivest’s team brings direct Asian hedge-fund experience,
which may have provided an additional degree of comfort to
investors during the fundraising,” said  Charles Stucke , a
managing director at Chicago- and New York-based  Guggenheim
Partners LLC , whose advisory businesses supervise more than $50
billion in client assets.  
 Many investors have taken a wait-and-see approach toward
China-based managers, due to the emerging nature of the market
and lack of previous hedge-fund experience, he said. Most new
hedge-fund managers’ experience is confined to managing long-
only funds or research in the region, Stucke added.  
 Wu, Trivest’s chief investment officer, oversaw the  Dragon
Billion Greater China Fund  at Hong Kong’s Prime Capital
Management Co. Previously he was a Hong Kong-based fund manager
at State Street. He declined to comment.  
 The Dragon Billion hedge fund, whose assets peaked at $831
million in October 2007, returned 74 percent in 2006 and 41
percent in 2007 under his leadership, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compared with gains of 59 percent in 2006 and
56 percent in 2007 for the Eurekahedge Greater China Hedge Fund
Index.  
 Tough Competition  
 Xue resigned in April from Citigroup after seven years, an
unidentified spokeswoman for the U.S. bank said then. She was
head of Hong Kong and China research at Merrill Lynch & Co.
previously.  
 A third Trivest partner,  Sun Lu , was previously a China
analyst for Indus Capital Global Advisors, the people said. Sun
was a telecommunications analyst with Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. before joining Indus.  
 Startups are facing increasing competition for capital
after investors pulled $285.6 billion out of the industry in
2008 and 2009, cutting hedge fund assets globally to $1.6
trillion at the end of last year, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. Many established managers reopened
their funds to new investors after investment losses and
redemptions.  
 Seventy-five new Asian hedge fund startups raised an
average of $16.9 million at inception since 2009, according to
Eurekahedge Pte.  
 Trivest’s fund aims to return 15 percent to 20 percent
annually after fees by trading Chinese stocks. It will mostly
trade Chinese securities listed on international stock exchanges,
as well as some Chinese-listed shares, the people said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        