-- Texas Rangers Have Four Potential Bidders Other Than Nolan Ryan-Led Group
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-07-20T22:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/texas-rangers-have-four-potential-bidders-besides-ryan-group-court-told.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers have as many as
four potential bidders that may compete in an auction to buy the
baseball team besides a group led by Hall of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan , Chief Restructuring Officer  William Snyder  said.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  listened to testimony
today at a hearing in Fort Worth, Texas, and will decide later
whether to revise the schedule under which the team will be sold
at an auction currently planned for Aug. 4. The hearing will
continue July 22.  
 “The bidding procedures do not provide sufficient time for
potential bidders to be able to participate meaningfully in the
sale process and are too skewed to the advantage” of the Ryan
group, lawyers for lenders said in July 15 court papers urging
Lynn to delay the auction.  
 Houston businessman  Jim Crane , who unsuccessfully bid for
the team before its bankruptcy, is one of the potential bidders,
Snyder said. Dallas businessman Jeff Beck is another. The
remaining two haven’t been disclosed. Snyder said the
unidentified bidders have done very limited work, and one has
only made two phone calls regarding the sale.  
 The unidentified bidders thus could be “a ghost that may
or may not appear before us,” the judge said.  
 Crane was working on an agreement to be the stalking horse,
or lead bidder, for the auction and made a specific bid in
preliminary drafts of an asset purchase agreement, Snyder said.
The amount wasn’t disclosed.  
 ‘Major Impediment’  
 Snyder told the court he doesn’t know whether Crane will
bid under the sale procedures in place. “Financing is the major
impediment” to getting offers from the potential bidders, he
said. Lynn said the deadline to obtain financing for the deal
may be extended as much as two months into October under the
sale guidelines he laid out last week.  
 Dallas Mavericks owner  Mark Cuban  told the  Fort Worth Star-
Telegram  on July 16 that he was interested in buying the
Rangers. When an attorney for the Greenberg-Ryan group tried to
ask Snyder if Cuban was one of the four potential bidders, the
judge told Snyder not to answer because not all of the offers
are public.  
 Sal Galatioto , president of Galatioto Sports Partners, a
sports investment firm, testified that it would take about 90
days for any deal to get done. He said he would be willing to
let the Ryan group’s agreement expire.  
 Galatioto, who represented the Ricketts family when they
bought the Chicago Cubs out of bankruptcy last year, is
representing  Tom Hicks  as he tries to sell the National Hockey
League’s Dallas Stars and his interest in the American Airlines
Center. Galatioto said he expects the Stars sale to bring in
about $140 million to $150 million in proceeds for lenders of
Hicks’s HSG Sports Group LLC, the Rangers’ parent.  
 Rangers’ team manager Ron Washington is expected to testify
at the July 22 hearing, Snyder’s attorney,  Louis R. Strubeck Jr ., said in an e-mail.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        