-- Extended Stay Wins Court Approval of Plan to Sell Assets, Exit Bankruptcy
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-20T16:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/extended-stay-wins-court-approval-of-plan-to-sell-assets-exit-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Extended Stay Inc., the bankrupt
U.S. hotel operator, won approval of its plan to pay creditors
by selling its assets to Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co.
and  Blackstone Group LP .  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  in New York today approved
Extended Stay’s restructuring plan, which calls for the
Centerbridge group to pay $3.9 billion for the company’s hotels.  
 “I am personally delighted that the parties in interest in
this bankruptcy case have managed to craft so workable a plan,”
Peck said in confirming it.  
 Extended Stay, based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, filed
for bankruptcy in June 2009 after occupancy rates at its hotels
fell because of the recession. The company, purchased by
Lightstone Group in an $8 billion leveraged buyout in 2007,
didn’t make enough to service its debt, it said.  
 The company held an auction for its assets in May and
selected Centerbridge, Paulson and  Blackstone’s  $3.9 billion bid
as the winning offer. The group outbid one led by Starwood
Capital Group.  
 Extended Stay under the plan will use proceeds from the
sale to pay down its $4.1 billion mortgage debt. The
Centerbridge group is to take ownership of 664 Extended Stay
hotels.  
 Owners of $3.3 billion in so-called mezzanine debt and
general unsecured creditors will receive proceeds of a
litigation trust. Mezzanine loans rank in the capital structure
between secured debt such as mortgages and ownership equity,
sharing attributes of both.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc. 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Thom Weidlich  in New York
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        