-- Facebook Claimant Must Answer `Where Have You Been?' to Succeed
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-20T14:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/facebook-claimant-must-answer-where-have-you-been-to-succeed-in-lawsuit.html

          
          
             Paul Ceglia, the western New York
man who says a 2003 contract with  Facebook Inc.  founder  Mark Zuckerberg  entitles him to 84 percent of the company, will have
to answer a critical question to pursue his claim, lawyers said.  
 “The first thing that comes to mind is, where have you
been all this time?” asked Los Angeles litigator Bryan
Freedman, who isn’t involved in the case.  
 Ceglia, of Wellsville, New York, filed a sworn complaint in
New York state court on June 30 against Facebook and Zuckerberg,
its chief executive officer. Attached to the complaint was a
copy of the two-page “work for hire” contract that Ceglia
claims entitles him to control of the world’s biggest social
networking service.  
 At a court hearing today in Buffalo, New York, Facebook has
a chance to explain away the contract as invalid or
unenforceable. While Facebook has yet to call the contract
phony, in court papers filed yesterday it said there are “many
substantial questions surrounding the authenticity” of the
document.  
 Ceglia is scheduled to ask a federal judge to extend a
temporary state court injunction blocking Facebook, a closely
held company estimated to be worth $24.6 billion by
SharesPost.com, a marketplace for privately held firms, from
transferring ownership interests in the company.  
 Facebook said in court papers that Ceglia’s claim is
“almost certainly barred by the statue of limitations” and
points to the “outlandishness” of the idea that Ceglia has
remained silent for more than six years about his alleged
majority ownership of Facebook. Also, Ceglia claims his alleged
contract, which refers to “The Face Book,” was signed about
nine months before the company was founded, Palo Alto,
California-based Facebook said.  
 Facebook’s Paternity  
 Facebook’s paternity was questioned in a lawsuit by
Zuckerberg’s former Harvard University schoolmates who claimed
they hired him to work on a social network called ConnectU.
Zuckerberg later used the code developed on that project to
start Facebook, they said. Facebook settled the suit in 2008.  
 Louis M. Solomon, co-chairman of the litigation department
at the New York law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, said
Ceglia may have a valid claim if the contract is genuine.  
 “The defendant isn’t saying this is a forgery,” Solomon
said. “The defendant isn’t saying this is a different Mark
Elliot Zuckerberg.”  
 “On its face, this is not ridiculous,” Solomon said.  
 Remained Silent  
 So far, neither side has made clear what kind of business
relationship, if any, Ceglia and Zuckerberg had, he said. It is
also unclear whether Ceglia has remained silent about his claim
or has made demands on the company in the past.  
 “Both sides are disturbingly quiet,” Solomon said.  
 In the motion to be heard today, Ceglia claims Zuckerberg
already sold more than three-fourths of the company to
investors. Ceglia argues that he needs a court order to preserve
the status quo and prevent more of his interest from being
transferred.  
 “Plaintiff does not seek to stop Facebook from operating
as a business entity, generating profit, or maximizing the value
of the company,” Ceglia said in court filings requesting
continuation of the state-court injunction. “Plaintiff seeks
only to preserve the status quo by preventing Zuckerberg and
Facebook from further transferring or diluting ownership
interests in Facebook.”  
 On July 16, U.S. District Judge  Richard Arcara  in Buffalo
put on hold the state court’s temporary injunction until he
rules on the matter.  
 Long Gap  
 Freedman said the long gap between contract and lawsuit
makes Ceglia’s claim look suspicious. Even if valid, Ceglia’s
claim could be thrown out if he waited too long to sue, Freedman
said. The statute of limitations in New York requires a claimant
to sue within six years of the date on which the contract was
breached.  
 According to Freedman, Zuckerberg’s sale of shares in the
company to investors ranging from  Microsoft Corp.  to rock star
Bono may pose difficulties for Ceglia’s case.  
 A judge may find that Ceglia took too long to make his
claim, unreasonably letting Zuckerberg put himself and the
company in legal jeopardy to investors, Freedman said.  
 If Ceglia’s claim is valid that Zuckerberg sold stakes in
the company that he didn’t own, then Facebook could argue that
it would be unfair to now turn over the company to Ceglia,
Freedman said.  
 ‘If This Is True’  
 “I bet there are people in about 15 different companies
who are saying, ‘If this is true, then he’s made a
misrepresentation to me,’” Freedman said, referring to
Zuckerberg.  
 Lisa Simpson , a lawyer for Zuckerberg and Facebook, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  
 Ceglia faces a 2009 lawsuit by New York Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo  claiming Ceglia and his wife took $200,000 in
advance payments for a business that promised wood pellets, to
be used for home heating, and then failed to deliver any pellets
or provide refunds. The district attorney in Allegany County has
filed criminal charges based on similar charges.  
 Neither of the cases has been resolved and Ceglia denies
criminal wrongdoing, according to Terrence Connors, a Buffalo
lawyer representing him on the Facebook claim.  
 A website for Ceglia’s company, Allegany Pellets, offers
“quality hardwood pellets” for $229 a ton and describes the
operators as “regular farm folks that know about pellets.”  
 An e-mail sent to Allegany Pellets was answered with an
automatically generated response: “We are in the process of
reaching an agreement with the New York State Attorney General’s
office and will let everyone know once an agreement is
reached.”  
 The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-CV-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Facebook Inc. founder Mark Zuckerberg. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
