-- Falcone's Mobile Venture Will Spend $7 Billion on Network, Considering IPO
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-07-20T22:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/falcone-mobile-venture-to-spend-7-billion-on-network-considers-ipo.html

          
          
             Billionaire  Philip Falcone ’s private
U.S. wireless network said it will spend $7 billion over 8 years
to compete with  Sprint Nextel Corp.  and other carriers, and
could pursue an initial public offering.  
 “That’s what you build a business for,”  Sanjiv Ahuja ,
chief executive officer of the venture, said in an interview
today. “We expect to be making use of public markets,” he
said, without giving specifics.  
 LightSquared, as the venture is known, plans to pay Nokia
Siemens Networks $7 billion to build and manage its network,
beginning with the launch of its wireless broadband service in
four trial cities by early next year. The company, backed by
Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners, plans to construct a so-
called fourth-generation wireless network supplemented by
satellite coverage.  
 LightSquared will face off against  Sprint ,  AT&T Inc.  and
Verizon Wireless in offering 4G service in the U.S. Sprint’s 4G
network, introduced this year, already covers 43 markets and
Verizon Wireless will begin rolling out its 4G network later in
2010, followed by AT&T next year.  
 Analysts, including  Philip Cusick  of Macquarie Research,
expressed skepticism that there is room for another competitor.  
 “We do believe in the need for additional capacity over
time, but believe it would be better used as part of an existing
network than for another competitor,” Cusick said in a research
note today.  
 Resale Model  
 LightSquared  has spoken with 30 companies about leasing its
59 megahertz of spectrum for use in mobile phones, laptops and
other wireless devices. “Our objective is to build a network
that is focused on serving the needs of our retail customers,”
said Ahuja, who declined to identify any of the companies.  
 The venture will sell mobile Internet access to partners
such as phone carriers, retailers and cable operators, said
Chief Marketing Officer  Frank Boulben  in an interview. The
company’s satellites may help partners offer service in rural
areas that are difficult to reach with traditional technology.  
 LightSquared, based in Reston, Virginia, will launch its
first satellite by year-end, followed by another early next
year, said Boulben, who was previously global director of
commercial strategy for  Vodafone Group Plc . LightSquared will
begin testing its network in Phoenix, Denver, Las Vegas and
Baltimore by early 2011, he said.  
 The four trial cities have sufficiently different weather,
topography and demographics to test the LightSquared network,
 Sue Spradley , chief of Nokia Siemens Networks’ North American
business, said in an interview.  
 Falcone’s Financing  
 The venture is raising as much as $1.75 billion in
additional financing for expansion. New York-based Harbinger,
which had earlier contributed $2.9 billion for the venture, has
said it plans to build a nationwide network that will cover at
least 260 million people in the next five years, according to
regulatory filings. Harbinger gained rights to satellite
licenses through its acquisition of SkyTerra Communications Inc.  
 Ahuja declined to say where LightSquared received its
outside financing. The company, with about 200 employees, is
seeking a full-time chief financial officer, said Boulben.  
 Building the network will cost at least $10 billion, Wells
Fargo & Co. analyst  Gray Powell  said in a note today. “There is
still much uncertainty about Harbinger’s longer-term ability to
meet its build targets,” Powell said.  
 Boulben said that Falcone isn’t planning to sell the
venture for its wireless licenses. “That speculation is dead on
arrival” with today’s announcement, he said.  
 Public Interest?  
 LightSquared would need the approval of the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission  for any sale to determine if it were
in the public interest, according to filings with the agency.  
 Verizon Wireless and AT&T are barred from leasing more than
25 percent of LightSquared’s spectrum without prior commission
approval, the documents show. The carriers have protested that
provision.  
 “There’s enough spectrally challenged operators out there
that can use this spectrum,” said Spradley in the interview.
She didn’t say which carriers LightSquared or Nokia Siemens
Networks had spoken with.  
 Nokia Oyj , which owns Nokia Siemens with Siemens AG, rose
2.2 percent to 6.92 euros in Helsinki trading today. The stock
has declined 22 percent this year. Siemens fell 0.8 percent to
72.66 euros in Frankfurt.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        