-- FedEx Almost Doubles Lobbying in Bid to Defeat Proposal Easing Unionizing
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-07-20T23:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/fedex-almost-doubles-lobbying-in-bid-to-defeat-proposal-easing-unionizing.html

          
          
             FedEx Corp. , trying to defeat
legislation that would make it easier for its employees to
unionize, almost doubled its lobbying spending in the first six
months of this year compared with the same period a year ago.  
 Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx spent $11.6 million on
lobbying between January and June, up from $6.1 million during
the first six months of 2009. It hired two new lobbying firms
this year to buttress its effort.  
 FedEx is in the fourth year of a battle with Atlanta-based
 United Parcel Service Inc. , the world’s largest package-delivery
company, and organized labor over the legislation. UPS spent
$2.9 million to lobby between January and June, up from $2.7
million a year earlier.  
 The U.S. House last year approved legislation to let ground
workers for FedEx Express hold local elections to form unions,
rather than be forced to hold a nationwide vote. Ground workers
for UPS already can vote locally to form unions.  
 UPS is the biggest employer of Teamsters with about 240,000
union members. About 4,500 pilots are the only major group
represented by a union among FedEx’s 290,000 employees and
contractors. The Teamsters have sought to organize the FedEx
workers for years.  
 Representative  James Oberstar , a Minnesota Democrat, added
the union provision to legislation to finance the  Federal
Aviation Administration.  The Senate version of the FAA bill
doesn’t include the labor language. Lawmakers aim to work out
differences before an extension of the FAA bill expires Aug. 1.  
 Votes in Congress  
 Once differences are resolved, the FAA legislation will
require votes in both houses before it can be sent to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature.  
 FedEx was founded as an airline and placed under the
Railway Labor Act of 1926, which requires national union votes
and lets the government limit strikes to discourage the shutdown
of national transportation networks.  
 Worker for UPS, which lacks FedEx’s roots as an airline,
are covered by the 1935 National Labor Relations Act. The NLRA
lacks the Railway Labor Act’s limit on strikes, which FedEx has
said is crucial to its business plan. UPS has said workers at
both companies who perform the same tasks should be placed under
the same labor law.  
 The bills are H.R. 915 and S. 1451.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        