-- Federated's Kaplan Buys Taiwan, German Equities Instead of China on Growth
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-20T04:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/federated-s-kaplan-buys-taiwan-german-equities-instead-of-china-on-growth.html

          
          
             Audrey Kaplan  is buying more stocks
in Taiwan and Germany for her Federated InterContinental Fund
instead of China as analysts cut their gross domestic product
forecasts for the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 While the  fund  has a “double weight” in China relative to
its benchmark, Kaplan has trimmed some holdings in favor of
other countries where valuations appear more attractive. The New
York-based senior portfolio manager at Federated Investors Inc.
also said she wants to see “stabilization” in gross domestic
product growth downgrades and a shift in technical indicators
before buying more Chinese shares.  
 “We’re finding a lot of opportunities all over the world,
not only in China,” Kaplan said in a telephone interview today.
“While economic activity is still relatively firm and
continuing to expand at a very solid pace, consensus GDP
forecasts are declining and we get concerned when there’s
uncertainty or decline.”  
 China’s economy  may expand 10 percent this year, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts on
July 15, after China reported lower-than-forecast growth of 10.3
percent in the second quarter. The estimate dropped from 10.1
percent in April, the third consecutive Bloomberg survey to show
a higher median forecast.  
 Morgan Stanley yesterday cut its 2010 GDP forecast for
China to 10 percent from an earlier estimate of 11 percent.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week also reduced its forecast to 10
percent from a prior 10.8 percent.  
 China Stocks’ Slump  
 Concern that efforts by policy makers to curb real estate
speculation and cool lending will hurt China’s growth has
contributed to a 6.4 percent slump in the MSCI China Index this
year. The gauge is valued at 13.3 times estimated earnings,
compared with a multiple of 13.1 times for the MSCI Taiwan Index
and 11.7 times for the MSCI Germany Index.  
 The $695 million  Federated Intercontinental Fund  has
returned 16 percent over a one-year period, topping the average
gain of 12 percent among its peers, according to data tracked by
Bloomberg. The  MSCI AC World excluding U.S. Index  rose 8.7
percent during the period.  
 Kaplan said her fund is buying Taiwanese technology
companies that will get a boost from a pick-up in global
consumer spending. In Germany,  shares  will benefit as policy
makers hold off on tightening amid the European sovereign crisis
while and exporters will gain from the weaker euro, she said.  
 Chinese companies including  China Mobile Ltd. , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by market value, and  China Life Insurance
Co. , the nation’s biggest insurer, still make up about 8.7
percent of the fund’s portfolio, compared with the 4.2 percent
level recommended by the MSCI index, Kaplan said.  
 “In the short-term, we’re happy with the weight that we
have,” Kaplan said. “Approximately 10 percent level would be a
good long-term position in China and we’re very close.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        