-- First Bank of Nigeria, Country's Biggest, Says Profit Increased Sevenfold
-- Sam Olukoya
-- 2010-07-20T15:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/first-bank-of-nigeria-posts-first-half-net-income-to-june-of-168-million.html

          
          
             First Bank of Nigeria Plc , the
country’s biggest lender by market value, reported a sevenfold
increase in profit for the first half through June as loans
increased.  
 Net income surged to 25.3 billion naira ($168.2 million)
from 3.4 billion naira a year earlier, the company said in a
statement e-mailed by the Lagos-based  Nigerian Stock Exchange 
today. Revenue fell 6.7 percent to 122.3 billion naira while
loans climbed 20 percent to 1.1 trillion naira. Deposits rose 24
percent to 1.4 trillion naira.  
 “We have made continued progress in gathering reliable,
long-term deposits as Nigerian customers reassess their banking
arrangements in the wake of the turbulence in the banking
sector,” Group Managing Director Bisi Onasanya said in the
statement. “This has left us with further scope to increase
lending to the real sector of the economy. We expect increased
demand for debt financing will see us grow our asset base in the
second half.”  
 Consumers in Africa’s most populous nation curtailed
spending after a debt crisis in the banking industry dried up
lending last year. The central bank sacked the chief executive
officers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders last year over
their handling of a debt crisis and injected 620 billion naira
into ten lenders following an audit to stave off their closure.
First Bank was deemed a healthy lender by the central bank.  
 Loan Target  
 Credit to private industry rose an annual 17.7 percent in
May, down from 20.1 percent the month before, the Central Bank
said on July 7.  
 “First Bank’s 10 percent loan-growth guidance in 2010 is
one of the lowest in the sector, albeit from a higher base,”
analysts at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd., a London-based brokerage,
said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “We still believe
it’s possible” for the lender to meet the target, CSL analysts
including Olubunmi Asaolu and  Gbenga Sholotan  wrote today. CSL
upgraded its recommendation on First Bank to “neutral” after
the company released first-quarter results that showed profit
nearly doubled to 12.3 billion naira.  
 The stock lost 23 kobo, or 1.7 percent, to close at 13
naira as of 1 p.m. in Lagos.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos at 
 Solukoya2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        