-- For $65 Million, Miami Garage Has Party Space, Boutiques, Camel
-- James S. Russell
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/for-65-million-miami-garage-has-party-fashion-camel-james-s-russell.html

          
          
             I recently watched the Miami Beach
sun cast golden late-afternoon light into a seventh-level aerie
atop a surreal parking garage that serves at times as party
space. The premiere of “Sex and the City 2” was celebrated
here, with a camel.  
 This $65 million bravura composition of intersecting planes
and angular piers, called 1111 Lincoln Road, does indeed park
300 cars in its mostly wall-free structure. It includes fashion
retailers and residences.  
 The different levels rhythmically jut forward and recede a
bit. The floor heights range from the parking standard of about
7 feet to as high as 34 feet. The tall floors are best for
parties.  
 The day I was there, the garage had the primordial calm of
a Giorgio de Chirico painting, with towering clouds visible in
every direction.  
 The architectural allure and the view are why the garage is
in demand for weddings and other fetes. Developer  Robert Wennett , president of Urban Investment Advisors LLC, cooked up
an idiosyncratic commercial formula: Architecturally spectacular
parking structure attracts high-end retail, which helps sell a
penthouse residence and attract events.  
 The Basel-based architectural firm Herzog & de Meuron
designed 1111 Lincoln Road, which is the culmination of the busy
pedestrian mall designed by Morris Lapidus.  
 You might mistake this skeletal concrete frame for yet
another abandoned condo project. Inside, access ramps sinuously
warp and curve as they rise within the squared-off planes of
each level. A sculptured stair dances in counterpoint.  
 Alchemist’s Wares  
 Standing improbably alone on the fifth floor, a glass jewel
box of a store is a delight to encounter. Called  Alchemist , it
sets out the wares of sought-after designers like Rick Owens,
 Martin Margiela  and Chrome Hearts as if they were precious
artworks. It need not share street frontage with beach-wear
boutiques, because it is a destination for aficionados. With
only parked cars for company, the cognitive dissonance of its
location telegraphs chic.  
 Wennett is finishing an all-glass rooftop restaurant and
building a penthouse residence.  
 By any conventional real-estate formula, neither the
building form nor the odd revenue-producing combination makes
any sense. It’s hard to see where the architectural concept ends
and Wennett’s commercial savvy begins.  
 “Herzog and de Meuron took this on because they knew I was
interested in what they could do,” said Wennett while giving me
a tour, “not in how their brand could sell.”  
 Unloved Bank Building  
 Technically the garage is an addition to a beefy, unloved
cast-concrete building put up in 1968 and formerly occupied by
 SunTrust  bank. Its deeply recessed windows and bulging forms
shout fortress. Herzog and de Meuron moved to soften the old
bank’s bruiser toughness by giving it a strip of shops facing
Lincoln Road. The snazzy garage lifts the bank from glum
ordinariness. Its offices are fully leased to media and design
businesses.  
 Wennett moved the bank branch to the ground floor of a new
two-story structure across an alley. He built four courtyard
residences on top, with crazily fretworked fencing designed by
the architects.  
 Describing this melange doesn’t explain it. You’ve got to
see it, which of course is the point. Asked how it makes money,
Wennett says he knew he needed a strong architectural statement
for his site, at the farthest end of Lincoln Road, “so that it
feels like something is happening at this end of the street. We
would not get the income without the architecture. I couldn’t
attract the kind of tenants I’ve got.”  
 Paving and Pools  
 With $6.2 million from the city of Miami Beach, landscape
architect-du-jour Raymond Jungles extended the pedestrian mall a
full block to front 1111. He installed striped black-and-white
stone paving, towering bald cypresses, round burbling pools and
a curvy Dan Graham glass sculpture.  
 This bossa nova setting helped Wennett lure high-style
fashion retailers as well as Taschen, an art-book store,
 Inkanta , a design store, and a just-opened Miami outpost of
restaurateur  Danny Meyer ’s Shake Shack. Wennett personally
sought the retailers he thought would make the whole add up to
more than the sum of its parts.  
 He is tapping into what I call the “Art Basel Miami Beach
Effect” (updating the  Frank Gehry  “Bilbao Effect”). It’s a
landmark to Miami’s increasingly cosmopolitan and international
allure.  
 ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       1111 Lincoln Road  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Garrido/MBEACH1 LLP via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The parking garage at 1111 Lincoln Road. The $65-million composition of intersecting planes and angular piers has a parking capacity of 300 cars. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The parking garage at 1111 Lincoln Road. The $65-million composition of intersecting planes and angular piers has a parking capacity of 300 cars. Source: Nelson Garrido/MBEACH1 LLP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The 1111 Lincoln Road parking garage. The $65-million space recently hosted a "Sex and the City 2" premiere party. Source: Nelson Garrido/MBEACH1 LLP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       1111 Lincoln Road and SunTrust Bank Building  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Garrido/MBEACH1 LLP via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The parking garage at 1111 Lincoln Road, left, and the SunTrust bank building. Architects Herzog and de Meuron designed the new garage to complement the bank building. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The parking garage at 1111 Lincoln Road, left, and the SunTrust bank building. Architects Herzog and de Meuron designed the new garage to complement the bank building. Source: Nelson Garrido/MBEACH1 LLP via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
