-- Foreign Debt Demand May Ease, Royal Bank, Scotia Bank Say: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-20T16:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/foreign-debt-demand-may-ease-royal-bank-scotia-bank-say-canada-credit.html

          
          
             The  record pace  of foreign purchases
of Canadian government bonds so far this year may cool as the
central bank moves ahead with interest-rate increases, according
to Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of Nova Scotia.  
 Foreigners bought a record net C$23.2 billion ($22 billion)
of  Canadian securities  in May, led by C$11.5 billion of federal
government bonds, the most ever and almost double the previous
record of C$6.75 billion in January, Statistics Canada said
yesterday in Ottawa.  
 Interest rates in Canada, which ships about three-quarters
of its exports to the U.S., will be 150 basis points higher than
in its southern neighbor in the first quarter of 2011, Royal
Bank of Canada estimates. The Bank of Canada today raised its
target rate by a quarter point to 0.75 percent, the second
increase in less than two months, in a move predicted by all 20
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Purchases of government bonds by “opportunistic”
investors may be unwound as market pricing and opportunities
become more attractive in other countries,  Mark Chandler , head
of Canadian fixed-income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto, the nation’s largest lender, said in an e-
mail.  
 Australia’s bonds may offer better value than Canada’s
because its central bank is “closer to neutral” on interest
rates, and the country’s fiscal position is “even brighter”
than Canada’s, Chandler said.  
 Foreign Purchases  
 “The January to May pace would be hard to maintain,” said
Chandler. Waning foreign interest in Canada’s bonds would help
push bond yield higher, he said.  
 Foreigners purchased a net C$44.3 billion in bonds in the
first five months of 2010, compared with C$37.2 billion in the
same period last year and C$24.3 billion in January through May
2008, according to Bloomberg data. Inflows were less than C$10
billion in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government, widened yesterday to 144 basis points, or
1.44 percentage points, from 143 on July 16, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. Overall yields fell to 3.938
percent.  
 Wholesale sales rose 0.4 percent in May after falling
unexpectedly in April, Statistics Canada is likely to say
tomorrow, according to the median of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on June 1 became the
first Group of Seven central banker since July 2008 to lift
borrowing costs, increasing the benchmark rate to 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Hike and Go Neutral’  
 “The wheels have generally fallen off the Canadian-
overweight theme so far this month,” ,  Derek Holt , a Toronto-
based economist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit,
said in an e-mail.  
 “I think that continues through the summer on global
growth worries, barring a suddenly more hawkish Bank of Canada
compared to the hike-and-go-neutral bias they have adopted,”
Holt said. Foreign investors who overweight Canadian bonds for
“more than the near term will be rewarded,” he said.  
 Economists had predicted a C$6.5 billion net purchase of
Canadian securities in May, according to the median of three
 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Stewart Hall , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc’s HSBC
Securities in Toronto, said international purchases of Canadian
bonds could continue apace “on the basis that sovereign event
risk is likely to be with us for some time.”  
 ‘Issues of Liquidity’  
 “Canada is a fire-and-forget destination for capital,”
Hall said in an e-mail. “That said, as with many relatively
small markets there are issues of liquidity.”  
 Canada’s bond market “lacks the depth of liquidity offered
by the U.S. Treasury, that indeed makes it the world’s only real
safe haven,” Hall said.  
 The  yield  on Canada’s 10-year bond will rise to 3.57
percent by the middle of next year, according to the average
forecast of three economists in a Bloomberg survey. It closed
yesterday at 3.16 percent, as the 3.5 percent security maturing
in June 2020 fell 3 cents to C$102.82.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        