-- Foxconn Prohibits Prostitution, Extra-Marital Affairs
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-20T12:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/foxconn-rules-prohibit-employees-from-prostitution-extra-marital-affairs.html

          
          
             Foxconn Technology Group, the
electronics maker that faced a spate of suicides this year, bans
workers from cheating on their spouses, visiting “shady”
venues and engaging in activities that may be a health hazard.  
 Workers should also inform the company as to their
whereabouts when on duty during longer public holidays or
overseas trips, Asia’s largest corporate employer said in a
statement yesterday. Foxconn also bans workers from engaging in
illegal gambling, prostitution, drugs, bribery and participating
in organized crime and speculative investments, it said.  
 The assembler of electronics products ranging from  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhones to Dell Inc.’s computers said workers must follow
eight rules of conduct after the China Times  reported  a 37 year-
old employee, surnamed He, expensed a July 17 farewell party at
a hostess bar. The rules have existed for years, according to
the statement.  
 “Companies need good company rules because there’s a gap
between what the law allows and requires, and the specific
requirements of companies for employee conduct,” said Joseph
Deng, a Shanghai-based employment lawyer at Baker & McKenzie.
“In the absence of specific rules, the ability for companies to
discipline or terminate is very weak.”  
 Foxconn Group spokesman  Edmund Ding  didn’t answer calls or
reply to emails seeking comment on how the company monitors or
enforces the code.  
 The China Times report, denied by the company, said the
wife of the employee threatened to kill herself because she
suspected her husband was seeking the services of a woman while
with colleagues at a hostess bar in Shenzhen, southern China.
China Times didn’t say where it obtained the information.  
 He, who’s been employed by the group for five years, had
never worked in Shenzhen and his expenses totaled NT$10,000
($321) this year, according to yesterday’s statement, issued by
Foxconn’s Taipei-based flagship, Hon Hai Precision Industry Co.  
 China Labor Watch, a New York-based human rights group,
accused Foxconn of running a sweatshop after at least 10 workers
killed themselves this year. Both Foxconn Chairman and Founder
 Terry Gou , 59, and Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  have
denied the sweatshop claims.  

 

Foxconn’s Eight Employee Rules
1. Do not join organized crime gangs or activities.
2. Do not engage in illegal gambling, prostitution or drugs.
3. Do not engage in corruption, accept bribes, accept supplier
dinners or gifts.
4. Do not visit shady entertainment venues.
5. Do not engage in improper male-female relations, i.e.
extramarital affairs.
6. Do not participate in speculative, illegal investments.
7. Do not participate in activities that are bad for physical or
mental health.
8. Employees who are on duty during long public holidays, or
take an overseas trip, must sign an “employee safety
agreement” and inform the company of their whereabouts.

Source: Foxconn Technology Group.
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Employees work on the assembly line at Hon Hai Group's Foxconn plant in Shenzhen. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
