-- LG Chem Second-Quarter Record Profit Beats Estimates on Demand From China
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-20T08:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/lg-chem-second-quarter-record-profit-beats-estimates-on-demand-from-china.html

          
          
             LG Chem Ltd. , South Korea’s biggest
maker of chemicals, posted a record profit in the second quarter,
beating estimates, as Chinese demand for materials used to make
plastics and synthetic rubber increased.  
 Net income  jumped 36 percent from a year earlier to 645.7
billion won ($535 million) in the three months ended June 30,
the Seoul-based company said in a regulatory filing today.
The median estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a profit of 541.5 billion won.  
 Demand from carmakers and chemical plants for raw materials
including ethylene and polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, used in
water-resistant fabrics and window frames, increased as the
global economy recovered. Returns from processing naphtha into
ethylene jumped 77 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, according to NH Investment & Securities Co.  
 “Government stimulus packages boosted demand for consumer
goods, particularly from China, which uses lots of chemical
products,” Cho Seung Yeon , an analyst at HMC Investment
Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the earnings were released.  
 LG Chem also increased the capacity of a naphtha cracker at
Yeosu to 1 million metric tons from 900,000 tons in March.  Sales ,
including those of overseas affiliates, gained 31 percent to
5.03 trillion won. The year-earlier figure was revised according
to International Financial Reporting Standards, which LG Chem
adopted this year.  
 Annual sales may more than double to 30 trillion won by
2015, Chief Executive Officer  Kim Bahn Suk  said at a media
briefing in Seoul. Last year, the company posted revenue of 13.7
trillion won.  
 Battery-Making  
 The  shares  dropped 1.2 percent to close at 321,500 won in
Seoul trading before the earnings announcement. The benchmark
Kospi stock index rose 0.3 percent. The stock has advanced 41
percent this year, making LG Chem the sixth-largest by market
capitalization on the benchmark Kospi index.  
 The company’s electronics division, which makes batteries
for notebooks, cell phones and electric cars, may drive earnings
next year, Cho said. LG Chem signed supply contracts with
carmakers including Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. , China-
based  Chongqing Changan Automobile Co.  and Eaton Corp.  
 “We will win electric-car battery orders from Europe and
Japan in the second half of this year,” CEO Kim said. LG Chem
is considering building plants to make batteries in China and
Europe, according to Kim.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  last week attended the
groundbreaking ceremony of a Holland, Michigan, factory for
Compact Power Inc., a unit of LG Chem that received a $151
million stimulus grant to make electric-vehicle batteries.  
 South Korea plans to invest as much as 15 trillion won in
rechargeable battery technology by 2020, the Ministry of
Knowledge Economy said in a July 11 statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        