-- General Atomics Wins Approval to Sell First Predator Drones in Middle East
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-20T18:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/general-atomics-gains-approval-to-sell-predator-drones-to-pakistan-egypt.html

          
          
             General Atomics Aeronautical Systems
Inc.  said it won U.S. approval for an export version of the
Predator drone, clearing the way for the first sales of the
unmanned aircraft in the Middle East.  
 “There’s interest from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and
the United Arab Emirates,” Frank Pace, president of the
aircraft systems group at the closely held company, said today
in an interview at the Farnborough Air Show near London.  
 General Atomics recently received U.S. State Department
approval to offer an unarmed Predator model to countries beyond
the NATO bloc, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, Pace said. That
would allow sales in the Middle East and elsewhere to
governments previously ineligible to buy the planes, he said.  
 U.S. Predators are now used to monitor and strike targets
in Iraq, Afghanistan and the border areas of Pakistan. Selling
the aircraft to countries in the Middle East may ease regional
opposition to the surveillance while raising new issues related
to how the buyers fly them, one analyst said.  
 “There could be an argument that if the countries do it
themselves, it’s less intrusive,”  William Hartung , an analyst
at the New America Foundation, a Washington research group, said
in a phone interview. “But there’s still a question of how this
capability is used.”  
 For example, a Pakistani Predator that was sent to monitor
neighboring India would be “problematic” because such a
mission might not be in U.S. interests, Hartung said.  
 Predator Capabilities  
 Predators are popular with U.S. military and intelligence
agencies because they’re smaller than manned planes and can
loiter over a target for long periods without risk to a pilot.
Missile-equipped Predators can mount attacks via remote control.  
 General Atomics see the potential for sales of as many as
100 units in the Middle East and Pakistan of the so-called
Predator XP model approved for export, Pace said.  
 “Saudi Arabia is a huge country, and if they want to cover
the country well, they alone could get 50 aircraft,” Pace said.  
 General Atomics, based in Poway, California, has sold about
435 Predator-series drones, mostly to the U.S. government,
according to spokeswoman  Kimberly Kasitz . That total includes
about 25 sold to NATO countries, Japan, Australia and New
Zealand, Kasitz said. The export model also is being promoted in
South America and Mexico, she said.  
 That version, based on the model used by the U.S. Army and
the Air Force, will lack the ability to carry weapons and will
be designed only for surveillance and reconnaissance missions,
Pace said.  
 Predators range in price from about $4 million for the
basic model to about $15 million for the so-called Avenger
version, Kasitz said.  
 General Atomics also builds the Predator B model with
extended range and a new Predator C, the Avenger, that can evade
enemy radar.  Boeing Co. , Northrop Grumman Corp. and Lockheed
Martin Corp. also make unmanned aerial vehicles used by the U.S.
military for surveillance and armed missions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        