-- George Friedlander Returns to Citigroup as Senior Municipal Strategist
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-20T17:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/george-friedlander-returns-to-citigroup-as-senior-municipal-strategist.html

          
          
             George Friedlander , a municipal bond
strategist, has rejoined  Citigroup Inc.,  where he worked for the
bank and its predecessors for more than three decades.  
 Friedlander, 62, who was dismissed by Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney two months ago, will work in Citigroup’s investment
research and analysis group. He will be the New York-based
bank’s senior U.S. municipal securities strategist, according to
a memo from  Richard Pagan , a managing director at Citigroup’s
investment research and analysis group and  Howard Marsh , the
head of its municipal division.  
 “We are delighted that he has now decided to re-join Citi
and build a full-service municipal securities strategy unit,”
Pagan and Marsh wrote. “From this position he will be able to
serve both U.S. retail and global institutional clients, as the
asset class itself attracts a more global investor base.”  
 Friedlander, who joined the municipal division of Smith
Barney in 1975, was among 200 employees fired by Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney at the end of May as the retail brokerage joint
venture integrated the two formerly separate firms.  
 International investors have boosted their holdings of U.S.
municipal debt since the introduction last year of the Build
America Bonds program as part of the U.S. economic stimulus
package. The taxable securities have offered international
buyers higher yields than some corporate bonds, coupled with
lower default risk.  
 International Investors  
 International investors increased their holdings of U.S.
municipal debt by about 50 percent in 2009, to $60.6 billion, in
the first year of sales of Build Americas, according to  Federal
Reserve data . The buying continued in the first three months of
this year as foreign holdings grew 19 percent to $71.9 billion.  
 Citigroup, the top underwriter of U.S. municipal bonds in
the first six months of the year, was the second-biggest manager
of Build Americas and other stimulus program debt, according to
Thomson Reuters. Citigroup led banks in selling $29.2 billion of
U.S. municipal bonds and $7.9 billion of Build America Bonds and
other stimulus program debt.  
 Friedlander, who was named to Institutional Investor’s
“All-American Research Team” for 14 years, according to his
biography, will report to  Matt King , Citigroup’s global head of
credit strategy.  
 Friedlander graduated from the State University of New York
at Stony Brook with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics. He
received a master’s degree in business administration from Pace
University in New York.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        