-- Stocks Retreat in Germany, Erasing Earlier Gains; Benchmark DAX Falls 1%
-- Alex Webb
-- 2010-07-20T15:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/german-stocks-pare-earlier-gains-benchmark-dax-index-is-little-changed.html

          
          
             German stocks  retreated for a fourth
day as U.S. housing starts fell and Hungary raised less than
planned in a debt sale, stoking concern that European
governments may struggle to fund their deficits.  
 Daimler AG  sank 2.8 percent after Morgan Stanley rated the
stock “underweight.”  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-largest semiconductor maker, fell 1.2 percent as Texas
Instruments Inc. reported earnings and sales that missed
analysts’ projections.  MorphoSys AG  rallied as Boersen Zeitung
reported that the company is examining  takeovers .  
 The benchmark  DAX Index  slid 0.7 percent to 5,967.49 at the
close of trading at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt, erasing an earlier
gain of 0.7 percent. The gauge has fallen 5.8 percent from this
year’s high on April 26 on concern that the global recovery is
losing steam as indebted European governments slash spending and
China takes steps to cool growth. The broader  HDAX Index  also
lost 0.7 percent today.  
 “Leading economic indicators are losing momentum and this
is weighing on share prices,” said Tammo Greetfeld, senior
equity strategist at UniCredit Markets & Investment Banking in
Munich. “We expect new lows for the year in the third quarter.
Hungary gives the market a read across for potential risks in
the euro zone.”  
 The Hungarian government raised 35 billion forint ($156
million), 10 billion forint less than planned, at a sale of
three-month Treasury bills today as debt costs rose from the
previous auction a week earlier.  
 U.S. Economy  
 A report in the U.S. today showed housing starts fell in
June to the lowest level since October as a slump in sales
following the expiration of a government tax incentive caused
builders to cut back.  
 Work began on 549,000 houses in the U.S. last month, fewer
than forecast by the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 5 percent from May, Commerce Department
figures showed.  
 Of the 42 companies in the  S&P 500  that have reported since
July 12, all but 9 topped earnings-per-share forecasts,
according to Bloomberg data. While second-quarter net income has
topped analysts’ projections by 13 percent on average, revenue
has been only 3.3 percent more than estimated, the data show.  
 For the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index , 25 companies of the 32 that
have reported sales since July 12 have beaten estimates,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Daimler Drops  
 Daimler lost 2.8 percent to 41.42 euros as Morgan Stanley
rated the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars
“underweight” in assumed coverage.  
 Infineon  sank 1.2 percent to 4.87 euros.  Texas Instruments ,
the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, said after trading hours
yesterday that second-quarter profit rose to 62 cents a share
from 20 cents a year earlier. Sales increased 42 percent to $3.5
billion. Analysts had estimated profit of 63 cents a share and
sales of $3.52 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 MorphoSys  surged 3.5 percent to 15.52 euros, extending
yesterday’s 0.9 percent gain. The drugmaker is examining
potential acquisition targets in the field of diagnostics though
a transaction may not come to fruition this year, Boersen
Zeitung reported, citing an interview with Chief Executive
Officer  Simon Moroney .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        