-- Glaxo Said to Have Paid $1 Billion Over Paxil Suits
-- Trista Kelley
-- 2010-07-20T20:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/glaxo-said-to-have-paid-1-billion-to-resolve-paxil-birth-defect-lawsuits.html

          
          
             GlaxoSmithKline Plc  has agreed to
pay more than $1 billion to resolve more than 800 cases alleging
its Paxil antidepressant caused birth defects in some users’
children, according to people familiar with the settlements.  
 The accords, which provide an average payout of more than
$1.2 million to families of affected children, leave more than
100 birth-defect cases pending, the people said. Officials of
Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, said July 15 they set aside
$2.4 billion to resolve litigation over Paxil and its Avandia
diabetes drug.  
 “It looks as if this should be covered in the liabilities
to be charged in the second-quarter numbers,”  Nick Turner , an
analyst at Mirabaud Securities in London, said today in an
interview. “If there are further liabilities to be disclosed in
the third-quarter numbers, that would be very disappointing.”  
 The birth-defect settlements bring to more than $2 billion
the amount Glaxo has agreed to pay to resolve a variety of
Paxil-related suits, including claims it caused suicides or
attempted suicides and addiction problems, the people said.  
 Glaxo officials confirmed yesterday they agreed to settle
some Paxil birth-defect cases filed against the drugmaker. They
refused to comment on the terms of the settlements.  
 “The company has agreed to these settlements, despite its
litigation defenses, in order to avoid the costs, burdens and
uncertainties of ongoing litigation,”  Sarah Alspach , a Glaxo
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 $11.7 Billion in Sales  
 “GSK believes it acted properly and responsibly in
conducting its clinical trial program, in marketing the
medicine, in monitoring its safety once it was approved for use
and in updating pregnancy information in the medicine’s label as
new information became available,” Alspach added.  
 Approved in 1992 for U.S. use, Paxil generated about 523
million pounds ($793 million) in sales in 2009, or about 1.8
percent of Glaxo’s total revenue. The company had $11.7 billion
in U.S. Paxil  sales  for nine years starting in 1997, according
to documents made public last year in a Pennsylvania trial over
birth-defect claims.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  has moved to replace
 revenue  lost to generic versions of drugs such as Paxil. The
drugmaker said in May it plans to double revenue from India and
China by 2015 as it cuts prices to match competitors in  emerging
markets .  
 Settled Cases  
 The $2.4 billion charge Glaxo announced for Paxil and
Avandia litigation “includes provisioning for settled cases”
and those still outstanding, officials said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The charge “reflects the company’s ongoing efforts to
resolve certain long-standing legal cases,”  Dan Troy , the
company’s general counsel, said in the release. “This
represents a substantial portion of GSK’s outstanding
litigation.”  
 Alspach declined today to specify how much of the
$2.4 billion charge is devoted to resolving Paxil litigation and
how much has been set aside to deal with Avandia lawsuits. She
also declined to say how much of the reserve will be used to pay
legal fees for both cases.  
 The company has agreed to pay more than $500 million so far
to settle suits alleging Avandia posed an increase risk of heart
attacks and strokes in diabetics, people familiar with those
accords said earlier this month.  
 Serious Cases  
 The $1.25 million average recovery in the Paxil birth-
defect cases reflects the seriousness of the injuries and the
fact that many of cases involved children with heart defects,
 Carl Tobias , a professor at University of Richmond Law School
who teaches classes on mass-tort law, said in an interview.  
 “I think the settlement size was influence by who was
injured and the type of injuries,” Tobias said.  
 The birth-defect settlements came after a Philadelphia jury
ordered Glaxo in October to pay $2.5 million in damages to the
family of Lyam Kilker, a 3-year-old boy born with a heart defect
after his mother took Paxil while pregnant.  
 In Kilker’s case, jurors concluded Glaxo officials
“negligently failed to warn” the doctor treating Lyam’s mother
about Paxil’s risks and concluded the medicine was a “factual
cause” of the child’s heart defects. The panel declined to
award punitive damages against the drugmaker.  
 During the Kilker trial, the family’s lawyers made public
internal Glaxo documents showing executives talked about burying
negative studies about Paxil’s links to birth defects and that
its own scientists were alarmed by the rising number of children
who had been affected by the drug in the womb. Many of the cases
involved children with heart defects.  
 Estimate of Verdicts  
 After the verdict in Kilker’s case, an analyst estimated
the company may be facing more than $1 billion in additional
verdicts in the more than 600 birth-defect cases waiting to be
tried in  Pennsylvania .  
 “A liability totaling $1.5 billion is possible,”  Savvas Neophytou , a Panmure Gordon analyst in London, wrote in a note
to investors the day after the verdict. He still recommended
buying Glaxo shares because the award was likely to be reduced
on appeal.  
 The majority of the birth-defect suits filed in
Philadelphia have been settled, including Kilker’s case, the
people familiar with the accords said.  Sean P. Tracey , the
attorney who represented Kilker’s family in the case, declined
to comment on the settlement.  
 Settled Cases  
 Other lawyers who have settled their Paxil cases include
 Mark Robinson  and  Karen Menzies , two Los Angeles-based
attorneys, and  Clayton Clark , a Houston-based plaintiffs’
lawyer, the people said. Robinson and Menzies didn’t return
calls for comment. Clark declined to comment on the settlement
of his more than 500 cases.  
 Attorneys who continue to press birth-defect claims against
Glaxo include Houston litigators  Andy Vickery  and  Ed Blizzard ,
the people said. Alspach noted yesterday that Glaxo is facing
three birth-defect cases that are set for trial in Philadelphia
in September.  
 Blizzard didn’t return a call for comment. Vickery said he
was preparing for one of the September trials and wouldn’t
comment on whether he’d had settlement talks with Glaxo.  
 The average $1.25 million payout in the birth defect cases
compares with $2 million average settlements in about 150
suicide cases, the people said. Glaxo also paid an average of
$300,000 to resolve about 300 attempted suicide cases, they
said.  
 $50,000 a Case  
 Glaxo also paid an average of about $50,000 per case to
resolve about 3,200 claims linking Paxil to addiction problems,
the people said.  
 It also paid $2.5 million to New York to resolve
accusations the company withheld  safety data  about the
antidepressant. The company, calling the claims unfounded,
agreed to release safety studies on the medicine’s effect on
children.  
 In 2005, the company added a black-box warning to its Paxil
label that the drug increased the risk of suicidal thoughts
among adolescents, following a request by the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to do so.  
 In 2001, a jury in Cheyenne, Wyoming,  ordered  Glaxo to pay
$6.4 million to the relatives of a man who shot his family to
death and then turned the gun on himself after taking Paxil. The
case was settled while on appeal, according to  Kevin Colgan , a
Glaxo spokesman.  
 Glaxo fell 14.5 pence, or 1.2 percent, to close at 1,173.5
pence in London trading today. The shares have fallen 11 percent
this year. Glaxo’s American depositary receipts, each
representing two ordinary shares, rose 12 cents to $36.37 at
4:16 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The Philadelphia birth-defect case was Kilker v. SmithKline
Beecham Corp. dba GlaxoSmithKline, 07-001813, Court of Common
Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Trista Kelley  in London
at   tkelley2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     GlaxoSmithKline Plc CEO Andrew Witty has moved to replace revenue lost to generic versions of drugs such as Paxil. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen Pope, chief global market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald, talks about the 1.57 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) legal charge GlaxoSmithKline Plc said it expects to settle legal cases including lawsuits that alleged its Avandia diabetes drug led to heart attacks.
     Pope also discusses Novartis AG's  second-quarter results. He speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Officials of Glaxo said July 15 they set aside $2.4 billion to resolve litigation over Paxil and its Avandia diabetes drug. Photographer: Tannen Maury/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
