-- Goldman Sachs Profit Drops 82%, Missing Analysts' Estimates
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-20T12:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/goldman-sachs-profit-falls-82-misses-estimates-on-trading-revenue-drop.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
second-quarter profit dropped 82 percent, missing analysts’
estimates on a slide in trading revenue five days after settling
U.S. regulators’ fraud allegations.  
 Net income fell to $613 million, or 78 cents a share, from
$3.44 billion, or $4.93, a year earlier, New York-based Goldman
Sachs said in a statement today. The average estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of $1.99 per
share, with estimates ranging from 77 cents to $4.34. Some of
the analysts didn’t include costs of the settlement.  
 Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s chairman and chief
executive officer, is working to restore the firm’s reputation
after agreeing to pay $550 million to settle the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s fraud accusations. The bank’s bigger
competitors, including JPMorgan Chase & Co., last week also
reported lower trading revenue as market gyrations reduced
clients’ willingness to take on risk. Concern that the U.S.
economic rebound will stall and reform legislation will crimp
profits at finance companies have weighed on their stocks.  
 “The clouds over the financial industry remain thick,”
said Michael Farr, president and founder of Washington-based
Farr, Miller & Washington LLC, who manages more than $650
million. Farr, who sold his Goldman Sachs stock when the SEC
suit was filed on April 16, said he’s considering buying again.  
 “You’ve got probably the greatest, most innovative
investment bank in the world, leading the category, which looks
cheap,” Farr said before earnings were released. “I have not
put my money back in yet but I am taking a close look at doing
just that.”  
 Share Performance  
 Goldman Sachs fell 49 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $145.68 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, leaving the
stock down 14 percent this year through yesterday. The S&P 500
Financials Index, which tracks the performance of 80 financial
company shares, is down 2 percent this year.  
 The company’s shares rebounded last week on news that the
firm had reached a settlement with the SEC over its 2007 sale of
a collateralized debt obligation. The cost was lower than the $1
billion some analysts had estimated and the settlement didn’t
require any management changes. Analysts slashed earnings
estimates in recent weeks on concern market declines would hurt
trading revenue as well as on costs related to the settlement
and a one-time bonus tax imposed in the U.K.  
 “People have gotten overly pessimistic on Goldman,”
Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, said
before the earnings were released. “We don’t believe they’ve
lost big chunks of their client base, and we do believe in their
risk-management capabilities.”  
 Bank of America  
 Shares in some of Goldman Sachs’s biggest rivals fell last
week after they reported revenue that was lower than investors
predicted. JPMorgan Chase’s second-quarter net revenue dropped 9
percent from the first quarter as revenue at the investment bank
unit slid 24 percent. Bank of America Corp.’s revenue fell 9
percent as global banking and markets revenue tumbled 38
percent.  
 Morgan Stanley, which was the second-biggest securities
firm after Goldman Sachs before both converted to banks in 2008,
is due to report earnings tomorrow.  
 Investors and analysts said before the earnings that
they’re keen for news on how the settlement, which imposes
changes to the way Goldman Sachs sells mortgage-related
securities, and the wider financial regulatory reform bill
passed by the U.S. Senate last week will affect earnings.  
 “I do think there will actually be business reforms where
their risk taking might be reined in,” said Portales Partners
LLC’s Peabody. “I don’t think there’s any question that Goldman
did play in the grey areas” and curbing that “reduces your
opportunities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman Sachs’s chief executive officer, is working to restore the firm’s reputation after agreeing to pay $550 million to settle the SEC's fraud accusations. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Kim Fennebresque, chairman of Dahlman Rose & Co., talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter profit reported today and business outlook.
     Fennebresque, speaking with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses Goldman's agreement to pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Ortel, managing director at Newport Value Partners, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter profit reported today and outlook.
     Ortel sees "considerable downside" for Goldman's stock. Goldman said profit dropped 82 percent, missing analysts' estimates on a slide in trading revenue five days after settling U.S. regulators' fraud allegations. (This report is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Brown, chief executive officer of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter earnings reported today.
     Goldman said net income fell 82 percent to $613 million, or 78 cents a share, missing analysts' estimates. Brown, speaking with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
