-- SEC Settlement with Goldman Sachs for $550 Million Approved by U.S. Judge
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/goldman-sachs-settlement-with-sec-for-550-million-approved-by-u-s-judge.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won court approval to levy a $550 million penalty
against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the largest ever against a
Wall Street firm, over claims the bank misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  
 U.S. District Judge  Barbara Jones  in Manhattan granted
final approval yesterday to a settlement between the SEC and
Goldman Sachs that was announced on July 15.  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDOs in 2007, as the
U.S. housing market faltered, without disclosing that hedge fund
Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet
against the investment vehicles, the SEC said in an April 16
lawsuit. In the accord, Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a
“mistake” and that marketing materials for the instruments had
“incomplete information,” the agency said.  
 “It was a mistake for the Goldman marketing materials to
state that the reference portfolio was ‘selected by’ ACA
Management LLC without disclosing the role of Paulson & Co. Inc.
in the portfolio selection process,” the SEC’s statement quoted
Goldman Sachs as saying in settlement documents.  
 Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a “mistake” and that
marketing materials for the instruments had “incomplete
information,” the agency said.  
 Fabrice Tourre  
 The judge’s approval of the accord came a day after  Fabrice Tourre , the Goldman Sachs executive director sued by the SEC for
fraud, filed court papers asking Jones to dismiss the lawsuit
against him. Tourre denied making any materially misleading
statements or omissions related to the sale of Abacus 2007-AC1
CDOs linked to subprime mortgages.  
 The bank, based in New York, didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing as part of the settlement, according to the court
filing.  
 The payment includes a $300 million fine and $250 million
as restitution to investors. IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG, the
first German lender bailed out during the subprime crisis, will
receive $150 million, and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will get
$100 million, according to the settlement agreement.  
 Tourre , the only Goldman Sachs executive named as a
defendant in the SEC complaint, remains an employee of the firm
and is on leave, said  Lucas van Praag , a company spokesman. The
firm promised to cooperate with the SEC in the case against
Tourre and other “ongoing litigation,” the agency’s deputy
enforcement director,  Lorin Reisner , told reporters in
Washington.  
 Van Praag declined to comment on yesterday’s court approval
of the settlement.  
 ‘A Stark Lesson’  
 SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said yesterday he’s
pleased with the settlement approval. He earlier called the
accord “a stark lesson to Wall Street firms that no product is
too complex, and no investor too sophisticated, to avoid a heavy
price if a firm violates the fundamental principles of honest
treatment and fair dealing.”  
 In 2008, Jones presided over the settlement of an antitrust
suit after  Discover Financial Services  sought $18 billion from
larger rivals  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc.  for blocking banks
from issuing its cards. The judge also presided over the
prosecution of former WorldCom Inc. executives stemming from an
$11 billion fraud that ended in bankruptcy, including former
Chief Executive  Bernard Ebbers  and the company’s former finance
chief  Scott Sullivan .  
 Goldman Sachs said yesterday that second-quarter profit had
dropped 82 percent, missing analysts’ estimates on a slide in
trading revenue. Revenue and earnings were the lowest since the
fourth quarter of 2008.  
 The case is SEC v. Goldman Sachs, 10-CV-3229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal courthouse at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        