-- Goldman's Viniar `Not Aware' of Any Plans for CEO Change
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-20T18:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/goldman-s-viniar-not-aware-of-any-plans-for-ceo-change-after-settlement.html

          
          
             David Viniar ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. ’s chief financial officer, said he’s “not aware of any
discussions” about changing the chief executive officer or
chief operating officer after the firm agreed to a record-
setting settlement with U.S. regulators.  
 Some investors and analysts have speculated that CEO  Lloyd Blankfein , 55, and  Gary Cohn , 49, who serves as president and
COO, may step down in coming months as the New York-based
company attempts to overcome reputational damage from the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s fraud lawsuit.  
 “They must know something I don’t,” Viniar, 55, said in a
telephone interview today after the bank reported an 82 percent
drop in second-quarter profit. He added that “obviously I
wouldn’t tell you if we were having board discussions about
those things.”  
 Christopher Whalen , a former Federal Reserve Bank of New
York official and co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics,
said after the settlement last week that Blankfein would
probably leave “within a decent interval” in order to help
repair the company’s reputation.  
 Charles Peabody , an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, said
last week that he expects Blankfein and Cohn to be gone before
the end of next year.  
 They will “choose a time where they can exit in a manner
that it’s not tied to the SEC issue and in a manner where they
can walk out with good news on their hip,” Peabody said.  
 Goldman Sachs, which has lost 12 percent on the New York
Stock Exchange this year, gained $2.70 to $148.38 in  composite
trading  at 2:27 p.m.  
 Partner Departures  
 Goldman Sachs, which had about 400 partners after the firm
last named new members to the partnership in 2008, will probably
see defections before the end of the year because 15 percent to
20 percent of the partners leave every two years, Viniar said.
He estimated that about half of the 60 or 80 partners that would
be expected to leave have already gone.  
 “There are going to be partners who retire,” Viniar said.
“I don’t know who they are, there’s no one who’s being talked
about, there’s no one who’s talking about it. But I am sure that
between now and the end of the year there will be partners who
retire.”  
 The amount of money set aside for compensation in the first
half of the year dropped 18 percent even as the total number of
employees climbed 9 percent.  
 New Legislation  
 The firm hasn’t had any “large amounts” of people leaving
because of new legislation that will affect businesses including
proprietary trading and the special-situations unit, Viniar
said.  
 That “doesn’t mean it won’t happen in the future but we’re
not seeing it now,” he said.  
 Goldman Sachs  agreed  last week to pay $550 million to
settle the SEC’s April 16 lawsuit, which accused the firm of
defrauding investors in a collateralized debt obligation sold in
2007. A new financial regulation law that was passed by the U.S.
Senate last week will probably force changes on Goldman Sachs’s
derivatives-trading business and divisions that invest the
company’s own money.  
 Viniar, who joined Goldman Sachs in 1980, said he remains
happy at the firm. “I am here because I love Goldman Sachs and
I love what I do,” he said.  

 

To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
charper@bloomberg.net


 
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Financial Officer David Viniar. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter earnings and outlook.
     Peabody speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
