-- Goldman Lost Money on Volatility Bet in 2nd Quarter
-- Christine Harper
-- 2010-07-20T22:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/goldman-sachs-lost-money-betting-volatility-would-drop-in-second-quarter.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the bank
that makes the most trading equities, lost money in the second
quarter by betting on a drop in stock-market volatility just as
a  gauge  of equity-price swings surged to a one-year high.  
 “Primarily in response to our client needs, our equity
 derivatives business  was short volatility entering the second
quarter and posted poor results,” Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  said on a conference call with reporters today. The firm
didn’t break out the size of the loss or the overall results
from the equity derivatives group responsible for the business.  
 The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or the
 VIX , is the most widely used measure of volatility. The index,
which started the second quarter at 17.47, rose as high as 45.79
on May 20 before ending the quarter at 34.54. The index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, has averaged 20.38 over its
two-decade history.  
 Goldman Sachs  said the division’s revenue slumped 62
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier to $1.21
billion. Still, the unit’s revenue beat equities divisions at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp. 
in the quarter.  
 ‘Volatility Just Spiked’  
 Clients wanted to hedge against an increase in volatility,
Viniar said on the call. “We took the other side because you
know we deal with our clients all the time,” he said. “We had
that position going into the quarter and volatility just
spiked.”  
 The client demand described by Viniar seems to indicate
that clients took the opposite tack of the one recommended by
Goldman Sachs’s own economics and strategy team. In a Dec. 2,
2009, note about Goldman Sachs’s “top trades for 2010,” the
first recommendation made to clients is that they hold short
positions in so-called variance swaps as a way of betting on
falling volatility.  
 “Even in a sluggish recovery and a range-bound equity
market, as macro-driven uncertainty declines, volatility can
continue to moderate,” the note said.  
 Risks Not Offset  
 Some investors and analysts expressed surprise that Goldman
Sachs, which prides itself on its risk-management success,
didn’t have positions that could hedge any losses.  
 “I would think they’d try to hedge out and offset those
risks,” said  Benjamin Wallace , an analyst at Grimes & Co. in
Westborough, Massachusetts, which manages $800 million and
doesn’t hold Goldman Sachs stock.  
 Roger Freeman , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York,
asked Viniar on a call with investors today why the firm didn’t
have any hedges against the jump in volatility.  
 “I would say we didn’t hedge it fast enough,” Viniar
replied. “Things spiked really dramatically really fast.”  
 Goldman Sachs, which set a Wall Street profit record for a
U.S. securities firm in 2007, reported today that  second-quarter 
profit tumbled 82 percent from a year earlier as revenue from
trading equities as well as fixed-income, currencies and
commodities dropped 44 percent from a year earlier. The stock
 rose  2.2 percent to $148.91 as of 6:10 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 Viniar said the firm reduced the size of its market bets
during the quarter to the lowest in three years as measured by
value-at-risk. VaR, a statistical measure of how much the firm
could lose in a single day of trading, dropped to an average of
$136 million in the quarter from $161 million in the first
quarter and $245 million a year earlier.  
 “It’s kind of hard to fault them for being wrong every now
and then,” said  Alan Villalon , a senior research analyst at FAF
Advisors, which owns Goldman Sachs shares. “They’ve kept
raising the bar themselves, but there’s going to be a hiccup
every now and then.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     David Viniar, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Matthew McCormick, a portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman and Dominic Chu about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s second-quarter profit and the outlook for the U.S. banking industry.
     Goldman Sachs said profit dropped 82 percent, missing analysts’ estimates on a slide in trading revenue, five days after settling U.S. regulators’ fraud allegations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
