-- Grain Market Impact of China's Oil Spill to Be `Minimal,' Shanghai JC Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T06:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/grain-market-impact-from-china-s-oil-spill-minimal-on-stocks-rerouting.html

          
          
             China’s grain  market  will be well
supplied from inventories and rerouting of shipments as the
clean-up of the Dalian oil spill keeps the port closed for as
many as 10 days, said an analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  
 “The Beiliang port near the explosion site was closed due
to traffic restrictions but cargoes can be rerouted to other
ports nearby with grain handling facilities such as Bayuquan,
Yingkou and Jinzhou,” said  Tommy Xiao  by phone from Shanghai.  
 A clean-up operation is underway off the coast of
northeastern China’s Dalian city after pipelines exploded on
July 16 near the city’s oil reserve base, one of China’s largest,
the official Xinhua News reported. China’s grain market may be
“slightly affected,” the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said today.  
 “The clean-up process might take up to 10 days and then
the operation at the Dalian port should be back to normal from
what we heard,” Xiao said.  
 China’s internal corn trade, shipping the grain from the
northern corn belt in Jilin, Liaoning, Heilongjiang and Inner
Mongolia, to the main consuming areas in the south, will be
unaffected because of rerouting, Xiao said.  
 Still, “if Dalian is closed for an extended period of time,
China may find that importing corn from abroad is a more
practical way of having corn delivered to southern China,”
Commodore Research said by e-mail from New York-based President
 Jeffrey Landsberg . “Dalian has one of the best infrastructures
to deal with transporting bulk grain to southern China,
especially from Jilin, one of China’s largest corn producing
provinces.”  
 Net Imports  
 The country, the second-largest corn consumer, is forecast
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to import 1 million tons
in the year ending Sept. 30, up from 47,000 tons a year earlier.
China will likely remain a net importer of the grain for a
second year as bad weather has hurt the domestic harvest, Bank
of America-Merrill Lynch said July 14.  
 Ports in the Southern China such as Shekou in Guangdong
province are also expecting arrivals of U.S. corn shipments
which China bought previously, Shanghai JC’s Xiao said.  
 A dark-brown oil slick has stretched over at least 183
square kilometers of ocean near blast-hit Xingang port, with 50
square kilometers severely affected, according to Xinhua.
Workers and fishermen using oil-spill dispersant and absorption
felts have been operating and have collected some of the spill.  
 Port Closed  
 An incorrect procedure during the offloading of a tanker
may have led an explosion that damaged two pipelines and spilled
oil into the Yellow Sea,  PetroChina Co.,  spokesman Mao Zefeng
said yesterday. The cause is yet to be confirmed and an
investigation is under way, he said. The port was closed after
the blasts, said an official at one of PetroChina’s two
refineries at Dalian, who can’t be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media.  
 “We estimate that Dalian port has more than 400,000 metric
tons of soybean inventories, enough to satisfy the local
crushers for at least half a month,” Xiao said. “The crushers
also keep sufficient inventories at hand so their operations
won’t be affected unless the clean-up process is prolonged.”  
 There are three main soybean crushing plants near Dalian -
owned by Nissin, Jiusan and Wilmar, respectively, that use a
combined 15,000 tons of raw material a day, he said.  
 Impact Minimal  
 “Those cargoes that have arrived but are waiting for
unloading might get delayed, but the impact on market prices and
trade is minimal so far,” he said.  
 The ocean traffic control may delay the offloading of two-
to-three cargoes of soybeans, Feng Lichen, a manager at Yigu
Information Consulting Ltd., said yesterday. The shipments were
scheduled to be offloaded at the Beiliang Port in Dalian, Feng
said, without saying who owned the cargoes.  
 “In my view the oil spill and explosion will have little
effect on agricultural markets,” Feng said.  
 Shanghai-based Shanghai JC Intelligence is an agricultural
consulting company.  
 -- Feiwen Rong . With reporting by William Bi. Editors: Richard
Dobson, Ravil Shirodkar.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        