-- Tianjin Says `Wait a Minute!' to Wen as China Property Slumps
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T16:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/tianjin-may-tell-wen-wait-a-minute-as-china-s-real-estate-sales-tumble.html

          
          
             Three dozen cranes tower over the
Tianjin West Railway Station, part of a 501-billion yuan ($74-
billion) government-funded building boom in this city of 9.8
million southeast of Beijing.  
 Like hundreds of other local Chinese projects, Tianjin’s
construction is financed in part by land sales that are dropping
as China’s real-estate slump takes hold. Property sales slid at
an annual 8 percent rate in June. Selling land produced 41
percent of Tianjin’s income last year, according to China Index
Academy, a Beijing real-estate research firm.  
 A cascading collapse in local finances could force the
central government to shore up banks that lent to local
government entities, said  Jim Walker , chief economist at Hong
Kong-based Asianomics Ltd., in a June 7 interview. Banks could
“easily” be saddled with bad loans of more than $400 billion
over the next two years, he said.  
 “These local-government vehicles probably hope their
projects will be able to service their debts,” Walker said.
“If they don’t I doubt they’ll worry about repaying the loans;
they will just assume that somewhere else in government will
have to take on the bad debt.”  
 After their success in propelling growth, local authorities
are now faced with the consequences of Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
crackdown on the real-estate bubble. Falling property sales risk
an erosion of revenue accounting for as much as 30 percent of
local budgets, according to Standard Chartered Bank.  
 Must Do Something  
 The  China Se Shang Property Index  has tumbled 42 percent in
the past year, underperforming the 23 percent drop in the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index .  
 “Local governments were encouraged to invest in these
projects and now they’re feeling like, ‘Hey, wait a minute!’”
said  Barry Naughton , author of the 2007 book “The Chinese
Economy: Transitions and Growth” and a China specialist at the
 University of California San Diego . “They will be taking their
funding platforms to Beijing and saying: ‘We’re going to go
bankrupt. You have to do something about it.’”  
 China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that get revenue from
local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers.
Authorities sold or allocated 319,000 hectares (788,266 acres)
of property last year, up 44 percent from 2008, netting a record
1.6 trillion yuan, Ministry of Land and Resources data show.  
 Economic Engine  
 Wen’s government aims to make Tianjin’s Binhai New Area an
economic engine akin to Hong Kong neighbor Shenzhen and
Shanghai’s Pudong. Tianjin reported 180.5 billion yuan in
revenue last year. While the data don’t detail land sales, China
Index Academy estimates the receipts at 73.2 billion yuan, a 67
percent surge over 2008.  
 A  Tianjin Bureau of Land Resources and Housing
Administration  spokesman who identified himself as Mr. Duan said
by telephone in response to questions about the city’s land
sales: “Healthy, stable and in good order,” declining to
comment further.  
 Duan’s assessment contrasts with National Bureau of
Statistics figures last week that showed real-estate sales
across the country fell for a second straight month in June
compared with a year earlier.  
 The reversal comes amid a slowdown across the world’s
third-largest economy.  China’s expansion  cooled to an annual
pace of 10.3 percent in the second quarter, according to data
released last week, from 11.9 percent in January to March.  
 More Slowing?  
 The growth rate for  industrial production  in June dropped
the most since 2008, excluding distortions from the Lunar New
Year holiday, signaling a further deceleration in the economy in
the second half of the year.  
 Policy makers are seeking to cushion the decline in
property by promoting low-cost housing, a strategy that itself
is complicated by newly falling prices.  
 “What we’re likely to see is that local governments will
hold onto the land and wait until prices are reasonable before
supplying it,” said  Ren Zhiqiang , chairman of Beijing-based
developer Huayuan Property Co. Ltd., at a forum in Beijing on
July 12.  
 Sales of land for residential use in 103 cities in China
dropped 28 percent in June from May, China Index Academy said in
a statement on July 13. Shenzhen-based developer  Gemdale Corp. 
saw first-half contracted sales fall 37 percent to 5.4 billion
yuan and 43 percent by area to 482,900 square meters, according
to a July 10 statement.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its profit estimates for China’s
property developers by an average 9 percent in 2010 and 11
percent in 2011 due to a “substantial slowdown” in
transactions, analysts led by  Raymond Ngai  wrote last month.  
 State-Owned Banks  
 Beijing-based hedge fund manager  Jenny Tian  is avoiding
state-owned banks, including  China Construction Bank Corp .,
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  Bank of China
Ltd. , because of concern over the credit they’ve extended to
local authorities. The  Springs China Opportunities Fund  she
helps manage has bought bank stocks that include  China Merchants
Bank Co.  and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. , which have smaller
amounts of such lending, she said.  
 Lending by China Merchants to local governments makes up
about 5 to 6 percent of its total outstanding loans, while China
Minsheng’s total is 6 percent to 7 percent, Tian said. Big state
banks’ lending is between 15 to 20 percent, she calculates.  
 Barclays Capital forecasts China’s property prices may fall
as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months.  Kenneth Rogoff , the
Harvard University professor and former International Monetary
Fund chief economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
July 6 that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning.  
 More Than India  
 The threat facing China’s local governments is another
shock wave stemming from the global financial crisis and policy
makers’ response to it. As credit froze in the wake of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in late 2008, China encouraged
a lending spree to cushion the economy. A record 9.6 trillion
yuan of loans was issued in China in 2009, more than India’s
gross domestic product.  
 Some local governments set up vehicles to circumvent rules
that prevent them borrowing directly. Total local government
outstanding debt last year rose to a record 11.4 trillion yuan,
according to calculations by  Victor Shih , a political economist
at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, who has spent
months researching local government finances.  
 The borrowing has effectively pushed China’s overall debt
to 71 percent of GDP, Shih said. By comparison, the IMF sees
Spain’s ratio this year at 66.9 percent, the U.S. at 93 percent,
and Greece at 133 percent. Its estimate for China excluding
local-government liabilities is 20 percent.  
 Overstated Crisis?  
 Talk of a local debt crisis in China is “overstated,”
said  Ha Jiming , Hong Kong-based chief economist at China
International Capital Corp. He tallies the nation’s total debt-
to-GDP ratio as 43 percent, “still one of the world’s
soundest.”  
 Home prices are set to fall as much as 20 percent in a
“healthy” correction,  Michael Klibaner , head of China research
at property broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. in Shanghai, said
July 7. The property boom has been driven by cash rather than
debt, meaning there’s little chance of the forced selling that
exacerbated the U.S. housing-market collapse, he said.  
 Shih said that some local governments are so stretched that
“if they don’t sell land within a few months they may have to
choose between paying salaries and pension benefits and paying
interest payments to the bank.” He identified Tianjin,
Chongqing and Wuhan as cities “with higher levels of
leverage.”  
 Special Vehicles  
 In Tianjin, credit to special financing vehicles last year
reached more than 700 billion yuan, according to Shih. Tianjin’s
units have also lined up an additional 840 billion yuan in
credit lines with banks, he said.  
 Construction of the 180,000-square-meter Tianjin West
Railway Station and transport hub, which will include a 1.3
billion yuan underground link to nearby Tianjin Railway Station,
helped propel the city’s economy to a 16.5 percent growth pace
last year. The challenge for local leaders will be to sustain
that without the bump from land-sales financing.  
 “To imagine a situation where eventually Tianjin is able
to repay all of its debt, you have to believe that it will grow
at a phenomenal rate,” said Shih. “There are aspirations and
there’s reality.”  
 -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from  Li Yanping ,  Vincent Ni  and
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing and  Malcolm Scott  in Sydney. Editors:
 Chris Anstey ,  Anne Swardson   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     People ride past a construction site in Tianjin. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tianjin West train station  
                       
                         
                           Doug Kanter/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Construction work continues at the Tianjin West train station in Tianjin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Construction work continues at the Tianjin West train station in Tianjin. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Men walk on pipes past a residential site in the Binhai New Area of Tianjin. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
