-- IBM Shuffles Top Management Positions, Promotes Four Executives
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/ibm-shuffles-top-management-duties-as-palmisano-near-possible-retirement.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s largest computer-services provider, shuffled
its top management as Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano 
nears 60, the usual retirement age for that position.  
 Senior Vice President  Mike Daniels , who heads technology
services, will now lead the consulting business as well,
Palmisano said in an internal memo sent to IBM employees
yesterday and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Ginni Rometty , also a
senior vice president, will lead marketing and strategy, in
addition to her position as head of sales.  
 The restructuring could point to succession plans at IBM.
Three of IBM’s last four chief executives have stepped down at
60, and Palmisano, who has led the company for more than eight
years, will hit that mark next July. Daniels and Rometty have
been cited by analysts and former employees as two likely
candidates for the top spot.  
 Steve Mills , who’s headed the software group for a decade,
will take on the hardware division as well. Mills, while well-
respected for helping increase profitability in IBM’s software
division, may be unlikely to take over the top post since he
also turns 60 next year.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Mark Loughridge  will now also
oversee IBM’s financing division as well as its own information
technology, according to the memo.  
 “Over the past several years we have seen great value in
working collaboratively,” Palmisano said in the memo. “Today’s
changes have that in common - they will further strengthen
teaming in support of our strategies and initiatives.”  
 IBM spokesman  Edward Barbini , who confirmed the existence
of the e-mail, declined to comment further.  
 IBM Succession  
 IBM has brought in a CEO from outside the company only
once, when it named  Louis V. Gerstner Jr.  to succeed  John Akers 
in 1993. Akers, who was forced out by IBM’s board, was the only
one of IBM’s last four chief executives to leave before 60.  
 For the last CEO change, IBM made the succession path clear
more than a year before Gerstner stepped aside. The company
appointed Palmisano, then head of the server business, president
and chief operating officer in September 2000. The formal CEO
announcement came in January 2002, and Gerstner stepped down
from the position March 1, on his 60th birthday. Gerstner
 remained chairman  through the end of 2002 before Palmisano
assumed that title.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        