-- Icahn Starts New Tender Offer for Lions Gate Entertainment at Lower Price
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-07-21T00:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/icahn-starts-new-tender-offer-for-lions-gate-entertainment-at-lower-price.html

          
          
             Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
started a new tender offer for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. ,
after a truce with the film and television studio expired.  
 Icahn offered $6.50 a share, or 7.1 percent less than his
previous bid, according to a statement today. Separately,
Vancouver-based Lions Gate issued new shares to MHR Fund
Management LLC in a debt exchange, putting 12 percent of the
stock in friendly hands and diluting Icahn’s holdings.  
 The exchange with a fund led by  Mark Rachesky , who has a
seat on the Lions Gate  board , will make it harder for Icahn to
gain a majority of the stock or win a threatened proxy fight to
replace the management and directors. The swap boosts Rachesky’s
stake to almost 29 percent, according to a filing, while cutting
Icahn’s to about 33 percent from almost 38 percent.  
 “This was management’s last chance,” said  Matthew Harrigan,  a Denver-based analyst with Wunderlich Securities who
recommends the shares. “They needed someone with a large
position to step up if they were going to stop him.”  
 A 10-day truce between Icahn, 74, and Lions Gate ended
yesterday. The two sides said they discussed potential
acquisitions and possible board seats for Icahn. The talks
didn’t yield results that would merit an extension, Icahn said.
Discussions on acquisitions may continue in the future, he said.  
 Rachesky, 51, a former chief investment officer with Icahn,
increased his stake in a complicated transaction in which one of
his investment funds purchased $100 million of convertible notes
from Kornitzer Capital Management and then exchanged debt for
stock. Kornitzer, based in Shawnee Mission, Kansas, also owns
1.62 million Lions Gate shares,  Bloomberg data  show.  
 May Buy More  
 Rachesky, who is based in New York, said in a statement he
bought the shares because they “represented an attractive
investment opportunity” and may buy more. He paid $105.7
million in total for the debt, according to the statement.  
 In July 2009, Rachesky entered into an agreement with Lions
Gate in which he agreed to vote his shares in support of
management and to join the board. At the time, Icahn was
negotiating for as many as three seats on the company’s board.
He said he broke off the talks when Lions Gate insisted he
adhere to a standstill agreement.  
 The debt swap increases Lions Gate shares outstanding by
16.2 million, the company said in a statement, or about 14
percent based on 118.1 million shares outstanding previously.  
 Lions Gate, distributor of the “Saw” horror films,
 climbed  50 cents, or 8.3 percent, to $6.53 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has risen 12
percent this year.  
 Critical of Spending  
 Icahn, who is Lions Gate’s largest shareholder, previously
made a $7-a-share bid, which expired on June 30. He has
criticized the company’s spending on films and said in June that
he planned a proxy fight to replace management and the board.  
 Lions Gate’s board said in a statement it will review
Icahn’s latest offer. The company, the producer of TV’s “Mad
Men,” has also held talks to buy  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. , a
person with knowledge of the situation has said.  
 Under the debt exchange, Lions Gate swapped $36 million of
its 3.625 percent convertible senior subordinated notes due 2025
and $63.7 million of 2.9375 percent convertible senior
subordinated notes due 2024 in a private transaction.  
 The debt was exchanged for new notes that were converted
into shares at a price of $6.20 each, according to Lions Gate,
which is run from Santa Monica, California.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        