-- IMF Says Central Banks Need `Defense' Policies to Counter Asset Bubbles
-- Sandrine Rastello
-- 2010-07-20T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/imf-says-central-banks-need-defense-policies-to-counter-asset-bubbles.html

          
          
             Central banks should have policies
that are “the first defense against” asset bubbles without
losing their focus on price stability, an International Monetary
Fund official said.  
 “There is still much work to be done in developing a new
policy framework to marry monetary and financial stability,”
 Jose Vinals , who heads the IMF’s Monetary and Capital Markets
department, said in a statement on the institution’s website
today. “Tools should be sharpened to counter the build-up of
financial imbalances at their root.”  
 Policies that could be used to maintain market stability
include higher capital requirements, liquidity ratios and
“prudent” valuations on loan collateral, the IMF staff said in
its “Central Banking Lessons from the Crisis” report dated May
27 and released today.  
 Central banks should “play a key role” in supervision,
“whether or not they serve as the main regulator,” the IMF
staff report said. Price stability “should remain the primary
objective of monetary policy,” it said.  
 Economists and policy makers disagree on whether low
interest rates across the globe helped fuel the global financial
crisis.  
 Vinals said “prudential policies must be the first defense
against credit-fueled asset booms.”  
 In its report, the IMF staff said that at times monetary
policy can be used to “lean against market bubbles,” including
when rising asset prices are combined with rapid credit growth.  
 “Until financial developments are better structurally
incorporated in monetary policy decision making, central banks
should best utilize judgment in deciding whether to maintain
interest rates somewhat higher than otherwise in order to avoid
imbalances from undermining financial stability, which would
ultimately endanger price stability,” IMF staff said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        