-- India's Probe of Mumbai Suspect Headley Exposed Official Role, Menon Says
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-07-20T11:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/india-s-probe-of-mumbai-suspect-headley-exposed-official-role-menon-says.html

          
          
             The interrogation of David Coleman
Headley, a suspect in the 2008 attacks on Mumbai who is in U.S.
custody, exposed official patronage of terrorist groups,  India ’s
National Security Adviser  Shivshankar Menon  said.  
 Headley, a Chicago man, in March pleaded guilty in the U.S.
to charges including conspiracy to bomb sites in India, aiding
and abetting the murder of Americans there and providing
material support to terrorists. He was later questioned by
Indian investigators.  
 “What we learnt from Headley is really the links with the
official establishment and existing intelligence agencies,”
Menon said in New Delhi today without elaborating or naming the
organizations he was referring to. “The nexus” which makes
terrorism “a much harder phenomenon for us to deal with,” he
said.  
 India’s Home Secretary  G.K. Pillai  was quoted in the Indian
Express newspaper this month as saying that the Headley probe
showed Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency had
played a more significant role in the siege of India’s financial
center than previously thought.  
 India blames the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant
group for the attack. Laskhar was originally formed to fight
Indian rule in the part of Kashmir under the control of the
government in New Delhi.  
 Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit rejected
Menon’s comments today in a  statement  posted on its website.
“Menon’s baseless accusations were yet another manifestation of
the Indian establishment’s propagandistic stance toward
Pakistan,” the statement quoted Basit as saying.  
 The ISI’s officers “were literally controlling and
coordinating it from the beginning till the end,” the Indian
Express quoted Pillai as saying.  
 Pakistan’s Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  said last
week that Pillai’s claims were “uncalled for” and undermined
efforts to restore the peace process.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        