-- Linklaters Loss in India Tax Case May Raise Costs for Foreign Lawfirms
-- Kian Ganz
-- 2010-07-20T05:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/linklaters-loss-in-india-tax-case-may-raise-costs-for-foreign-lawfirms.html

          
          
             Linklaters LLP , the second highest
grossing U.K. law firm, was ordered to pay taxes in India on
services provided by foreign lawyers in a ruling that may raise
levies for overseas professional companies.  
 Linklaters will have to pay income taxes on fees its
overseas employees earned if they worked for more than 90 days in
India, the Mumbai Income Tax Appellate Tribunal ruled July 16.
The London-based firm argued that it was exempt because it
didn’t have an office in the country during the 1995-96 tax year
under review, according to the 111-page  ruling .  
 The decision may result in higher costs for overseas law
and accounting firms providing professional services to Indian
companies, said Pranay Bhatia, associate partner at Economic
Laws Practice in Mumbai. Foreign law firms are banned from
opening offices in India, and have been accused in a lawsuit of
illegally practicing law there.  
 The ruling “has wide ramifications on all service
sectors where foreign service providers are providing services
to Indian residents,” said Nishith Desai, managing partner of
Mumbai-based Nishith Desai Associates, which specializes in
tax-related cases. “We have certainly not seen the end of the
story in this regard and this matter would definitely be the
subject matter of further litigation.”  
 Linklaters is “ reviewing the tribunal’s decision,” said
firm spokeswoman  Sarah Peters , who declined to comment further.  
 Clifford Chance LLP, the highest-grossing U.K. law firm,
has appealed against a Bombay High Court order about how much of
the fees charged by the firm between 1996 and 1998 was taxable
in India and the latest ruling means that company will also have
to pay tax due, the tribunal said in its order.  
 Clifford Chance’s London-based spokeswoman Anna Richards
declined to comment.  
 Tax Treaty  
 The tribunal ruled that professional services are taxable
under the India-U.K. tax treaty when a foreign firm’s
representatives visit India for more than 90 days in a 12-month
period.  
 Linklaters can also benefit from the treaty’s provision for
avoiding double taxation, the ruling said.  
 Firms may have to pay 40 percent of their  income  as tax
after the ruling, Economic Laws’ Bhatia said.  
 “The entire fees for professional services earned by the
assessee, in connection with the projects in India and which is
thus sourced from India, is taxable in India,” according to the
ruling.  
 The tribunal noted that amendments were proposed to
India’s tax law this year that would negate previous court
findings that income is only taxable in India to the extent the
work has been carried out in the country.  
 The case is Linklater LLP v Income Tax Officer, Mumbai ITA
4896/5085/Mum/03.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kian Ganz  in Mumbai at 
 Kganz1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        