-- Innkeepers, Aventine, Tousa, Jennifer Convertibles, Vick: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-20T12:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/innkeepers-aventine-tousa-jennifer-convertibles-vick-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate
investment trust acquired in July 2007 by  Apollo Investment
Corp.  in a $1.35 billion transaction, filed a Chapter 11
petition yesterday in New York with a reorganization plan where
a subsidiary of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , one of the
secured lenders, would end up with all the new stock in exchange
for $238 million in debt.  
 Although Innkeepers characterized the plan as a “pre-
arranged” reorganization, other secured lenders owed $825
million filed papers late last night opposing the plan and the
proposed use of cash. The objecting mortgage lenders hold 64
percent of the secured debt.  
 Innkeepers has 72 extended-stay and limited-service hotels
with 10,000 rooms in 20 states. The petition listed assets of
$1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  
 The company’s $1.42 billion debt for borrowed money
includes $1.29 billion in secured debt. The secured obligations
include $238 million in floating-rate debt owing to Lehman
subsidiary Lehman ALI Inc. with mortgages on 20 properties.
Other lenders have $825 million in fixed-rate debt secured by
mortgages on 45 properties.  
 In addition there is a $118 million floating-rate mezzanine
loan also owing to Lehman. Finally, there is debt on seven
properties with mortgages ranging from $27 million to $48
million each.  
 The agreement with Lehman calls for exchanging the $238
million obligation for all the new equity. Lehman’s $118 million
in mezzanine debt won’t receive anything under the plan.  
 Innkeepers amended its papers yesterday by disclosing that
Lehman intends to sell “a portion” of the stock it receives to
Apollo, thus evidently allowing Apollo to retain control after
bankruptcy. Otherwise, Innkeepers had said that the plan would
extinguish Apollo’s ownership interest.  
 The plan calls for the holders of the $825 million in
mortgages to receive new mortgages for $550 million. The plan
would allow the lenders to exercise an election under Section
1111(b) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to retain mortgages on the
property in the original amount, although the terms of the
mortgages would result in their having a present value of $550
million.  
 Other secured lenders can elect between taking $150 million
in new mortgages or retaining mortgages in the original
principal amount, although with a present value of $150 million.  
 General unsecured creditors could split $500,000 cash.  
 In papers filed last night, Midland Loan Services Inc., the
servicer for the $825 million in mortgage debt, objected to the
requested use of cash generated by its 45 properties. There will
be a hearing this morning to authorize the temporary use of
cash.  
 Midland is asking the bankruptcy court to segregate cash so
money generated by its properties are not used on hotels where
Lehman has liens. Midland’s papers describe how Innkeepers in
April redirected $9 million in cash away from a so-called lock
box in violation of loan agreements.  
 Midland doesn’t want any of its cash collateral to be used
to pay Innkeepers’ professionals. Likewise, Midland opposes
having its cash used to pay $460,000 a month in professional
fees for Lehman.  
 Midland said it was forced to pay $5.2 million in taxes for
the first quarter on its properties when Innkeepers didn’t.
Midland also alleges that Apollo breached its guarantee of an
agreement to perform improvements on the 44 properties operating
under license with Marriott International Inc.  
 Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers missed a payment on
the fixed-rate debt in April.  
 To avoid losing licenses with Marriott, Innkeepers has a
$50.75 million loan for improvements on the Marriott properties.
Midland says it arranged the loan and will permit its mortgages
to be subordinated to the loan. There is to be a separate $17
million loan from Lehman for improvements on the Lehman
collateral.  
 Midland argued in its papers last night that Innkeepers’
plan can’t be confirmed because it would allow Apollo to retain
ownership without testing the market to see if there’s a better
offer.  
 Section 1111(b) in bankruptcy law deals with so-called
cramdown on secured creditors. Rather than take what the debtor
would cram down in a plan, the section allows a secured lender
not to lose the ability to profit from an increase in the value
of the collateral after the company emerges from bankruptcy. The
section is little used and not well understood.  
 The reorganization plan is to be filed within 45 days, a
court paper says. Lehman, itself in Chapter 11, must receive
approval from its bankruptcy judge to go ahead with the
agreements. The Lehman case and the Innkeepers case are pending
before different bankruptcy judges in Manhattan.  
 For other Bloomberg coverage of the filing, click here.  
 The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 Texas Rangers Restructuring Officer Wants Team-Owner
Consolidation  
 The chief restructuring officer for the two partnerships
that own the  Texas Rangers  professional baseball club filed a
motion late yesterday asking for permission to begin the process
of substantively consolidating the bankruptcies of the team and
the two partnership owners.  
 William K. Snyder , the restructuring officer appointed by
the bankruptcy judge in Fort Worth, Texas, argued in his papers
that consolidation is the only way to preserve fraudulent
transfer claims that otherwise would be lost were the team to
win approval of its own reorganization plan at the currently
scheduled Aug. 4 confirmation hearing.  
 The team filed papers last night in opposition. The Rangers
believe that Snyder’s mandate does not include proposing
substantive consolidation. The team also argues that a motion
for substantive consolidation would “impede and disrupt” the
sale process.  
 On the eve of the May 24 Chapter 11 filing, Snyder says the
team assumed $9 million in debt to financial advisers that
previously had no claim against the team. Also just before
bankruptcy, the team assumed the above-market lease for an
aircraft.  
 Substantive consolidation would entail putting the team and
the two partnerships into one pot, with creditors receiving
distributions without regard for the particular entity that owed
the debt. Snyder believes consolidation is proper because  Thomas Hicks , the ultimate owner, “commingled assets and liabilities
of all Rangers-related entitles as if they were one single
entity.”  
 He described how Hicks’ loans to the team weren’t
documented until just before bankruptcy. He says the
partnerships and the teams shared the same bank accounts and the
same officers and directors.  
 The team, according to Snyder, was “grossly
undercapitalized.” It had negative equity going back to 2002,
he says.  
 Snyder wants the bankruptcy judge to decide before the Aug.
4 confirmation hearing whether the substantive consolidation
motion should go forward. The judge is holding a hearing today
on motions by the secured lenders and Snyder to reconsider
holding the auction on Aug. 4. Snyder believes there will be no
bidders other than the group that signed a contract just before
bankruptcy.  
 A group including current team President  Nolan Ryan  and
sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg  have a contract to buy the team
for $306.7 million cash. The lenders owed $525 million have
security interests in the partnerships that own the team. The
team’s liability to the lenders is limited to $75 million. Under
the original form of the contract signed in May, the lenders
would recover $256 million, according to the team’s disclosure
statement.  
 The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle,
is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The partnership that
owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 General Growth Lowers Interest on $400 Million Loan  
 Mall owner  General Growth Properties Inc.  has a hearing on
July 22 for approval of replacement financing reducing the
interest rate by 8 percent.  
 After filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009, General Growth
landed $400 million in secured financing requiring interest at
12 percentage points higher than the London interbank borrowed
rate.  
 Barclays Bank PLC has agreed to make a replacement $400
million loan at a fixed rate of 5.5 percent, saving General
Growth $2.7 million a month in interest.  
 General Growth filed a Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement last week to finish the reorganization of the four
top-tier companies. Like the property-owning subsidiaries that
already confirmed Chapter 11 plans, the top-level companies will
pay their creditors in full while preserving some of the stock
for existing shareholders.  
 The plan is financed with an $8.55 billion debt and equity
commitment from a group led by  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. 
Teacher Retirement System of Texas has a separate commitment to
buy $500 million of new stock at $10.25 a share.  
 General Growth plans on emerging from reorganization in
October. It will remain the second-largest mall owner in the
U.S., with 180 properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Houlihan Fees Dinged 5% for Aventine Non-Disclosure  
 Although Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin Capital Inc. didn’t
make timely disclosure about its connections with noteholders
who were providing contested financing, the bankruptcy judge
only cut the firm’s fees by 5 percent in the completed
reorganization of ethanol producer  Aventine Renewable Energy
Holdings Inc.   
 The U.S. Trustee in May asked the bankruptcy judge to cut
the $5 million fee request in half. Los Angeles-based Houlihan
at a hearing last week established to the satisfaction of the
bankruptcy judge in Delaware that tardy disclosure about the
lenders was “inadvertent and not willful.”  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Gross  said in his 12-page
opinion on July 16 that a $250,000 reduction in fees was
nonetheless appropriate “to balance the protection of the
integrity of the bankruptcy process with the substantial
benefits” the Houlihan firm provided in Aventine’s
reorganization.  
 Aventine implemented its reorganization plan in March.
Holders of $315.5 million in unsecured notes received 80 percent
of the new stock which they shared with unsecured creditors owed
$15 million. To read details about the plan, click here for the
Dec. 10 Bloomberg daily bankruptcy report. To read about the
U.S. Trustee’s objection to Houlihan’s fees, click here for the
June 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition filed in April 2009 by Pekin,
Illinois-based Aventine listed $799 million in assets against
debt totaling $491 million. It had two plants in operation and
two in construction. The operating plants had an annual capacity
of 207 million gallons of ethanol. The two plants being built
were designed to produce 220 million gallons.  
 The case is In re Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings Inc.,
09-11214, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Tousa Committee Files Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  
 The unsecured creditors’ committee for liquidating
homebuilder  Tousa Inc.  filed a Chapter 11 plan and explanatory
disclosure statement on July 16. The plan assumes appellate
courts uphold a judgment the committee won in October where the
bankruptcy judge ruled that a bailout and refinancing in mid-
2007 of a joint venture in  Transeastern Properties Inc.  resulted
in fraudulent transfers.  
 The bankruptcy judge required the banks to post $700
million in bonds to hold up enforcement of the judgment pending
appeal. The appeal is scheduled for argument on Oct. 22 in U.S.
District Court in Florida.  
 The plan and disclosure statement are complicated in view
of intercreditor agreements and payments secured lenders
received that they must disgorge under the judgment. In lieu of
disgorgement, the plan provides that payments previously
received by first- and second-lien term-loan lenders will be
deemed to have been made and redistributed in accordance with
the waterfall provisions in the intercreditor agreement.  
 Consequently, the $46 million on the $316 million first-
lien revolving credit will be paid in full under the plan. The
$208 million owing on the first-lien term loan will see a
recovery between 2.8 percent and 100 percent, according to the
explanatory disclosure statement.  
 The $319 million in second-lien claims are to see nothing
to 45.2 percent.  
 The holders of $574 million in senior notes are in line for
a dividend between 52 percent and 82.3 percent, the disclosure
statement says.  
 Holders of $510 million on subordinated notes, $20 million
in pay-in-kind subordinated notes, and existing stock will
receive nothing under the plan.  
 Tousa had almost $486 million cash at the end of May.  
 The variation in recoveries depends in part on whether
other lawsuits by the committee are successful.  
 Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  
 The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  
 Jennifer Has Plan for Haining Mengnu to Own Stores  
 Jennifer Convertibles Inc. , the furniture retailer that
filed for reorganization on July 18, has agreement on a plan
where the principal supplier Haining Mengnu Group Co. from China
will end up owning 95 percent of the stock. Existing ownership
will be extinguished.  
 The other 5 percent of the new equity will go to other
creditors, a court filing said.  
 Jennifer blamed the filing on the “poor housing market and
an overall weak U.S. economy.” Comparable-store sales declined
19.6 percent for the quarter ended in May, compared with the
same period in 2009. Revenue for fiscal 2009 was $94.2 million,
a 22 percent decline from $120.1 million revenue the year
before.  
 Woodbury, New York-based  Jennifer  listed assets of $26
million and debt totaling $46.4 million. It had a $13.2 million
operating loss for six months ended Feb. 27 on revenue of $48.3
million. The net loss in the period was $13.3 million.  
 The company has 130 Jennifer locations and seven Ashley
HomeStores Ltd. stores operated under license. Ashley is a full-
line furniture retailer. Jennifer closed seven stores in fiscal
2009 and said earlier this year it expected to close seven to 10
stores in fiscal 2010.  
 Haining was listed as the largest unsecured creditor with a
claim of $16.7 million.  
 The case is In re Jennifer Convertibles Inc., 10-13779,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 DBSI Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan Consolidates Creditors  
 The Chapter 11 trustee for DBSI Inc. and the official
creditors’ committee jointly filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan
on July 16 along with an explanatory disclosure statement.  
 DBSI, once a seller and servicer of fractional interests in
commercial real estate, was what the examiner called an
“elaborate shell game” operated like a Ponzi scheme. The
examiner’s report led to the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee
in September.  
 After investigation, the trustee filed a motion in January
for substantive consolidation of all the DBSI companies. He
concluded that the company was managed with disregard for
“corporate separateness,” such that money was moved around as
needed to keep the shell game alive.  
 The plan therefore treats all creditors alike, regardless
of whether they  hold claims for notes or bonds or thought they
were supposed to be so-called tenants in common in specified
properties. The disclosure statement predicts an 18.5 percent
recovery for many creditors.  
 DBSI filed under Chapter 11 in November 2008 along with
almost 150 affiliates. More filed later. Based in Meridian,
Idaho, the company claimed it managed real estate valued at more
than $2.65 billion and raised $1.5 billion in capital over 29
years.  
 The case is In re DBSI Inc., 08-12687, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Vick Trustee Sues Family for Pre-Bankruptcy Transfers  
 The trustee for the creditors of  Michael D. Vick  sued the
professional football quarterback’s relatives this month to
recover what the complaint describes as “gifts and other
transfers” received before Vick’s Chapter 11 filing in July
2008.  
 Those sued include Vick’s mother, sister, the mother of his
first child, and a woman described in the complaint as Vick’s
fiancee and mother of his second and third children. The amount
of the transfers wasn’t specified.  
 Vick served a prison sentence for holding dog fights. He
confirmed a Chapter 11 plan in September. The plan created a
trust to liquidate remaining assets and bring suits for the
benefit of creditors.  
 The plan was modified before confirmation to satisfy the
judge’s criticism of a prior version allowing Vick to retain too
much property. The revised plan required Vick give up all but
one of his four homes. He retained one automobile and a pension
plan. He turned over other homes, boats, cars, horses, real
property and investments.  
 He is giving up part of his future income over six years to
help repay unsecured creditors with claims estimated to exceed
$19 million.  
 The case is In re Michael D. Vick, 08-50775, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Newport News).  
 Watch List  
 KKR and TPG’s Energy Future ‘Appears Unsustainable’  
 Energy Future Holdings Corp. , known as TXU Corp. before the
$43.2 billion acquisition in October 2007 by KKR & Co. LP and
TPG Inc., has a business plan that “appears unsustainable”
along with and “untenable capital structure,” Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday.  
 The corporate rating remained at Caa1 evidently because the
recently announced exchange offer, which Moody’s views as
“distressed,” will reduce consolidated debt by $1 billion.  
 Noting that $20 billion in debt  matures  in 2014, Moody’s
believes that “additional restructuring activity is likely over
the near to intermediate term horizon.” The exchange offer will
cause a “material reduction” in cash, Moody’s said.  
 The balance sheet is upside down. Energy Futures, a Dallas-
based generating and retail electric company, had total
liabilities of $55.6 billion on the March 31 balance sheet when
total assets were $52.8 billion.  
 The acquisition in 2007 added $4.5 billion in senior
unsecured debt plus $24.5 billion in secured debt and $6.75
billion in senior unsecured debt at key subsidiaries. The
purchase rolled over $8 billion in existing debt.  
 Energy Future is the largest unregulated electric provider
in Texas.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Lake Las Vegas Development Consummates Chapter 11 Plan  
 The master developer of the  Lake Las Vegas  Resort 17 miles
from the Las Vegas Strip implemented the reorganization plan on
July 15 that the bankruptcy judge approved in a July 1
confirmation order. The plan resulted from a settlement between
unsecured creditors and secured lenders owed $626 million. For
details, click here for the June 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The development is a 3,600-acre master-planned community
with a 320-acre manmade lake next to the Lake Mead National
Recreational Area. It has three golf course, two hotels, a
casino, retail stores and more than 1,600 completed residential
units. The Chapter 11 filing was in July 2008.  
 The case is Lake at Las Vegas Joint Venture LLC, 08-17814,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  
 Daily Podcast  
 Texas Rangers, Lehman, 3 Significant Opinions: Audio  
 Allegations about fraudulent transfer on the eve of the
bankruptcy filing by the  Texas Rangers  baseball team, disputes
among creditors of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  about
substantive consolidation, and three significant appellate
rulings on bankruptcy law are topics in the new bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        