-- Investment Technology Group Hires Selway for Expertise in Market Structure
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/investment-technology-group-hires-selway-for-expertise-in-market-structure.html

          
          
             Investment Technology Group Inc. 
hired  Jamie Selway , who analyzes the structure of equity markets
at White Cap Trading LLC, as a managing director to offer
research for its brokerage clients.  
 Selway and his three sales traders --  William D’Arbanville ,
 Jamie Petraglia  and  Tim Love  -- will join New York-based ITG on
Aug. 2, according to an e-mailed statement. Selway will advise
ITG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Gasser  on business strategy
and provide market structure analysis to customers, said J.T.
Farley, an ITG spokesman. D’Arbanville and Petraglia will work
in ITG’s New York office and Love will stay in Boston.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining whether
to change market-structure regulations given that trading speeds
are now measured in millionths of a second and more orders are
handled off exchanges on private venues such as dark pools. More
than 50 exchanges and alternative systems compete for orders,
compared with less than half that a decade ago.  
 “There’s a lot of regulatory change to write about and
there are interesting ways for a firm like ITG to grow,” Selway
said in an interview yesterday. He said White Cap’s
profitability fell in 2009 and this year. “We took a long look
in the mirror after seven years as a small firm and asked
ourselves whether we could grow our way out of flatness or
should partner with another firm. We decided on the latter and
ITG had the right philosophy and knowledge base.”  
 Goldman Sachs  
 Selway founded White Cap in 2003 and previously served as
chief economist at Archipelago Holdings LLC, which operated
ArcaEx Exchange, and as an equity derivatives researcher at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . White Cap, which has 50 to 60 clients,
will continue trading until July 30, he said.  
 ITG  is an agency broker, meaning it executes customer
orders and provides related services, but doesn’t earn money
from proprietary trading or committing capital to facilitate
clients’ buying and selling. The firm provides algorithms, or
computer programs that asset managers such as mutual funds use
to execute their buy and sell orders instead of using human
traders. ITG also provides platforms used to track and execute
orders in individual stocks and baskets of securities.  
 While ITG’s primary focus is helping asset managers execute
orders electronically, Selway said his team has expertise in
human-driven trading that’s aided by computers. They will also
use ITG’s data on trading costs and the efficiency of different
strategies to help customers use multiple venues to execute
orders, he said.  
 ‘More Actionable’  
 “ITG produces a lot of great content and we can enhance
that and help make it more actionable,” Selway said.  
 The 39-year-old added that he will help ITG consider new
businesses around derivatives given that the financial reform
bill waiting for President  Barack Obama ’s approval will require
standardized over-the-counter swaps traded by broker-dealers to
be cleared by exchanges. Some swaps contracts are also expected
to be traded on electronic platforms or exchanges.  
 ITG operates Posit, introduced in 1987 as the first dark
pool to match stock requests from customers during the day. The
system allows mutual funds and other institutions to transact
orders with peers without revealing their trading interest to
anyone. Instinet LLC in New York, owned by Tokyo-based  Nomura
Holdings Inc. , opened the industry’s first dark pool in 1986,
which operated after the market closed and traded orders at
stocks’ closing prices.  
 ITG traded average daily volume of 164 million shares in
June, compared with 182 million a year earlier, according to the
firm. The broker earned $122 million in commissions and fees in
the first three months of this year, down from $131 million
during the January-through-March period in 2009. Its total
revenue was $147 million in the first quarter, compared with
$156 million last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        