-- Mirae Sees Indian Companies Earnings Growth of as Much as 25% This Year
-- Linzie Janis
-- 2010-07-20T02:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/mirae-sees-indian-companies-earnings-growth-of-up-to-25-percent-this-year.html

          
          
             Indian companies  may increase
earnings by as much as 25 percent this year, with first-quarter
results suggesting that profit growth is “on track,” according
to Mirae Asset Global Investment.  
 Overall  earnings growth  for the market should be between 20
percent and 25 percent, said  Rahul Chadha , head of India
equities at Mirae Asset. That’s more optimistic than the 6.3
percent profit growth expected for companies on the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s Sensitive Index, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Demand momentum for technology companies has been pretty
strong and we’ve seen a pretty good set of results from
financials,” Chadha said in a Bloomberg Television interview
from Hong Kong. “We remain pretty positive on the domestic-
linked sectors. Sectors like banks, autos and health care should
do well.”  
 The Sensex index has retreated 0.1 percent since the first
of its 30 member companies released quarterly results on July 13.
Among companies that have already reported earnings,  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , Housing Development Finance Corp. and HDFC
Bank Ltd. posted profits that missed analyst estimates while
 Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.  topped forecasts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Spell of Downgrades  
 Jyotivardhan Jaipuria , head of research at the local unit
of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said last week there may be
“a spell of earnings downgrades now” and gains in the nation’s
stocks may be capped as share prices exceed the outlook for
earnings.  
 The outlook for global commodities is among the “main risk
factors,” given that raw material prices affect about a quarter
of the Sensex earnings, according to Chadha. Other headwinds
include accelerating  inflation  and India’s current account
deficit, he said.  
 Mirae Asset remains optimistic on the prospect for Indian
stocks given that the South Asian  economy  is doing “fairly
well,” while developed nations are poised for more “subdued”
growth, Chadha said.  
 The Sensex is up 2.7 percent this year, the most among the
world’s 10 largest stock markets by capitalization. India’s
economy may expand 9.4 percent in the fiscal year to March, the
fastest pace since 2007, the International Monetary Fund said
this month.  
 “There’s a strong feel-good factor in the economy,”
Chadha said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Rahul Chadha, head of India equities at Mirae Asset Global Investment, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Indian stocks and the economy. 
     Chadha, speaking in Hong Kong, says Indian companies may increase earnings by as much as 25 percent this year, with first-quarter results suggesting that profit growth is "on track".  (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
