-- Iraq's Political Impasse Raises Concerns in Congress About Troop Drawdown
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-21T15:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/iraq-s-political-impasse-raises-concerns-in-congress-about-troop-drawdown.html

          
          
             Iraq’s failure to form a government
four months after elections prompted concern in the U.S.
Congress as senators heard from President  Barack Obama ’s nominee
to be his next envoy to the Persian Gulf nation.  
 “It’s not clear whether a resolution is days, weeks or
months away,”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee  Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, said during a hearing in
Washington yesterday to consider  James Jeffrey ’s nomination as
ambassador. Jeffrey currently is the ambassador to Turkey.  
 The delay reflects unresolved issues of how to distribute
oil revenue and divide power among the country’s ethnic groups,
lawmakers and the nominee said. It also raises the risks and
costs of the planned U.S. military drawdown, they said.  
 While security and services such as water, electricity,
health care and education have improved, longer-term prospects
remain uncertain, said Jeffrey, who previously was a deputy at
the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad.  
 “All these things are showing positive indicators,”
Jeffrey told the committee. “We don’t know at this point how
sustainable this will be.”  
 Iraq’s goal of doubling oil production will require “rapid
deployment” of the contracts that have been signed and a ramp-
up of Iraq’s own investments to support the sector, the nominee
said.  
 “That might be a bit ambitious,” Jeffrey said. Still, he
said he expects to see “very extensive growth” in Iraqi oil
production. Iraq holds the world’s third-largest oil reserves.  
 Military Advisers  
 Jeffrey would replace Ambassador  Christopher Hill  as the
U.S. military completes the withdrawal of its combat forces by
the end of August. That will leave 50,000 troops to advise and
assist their Iraqi counterparts, while the State Department
seeks to train thousands of Iraqi police to maintain order.  
 “The uncertain political situation creates risks for our
transition plans,” said Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , the top
Republican on the committee. “Our military has been involved in
areas of governance far beyond security, and turning over those
critical responsibilities will be challenging.”  
 The U.S. plans to maintain 5,000 diplomats and civilian
advisers working with the Iraqi government and nonprofit groups,
Lugar said. He also cited a request from the State Department
for more than $800 million to start a police mentoring and
training program with 350 advisers.  
 The State Department may need as many as 7,000 contract
security personnel to provide protection as the U.S. military
departs, he said.  
 ‘Unprecedented Operation’  
 “It is important that the administration flesh out how all
the pieces of this unprecedented operation will fit together in
Iraq as American troops depart,” Lugar said.  
 Iraq fell into a political stalemate following elections on
March 7 that failed to give any group a ruling majority in the
325-seat assembly. The country’s political leaders have been
competing for allies to form a governing coalition.  
 Iraqi officials including National Security Adviser
Mowaffaq al-Rubaie have warned that the political vacuum is
encouraging militants.  
 At least four people were killed in a car bombing in Baquba
yesterday, the independent Aswat Iraqi news agency reported.
That followed three bombings on July 18 that killed 44 people.  
 Odierno’s Perspective  
 General  Raymond Odierno , the top U.S. commander in Iraq,
said he’s confident Iraq’s political leaders will form a
government, possibly in August or perhaps later. He said he’d be
more concerned if October rolls around without an agreement.  
 “There’s uneasiness in Iraq because of how long it’s
taking,” Odierno told reporters at the Pentagon today. “But
there’s not been any degradation of security and stability.”  
 Jeffrey has spent 43 years in military or diplomatic
service. Prior to becoming ambassador to Turkey in 2008, he
served in the Bush administration as a deputy national security
adviser and as a special adviser on Iraq to the secretary of
state.  
 Hill, previously a U.S. negotiator on Bosnia and then North
Korea, arrived in Baghdad in April 2009 after overcoming
criticism during his confirmation that he lacked experience in
the Middle East.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        