-- Iraq's Allawi, Cleric Al-Sadr Meet in Syria for Talks on Forming Cabinet
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-07-20T11:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/iraq-s-allawi-cleric-al-sadr-meet-in-syria-for-talks-on-forming-cabinet.html

          
          
             Former Iraqi Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi  met with anti-U.S. Shiite Muslim cleric  Moqtada al-Sadr 
in Damascus to discuss ways of ending a deadlock that has
hampered the formation of a new government since Iraq’s
elections four months ago. They described the talks as positive.  
 The session late yesterday is one of the “positive and
successful meetings which will serve the Iraqi people and the
unity of Iraq,” Allawi was cited as saying by the state-run
 Syrian Arab News Agency . There was “great consensus on a range
of areas that were discussed,” he said.  
 Iraq’s leaders have been competing for allies to form a
governing coalition following the March 7 vote, which failed to
give any group a majority in the 325-seat assembly. Iraqi
officials including National Security Adviser Mowaffaq al-Rubaie
have warned that the political vacuum is encouraging militants.  
 At least four people were killed in a car bombing in Baquba
today, the independent Aswat Iraqi news agency reported. That
followed three bombings on July 18 that killed 44 people.  
 “There was agreement on the need to expedite the formation
of the government and that this government incorporate all
Iraqis and have a clear agenda,” Allawi said of his meeting
with the Iraqi cleric. Al-Sadr traveled from Iran, where he
attends a seminary, for the talks brokered by Syrian President
 Bashar al-Assad .  
 Allawi is among the Iraqi leaders who have visited to
regional capitals, including Riyadh and Beirut, for meetings
aimed at helping Iraq form a coalition.  
 His secular and Sunni Muslim-backed al-Iraqiyah coalition
won the most seats in the elections, securing 91 to the 89
garnered by Prime Minister  Nuri al-Maliki ’s Shiite Muslim-led
State of Law group. Both blocs are vying for the right to name
the next premier and form a cabinet.  
 ‘Political Spectrum’  
 “We heard from his eminence his will and desire to unite
efforts to bring to the Iraqi people stability and the formation
of a comprehensive and inclusive government that includes all
the political spectrum,” Allawi said, referring to al-Sadr.  
 Al-Sadr’s political party, the Sadr Trend, took about 40
seats in the vote and merged with State of Law, though it
opposes al-Maliki remaining prime minister for four more years.
The INA won 70 seats. It also merged with State of Law and
opposes al-Maliki serving a second term.  
 Al-Sadr, whose militia battled U.S. and Iraqi forces two
years ago, called the meeting with Allawi “positive and
fruitful.” Al-Sadr said he found “there is a will to end this
crisis and that the Iraqi people will have positive results
soon,” according to SANA.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        