-- Irish Show Greeks Suffering Is Price of Admission to Euro Union
-- Dara Doyle
-- 2010-07-20T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/irish-teaching-greeks-suffering-is-price-of-admission-to-a-monetary-union.html

          
          
             For the first time in history, the
Greeks are following the Irish with the understanding that
mythology has no place in the path to redemption.  
 Facing the largest  budget  deficit among the 16 countries
sharing the euro, Ireland began raising taxes and cutting pay
for state workers 18 months ago. When decades of profligate
Greek governments threatened to unravel the euro in March, Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  belatedly embraced the Irish model
and acknowledged that failing to emulate the northern Europeans
would return his country to the financial underworld.  
 “Ireland’s wage cuts are a blueprint for Greece and other
European countries that lost competitiveness,” said  Ralf Ahrens , who helps manage about $20 billion as head of fixed
income at Frankfurt Trust and holds Irish government bonds.  
 While Germany and France are the biggest economies in the
euro region, the survival of the currency union as it stands now
may depend on whether the Greeks on the Aegean can be successful
in mimicking the Irish 1,800 miles away on the Atlantic.  
 “The scale of cuts in pay and spending here are
unprecedented across Europe,” said  Garret FitzGerald , 84, the
Irish prime minister in the 1980s who reduced budgets and raised
taxes. “We’re Northern European, less emotional, and more
accepting of what needs to be done in a crisis.”  
 The cost of insuring against a default on Irish sovereign
debt fell by more than a third during the past 18 months, while
it more than quadrupled for Greek debt.  
 Deficit Differential  
 Ireland’s budget deficit will equal 11.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year, the European Commission forecast on
May 5. Greece aims to reduce its indebtedness to 8.1 percent of
GDP. Analysts aren’t convinced that junk-rated Greece can outdo
Ireland, whose creditworthiness is eight steps better even after
the cut this week by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Ireland joined what’s now the European Union in 1973, eight
years before Greece. The 1980s were characterized in part by
FitzGerald’s attempts to stabilize the economy. The country’s
output per capita was about $17,200 in 1995, 12 percent below
the average in a survey by the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development .  
 As the country attracted manufacturers such as U.S.
computer maker  Dell Inc.  with low taxes, exports started to
boom. By 1999, Ireland was the fastest-growing economy in
western Europe and a founding member of the euro, giving it
easier access to international credit. Greece joined in 2001.  
 Property Bubble  
 Then came the bust as the bubble in the real-estate market
burst in 2007 with prices plunging as much as 50 percent and the
country’s biggest banks, led by Anglo Irish Bank Corp., faced
ruin. The government spent 7 billion euros ($9 billion) to
rescue  Bank of Ireland Plc  and Allied Irish Banks Plc, and then
set out to cut government spending.  
 “Ireland talked of consolidation measures when other
countries didn’t even dream of it,” said  Christoph Weil , senior
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, where the euro is
anchored at the European Central Bank headquarters. The country
“could serve as a role model to Greece,” he said.  
 Ireland’s economy has emerged from the worst recession of
any developed nation since the Great Depression and is forecast
by the European Commission to expand at the fastest pace of
anywhere in the euro region next year.  
 Greece, which was telling the world its budget was in
control and its economy was growing as the Irish wielded the
axe, is headed toward its sharpest contraction since the 1980s
and inflation is en route to be the worst in a decade. In May,
three people were killed in Athens as protesters vented their
disdain for Greece’s politicians.  
 State Salaries  
 The Irish government will reduce its “World War-type”
budget deficit next year by almost 50 percent as costs from
bailing out the country’s banks recede, the Dublin-based 
Economic & Social Research Institute  reported on July 14.  
 The decrease is helped by extra income tax and an average
13 percent cut in public workers’ pay. By contrast, the Greek
government planned as recently as November to increase state-
employee wages by 1.5 percent.  
 “We’ve got a lot of first mover advantage,” Prime
Minister  Brian Cowen  said in a July 12 interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” with  Margaret Brennan  in New York.
“For a small open economy, we don’t see any options but to go
the way we’re doing it.”  
 Still Danger  
 Ireland isn’t out of the woods, according  to Karl Whelan , a
professor at University College Dublin and a former economist at
the Federal Reserve in Washington.  
 The economy shrank about 10 percent in the last two years
as the decade-long real-estate boom imploded and, unlike in
Greece, the financial system came close to collapse.  
 “If the government hadn’t acted, we would have ended up as
a ward” of the International Monetary Fund, Whelan said. “We
still might.”  
 The cost of insuring against a default on Irish sovereign
debt in the shape of credit-default swaps declined to 260 basis
points from a record 396 on Feb. 17, 2009, according to data
provider CMA.  
 Greek default swaps surged to 1,087 basis points from 235
in the same period. A basis point on a credit-default swap
contract protecting 10 million euros of debt from default for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 The difference in yield, or  spread , between 10-year Irish
government bonds and comparable German bunds, the euro-region’s
benchmark, stands at 278 basis points, up from an average 39
during the past decade. The Greek  spread  is 772 basis points.  
 “It’s not that clear that the worst is over, but the
position compared to other countries is more favorable,” said
Ahrens of Frankfurt Trust. “We like Irish bonds.”  
 Backs to Wall  
 Pay cuts are rippling across Ireland. Workers at a plant in
Cavan in northeast Ireland, run by  Kingspan Group Plc , Europe’s
largest maker of flooring and insulation panels, accepted pay
reductions this month to ensure its survival.  
 In the agreement, compensation for new hires will fall 13
percent to about 11 euros an hour. The existing 130 workers say
take-home pay dropped to about 12 euros an hour, down as much as
40 percent from 2007 partly because overtime pay is lower.  
 “Our backs were to the wall,” said Declan Ferry, a labor
organizer who helped negotiate the deal. “A lot of other
companies in the area were watching closely to see what would
happen here, and almost the next day, we had a call from a
neighboring company wanting to do the same thing.”  
 Irish labor costs will drop 10 percent from 2009 to 2011,
compared with an increase of 3 percent to 4 percent across
Europe, according to estimates from the European Commission.  
 No Exit  
 In Greece, the commission forecasts costs will rise 6.7
percent in the three-year period, though Greece’s largest union
for non-state workers agreed to a pay accord last week that
includes a pledge to freeze salaries this year.  
 “If you don’t have the option of a currency devaluation,
there’s no other way out,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist
at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Take the pain.”  
 Elected in October on pledges to raise wages for public
workers and step up spending to boost the economy, Papandreou’s
union-supported Pasok government revised the 2009 budget deficit
to more than 12 percent of GDP, or four times the EU limit and
twice the previous government’s estimate.  
 The government waited until March to lower pay for state
workers, as part of deficit-reduction decisions that triggered a
wave of strikes and protests across Athens and in other cities.
Bond spreads at that time hovered at about 300 basis points.  
 Austerity Outbursts  
 “What is certain now is that people here understand what
the problem is in Greece and we have to get out of this hole
we’re in,” said  Dimitris Maroulis , manager of the economic
analysis division at Alpha Bank SA in Athens. “We have to
reduce public sector debt and return to markets. That’s why
they’ve accepted all these substantial reforms.”  
 Austerity-related protests have been all but muted in
Ireland. On March 31, the day after the government said it would
pump as much as 22 billion euros into Anglo Irish to keep it
alive, fewer than 100 demonstrators protested outside the
company’s headquarters in central Dublin.  
 “While the Irish complain about official corruption of
their political and business elites, there is greater trust in
those groups and the state to provide what they are supposed
to,” said  Scott MacDonald , head of credit and economics
research at Aladdin Capital Holdings LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, which oversees $12.5 billion, in an e-mail. “The
anger and mistrust in Greece is far higher.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
