-- Mitsubishi UFJ May Spend $5.7 Billion on U.S. Banks
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-07-21T08:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/mitsubishi-ufj-s-tatsuo-tanaka-says-it-may-buy-more-u-s-banking-assets.html

          
          
             Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. ,
the Japanese lender that bought UnionBanCal Corp., said it may
spend more than 500 billion yen ($5.7 billion) to acquire more
U.S. banks as domestic loan demand declines.  
 Japan’s largest bank by  market value  is examining about 7
lenders of similar size to UnionBanCal, said  Tatsuo Tanaka , head
of global banking. The Tokyo-based bank aims to boost overseas
 profit  by more than 40 percent to 1 trillion yen, he said.  
 The bank invested $9 billion in  Morgan Stanley  in 2008 and
is looking abroad as the world’s second-largest economy slows
and the nation’s population declines.  Mitsubishi UFJ  spent about
$3.6 billion the same year to take full control of San
Francisco-based UnionBanCal.  
 “We want to be one of the top ten banks in the U.S. in
terms of assets and profit,” Tanaka, 63, said in an interview
in Tokyo yesterday. “I’d like to do a large investment in the
U.S.” He didn’t provide a timeline for the revenue target or
acquisitions.  
 Tanaka will become  chairman  of UnionBanCal on July 28. The
 lender  reported net income of $77 million in the three months
ended March 31, after a loss of $65 million in the previous
full-year as bad-loan provisions doubled. The unit acquired
Washington-based Frontier Bank and California’s  Tamalpais Bank 
in agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in April.  
 Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third Bancorp  is the tenth-largest
publicly traded bank in the U.S., with assets of $113.4 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  UnionBanCal  has $85.5 billion in
assets.  
 Japan’s quarterly loan-demand index slid to a level
matching lowest since July 2004, the central bank said today.
 Lending  by Japan’s banks fell by 2.1 percent in June from a year
earlier, the seventh straight month of declines.  
 ‘Good Move’  
 “Mitsubishi UFJ has the money and opportunities in the
U.S., so if they can buy cheap, it would be a good move,” said
 Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities Ltd. “Japan’s big banks aren’t really considering
growth in the domestic market given the macro environment.”  
 The bank’s shares  fell  0.3 percent to 400 yen at the 3 p.m.
trading close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has dropped
12 percent this year.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ  will “actively consider quality investment
opportunities” in the U.S. market, the bank said in
presentation material dated May 21. Tanaka said yesterday these
may be on the east and west coasts, without naming any targets.  
 Rival  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s third-
largest publicly traded bank by assets, may spend as much as $5
billion to buy a stake in a U.S. bank in the next three years,
 Hiroshi Minoura , head of international banking at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp., said earlier this month.  
 Morgan Stanley Dividend  
 Mitsubishi UFJ  received 78.2 billion yen in dividend income
from its investment in Morgan Stanley in the fiscal year ended
March 31, according to regulatory filings. It still owns $8.4
billion of Morgan Stanley preference shares, which pay an annual
dividend of 10 percent, according to the bank’s financial
disclosures.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ returned to  profit  in the fiscal year ended
March 31 and said it expects profit to rise 2.9 percent to 400
billion yen this year. That would still be less than half what
the bank earned in the 12 months through March 2007.  
 The bank raised 1.03 trillion yen in a  share sale  in
December after global regulators called for banks to hold more
capital. Mitsubishi UFJ will need to consider the impact of
capital rules, set to be decided this year, on acquisitions in
excess of 100 billion yen, Tanaka said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Tokyo at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tatsuo Tanaka, deputy president of Bank of Tokyo Mitubishi UFJ Ltd. Photographer: Akio Kon/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
