-- Hong Kong Business School Allies With Three Rivals to Woo West
-- Alison Damast
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/ivy-league-like-alliance-of-asian-mba-schools-aims-to-attract-westerners.html

          
          
             Hong Kong University of Science &
Technology , Asia’s top-ranked graduate school of business, and
three rivals are uniting to raise their visibility in the U.S.,
Canada and Europe, aiming to attract more Western candidates to
Asia to earn MBA degrees.  
 The Hong Kong university will recruit jointly with the
 China Europe International Business School , the  Indian School of
Business  and  Nanyang Technological University , according to a
statement released yesterday. Officials from the institutions
will travel together to North America and Europe, give
presentations together and maintain a website,
 www.topasiabschools.com .  
 Asian universities are trying harder to compete for
master’s of business administration students with U.S. and
European institutions led by the  London Business School , the
University of Pennsylvania’s  Wharton School  in Philadelphia and
 Harvard Business School  in Boston. The Asian allies aim to
create a brand, Top Asia B-Schools, and generate the sort of
cachet associated with the Ivy League, said Nick Soriano,
director of marketing and admissions at Nanyang, in Singapore.  
 “There’s the Ivy League in America, so we thought why
can’t we Asian business schools do the same kind of thing,”
Soriano said in an interview. “Even though we are very much
each other’s competitors, we thought we can all work together in
trying to attract and convince people to come to Asia for their
MBA.”  
 The Ivy League consists of eight northeastern-U.S.
institutions, including Harvard.  
 The robustness of Asian economies may help the four
institutions persuade Western students that studying in Asia can
advance careers, said Nunzio Quacquarelli, managing director of
the  QS World MBA Tour , a series of events for business-school
applicants. The tour is organized by London-based QS
Quacquarelli Symonds Ltd.  
 ‘More Relevant’  
 “Asian business schools are becoming more relevant, and
there are a number of factors that make them attractive now,”
Quacquarelli said in an interview. “The likelihood of these
four schools having success in recruiting Western candidates is
very high.”  
 China’s domestic economy advanced 10.3 percent, year over
year, in the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India’s economy expanded 8.6 percent in the first
quarter, the latest period for which a figure is available,
compared with growth of 2.4 percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent
in Germany.  
 The Asian business schools use English as the language of
instruction, making themselves more appealing to students in the
West. Without disclosing base figures, the Hong Kong and
Singapore universities said their Western applications doubled
in the last five years, even before the joint marketing. At
Nanyang, students from the Americas increased fivefold last year
and made up 10 percent of the class, Soriano said in an
interview.  
 Lower Costs  
 Students are attracted to the programs that are shorter and
priced lower than those in the West, said V.K. Menon, senior
director for admissions and career advancement services at the
Indian School of Business. Asian business schools typically last
a year and cost less than $50,000, he said. That compares with
two years, costing a total of $100,000 at Wharton, according to
that school. Another lure is the chance to get work experience
in Asia’s economies, Menon said.  
 Hong Kong University of Science and Technology tied for
ninth place, with the  University of Chicago Booth School of
Business , in the 2010 Financial Times world ranking of MBA
providers. The Hong Kong school opened in October 1991 on a 150-
acre campus on the Clear Water Bay peninsula in East Kowloon, in
Hong Kong. The school has 9,515 students, including 1,189
graduate students in business, according to its website.  
 The Indian School of Business, founded in 2001 in
Hyderabad, has 577 students and placed No. 12 in the Financial
Times ranking, which is based on 20 criteria, including alumni
salaries and faculty research.  
 The China Europe International Business School, founded in
1994 and known as CEIBS, tied for No. 22 on the list. The
school’s main campus is in the Pudong district of Shanghai.
CEIBS also has operations in Beijing and Shenzhen, and has 201
fulltime MBA students and 742 executive MBA students, usually
corporate managers taking classes on weekends.  
 Nanyang, in operation since at least 1995, has an
enrollment of 589, including 177 fulltime students seeking MBA
degrees. Nanyang was No. 27 on the list of 100 schools. London
Business School was No. 1 on the list, just ahead of Wharton and
Harvard.  
 Officials from the four Asian schools will travel later
this year to New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Toronto,
London, Paris and Madrid to speak with students at recruiting
events, said Pauline Cheung, director of overseas marketing and
admissions at Hong Kong University of Science & Technology.  
 Company Recruiting  
 Companies are recruiting from more Asian business schools,
according to a list QS publishes every year of the top 200
schools preferred by international employers for hiring MBA
graduates. About 30 to 40 Asian business schools are expected to
make the 2010 list, up from 20 in 2005, Quacquarelli said.  
 Indian School of Business students are being hired by New
York-based McKinsey & Co., London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc , and
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. , Menon said. Dublin-based
 Accenture Plc , New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson 
and the General Electric Capital unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-
based  General Electric Co.  recruit at CEIBS, according to the
school’s website.  
 Western-student enrollment at Asian business schools is
growing. European and American students make up 20 percent of
the MBA class at Hong Kong University of Science & Technology,
up from 10 percent in 2001, Cheung said.  
 Seeking Exposure  
 “We all feel like we’re seeing more European and American
applicants, but in some cities our exposure is not quite as
strong,” Cheung said in an interview. “It can be hard for
students to reach us, which is why we thought it would be good
if we joined together.”  
 At CEIBS, about 22 percent of the MBA class comes from
Europe and America, said Lydia Price, the director of MBA
programs and an associate dean, in an interview. About 80
percent of the Western students work in China after graduation,
she said.  
 “We are extremely well-known in China and certainly within
the business community around Southeast Asia, but in recent
years we’ve been making a stronger push to try to get our brand
reputation to extend to Europe and America,” Price said.  
 At Indian School of Business, about 30 students, or 5
percent, in the 580-person MBA class this year held
international passports, Menon said. The school would like to
have 15 percent to 20 percent of the class coming from outside
of India, says Menon said in an interview.  
 “Asia is not really seen as a very strong education
destination by the American students, which is something we want
to change,” Menon said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Damast  in New York at 
 adamast@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President of  Hong Kong University of Science & Technology Professor Tony Chan. Photographer: Timothy O'Rourke/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
