-- J.C. Penney, AutoNation Lead Advance in Retailers With Highest Short Sales
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-20T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/j-c-penney-autonation-lead-advance-in-retailers-with-highest-short-sales.html

          
          
             Bearish traders buying back shares
of retailers with the stock market’s highest short-interest
levels may have fueled a rally in J.C. Penney Co.,  AutoNation
Inc. , J. Crew Group Inc. and  Sears Holdings Corp.  today.  
 The companies climbed at least 4.5 percent after U.S.
equities erased losses and gained for a second day. Credit
Suisse Group AG analyst  Pankaj N. Patel  wrote in a July 14 note
that the shares might benefit as short sellers closed bets.  
 “It makes sense that these stocks that were heavily
shorted are now rising,” Patel said in an interview. “Of
course the short squeeze isn’t the only reason, but I would say
that it is definitely one factor.”  
 Investing in companies where traders are speculating shares
will fall can enhance returns when market rallies force bears to
buy the stock back.  In a short sale, investors borrow stocks
and sell them in the hope of profiting by repurchasing the
securities at a lower price and returning them to the holder.  
 U.S. stocks advanced today as speculation the Federal
Reserve will take steps to spur lending to stimulate the economy
sent consumer-discretionary stocks higher. The industry rose 1.5
percent as a group in the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index, led by
 Harley-Davidson , the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker, which
reported profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  
 Sears, the largest U.S. department-store chain, gained 4.5
percent to $64.80. More than 25 percent of the company’s shares
available for trading, or float, were sold short as of June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That makes it the
second most-shorted stock in the benchmark index for U.S.
equities after Mylan Inc.  
 J. Crew Rally  
 J. Crew surged 9.4 percent to $35.50 after it was raised to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Cowen and Co., which cited
the stock’s low valuation and said investors were “overly
bearish.” About 14 percent of the U.S. clothing retailer’s
shares were sold short, Bloomberg data show.  
 AutoNation  gained 7.9 percent to $21.64 two days before
announcing earnings that analysts expect to be the best since
the “cash for clunkers” government scrappage program. The
largest U.S. auto retailer is the ninth most-shorted in the S&P
500, with 17 percent of its float sold short.  
 J.C. Penney , the third-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
jumped 9.2 percent to $23.96. More than 11 percent of its float
has been shorted by investors.  
 Patel mentioned the four companies as likely to outperform
when the market recovered and said investors who were bearish on
the stocks would end up in a short squeeze. In his report, he
used high short interest, negative  analyst  ratings, positive
earnings guidance and cheap valuations to pick “the most
unloved and undervalued” stocks that are likely to “outperform
in the near-term as fear indicators return to more normalized
levels and markets advance.”  
 “If the market picks up in the coming weeks, the most
heavily shorted stocks may rise in response to a short
squeeze,” Patel, who is based in New York, wrote on July 14.
“Over the long term, we view high short interest as a negative
indicator, with the highest short interest stocks
underperforming over time. However, there is possibility of
short covering when the  market rises  unexpectedly.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        