-- JFK Terror Plot Defendant Opposes Fighting, Guns Were Toys, He Testifies
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-20T20:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/jfk-terror-plot-defendant-opposes-fighting-guns-were-toys-he-testifies.html

          
          
             A former member of Guyana’s
parliament accused of plotting to blow up New York’s  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  testified he doesn’t believe in
“jihad” in the sense of fighting.  
 “I do not subscribe to fighting because I have no need to
fight,” Abdul Kadir told jurors today at his terrorism trial in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  
 Prosecutors on July 15 showed the jury photos of Kadir
brandishing what appear to be weapons, including assault rifles.
The pictures were found on an electronic flash drive when Kadir
was arrested in June 2007 on a plane in Trinidad on his way to
Iran. Kadir said one of the guns was his personal weapon and the
others were toys.  
 Kadir and  Russell Defreitas , a former Evergreen Airlines
cargo worker, are charged with hatching the plot in January
2006. They circulated their plan to an international network of
Muslim extremists, prosecutors alleged.  
 Kadir denied the government’s contention that he was
bringing the photographs to Iran as part of a plan to get
support there for the JFK plot.  
 He said the photos, which included pictures of his children
with the gun and what he said were toys, were on the flash drive
that backed up his computer data. He would never show the photos
to the Iranians because he was shirtless in them and not
subscribing to Muslim dress.  
 “It would be most inappropriate to take pictures like that
to Iran,” he testified. “Me being without a shirt does not gel
and my daughter was not fully covered as a Muslim woman.”  
 Pictures of Children  
 He said they took the pictures because it was around
Christmastime “and the kids had all of these toys around,” he
said. “We just decided to pose for some pictures.”  
 Kadir testified that he was going to Iran to celebrate the
anniversary of the death of  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , the
country’s former supreme leader, and to try to gather support
for a mosque he wanted to build in Guyana. He had been to Iran
twice before, he said.  
 The attacks were designed to destroy “the whole of
Kennedy,” the largest airport in the New York City area,
Defreitas said in a taped conversation, according to the Justice
Department. The plot was foiled in the planning stages with the
aid of an informant, Steven Francis, Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Berit Berger  told the jury.  
 The plotters conducted surveillance of the airport,
including videotaping its buildings, and sought expert advice,
financing and explosives, she said.  
 Technical Advice  
 In her June 30 opening statement, Berger told jurors that
Kadir was an engineer who advised on the technical aspects of
the plot.  
 Abdel Nur, a citizen of Guyana, pleaded guilty June 29 to
one count of providing support to terrorists.  Kareem Ibrahim , a
citizen of Trinidad, was granted a separate trial at a later
date due to a medical condition.  
 Defreitas, a U.S. citizen and native of Guyana, pleaded not
guilty in 2007. His co-defendants pleaded not guilty in 2008.
They have been in custody without bail.  
 Defreitas and Kadir face life in prison if convicted.  
 The case is U.S. v. Defreitas, 07-cr-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        