-- Kazakhstan Cancels Planned 2010 Eurobond Offering
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-20T14:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/kazakhs-drop-planned-2010-eurobond-sale-after-1-billion-world-bank-loan.html

          
          
             The Kazakh government canceled a
plan to sell as much as $750 million of bonds to investors
abroad this year after it secured a $1 billion loan from a World
Bank unit, the  Finance Ministry  said.  
 “At a scheduled meeting of the government’s Economic
Policy Council on July 3, it was decided that issuing sovereign
Eurobonds in 2010 would be inexpedient,” the ministry said
today in an e-mailed response to questions.  
 Kazakhstan’s announcement comes days after another former
Soviet republic, Ukraine, abandoned plans to sell its first
Eurobonds since 2007 after investors demanded higher yields than
the government was willing to pay. Central Asia’s biggest oil
producer was planning to sell its first foreign bonds in more
than a decade this autumn in order to set a benchmark for
corporate borrowers.  
 The ministry cited the loan agreement it signed in May with
the  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  as a
reason for calling off the bond sale. The government will focus
on domestic borrowing to cover its  budget deficit ,  forecast  at
4.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, the ministry
said.  
 “It hints that the country is probably doing well in terms
of budget realization, as it is very unlikely they will manage
to sell the same amount in the local markets,” said  Luis Costa ,
an emerging-market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London .
Kazakhstan is likely to have a budget deficit of 2.7 percent
this year and a 1 percent surplus in 2011, he added.  
 Kazakhstan redeemed its last foreign bonds outstanding --
$350 million of 11.125 percent notes sold in 2000 -- in May
2007, Bloomberg data show. The country’s debt is rated Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, its second-lowest investment grade,
and one notch lower at BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        