-- Kazmierczak Says Polish Interest Rates May Rise to Maintain Stable Zloty
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-20T12:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/kazmierczak-says-polish-interest-rates-may-rise-to-maintain-stable-zloty.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank may increase
it benchmark interest rate from a record low 3.5 percent to keep
the zloty stable amid concern the government won’t trim spending
fast enough, policy maker  Andrzej Kazmierczak  said.  
 The government plans to reduce the deficit to less than 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2012 as it seeks to prevent
public debt from exceeding 55 percent of GDP and avoid mandatory
budget restrictions.  
 The deficit target “is threatened and there is an
absolutely real risk of public debt exceeding 55 percent of GDP,
which could undermine investor confidence in Poland’s financial
markets and have negative consequences for the zloty, as well as
financial stability,” Kazmierczak said in a July 19 interview
in Warsaw. “That would require a rate hike.”  
 Governments across Europe are embarking on the most severe
austerity programs in more than four decades to escape the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis. Next year’s general election is
undermining Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s commitment to spending
cuts in Poland, the only EU member to have avoided an economic
contraction since the credit crisis started, economists
including  Marcin Mrowiec  of Bank Pekao SA have said.  
 The  European Commission  estimates Poland’s deficit will
widen to 7.3 percent of GDP this year from 7.1 percent in 2009.
Gross government debt will rise to 53.9 percent of GDP from 51
percent, the commission said in May. The government plans to
freeze the average nominal wages of government workers,
according to plans for the 2011 budget released July 13.  
 Not Enough  
 The Monetary Policy Council said in June that a recovery in
the EU’s largest eastern economy won’t be enough to narrow the
deficit, and spending cuts are needed to tame the growth in
public debt.  
 The proposed austerity measures are no guarantee that
public debt won’t exceed 55 percent of GDP, the government said.
Breaking that threshold would trigger mandatory tax increases
and spending cuts to narrow the gap within two years.  
 The Monetary Policy Council’s task is to create conditions
for zloty stability and “prevent mistrust in the currency,”
Kazmierczak said. Interest rates play “a big role” in
fulfilling that mandate, as well as “incidental interventions
on the currency market,” he said.  
 The zloty’s current level doesn’t require a rate increase,
“but we need to be prepared for such a scenario,” Kazmierczak
said.  
 ‘Alarming’  
 The zloty rose 0.3 percent today to trade at 4.1178 against
the euro at 9:55 a.m. in Warsaw.  
 Poland’s  inflation rate  rose to 2.3 percent in June from
2.2 percent the previous month. The increase is “alarming and
likely to be continued,” though it was driven mainly by food
prices beyond the central bank’s control, Kazmierczak said.  
 Kazmierczak forecasts that the annual inflation rate won’t
exceed 3 percent this year, while the  central bank’s  target is
2.5 percent, with an acceptable range of 1 percentage point on
either side.  
 Rate setters can’t focus solely on inflation and “the real
economic sphere” while ignoring the situation on the financial
markets as investor concern over Poland’s public finances may
push bond yields higher, Kazmierczak said.  
 “Since a large budget deficit stimulates demand, the
central bank will have no other choice but to restrict policy,
and the government is to be blamed for this,” he said.  
 No Pressure  
 If industrial output continues to accelerate,  economic
growth  may increase to more than 4 percent in 2011 from the 3.2
percent Kazmierczak said he expects this year. Production rose
an annual 14.5 percent in June, while the median estimate of
nine economists polled by Bloomberg was 12.4 percent.  
 “Economic growth amid stable consumer prices is possible
as there are reserves that can be used without spurring
inflation, such as low capacity utilization, a negative output
gap and high  jobless rate ,” he said. “Certainly, some price
growth is inevitable, but it won’t exceed the inflation target
limit.”  
 The Monetary Policy Council surprised the market in June
when it removed from its monthly statement the formula of
inflationary risk balance, which investors used to gauge future
interest rate changes. Instead, the bank is looking at “new
factors that can increase inflationary pressure,” Governor
 Marek Belka  said June 30.  
 “The old formula was actually a substitute for policy
bias, while we shouldn’t signal it to markets as it is kind of a
hint, which was immediately reflected in financial investors’
decisions,” Kazmierczak said. “Markets should evaluate risk on
their own, and they bear resulting costs. It favors stability.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Next year’s general election is undermining Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s commitment to spending cuts in Poland, the only EU member to have avoided an economic contraction since the credit crisis started, economists have said. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
