-- Korean Air Seeks 50% of Sales From Premium Classes on A380s
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-21T06:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/korean-air-seeks-50-of-sales-from-premium-classes-on-a380-cabin-upgrades.html

          
          
             Korean Air Lines Co.  intends to
get 50 percent of passenger revenue from premium classes by
2019 as it adds new planes and challenges Singapore Airlines
Ltd. and Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. for business travelers.  
 “We’re aiming to become a real luxury carrier,”
President  Chi Chang Hoon , 57, said in an interview in Seoul
yesterday. Business and first-class cabins accounted for
about 20 percent of passenger sales last year, he said.  
 South Korea’s largest airline plans to expand premium-
class sales after forecasting a record first-half operating
profit on rebounding passenger and cargo demand. The airline
is counting on the 10  Airbus SAS A380s  and 10 Boeing Co. 787s
it’s scheduled to receive from next year and service
improvements to help lure corporate fliers.  
 “Ever-increasing competition from low-cost carriers
means Korean has to look for a bigger share from premium
classes,” said  Park Euk Kyung , an analyst at Samsung
Securities Co. in Seoul. “Still, it will be tough to compete
with Singapore Air and Cathay Pacific as their home markets
are more business-travel focused.”  
 Korean Air plans to fit 100 first and business-class
seats on its A380s, all of which will be on the upper-deck,
Chi said.  Singapore Air  has 60 business class seats on the
upper-deck of its A380s with 12 first-class cabins on the
lower level.  
 Cabin Upgrades  
 Seoul-based Korean Air is overhauling premium-class
cabins on existing planes and improving services, Chi said,
without elaboration. The airline’s first-class offering has a
4-star rating from research company  Skytrax . Singapore Air,
which gets about 40 percent of passenger sales from premium
cabins, and Cathay both have 5 stars.  
 Korean Air rose 1.3 percent to close at 78,100 won in
Seoul, compared with the key Kospi index’s 0.7 percent gain.
The airline has advanced 42 percent this year, the fourth-
best performance among the 30 stocks in the  Bloomberg World
Airlines Index .  
 The Seoul-based carrier will probably beat its 10.6
trillion won full-year sales target and meet its 1 trillion
won operating profit goal, Chi said. In the first half, the
carrier probably had an operating profit of 570 billion won
($473 million) compared with a 149.4 billion won loss a year
earlier, Chi said, citing preliminary figures. Sales rose
about 25 percent, Chi said.  
 Based on those figures, the airline probably made a
second-quarter operating profit of 350 billion won, beating
the 252.7 billion won average of 16  analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Chi declined to comment on second-
quarter numbers.  
 Rising Traffic  
 The airline expects full-year passenger traffic to rise
about 10 percent, triple an April forecast, Chi said.
Nationwide international passenger numbers jumped 20 percent
in the first half to a record 19.2 million, according to the
transport ministry. Cargo shipments surged 23 percent to 1.78
million tons.  
 “Demand is growing a lot faster than we were seeing in
the first quarter and it’s gaining speed,” Chi said. Planned
fare increases on flights to the Americas, Europe and Oceania
from next month will boost yields, he said.  
 The airline’s cargo operations, the largest carrier of
 international air-freight , may also surpass the record
volumes posted in 2007, Chi said. The government has forecast
a 26.4 percent jump in exports this year as U.S. and European
consumers snap up  Samsung Electronics Co.  3D TVs and Apple
Inc. iPads.  
 The global economic recovery should sustain cargo yields,
a measure of revenue, for the rest of the year even as other
carriers return freighters to service, Chi said.  
 Asian carriers are likely to post their first industry
profit in three years this year as the region rebounds faster
from the global recession than the U.S. and Europe, according
to the Association of Asia Pacific Airlines. The region’s
carriers lost $11 billion in the past two years, the group
said.  
 “Both the passenger and cargo demand have been
exceptionally strong this year,” said Lee Ki Myung, an
analyst at Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co., which manages
$4.5 billion worth of assets. “Still, the pace of growth and
yield increase will inevitably wane from the second half.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Chi Chang Hoon, president of Korean Air Lines Co.,  
                       
                         
                           Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chi Chang Hoon, president of Korean Air Lines Co. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chi Chang Hoon, president of Korean Air Lines Co. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
