-- Korean Won, Ringgit Head Gains in Asia as Strength May Contain Inflation
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-20T04:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/korean-won-ringgit-head-gains-in-asia-as-strength-may-contain-inflation.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and Malaysia’s
ringgit halted a three-day loss to lead gains in Asian
currencies on speculation regional central banks will let their
exchange rates strengthen to contain inflation.  
 The Asian Development Bank said today that policy makers in
the region should allow more currency appreciation to help cope
with capital inflows and enable a more gradual pace of interest-
rate increases that can support economic growth. The ringgit
climbed from a two-week low before a government report tomorrow
that may show consumer prices rose last month by the most in
more than a year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 “Central banks probably have no choice but to allow for
currency appreciation amid inflationary pressure and fund
inflows into the region where interest rates are rising,” said
 Tohru Nishihama , an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Regional currencies will remain under
appreciation pressure as Asia is in a cycle of rate hikes and
its growth is outpacing other regions.”  
 South Korea’s won advanced 0.6 percent to 1,208.33 per
dollar as of 12:58 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ringgit gained 0.3 percent to 3.2195 and is up
6.3 percent this year, the best performer in Asia outside Japan.
Singapore’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to S$1.3734.  
 Malaysia’s inflation accelerated to 1.7 percent in June,
according to the median forecast in Bloomberg’s survey, the
fastest pace since May 2009. Singapore may say on July 23 that
prices in the city-state climbed 3.5 percent, the quickest rate
of increase since January last year, a separate survey showed.  
 ‘Unwind’ Stimulus  
 Central banks in Malaysia, India, Taiwan, South Korea and
Thailand have all raised borrowing costs this year as the region
leads the global economic recovery. Bank Negara Malaysia lifted
its  overnight policy rate  by a quarter-percentage point to 2.75
percent on July 8 and the Bank of Korea followed a day later
with a quarter-point increase to 2.25 percent.  
 “The market believes the ringgit can still strengthen by
year-end with inflation picking up a bit,” said  Azmi Shukri Rahman , a foreign-exchange trader at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in
Kuala Lumpur. “It seems well supported following recent dips.”  
 Asia faces the risk of volatile capital flows as its growth
outpaces the rest of the world, the ADB said. Developing Asia
will probably expand 7.9 percent in 2010, compared with an April
estimate of 7.5 percent, the Manila-based lender said in a
statement accompanying the release of its Asia Economic Monitor
report today.  
 “It is better to unwind monetary stimulus through a
judicious mix of currency appreciation and interest-rate
adjustments rather than entirely through policy rate hikes,”
the ADB said. “This strategy would be able to support domestic
demand, address inflationary pressures and help facilitate
global rebalancing.”  
 Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah climbed 0.1 percent to
9,058 per dollar and the Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to
46.412. Thailand’s currency traded at 32.29 from 32.28 yesterday
and the Taiwan dollar was little changed at NT$32.118.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        