-- Korea Gas May Need More Australian LNG After Chevron Deal, Citigroup Says
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-20T05:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/korea-gas-may-need-more-australian-lng-after-chevron-deal-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Korea Gas Corp. , the world’s biggest
importer of liquefied natural gas, may need more Australian LNG
after signing an initial accord to buy supplies from Chevron
Corp.’s proposed Wheatstone project, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “I don’t think this precludes other LNG projects signing
up with Kogas,”  Mark Greenwood , a Sydney-based analyst at
Citigroup, said by phone today. “We think Kogas is short gas in
the 2015, 2016 time frame. I wouldn’t be surprised if they
signed up with another one or two Australian LNG projects,” to
acquire a further 4 million metric tons a year.  
 Santos Ltd. ’s Gladstone LNG project and Inpex Corp.’s
Ichthys development, among more than a dozen proposed LNG
projects in Australia seeking to tap rising Asian demand for
cleaner-burning fuel, are possible sellers, Greenwood said.  
 Korea Gas expects to purchase 1.5 million tons of LNG
annually from Wheatstone for as long as 20 years and agreed to
acquire a 5 percent stake in the gas venture, Chevron’s local
unit said today. The state-run utility in 2009 signed a pact to
buy 1.5 million tons of LNG a year from Chevron’s A$43 billion
($37 billion) Gorgon project off northwest Australia.  
 Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, targets a
final decision in 2011 on whether to proceed with Wheatstone.
The Korea Gas deal “adds further momentum” to the development,
 John Gass , president of Chevron Global Gas, said in a statement.  
 Competing for Labor  
 The agreement with Korea Gas may be worth about A$33
billion, based on Western Australian Premier  Colin Barnett ’s
estimate of a previous sales deal. Chevron’s contract announced
in December to supply  Tokyo Electric Power Co.  with 4.1 million
tons of LNG a year was valued at A$90 billion by Barnett.  
 Korea Gas said in May that it had started discussions to
buy a stake in the Gladstone gas project in Queensland led by
Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil and gas producer.  
 The Australian LNG ventures are competing to obtain
customers and find workers. Australia’s resources industry faces
a shortage of 36,000 tradespeople by 2015, according to a July
15  report  by a labor taskforce set up by the government.  
 The taskforce recommended introducing new labor agreements
designed specifically for “mega” resources projects to make
hiring of labor outside Australia more efficient and proposed
five-day deadlines for completing visa applications.  
 Chevron’s decision to approve the Gorgon project was the
“initial impetus” for the taskforce, the document showed.
Australia has 75 advanced resources projects worth about A$110
billion in the development pipeline, the committee said.  
 Wheatstone may generate 6,500 jobs during construction,
with first LNG shipments planned for 2016, Chevron Australia
said in a  publication  posted on its website. The project is
“hot on the heels” of Gorgon, Wheatstone General Manager Geoff
Strong said in May at a petroleum conference in Brisbane.  
 Chevron’s progress may add to pressure on competitors to
attract workers, Greenwood said. “With an impressive lineup of
projects -- Gorgon being the largest resource project Australia
has ever seen -- and then Wheatstone, they are in a good
position to manage their workforce,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        