-- Rivals for U.S. Tax-Panel Chairmanship Escalate Gifts for Fellow Democrats
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/neal-levin-duel-in-political-funding-race-to-head-house-tax-writing-panel.html

          
          
             Representatives  Richard Neal  and
 Sander Levin  have stepped up their campaign contributions to
other Democrats as they compete for leadership of the tax-
writing U.S. House Ways and Means Committee.  
 The two lawmakers have given fellow Democrats almost $1
million between them this election cycle -- with about 70
percent coming since March, when New York Representative  Charles Rangel  stepped down as head of the panel,  Federal Election
Commission records show . Their contributions since March alone
match or exceed the amount they donated in the 2008 cycle.  
 Neal, of Massachusetts, has given about $410,000 to other
candidates for the 2010 elections, and Levin, of Michigan, the
panel’s acting chairman, has donated almost $570,000. At stake
is the helm of the panel that controls tax and trade policy and
oversees about a third of all federal spending, including the
 Social Security  and Medicare programs.  
 “Levin and Neal are doing whatever they can to put
themselves in position to be chairman in the next Congress,”
said former Representative  Bill Archer , a Texas Republican who
headed the Ways and Means panel from 1995 to 2001. “My guess is
 Nancy Pelosi  is tightening the pressure on all of her chairmen
and subcommittee chairmen and aspirants to increase their
contributions.”  
 The donations, aimed at helping Democrats mitigate losses
in the November elections, may influence party leaders,
including House Speaker Pelosi of California, who would choose a
permanent chairman next year should Democrats retain control of
the chamber, analysts said. Rangel relinquished his chairmanship
after the House ethics committee admonished him for violating
gift rules.  
 Technology, Labor  
 Neal, 61, represents a district near the Boston
headquarters of Fidelity Investments that contains insurance and
high-technology interests.  
 Levin, 78, from industrial Detroit’s  northeast suburbs , has
pursued policies backed by labor unions that include higher
taxes on private equity firm executives and ending a tax-saving
technique favored by  Verizon Communications Inc .  
 Levin’s contributions since March include a total of
$200,912 to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, run
by Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Pelosi adviser.
Neal has given $170,000. Both contributed about half those sums
the same month Rangel stepped down.  
 “They are part of a team” helping Democrats retain
control of the House, Van Hollen said.  
 Rangel Donations  
 Rangel, who as chairman contributed $1.2 million to
Democrats in the last cycle as chairman, hasn’t contributed to
other candidates in the current cycle.  
 Levin became acting chairman because of his seniority
after California Representative  Pete Stark , 78, who had served
on the panel longer, declined the temporary post in favor of
remaining chairman of the subcommittee on health.  
 Neal, who speaks at conferences sponsored by Washington-
based groups including the Tax Executives Institute, which
includes tax officials from the 1,000 biggest companies, and the
Tax Council Policy Institute, a gathering of lawyers, also
campaigned for the job.  
 Neal’s “priorities for this campaign cycle remain his own
re-election and maintaining a Democratic majority,” spokesman
 William Tranghese  said when asked if the congressman donated to
help promote his bid for the chairmanship.  
 Levin “takes seriously this opportunity as chairman of the
committee to help others and intends to continue doing so fully
in the months ahead,” Hilarie Chambers, his chief of staff,
said.  
 Spot Open  
 Brendan Daly , a spokesman for Pelosi, 70, said the
permanent chairmanship remains open and the speaker has made no
special requests to committee chairmen to raise and donate
money.  
 Pelosi stood by Rangel for months as misconduct allegations
were investigated, in part because choosing a successor would be
so difficult, said  Christopher Bergin , chief executive of Tax
Analysts, a Falls Church, Virginia, publisher of tax
information.  
 To promote Neal, Pelosi would have to pass over both Levin
and Georgia Representative  John Lewis , the chairman of the
Subcommittee on Oversight, who, like Rangel, is African-
American. Lewis gave only $1,000 to fellow Democrats in the last
four months, records show.  
 “You’ve got a two-horse race and she’s got to pick,”
Bergin said. In Levin, she’d get a chairman with strong policy
and financial links to labor unions, Bergin said. In Neal, she’d
get a chairman with a more favorable reputation with businesses,
said Bergin, who favors Neal.  
 “One of the things Democrats should consider strongly is
sending a signal to business that they are rational when it
comes to business,” Bergin said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Sander Levin. Photographer: Dennis Brack/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
