-- New York City Pension Manager Firings Belie No-Secrecy Pledge
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-20T21:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/new-york-city-pension-manager-firings-belie-liu-s-promise-barring-secrecy.html

          
          
             New York City Comptroller  John Liu ,
who campaigned last year promising “full accountability and
transparency” as chief financial watchdog in the most populous
U.S. city, has refused to disclose the identities of money
managers fired by the city’s $103 billion pension funds.  
 In an April speech to business leaders, the comptroller
said he dismissed six managers for “poor performance.” He
refused to identify them all, even after Bloomberg News sought
their names under the state’s  Freedom of Information Law . Liu, a
Taiwan-born Democrat who became the first Asian-American elected
to citywide office in November, didn’t want to embarrass them,
said his spokeswoman, Sharon Lee.  
 “The intent was not to say X, Y and Z are awful and
incompetent,” Liu, 43, said in a July 15 interview. “The
intent was that we are reviewing the portfolio to identify poor
performance and we are taking action. Does that mean we should
go out and start excoriating individual fund managers?”  
 While Liu said in the interview that he would comply with
the request to release the names, he didn’t say when they’d be
made available.  
 “We haven’t decided not to disclose,” he said. “The
operative term is that you haven’t gotten it yet.”  
 In an e-mail sent today, Lee said the office intends to
answer the freedom-of-information request by Sept. 15. “We
intend to fully honor the comptroller’s commitment,” she wrote.  
 One in Five  
 One of five tax dollars collected by New York City, about
$7.6 billion, will go into the pension funds this year. That’s
more than 10 percent of the city’s $63 billion  budget  and more
than it costs to operate the police or fire departments.  
 City officials project the  cost  to the municipal budget of
pensions covering more than 581,000 current and former police
officers, firefighters, teachers, civilian employees and school
administrators to increase about six-fold, to $7.8 billion, in
2012, from $1.3 billion in 2002.  
 All five pension funds had liabilities exceeding assets as
of June 30, 2007, the most recent  actuarial valuation  in last
year’s annual report. The fire department had the worst ratio,
with its funds covering only 55 percent of future liabilities.  
 “These are some of the biggest pension funds in the
U.S.,” said  E.J. McMahon , senior fellow for tax policy at the
 Manhattan Institute , a research group advocating lower taxes and
reduced government spending. “If their funds blew up and lost
80 percent tomorrow, the taxpayers still have to make good on
it. They should be more transparent.”  
 Barring the Public  
 Liu’s stewardship of  the funds  has included barring the
public from pension-board deliberations on investment policy.
That compares with funds for police and firefighters in Los
Angeles and teachers in Chicago, which both hold open
gatherings.  
 The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
largest U.S. public pension fund, which reported a market value
of $204.5 billion as of July 16, posts  monthly updates  of
investment returns, quarterly reports on manager performance and
investment transactions. New York City’s pension websites don’t
provide up-to-date investment returns or lists of managers.  
 Restricting the public’s access to investment-committee
meetings and delaying disclosure of the names of terminated
managers is sometimes necessary “to protect the assets,” Liu
said. “It’s not a question of not giving the information.”  
 Although the city charter designates him custodian of city
funds, Liu said he may not have power to disclose board policy
on his own.  
 “I wish I had unilateral authority to decide, ‘Hey, let’s
put everything online,’” Liu said in the interview. “I’m one
of several trustees on several boards. I don’t own the
information.”  
 ‘Open Government’  
 Liu promised “open government” and “intrinsic
accountability” as recently as July 1, when he unveiled a
 website  he said would provide public access to city spending
decisions.  
 Taxpayers searching for information on current performance
of New York City’s pension funds won’t find it either on the
comptroller’s or most funds’ websites. Only one fund, for
teachers, posts returns from 2010. The most recent data on the
other four are from financial  reports  dated June 30, 2009. They
don’t include data on individual managers’ returns.  
 In Los Angeles, where all meetings of the police and fire
pension board are open, “system members and the public know how
we invest fund assets, who manages the assets, how much we pay
them, what their performance is, who is on watch,” said Michael
Perez, general manager of the more than $12 billion fund that
covers both police and firefighters.  
 Return Comparison  
 The Los Angeles pension returned 14 percent for the year
ending June 30. New York’s police fund returned an estimated 13
percent during the 12 months, a period in which the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  gained 12 percent.  
 Liu first publicly  revealed his dismissal  of the six New
York pension managers during an April 8 Manhattan breakfast
sponsored by  Crain’s New York Business  magazine.  
 “Should the funds underperform, the shortfalls will have
to be shouldered by our taxpayers,” Liu said. “As such, we’ve
already terminated a number of investment managers due to poor
performance. Their allocations were redirected to other asset
classes and investment managers where the expected return on
investment is higher. And, in several cases, we’ve renegotiated
the management fees for more favorable terms on behalf of our
pension funds.”  
 No ‘Embarrassment’  
 In a press conference after the speech, Liu declined to
answer a question from a Bloomberg News reporter who asked him
to identify the six asset managers, how much city money they had
been given, or how much the pension funds had paid the fired
managers in fees.  
 “We want to have good relations with the investment
community,” Lee, his spokeswoman, said at the time. “We want
to avoid causing any embarrassment.”  
 The refusal led Bloomberg News to make a request under the
state’s  Freedom of Information Law  on April 11 seeking the
identities of the firms Liu said he fired, the reasons for the
terminations, the managers’ performance data and the amount of
the fees they had received. The office said it would respond by
June 11.  
 On that date, Allen Fitzer, the comptroller’s records-
access officer, e-mailed a letter to Bloomberg News identifying
two of the six terminated firms:  Emerald Infrastructure
Development Fund LP,  based in New York and Belfast, Northern
Ireland; and RiverSource Investments LLC, a subsidiary of
Minneapolis-based  Ameriprise Financial Inc .  
 Names Withheld  
 The assets of four other managers “have not been
completely, liquidated, transferred and presented to the
appropriate funds as ‘finalized’,” he wrote in withholding the
names of the others.  
 Fitzer said he would identify the other four as “soon as
the transitions are complete.” The letter didn’t disclose how
much the city had paid the companies in fees, or the size of the
investments.  
 In response to another Bloomberg News request, Liu’s office
e-mailed an internal June 11 memo that said Emerald had been
given $75 million from four pension funds and was fired in
February after it made no investments. The city paid it
management fees of $2.9 million from 2008 to 2010, the memo
said.  
 Tom Vogel , an outside spokesman for Emerald in New York
with Sitrick & Co., confirmed that four city pension funds gave
Emerald $75 million in 2008 for investments to finance
construction of revenue-generating projects in Northern Ireland.  
 ‘Right Investments’  
 “Our goal from the start was to find the right investments
that would provide an acceptable risk-adjusted return for our
investors,” Vogel said in an e-mail. “Initial investment-
period market conditions were such that we were not able to do
so, and we understand that was the pension fund’s reason to
dissolve.”  
 The police pension fund ended its $56 million investment
deal with RiverSource in February, according to the city’s June
11 memo. The money was originally placed with J. & W. Seligman &
Co. in 2002. RiverSource bought the firm in 2008 and
“immediately replaced investment staff with a staff with no
previous track record,” the memo said.  
 The pension paid management fees of $1.9 million and the
fund had a 7.9 percent rate of return, according to the memo.  
 Ryan Lund, a RiverSource spokesman, declined to discuss the
transaction.  
 Fund Overseers  
 Independent boards govern New York City’s pension funds for
civil employees, teachers, police officers, firefighters and
school administrators. The boards include unpaid representatives
of the unions, mayor and the comptroller, who oversees the
funds’ asset management.  
 The pension boards meet once a month to discuss investment
policy and performance. After a brief review of performance, the
boards usually go into an executive session closed to the
public.  
 New York State’s  Open Meetings Law  permits closed sessions
for eight reasons, including discussions that might imperil
public safety or about the purchase or sale of securities or
property if publicity would “substantially” affect their
value.  
 During the public portion of the April 27 meeting of the
 New York City Employees’ Retirement Fund , Martin Gantz,
representing Liu, declined to answer a Teamsters union
representative’s question about convertible bond returns.  
 “We will actually be talking about that in executive
session,” Gantz said. The open meeting took less than 30
minutes; the closed session lasted more than five hours.  
 Public Excluded  
 Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, a financial information company with
clients who advise pension funds, has removed himself from
pension investment decisions since assuming office in 2002.
Attorneys in his administration’s Law Department defended the
decision to exclude the public from the April 27 meeting, or any
other meeting.  
 “Anything discussed with regard to these massive
investments and strategy concerning them could potentially have
harmful ramifications,” said Paul Rephen, who oversees the New
York City Law Department’s pension division.  
 The city had no legal right to discuss the convertible
bonds in closed session, Robert Freeman, executive director of
the state  Committee on Open Government , a public agency that
oversees compliance with New York’s freedom-of-information laws,
said in an interview.  
 “We’re not talking about publicity having an impact on any
particular security,” Freeman said. In addition, the identities
of fired money managers “are clearly public,” Freeman said.
“There would be no valid basis, in my opinion, for denying
access or delaying disclosure.”  
 Lagging Indexes  
 City pensions employ 319 asset managers, according to the
comptroller’s office. In the 12 months ended March 31, the
pensions returned 35 percent, 9 percentage points less than the
S&P 500 gained over the same period. The five funds lagged
behind their benchmark indexes by 1.3 percentage points to as
much as 6.8 percentage points.  
 Liu and his predecessor,  William Thompson , pledged to
protect the pension funds’ integrity last year after a kickback
scandal ensnared a number of politically connected placement
agents, or marketers, hired by investment firms to get business
from the state pension fund.  
 Thompson recommended firing Aldus Equity Partners as a
manager of city pension funds after state Attorney General
 Andrew Cuomo  alleged that the firm and its managing partner,
 Saul Meyer , had paid  Hank Morris , a political consultant to
former state comptroller  Alan Hevesi , to get business.  
 $100 Million  
 City pension funds also gave at least $100 million to
Catterton Partners, a Greenwich, Connecticut-based private
equity firm that used Praetorian Securities as its marketing
firm. Hevesi’s son, Daniel, a Praetorian employee, reaped agent
fees in the deal, Thompson’s office said last year.  
 The New York securities firm withdrew its securities
registration in 2008, according to a filing with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority Inc.  
 “Given the attention that government pension funds have
received, public confidence has to be restored,” said  Dick Dadey , executive director of the  Citizens Union , a New York
City-based nonpartisan watchdog group. “If significant changes
have been made to pension fund management, the public should be
fully aware of it, particularly if the comptroller is saying
he’s achieved it.”  
 Middlemen Banned  
 Liu has maintained a ban on middlemen instituted by
Thompson, and implemented  disclosure requirements  for money
managers, including that they must report all contacts with
employees of the comptroller’s office. He also refused to take
campaign contributions from investment managers and their agents
seeking to do business with the funds.  
 Thompson confirmed in a July 6 interview that Emerald won
the business in 2009 on the recommendation of  William Howell , a
placement agent who had donated  $13,900  to Thompson campaigns
for comptroller and mayor, according to city campaign finance
records.  
 The former comptroller said he had no role in selecting
Emerald. The choice was made by “professionals who had no idea
who contributed to my campaign,” Thompson said. Howell didn’t
return a message left on his telephone answering machine at his
home in Rockville Centre, New York.  
 Pension board meetings excluded the public during his eight
years as comptroller because disclosure could affect the price
of an investment, Thompson said.  
 ‘Competitive World’  
 “It’s a very competitive world and you don’t want to
create a situation where your investment decision becomes
public,” he said.  
 The comptroller’s office has not yet complied with the
Bloomberg News request for the identities of four of the six
terminated companies, an up-to-date accounting of how much money
they managed, what they billed in fees and the reasons for their
dismissals.  
 “I’m not defending the system as it is,” Liu said in the
July 15 interview in his office across from City Hall. “The
system has been in place for a long time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Liu, New York City comptroller, arrives for a television interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
