-- New Delhi Misses Luxury Boom as Wealthy Shop in London
-- Malavika Sharma
-- 2010-07-20T23:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/new-delhi-misses-luxury-boom-as-millionaires-go-to-london-for-gucci-zegna.html

          
          
             Vikram Baidyanath prefers to travel
more than 4,000 miles to London to get suits from his favorite
brand, Ermenegildo Zegna, than to drive half an hour to New
Delhi’s luxury mall.  
 “The feel-good factor and the whole experience of shopping
abroad is better,” said Baidyanath, 32, who also buys  Burberry 
shirts and  Gucci  or Prada shoes on trips to London. The chief
executive of traditional medicine and health-product maker
 Baidyanath Group  said he’s attracted to the ambience, wider
selections and lower prices to be found overseas.  
 Luxury spending in India, the world’s second-most populous
nation, was less than a tenth of that in China last year,
according to Bernstein Research. Wealthy shoppers’ penchant for
the shopping centers of Paris, London and Milan pose a challenge
for companies such as  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  and
Gucci parent  PPR SA  in a country where the biggest stock market
 rally  in 18 years produced about 42,000 millionaires last year.  
 “Indian consumers are buying a lot of luxury, but they
aren’t buying it here,” said Mohan Murjani, a retailer who gave
up selling the Gucci and Jimmy Choo labels two years after
opening his first store in Mumbai, India’s financial center, in
2007. “I don’t see luxury taking off for at least another
decade.”  
 Murjani, 64, garnered sales of less than $500 per square
foot in his stores, half of what he had projected in 2005, when
he began planning to bring luxury goods to a country where more
than half of the population survives on less than $2 a day.
 India  has a population of 1.2 billion people.  
 Takashimaya, Tiffany  
 Takashimaya Co. , Japan’s third-largest department store
company, has sales of about 1.6 million yen ($18,000) per square
foot at its stores in Tokyo and other cities, according to
investment relations documents.  Takashimaya ’s stores carry more
than a hundred brands, including Bulgari, Cartier, Louis Vuitton,
Gucci and Armani.  
 Worldwide stores of  Tiffany & Co. , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, generated sales of $2,400 per
gross square foot last year, Chief Financial Officer  James Fernandez  told investors on June 30.  
 India’s spending on luxury clothes, watches, jewelry and
cosmetics was about 600 million euros ($777 million) last year,
according to a Bernstein Research report. That compared with 6.6
billion euros for China excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan,
and 3.4 billion euros in South Korea, a country with a
 population  of about 49 million.  
 Economic Growth  
 Asia excluding Japan is the fastest-growing market for LVMH,
the largest maker of luxury goods. Sales in the region for the
maker of Marc Jacobs, Kenzo and Fendi fashions, Hublot watches
and Dom Perignon champagne rose 13 percent to 3.85 billion
euros last year.  
 India’s  economic growth  accelerated to 8.6 percent in the
three months ended March.  China’s economy  expanded 11.9 percent
in the same period, the fastest pace in almost three years,
before easing to 10.3 percent in the second quarter.  
 The absence of the ambience usually associated with luxury
shopping is an impediment, said Narayanan Ramaswamy, executive
director at KPMG in India.  
 “A buyer of a  Cartier  watch doesn’t want to buy from a
store that has pushcarts selling bananas on the sidewalk,” he
said.  
 Murjani’s  Murjani Group  paid 60 percent more than expected
in rent, because of a lack of suitable locations. Murjani now
focuses on selling relatively lower-priced brands like  Tommy
Hilfiger  and Calvin Klein.  
 ‘One Season Behind’  
 Suitable retail space for stores selling Louis Vuitton
products or  Bulgari SpA ’s watches is rare in a country which got
its first mall in 1999, Murjani said.  Murjani Group  built the
Galleria in Mumbai, which it says was the first Indian shopping
center where most tenants sold high-end products targeted at the
rich. Before that, luxury stores were mainly located in five-
star hotels in New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.  
 The  DLF Emporio  mall in New Delhi, where common areas
resemble a five-star hotel lobby with fountains and potted
plants, is one of the few locations in the capital city of 14
million people where  brands  such as those of  Giorgio Armani SpA ,
LVMH, Jimmy Choo and Ermenegildo Zegna can set up shop.  
 Luxury outlets in India also have to fight the perception
that their collection is dated.  
 “In India we’re probably one season behind,” said
Baidyanath, whose company had about 3 billion rupees ($64
million) in sales last year. “Last summer, when I was in London,
I noticed that a lot of the things they had were slightly
different.”  
 India’s Millionaires  
 Still, a growing economy, increasing incomes and
urbanization will boost the prospects for luxury retailers in
the long term, Bernstein Research analysts  Luca Solca , Andrea
Rosso and Matt Wing said in the report.  
 Economic growth may accelerate to more than 8.5 percent in
the financial year ending March, from 7.4 percent in the
previous 12 months. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to boost
economic growth to 10 percent to help improve the lives of the
country’s poor.  
 The number of millionaires in India rose 51 percent to
126,700 last year, according to the 2010  World Wealth Report  by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. and Cap Gemini SA.  
 The Indian luxury market, including cars and jets, is
forecast to reach about $14 billion by 2010 end and then double
to $30 billion by 2015, consultant AT Kearney predicted in 2007.  
 For now though, shoppers including 22-year-old Nazuk
Bardeja, a jewelry designer setting up a design studio in New
Delhi, still go overseas.  
 “The decor is the same in India, the attention from the
sales people is the same,” she said. “It’s just that the feel
of walking on a Milan street, the whole environment, is so
amazing.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     High end clothing and shoes at Ermenegildo Zegna. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Purses and shoes sit on display for sale at the Jimmy Choo store at the DLF Emporio luxury shopping center in New Delhi. Photographer: Brian Sokol/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     India’s spending on luxury clothes, watches, jewelry and cosmetics was about 600 million euros ($777 million) last year. Photographer: Brian Sokol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
