-- Key Protects `Pure New Zealand' With Curbs on Mining in Conservation Area
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-20T00:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/new-zealand-backs-away-from-giving-mining-companies-national-park-access.html

          
          
             New Zealand dropped a plan to open
conservation areas, including national parks, to mining and
exploration after protesters said it would jeopardize the
nation’s clean, green tourist image.  
 “New Zealanders have been clear that conservation areas
and national parks in particular are of abiding and deep
importance and should be protected,” Energy and Resource
Minister  Gerry Brownlee  said today in Wellington.  
 By backing down, Prime Minister  John Key  will protect the
“Pure New Zealand” tourist brand, which helped draw spending
of NZ$5.96 billion ($4.2 billion) from foreign tourists in the
year ended March 31, according to  government  figures.  
 Key in March proposed releasing about 7,070 hectares
(17,500 acres) of land from schedule four of the Crown Minerals
Act, a list of areas where mining is prohibited. About 47,000
people signed a  Green Party -organized petition this year, saying
damage to the environment from mining will ruin the tourism
industry, which makes up 10 percent of the $130 billion economy.  
 “We heard that message loud and clear,” Brownlee said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 The government won’t remove any land from schedule four,
and will proceed with a previously announced decision to add
about 12,000 hectares to the list, Brownlee said. In future, any
land given a national park or marine reserve classification will
automatically be added to the schedule.  
 Mineral Resources  
 New Zealand’s onshore minerals are worth NZ$194 billion
($137 billion), according to the Ministry of Economic
Development  website . The value, based on commodity prices in
early 2008, doesn’t allow for the cost of extraction.  
 Newmont Mining Corp.  extracts gold from its Waihi mine on
the North Island. OceanaGold Corp. this month said recent
drilling results suggest an expanded life of its Frasers
underground mine on the South Island.  
 About 40 percent of New Zealand’s mineral resource is under
land protected by schedule four, the ministry said. In March,
the government proposed releasing land from the schedule,
including parts of the Coromandel Peninsula estimated to contain
NZ$18 billion of gold and other minerals, and part of Paparoa
National Park which has more than NZ$1 billion of coal, it said.  
 More Exploration  
 The government will allow further opportunities to explore
on non-schedule four land, Brownlee said today. It plans an
aeromagnetic survey of areas north of Auckland and on the west
coast of the South Island.  
 “It is our expectation that when this data become
available there will be an escalation of mineral exploration and
extraction in those areas,” Brownlee said.  
 Mining currently occupies less than 0.02 percent of New
Zealand’s total land area, according to the  New Zealand Minerals
Industry Association ’s website.  
 New Zealand produced 13.4 metric tons of gold, 14.3 tons of
silver and 0.5 million tons of iron sands last year, according
to the ministry. It also produced 4.5 million tons of coal. The
country also produces rocks, sand, gravel and limestone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        