-- New Jersey Faces $10.5 Billion Deficit Next Fiscal Year, Forecaster Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-20T15:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/new-jersey-faces-10-5-billion-deficit-next-fiscal-year-forecaster-says.html

          
          
             New Jersey , the third-most indebted
U.S. state, faces a $10.5 billion deficit next year, nearly
matching the one Governor  Chris Christie  closed in his current
$29.4 billion budget, the Office of Legislative Services said.  
 The fiscal 2012 estimate is based upon using existing
revenue sources to fully fund all state programs and
obligations, many of which Christie cut to balance this year’s
plan,  David Rosen , the agency’s chief budget officer, wrote in a
July 12 memo to Assembly Democrats, who sought the information.  
 The state will need $3.53 billion to fully fund its pension
contribution and $2.3 billion for public schools. It also faces
the loss of $1 billion in federal stimulus money, Rosen said. He
projected a total spending increase of $11.5 billion, and only
$1 billion of higher revenue. Christie and the Democratic-led
Legislature filled a record deficit of $10.7 billion this year.  
 “This year will be of the same magnitude,” Rosen said in
an interview today. “It’s always a moving target and things
could change.”  
 Christie, 47, a Republican, took office in January pledging
to fix state finances without raising taxes. His first budget
skipped a $3 billion pension payment and lowered aid to public
schools and municipalities by $820 million and $445 million,
respectively. The plan also suspended property-tax rebates until
next year, when it will owe $2.1 billion, according to Rosen.  
 “This is not a problem that is going to lend itself to a
single bold, dramatic solution,” said  Andy Pratt , a spokesman
for Treasurer  Andrew Eristoff . “It’s going to take many actions
by the governor over the next four years to change this.”  
 Growing Revenue  
 Assembly Majority Leader Joseph Cryan, a Democrat from
Union, said Christie’s cuts to funding for schools and towns,
missed pension payment and rebate cuts amounted to “cost
avoidance.” New Jersey will need to look at ways to increase
revenue, through a rebounding economy or new sources, as a way
of fixing finances, Cryan said.  
 “He just didn’t pay the bills,” Cryan said. “We’ve got to
look at ways to grow revenue. We haven’t solved anything yet and
clearly there’s a whole lot of work that needs to be done for
next year.”  
 California and New York rank first and second in total net
tax-supported debt, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  
 The fiscal 2012 deficit estimate was reported earlier by
the Star-Ledger, New Jersey’s biggest newspaper.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        