-- NFL, Electronic Arts to Release Wii Fitness Video Based on Football Drills
-- Aaron Kuriloff
-- 2010-07-20T21:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/nfl-ea-sports-will-release-nfl-training-camp-nintendo-game-in-november.html

          
          
             Electronic Arts Inc.  and the
National Football League and will release a fitness video game
for Nintendo Co.’s Wii console in November, expanding a
partnership that produced the best-selling sports game of all
time.  
 “EA Sports Active NFL Training Camp” takes participants
through fitness drills similar to those used by football
players. The game was designed by the EA Sports unit that
produced the top-selling  “Madden NFL,”  which the company says
has generated about $3 billion in revenue in the past 22 years.  
 Leo Kane, the NFL’s vice president of consumer products,
said the new game may have a broader audience than Madden, while
promoting exercise and fitness, which the league encourages
through efforts including its  “Play 60”  campaign against
childhood obesity.  
 “Not only does this allow our fans to train like NFL
players, it allows them to compete against their family and
friends,” Kane said.  
 NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell   has cited  digital media as a
potential source of new revenue for the U.S.’s most-watched
sports league.  Peter Moore , president of EA Sports, said in
February that the company would introduce a version of Madden
for use on the Facebook social-media website. In June, the
league also reached a licensing deal with online game company
Quick Hit Inc. for an online football game.  
 Tough Drills  
 At a demonstration in New York last week,  Tony Gonzalez , a
tight end for the Atlanta Falcons, sat and watched a child
wearing sensors on his right leg and arm throw passes in a
virtual Georgia Dome.  
 Gonzalez said the game includes drills designed by the
league’s strength and conditioning coaches, including at least
one -- racing through a pattern of tires, then leaping and
dodging various obstacles -- that he particularly hates at real
training camp.  
 “This is the same stuff I do,” he said. “The beauty is
we’re getting people up off the couch.”  
 That was the designers’ objective, according to Justin
Sheffield, a producer for the title. The game’s more-than 70
drills aim to alleviate the tedium of exercise by incorporating
competition. They allows multiplayer competition and comparing
statistics online. They also try to provide a real workout.  
 “This isn’t just a game, it’s also a fitness product,”
said Sheffield. “It’s obviously not as intense as real training
camp, but if you’re doing the squats, holding the poses, you’ll
get results.”  
 The company’s Madden title has sold about 85 million units
since being introduced in 1989 as “John Madden Football,” EA
said in a news release. EA, the world’s second-biggest video-
game maker after Vivendi SA unit  Activision Blizzard  Inc.,
started putting players on the cover in 1999.  
 Shares of the Redwood City, California-based Electronic
Arts, which have declined 14 percent this year was up 27 cents
at $15.36 at 4:29 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        