-- Nigeria's Bailed-Out Banks Surge as President Jonathan Signs Bad-Debt Bill
-- Vincent Nwanma
-- 2010-07-20T17:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/nigeria-s-bailed-out-banks-surge-as-president-jonathan-signs-bad-debt-bill.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s banking index surged the
most in almost four months after President  Goodluck Jonathan 
signed into law a bill to create a company that will buy bad
debts from them.  
 The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index  that comprises of the top
10 capitalized and most liquid companies in the Nigerian banking
industry rallied gained the most in a week, rising 7.77, or 2.08
percent, to close at 380.69 in the commercial hub Lagos. That’s
the biggest gain since July 13.  Fidelity Bank Plc  advanced the
most in 10 weeks, climbing 4.9 percent to 2.38 naira.  
 “The horizon now looks clearer,” said Chinonyem Anyanwu,
chief executive officer of Dependable Securities, a Lagos-based
brokerage, by phone from the city.  
 Advances were led by banks that received part of a 620
billion-naira ($4.1 billion) bailout from the West African
nation’s central bank last year after they failed an audit.  
 Afribank Plc  increased by the maximum daily limit of 5
percent to close at 1.89 naira,  Intercontinental Bank Plc  gained
4.7 percent to 1.79 naira, and  Oceanic Bank Plc  rose 4.9 percent
to 1.7 naira.  
 The Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, will help
to “stimulate the recovery of Nigeria’s financial system from
the recent crisis by boosting the liquidity of troubled banks,”
presidential spokesman Ima Niboro quoted Jonathan as saying in
an e-mailed statement after the market closed yesterday.  
 ‘Delayed Effect’  
 “The effect may not be felt” until Amcon starts buying
the toxic assets and providing liquidity,” Anyanwu said.  
 The asset management company will buy about $10 billion in
bad debts by the end of the year, central bank governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on July 1.  
 “I don’t think that Amcon on its own will lead to
significant uplift in the market,” Bunmi Asaolu, an analyst
with London-based CSL Stockbrokers, said by phone today. “Other
factors are needed to sustain a rally towards the end of the
year, including earnings growth driven by growth in loan books
of the good banks.”  
 Nigeria’s  benchmark stock index  plunged 46 percent in 2008
and 34 percent last year, making it the second-worst performer
after  Ghana , as banks, which make up about 60 percent of the
Nigerian equities market by weighting, faced a debt crisis and
financial collapse.  
 The central bank sacked the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders last year over their handling
of the debt crisis and injected funds into them to stave off
their closure.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        