-- Nokia Advances After Report It's Searching for New Chief
-- Pavel Alpeyev
-- 2010-07-20T08:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/nokia-rallies-on-journal-report-phonemaker-trying-to-replace-ceo-kallasvuo.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj  rose as much as 5.2
percent in Helsinki trading after the Wall Street Journal
reported the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones is looking
to replace Chief Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo .  
 Nokia, which approached the heads of several U.S.
technology companies for the post, will make a decision by the
end of the month, according to the report yesterday, which cited
unidentified people familiar with the situation. Nokia
spokeswoman  Arja Suominen  declined to comment.  
 A new CEO would need to convince investors Nokia is capable
of delivering devices that can compete with Apple Inc.’s iPhone
 and Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry. Nokia shares have lost
two-thirds of their worth, wiping out 60 billion euros ($77.9
billion) in market value, since the iPhone’s introduction three
years ago. Cupertino, California-based Apple’s  value  has doubled
in the same period.  
 “A new broom sweeps clean and Nokia would definitely
benefit from a new CEO,” said  Ulf Moritzen , who helps manage
about 1 billion euros at Hamburg-based Aramea Asset Management
including Nokia shares. “The company needs to react faster to
market trends.”  
 The stock climbed as much as 35 cents, the biggest gain
since May 10, to 7.12 euros and was up 3.5 percent as of 11:28
a.m. The  shares  had declined 22 percent this year, valuing the
company at 26.2 billion euros.  
 Downward Trajectory  
 The company’s downward trajectory began on Kallasvuo’s
watch, after Apple began shipping iPhones in June, 2007. Nokia
has been unable to develop a smartphone with the same mass
appeal as the iPhone, which changed the industry with its
thousands of applications. The Finnish company has been forced
to cut prices, sacrificing profits to defend its market share.  
 One of the candidates to replace Kallasvuo, 57, refused
Nokia’s advances after meeting Chairman  Jorma Ollila , 59,
because the position requires moving to Finland, the Journal
said.  
 “An American CEO would mean a profound change in Nokia’s
corporate culture,” said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst at
Greenwich, Conn.-based MKM Partners who has a “neutral” rating
on the shares. “Of course, Finland’s executive talent pool
isn’t that deep, so any homegrown pick could easily be regarded
as too provincial by foreign investors.”  
 The company’s share of the global mobile-phone market
eroded as new manufacturers carved out niches at the high and
low ends. It fell almost 2 percentage points in the first
quarter to 36.6 percent, researcher IDC said April 30.  
 Price Drop  
 The must-have brand a decade ago, Nokia saw its average
smartphone price drop 18 percent in the last nine months with
buyers unwilling to pay top dollar. Nokia charged, on average,
155 euros in the first quarter for a smartphone, down from 190
euros in the third quarter.  
 Apple commanded an average of $622 per iPhone in its fiscal
second quarter, including services and products.  
 Nokia spent 6 billion euros on  research  and development
last year, almost six times as much as Apple. Although only half
Nokia’s R&D money went to the devices and services unit,
analysts and investors have said the spending hasn’t delivered
handsets that could really take on its more nimble rivals.  
 “Nokia spent four times more on R&D in its devices
business than Apple has spent as a group over the last three
years with little to show for it,” said  Adnaan Ahmad , a London-
based analyst with Behrenberg Bank, in a June 24 report.  
 Kallasvuo Tenure  
 The company’s last hit smartphone was the GPS-equipped N95,
announced a few months after Kallasvuo took over as CEO in 2006.  
 Kallasvuo joined  Nokia  in the legal department in 1980 and
shifted to finance in 1988, where he was one of the executives
who turned the company around in the early 1990s. Kallasvuo was
named chief financial officer in 1992, the year Ollila, who
transformed Nokia from a rubber and wood-based conglomerate into
the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, took over as CEO.  
 One of Kallasvuo’s first decisions as CEO was to merge the
company’s network operations with Munich-based Siemens AG. Their
joint venture Nokia Siemens Networks has been a drag on profit
since the very beginning.  
 As CEO, Kallasvuo drove the development of services such as
music downloads and GPS navigation to increase the value of
 Nokia  handsets and retain customers. The efforts did little to
stop Apple, RIM and devices based on  Google Inc. ’s Android
software from taking market share from Nokia in smartphones.  
 All Segments  
 In the main handset business, Kallasvuo insisted on
remaining in all segments from  25-euro basic phones  to  gem-
studded luxury models . As part of his services drive, he bought
U.S. map company Navteq Corp. for $8.1 billion, and built up the
software organization with toolmaker Trolltech ASA and social
networking startups.  
 He opened the Nokia Music Store and the Ovi downloads
portal and put information services for rural farmers on the
company’s cheapest handsets.  
 While Kallasvuo succeeded in extending Web browsing and
services to lower-priced markets, he failed to come up with a
rival to the iPhone in high-end smartphones.  
 Kallasvuo was credited with helping persuade investors to
stick with  Nokia  during the transition from conglomerate to
phone maker. He stepped out of corporate finance for two years
in the late 1990s to lead the company’s Americas business from
Dallas, returning to the CFO post in 1999.  
 In 2004, he was named head of the mobile-phone division, a
position considered a stepping stone to the top job. When Ollila
became chairman, Kallasvuo took over as CEO on June 1, 2006.  
 “He has done basically nothing to improve the long-term
competitive position of the company,” said  Michiel Plakman , who
helps manage 7 billion euros including Nokia shares at
Rotterdam-based Robeco NV. “The position of the company has
eroded during his tenure. And I’m not even being harsh.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nokia OYJ CEO Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
