-- Nokia May Report Profit Drop, Stoking Calls for Change of CEO
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-21T07:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/nokia-may-report-24-drop-in-profit-fueling-calls-for-leadership-change.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj  will probably report lower
profit and flat sales tomorrow, fueling investor concern the
world’s biggest maker of mobile phones needs a leadership change
to better compete with Apple Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd.  
 Second-quarter net income may have fallen 24 percent to 287
million euros ($374 million) from 380 million euros a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales  were probably little changed at 10
billion euros, the average of 43 forecasts showed.  
 Nokia, which is losing market share in high-end smartphones
as it struggles to finish the flagship N8 device, has seen two-
thirds of its market value wiped out since Apple’s 2007
introduction of the iPhone. The company may name a new chief
executive officer to replace  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  as early as
this month, the Wall Street Journal  reported  yesterday.  
 “Management has to deliver evidence this year that Nokia
is catching up with the front runners, or something must
happen,” said  Bengt Nordstrom , the CEO of Stockholm-based
consultancy Northstream AB. “It’s already late July and we’ve
seen no evidence that they are catching up.”  
 By contrast,  Apple  yesterday reported a 78 percent jump in
second-quarter profit to $3.25 billion, beating analysts’
estimates, as customers flocked to the iPad tablet computer and
the latest version of the iPhone. Sales in the period surged 61
percent.  
 Credit Rating  
 Nokia’s performance in the increasingly crowded smartphone
market is putting pressure on its credit ratings, Fitch Ratings
said in a report today. Nokia’s decision to continue developing
the 10-year-old Symbian platform may leave it at a disadvantage
compared with newer operating systems such as iPhone, RIM’s
Blackberry and Google Inc.’s Android, according to the agency.  
 “How the company deals with those issues over the second
half and into next year will be more important for the company’s
ratings than tomorrow’s results,”  Stuart Reid , a Fitch
telecommunications analyst, wrote in the report. The agency
rates Nokia at A-, the seventh highest of 10 investment grades,
with a stable outlook.  
 Nokia is revamping is  Symbian 3  operating system to
eliminate extra menus and actions left over from the pre-
touchscreen era. The N8 is scheduled for release this quarter
from  Vodafone Group Plc  and other carriers, and will be followed
by more advanced devices running the Symbian 4 and MeeGo
operating systems which have not been announced yet.  
 Shares Decline  
 “Everyone’s going to be looking for comments on Symbian 3
-- are they on track, can they give us release dates, what else
is in the pipeline?” said  Jason Willey , a London-based equity
analyst at Standard & Poor’s who rates Nokia “strong buy.”  
 The stock has declined 21 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 25.9 billion euros. Of the 54 analysts
who cover Nokia, 18 rate it a “buy,” 12 recommend selling it
and 25 suggest holding the shares, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 Nokia, which is still the world’s largest handset maker by
volume, needs the new devices to stem its decline in the
percentage of industry revenues it earns, known as “value
share.” Smartphone sales grew 49 percent in the first quarter,
according to industry researcher Gartner Inc., with Nokia’s
Symbian phones declining by more than 4 percentage points as
Apple and Google Inc.’s Android operating system gained.  
 ‘Get an American’  
 Hiring a CEO who has built successful products or turned
around a U.S. company may be the first step in making Nokia more
competitive, analysts said, citing  Apple , Google, Palm Inc. and
Microsoft Corp. as desirable companies from which to hire.  
 “They should get an American who knows how to put the
customers in front, not a European who has always placed
engineering on top of everything,” said  Jacques Abramowicz , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie AG, with a
“neutral” rating on Nokia. “Using their phones is very
unpleasant, to put it mildly, so they need to find someone to
shake up their management culture.”  
 Kallasvuo in June lowered his targets for the second time
in three months, forecasting a second-quarter adjusted margin of
about 9 percent. When Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, that
figure was more than 20 percent.  
 Nokia said last quarter it sold more smartphones than
anyone else, increasing its share of the fastest growing handset
segment to 41 percent. The growth has come by expanding the
definition of a smartphone and cutting prices, analysts said.  
 Average Selling Price  
 The company’s traditional high-end smartphone lines, the N
and E series, are contributing a declining portion of shipments.
The two lines sold a total of 8.6 million units in the second
quarter, down from the 10.7 million reported by Nokia in the
fourth quarter, estimated  Mark McKechnie , a San Francisco-based
analyst at Gleacher & Co. with a “neutral” rating on Nokia.  
 The average selling price for Nokia devices in the second
quarter may have declined to 59 euros from 62 euros a year
earlier as increased competition forced the company to cut
prices, according to 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Apple shipped the iPhone 4 June 24 and has already sold
more than 3 million in less than a month, while Sony Ericsson
said last week it increased its average selling price by one
third to 160 euros as it offered new Android handsets.  
 The company may have shipped 112 million handsets for a
market share of 34 percent, 20 analysts said. The calculation is
approximate since global handset sales are also affected by
changing inventories at resellers.  
 Analyst Estimates  
 “Nokia doesn’t have a lot of new products, so you’ll see
their struggles in smartphones continuing,” McKechnie said.
“People understand it’s going to be tough.”  
 Nokia will report earnings at about 1 p.m. local time
tomorrow, with a  conference call  at 3 p.m. that can be monitored
on the company’s website.  
 The following is a table of  analysts’ estimates . All
figures are in euros except for unit shipments, and refer to the
second quarter unless noted. Estimated figures for average
selling price and shipments were compiled in a separate survey
of 20 analysts and compared to figures reported by Nokia in the
year-earlier quarter.  

 
                         Forecast             Reported
                         2nd quarter 2010     2nd quarter 2009

Sales
Average estimate           10.0  billion        9.91 billion
Highest estimate           10.8  billion
Lowest estimate            9.29  billion

Net income
Average estimate             287 million        380 million
Highest estimate             431 million
Lowest estimate              135 million

Non-IFRS net income
Average estimate             396 million        552 million
Highest estimate             577 million
Lowest estimate              243 million

Earnings per share
Average estimate              0.08 euros         0.10 euros
Highest estimate              0.13 euros
Lowest estimate               0.04 euros

Adjusted earnings per share
Average estimate              0.11 euros         0.15 euros
Highest estimate              0.15 euros
Lowest estimate               0.07 euros

Nokia device shipments
Average estimate             112 million        103 million

Industry device shipments
Average estimate             328 million        295 million

Nokia market share
Average estimate              34 percent         35 percent

Nokia average selling price
Average estimate                 59                  62
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The company may name a new chief executive officer to replace Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo as early as
this month, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Iyan Adewuya discusses Nokia Siemens Networks' agreement to pay $1.2 billion for wireless network assets from Motorola Inc. to expand in North America and Japan.
     Adewuya also discusses Carlyle Group and TPG Capital's agreement to buy Australia's Healthscope Ltd. for A$2 billion ($1.7 billion) and Kinder Morgan Inc.'s possible initial public offering. He talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
