-- Nokia Needs Silicon Valley Thinking, Investors Say
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-20T16:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/nokia-s-next-chief-executive-needs-silicon-valley-thinking-investors-say.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj  needs a new chief
executive officer with Silicon Valley experience who can better
position the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones against
Apple Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd., investors said.  
 “The Apple brand promises fun, the BlackBerry brand stands
for serious work, but what does Nokia stand for?,” said  Ulf Moritzen , who helps manage 1 billion euros ($1.29 billion) at
Hamburg-based Aramea Asset Management including Nokia shares.
“Nokia needs someone who positions the company in an aggressive
and clear way.”  
 Nokia has interviewed at least two U.S. candidates to
replace Chief Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo , 57, and
plans to make a decision by the end of the month, the  Wall
Street Journal  reported.  Arja Suominen , a spokeswoman for the
Espoo, Finland-based  company , declined to comment.  
 Nokia, which has yet to deliver a slim touchscreen that
executes commands with a single tap, has cut forecasts twice in
three months over delays in finishing the software for the N8,
its new flagship handset.  Nokia  shares have lost two-thirds of
their worth, wiping out 60 billion euros in market value, since
the iPhone’s 2007 introduction.  
 Nokia climbed 2.2 percent to close at 6.915 euros as of
5:30 p.m. in Helsinki trading. The shares declined 22 percent
this year, valuing the company at 25.9 billion euros.  
 Nokia may report July 22 that second-quarter net income
slipped 24 percent to 287 million euros from 380 million euros a
year earlier, according to the average estimate of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales  were probably little changed at 10
billion euros, 43 analysts said.  
 ‘Missteps & Misses’  
 “Given all the missteps and misses, they need to do
something to reassure people that they’re on track to deliver
these phones when they’re supposed to,” said  Jason Willey , a
London-based equity analyst at Standard & Poor’s. “It’s a huge
part of the visibility everyone will be looking for.”  
 Hiring a CEO who has built successful products or turned
around a U.S. company could be the first step in making Nokia
more competitive, shareholders said.  Apple , Palm Inc., Google
Inc. and Microsoft Corp. would be desirable companies from which
to poach a new CEO, they said.  
 “It would be a very good step to have an outside CEO with
very good software experience, who’s run a company before,”
said  Michiel Plakman , who helps manage 7 billion euros including
Nokia shares at Rotterdam-based Robeco NV. “Investors are very,
very negative and skeptical on the progress Nokia has been
making.”  
 Board Reshuffled  
 Chairman  Jorma Ollila  and the Nokia board reshuffled
executives under Kallasvuo in May but have left Kallasvuo in
place as the company’s position deteriorated. Ollila said at the
time that management had the board’s support.  
 “Best would be to poach someone from Apple, but that would
cause really bad blood,” said  Jacques Abramowicz , a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie AG, with a “neutral”
rating on Nokia. “They might actually call in a manager from
Palm, because they had an excellent user interface.”  
 Hewlett-Packard Corp. agreed to acquire Palm for $1.2
billion on April 29, following months of market speculation
Nokia might buy the maker of the Pre and Pixi handsets. Palm
Chief Executive Officer  Jon Rubinstein  earlier led development
of the original iPod at Apple.  
 N8 Delayed  
 Nokia still hasn’t announced a release date for the N8 or
its successors.  The company  needs to get new high-end
smartphones into stores to recoup some of the profits it’s lost
by not having a competitor to Apple’s iPhone or handsets running
Google’s Android, analysts said.  
 The average selling price for Nokia devices may have
declined to 59 euros in the second quarter from 62 euros a year
earlier, according to 20 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company may have shipped 112 million handsets for
a market share of 34 percent, the analysts said.  
 “There aren’t many CEO candidates out there who know how
to lead a company as big as Nokia,” said  Carolina Milanesi , a
research director with Gartner Inc. in Egham, U.K. “There’s no
question that investors want a change and a significant one this
time. But finding the right person is not going to be easy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, chief executive officer of Nokia OYJ, during a news conference in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
