-- Obama, Bush Faulted by Congress for Decade of Lax Offshore Oil Regulation
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-20T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/obama-bush-faulted-by-congress-for-decade-of-lax-offshore-oil-regulation.html

          
          
             The Obama administration continued a
decade-long pattern of lax U.S. regulation of offshore oil and
natural gas drilling that led to  BP Plc ’s spill in the Gulf of
Mexico, lawmakers investigating the incident said.  
 Regulators during  George W. Bush ’s presidency failed to
protect safety and the environment, and actions by President
 Barack Obama ’s Interior Department were “more cosmetic than
substantive,” Representative  Bart Stupak , a Michigan Democrat,
said today at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing.  
 Decisions dating to the start of  Bush ’s administration
played a role in the BP spill, the worst in U.S. history, Stupak
said at the hearing examining the April 20 explosion on a
drilling rig leased by BP. Congressional investigators said the
Interior Department under Bush offered incentives for drillers
without imposing safety standards.  
 “There has been a pervasive failure by the regulators to
take the actions necessary to protect safety and the
environment,” Stupak said. “These failures to regulate
happened at the time federal officials offered oil and gas
companies new incentives to drill in deeper and riskier waters
in the Gulf of Mexico.”  
 While Obama’s Interior secretary,  Ken Salazar , canceled a
royalty-in-kind program faulted by a government watchdog,
adopted ethics rules and sought more inspectors for offshore
facilities, “there is little evidence that these reforms
changed the laissez-faire approach” by the Minerals Management
Service “in regulating the BP well,” said Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat and chairman of the committee.  
 MMS Decisions  
 “MMS approved the drill plan and changes to the well
design that we have questioned during our investigation,” he
said, referring to the BP spill.  
 Salazar said government officials had been “lulled into a
sense of safety,” after 40,000 wells were drilled in the Gulf
of Mexico without major spills.  
 “The prior administration and this administration have not
done as much as they could have done relative to making sure
there was safer production on the Outer Continental Shelf,”
Salazar told the committee. “In my point of view there is a
shared responsibility.”  
 Decisions made in the days before the explosion by BP have
been questioned by Stupak and congressional investigators. The
London-based company took shortcuts to save money and was
unprepared to deal with the spill, Stupak said.  
 Too Few Inspectors  
 There are too few inspectors to effectively cover the
number of deepwater wells, which rose to 600 last year from 65
in 1985, Stupak said. Regulators failed to implement stronger
safety standards, at times after protests by industry.  
 “Part of the investigation will determine whether
regulations were followed or whether they were simply broken,”
Salazar said.  
 Bush’s former Interior secretaries,  Dirk Kempthorne  and
 Gale Norton , testified about decisions on offshore drilling
during the Bush administration, and described broad support from
lawmakers and the public for oil exploration.  
 Representative  Ed Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said a
2001 report from an energy task force created by Vice President
 Dick Cheney  warned that regulations were delaying drilling
projects. The report prompted the Bush administration to waive a
requirement that companies plan for the type of blowout that
occurred at the BP well, Markey said.  
 ‘Put In Motion’  
 “The conditions that created the BP disaster in the Gulf
were put in motion many years ago,” Markey said.  
 In implementing Bush’s goal to expedite production, Norton,
Interior secretary from 2001 to March 2006, failed to resolve
questions about the adequacy of blowout preventers to contain
spills, investigators said in a  memorandum  to the committee. The
blowout preventer at BP’s well failed to shut off the flow of
oil after the rig exploded.  
 “There was a deregulatory ticking time bomb that was set
while you were secretary that has now exploded,” Markey said to
Norton. “Was it wrong?”  
 “It was reasonable to take into account what the history
had been,” Norton said. “There were very few large spills.”  
 Waxman said he is concerned that the Cheney task-force
report gave no consideration to “improving drilling safety
while we encourage more exploration.”  
 Norton said tougher rules on blowout preventers are
“something that can be looked at in the future.” Norton joined
Royal Dutch Shell Plc as a general counsel 10 months after
leaving government.  
 Congress, Environmentalists  
 Kempthorne, Interior secretary when BP won the right to
drill the Macondo well that ruptured in April, said plans to
explore in the Outer Continental Shelf are developed in
consultation with Congress and environmental groups.  
 “We received comments from more than 100,000 interested
citizens,” Kempthorne said. “Seventy-five percent of the
comments received from the public supported some level of
increased” drilling.  
 BP said it plans to keep the Macondo well in the Gulf shut
today after the U.S. concluded leaks at the site pose no threat.
BP shut valves atop Macondo on July 15 for a pressure test to
determine the integrity of the well, which had been leaking for
almost three months after an explosion aboard the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        