-- Obama's Spy Chief Nominee Clapper Sees Danger Ahead From North Korea
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-21T00:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/obama-s-spy-chief-nominee-clapper-sees-danger-ahead-from-north-korea.html

          
          
             The U.S. may be entering “a dangerous
new period” with North Korea marked by military provocations
designed to advance the Stalinist state’s political goals,
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for intelligence chief said.  
 That threat is the “most important lesson” for the U.S.
intelligence community to take from North Korea’s sinking of a
South Korean warship,  James Clapper  told the Senate Intelligence
Committee in written testimony for his confirmation hearing
yesterday. A retired Air Force lieutenant general, Clapper has
held the Pentagon’s top intelligence job since 2007.  
 “We may be entering a dangerous new period when North
Korea will once again attempt to advance its internal and
external political goals through direct attacks on our allies in
the Republic of Korea,” said Clapper, who was head of
intelligence for U.S. Forces Korea and the  Pacific Command  in
the mid-1980s.  
 The March sinking of the Cheonan, which the U.S. and South
Korea have blamed on a North Korean torpedo, also highlights a
“renewed realization that North Korea’s military forces still
pose a threat that cannot be taken lightly,” Clapper told the
committee in an 89-page set of  answers  to policy questions.  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  visits the armed border dividing North and South
Korea today in a show of U.S. unity with its ally after the
sinking.  
 The tour of the so-called Demilitarized Zone is part of
commemorations of the 60th anniversary of the Korean War. The
visit coincides with the arrival of the 97,000-ton aircraft
carrier USS George Washington at the southeastern port of Busan
before U.S.-South Korea military exercises that have raised
tensions with China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        