-- Obama to Stress Afghanistan as Cameron Looks to Protect BP
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-20T13:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/obama-to-stress-afghanistan-war-as-cameron-looks-to-protect-bp-at-meeting.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  will stress
U.S. resolve in Afghanistan and what needs to be done there when
he meets today with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , as both
leaders face growing domestic skepticism about the war.  
 Cameron has concerns of his own as he makes his first visit
to the White House as British leader. Chief among them is
quieting criticism of London-based  BP Plc . He brings a message
that BP, Europe’s second-largest energy company by market value,
needs to survive to fulfill its promise to compensate U.S.
victims of oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 While the two leaders also will discuss the global economy,
the Middle East peace process and Iran, “Afghanistan is
probably first and foremost on our list” of topics, White
House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday.  
 “The president has, on a number of occasions, laid out why
what he’s doing in Afghanistan is in our national security
interests,” he said. “We will continue to make that case.”  
 The U.K. is the second-largest contributor to the NATO-led
force in Afghanistan after the U.S. Cameron has said he would
like all British troops to leave Afghanistan before the next
general election, scheduled for 2015. Obama has vowed to start
drawing down U.S. forces in July 2011 and turning over more
security responsibility to the Afghans, depending on conditions.  
 Donor Conference  
 As the two leaders meet, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  are in Kabul at
an international conference of donors working to stabilize and
rebuild Afghanistan.  
 Obama’s focus is “taking stock of where we are, what needs
to be done and how best to accomplish that,” said White House
National Security Council spokesman  Mike Hammer .  
 Obama and Cameron also will talk about Pakistan and “the
efforts to support Pakistan as it takes on the terrorists along
the Afghanistan border,” Hammer said.  
 Support for the war is waning in both Britain and the U.S.
Almost 6 in 10 respondents in a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted July 9-12 said Afghanistan is a lost cause. A YouGov
Plc poll last month found 25 percent of adults in Britain want
all troops to be withdrawn immediately, with another 42 percent
saying most soldiers should be pulled out soon and the rest
within the next year or so.  
 BP has become a point of friction between the two nations
since the April 20 blowout of company well in the gulf killed 11
rig workers and caused the biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 BP’s Importance  
 Cameron, who met BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg July  16,
indicated he’ll emphasize that the company must remain viable.
“Of course BP has got to do everything necessary to cap the oil
well, to clean up the spill, to pay compensation,” the prime
minister told National Public Radio in Washington this morning.
“I have met with BP and I know they want to do that and will do
that.”  
 The company has lost 40 percent of its value since the leak
began. It has suspended dividend payments and agreed to put $20
billion into an independently administered fund to pay economic
damage claims related to the spill.  
 Adding to that, a group of U.S. senators is questioning
whether there were links between BP’s interests in drilling for
oil in Libya and the 2009 release of Lockerbie bomber  Abdel Basset al-Megrahi . Gibbs said “this issue will come up” in the
meeting with Cameron.  
 Al-Megrahi was freed by Scotland, which has an independent
justice system, on compassionate grounds in August because he
was dying of cancer. He remains alive. The Libyan was jailed in
2001 for the 1988 killing of 270 people in the bombing of Pan Am
Flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie.  
 Cameron, who opposed the release at the time, told NPR he
thought al-Megrahi “should have died in jail.”  
 No Evidence  
 Hague wrote Clinton on July 17, saying there was no
evidence  BP  was involved in the release. The previous day,
Ambassador to the U.S.  Nigel Sheinwald  wrote to Senator  John Kerry , whose Foreign Relations Committee is holding a hearing on
the matter, saying “inaccuracies” about the Lockerbie bomber
were “harmful to the U.K.”  
 The U.S. is pressing Scottish and British officials to
again review the circumstances of al-Megrahi’s release to ensure
it “did not represent any inappropriate action by any
government or entity to skew the results,” State Department
spokesman P.J. Crowley said yesterday.  
 In an effort to defuse the issue, Cameron late yesterday
offered to meet the senators from New York and New Jersey who
have been pressing the issue,  Robert Menendez ,  Charles Schumer ,
 Kirsten Gillibrand  and  Frank Lautenberg , all Democrats. “We
plan to ask him to have the U.K. do a complete investigation and
bring al-Megrahi back to justice,” Schumer said in a statement
today accepting the invitation.  
 Scottish Decision  
 Cameron, while offering sympathy to the families of victims
of the bombing, today fought back against the linking of BP and
Al-Megrahi. “Let’s be clear about who released al-Megrahi,” he
told NPR. “It was not the decision of BP, it was the decision
of Scottish ministers.”  
 Cameron wrote in the Wall Street Journal today that he
wants to move beyond the “Kremlinology” that dogged some of
his predecessors’ relations with U.S. leaders.  
 “I understand that we are the junior partner, just as we
were in the 1940s and, indeed, in the 1980s,” Cameron wrote.
“But we are a strong, self-confident country clear in our views
and values, and we should behave that way.”  
 Cameron, who also is scheduled to meet later this week with
U.S. business leaders in New York, also will be focusing on
trade.  
 “It’s the real stimulus our economies need, and Britain is
open for business -- especially to the U.S., where our close
ties already deliver jobs and prosperity for both our peoples,”
he wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Washington at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron will look to quieten criticism of London-based BP Plc during his first visit to the White House as British leader. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research, discusses the message about BP Plc that U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron may bring to President Barack Obama at their White House meeting today, and the outlook for the London-based energy company. 
     Weiss talks with Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
