-- Hogs Decline as U.S. Pork Consumption May Drop; Cattle Futures Advance
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-07-20T19:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/hogs-decline-as-u-s-pork-consumption-may-slow-cattle-rise.html

          
          
             Hogs fell the most in more than two
weeks on speculation that a decelerating U.S. economy will
reduce demand for pork. Cattle rose as hot weather in the Great
Plains may slow weight gains and reduce beef supplies.  
 U.S.  housing starts  declined in June to the lowest level
since October following the expiration of a federal-tax
incentive. Payrolls decreased in 27 states in June, led by
California and New York, signaling a broad retrenchment in job
creation, data from the Labor Department showed. Before today,
 wholesale pork  prices increased 21 percent this year.  
 “The worries about the economy are weighing on consumer
buying patterns,” said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market
analyst for AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois. “You simply
have too many people out of work, and that’s a drag on meat
demand.”  
 Hog futures for October settlement fell 1.275 cents, or 1.7
percent, to 74.5 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the biggest drop since July 2. The most-active
contract has risen 14 percent this year on higher export demand.  
 Cattle futures rose on speculation that temperatures above
100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) in parts of the
southern Great Plains this week will harm or kill livestock,
said  Mike Zuzolo , the president of Global Commodity Analytics
and Consulting Inc. in Lafayette, Indiana.  
 The average weight of steer carcasses in the eight largest
producing states fell 2.4 percent to 861 pounds in the week
ended July 18 from 882 pounds a year earlier, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said yesterday in a report.  
 “The weather has already slowed weight gains, and this
week’s heat is going to further tighten supplies,” Zuzolo said.
“Beef supplies will be tightening in the short term.”  
 Cattle futures for October delivery rose 0.1 cent, or 0.1
percent, to 94.5 cents a pound in Chicago, capping the first
six-day gain since March. Earlier, the price touched 94.65
cents, the highest level for a most-active contract since May
14.  
 Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement rose 0.05 cent
to $1.14475 a pound.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        