-- Oil in Kazakhstan May Be Too Rich for Tax to Deter Chevron: Energy Markets
-- Nariman Gizitdinov
-- 2010-07-21T16:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/oil-in-kazakhstan-may-be-too-rich-for-tax-to-deter-chevron-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Kazakhstan’s oil  reserves  may be too
valuable for an export-tax increase to deter companies from
drilling for crude in the former Soviet republic.  
 The country, the world’s fourth-fastest growing supplier,
will tax oil leaving its territory at $20 a metric ton, or $2.73
a barrel, from next month, according to a  resolution  published
in the government-run Kazakhstanskaya Pravda on July 16. The
duty will for the first time levy exports from  Chevron Corp. ’s
TengizChevroil venture, Kazakhstan’s biggest producer.  
 Kazakhstan, holder of 3 percent of the world’s oil, is
increasing taxes and borrowing to combat a widening budget
deficit. The government is gambling it can profit from last
year’s 78 percent gain in oil prices by squeezing cash or bigger
stakes from foreign producers without hurting investment, as it
did in 2008 when it doubled its equity in Kashagan, the world’s
fifth-largest field.  
 “There’s a long way the government can keep increasing the
fiscal burden on TengizChevroil and still keep Chevron and other
shareholders perfectly interested,”  Petr Grishin , an analyst at
Renaissance Capital in Moscow, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “I can easily imagine the duty going higher.”  
 Chevron is Kazakhstan’s largest private producer, owning
half of  Tengiz , the world’s deepest operating field, and 20
percent of Karachaganak, the only major Kazakh project in which
the government isn’t involved.  Maria Karazhigitova , an Atyrau-
based spokeswoman for TengizChevroil, declined to comment on the
tax when contacted by Bloomberg on July 15.  
 Seeking Revenue  
 Kazakhstan, bordering Russia and China, aims to raise 60
billion tenge ($410 million) from the tax this year and as much
as 177 billion tenge in 2011, the Astana-based Finance Ministry
said in a July 19 e-mail. The levy won’t have “any serious
economic consequences for oil producers,” the ministry said.  
 The Caspian country tapped about 40 crude exporters to
raise cash amid a tightening of global credit markets in 2008,
the same year it increased its stake in  Kashagan  after cost
overruns and delays to the scheduled start of production.
Kashagan, whose shareholders include Eni SpA, Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA, is the world’s fifth-largest
field, according to the U.S.  Energy Information Administration .  
 The 2008 levy excluded Tengiz and lasted for eight months
before it was cut to zero in January 2009, from $139.79 a ton at
the time, when a new tax code that included a mineral extraction
duty was introduced.  
 Following Russia  
 Kazakhstan is following Russia in seeking a bigger hold
over its petroleum resources. Moscow-based OAO Gazprom wrested
majority control of Russia’s far eastern Sakhalin-2 oil and gas
project from Shell in 2007 following government pressure over
rising costs and environmental lapses.  
 The ratio of oil-and-gas taxes to gross revenue in Russia
last year was twice Kazakhstan’s,  Angelina Valavina , an analyst
at Fitch Ratings, said in a July 16 report. While the new levy
brings the burden on Kazakh ventures closer to their Russian
counterparts, the “gap will still remain favorable,” she said.
Russia set its crude export duty at $248.80 a ton in July.  
 “A further increase of the tax burden may put pressure on
the companies’ financial profiles and hinder their ability to
implement sizeable investment programs,” Valavina said from
London. “The state needs to find a balance between its budget
goals and its ambition to tap the country’s vast oil reserves
and expand hydrocarbon production.”  
 National Oil Fund  
 Kazakh Prime Minister  Karim Massimov  is seeking cash to
help tackle a  budget deficit  the government expects to rise this
year to 803.7 billion tenge, or 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product, from 492.7 billion tenge  in 2009 . The country canceled
on July 3 a plan to sell as much as $750 million of bonds to
investors abroad this year after it secured a $1 billion loan
from a World Bank unit, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  
 The government tapped the country’s  National Oil Fund  last
year to gain control of three banks that had defaulted and
sought to reorganize about $20 billion of debt.  
 Oil production in Kazakhstan expanded 9.9 percent last year
to 1.26 million barrels a day, the fourth-largest increase
worldwide after Colombia, Azerbaijan and Turkey, according to an
 annual statistical bulletin  published by the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries on July 6. The country’s supply
has risen for 15 straight years, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  
 The partners in  TengizChevroil , which pumped more than a
quarter of the country’s oil last year, are prepared to invest
$15.2 billion in the field, state-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co.
said in January. TengizChevroil paid about $3.6 billion in
dividends last year to the venture’s partners, according to
Bloomberg calculations using data from KazMunaiGaz.  
 Government Probes  
 The new tax comes as the government looks into allegations
of company wrongdoing. Kazakhstan’s economic crimes agency said
July 15 it’s examining 212 billion tenge of illegal oil
production by TengizChevroil. Karazhigitova declined to comment
on the probe.  
 The government is also investigating Karachaganak Petroleum
Operating BV for tax avoidance and illegally pumping crude.  
 “There are various issues that are currently under
negotiation or investigation,”  Francesca Ciardiello , a
spokeswoman for Karachaganak in Aksai, said in April, declining
to be more specific.  
 Reading, England-based BG Group Plc and Italy’s Eni hold
32.5 percent each in Karachaganak. San Ramon, California-based
 Chevron ’s 20 percent share is the next-largest. OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer, has 15 percent.  
 Karachaganak Expansion  
 Karachaganak and its partners “have always maintained that
the export customs duty should not apply to Karachaganak because
of the tax-stabilization provisions” in the production-sharing
agreement,  Gulnara Sharibayeva , a spokeswoman for the venture,
said in a July 13 e-mail. She declined to comment further.  
 Reading-based BG spokesman  Neil Burrows  declined to
comment, referring questions to the venture’s operating company.
San Ramon-based Chevron spokesman  Justin Higgs  didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  
 Kazakhstan expects the Karachaganak venture to decide on a
third phase of development that will cost $14.5 billion,
KazMunaiGaz said in February. In 2007, BG estimated the
expansion would cost $8 billion by 2012.  
 “There is still a lot of room for oil companies to make
money even if they start ceding bigger stakes in oil revenue to
the Kazakh government,”  Alex Prokofjevs , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd. in London, said in a July 16 e-mail. “Despite
the reintroduction of export tax, Kazakhstan remains a very
interesting exploration area and is set to grow.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        