-- Thomas Bjorn, Clarke, McGinley Named European Ryder Cup Vice-Captains
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-07-20T11:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/thomas-bjorn-clarke-mcginley-named-european-ryder-cup-vice-captains.html

          
          
             Thomas Bjorn ,  Darren Clarke  and  Paul McGinley  were named vice captains for the European team for
golf’s Ryder Cup.  
 The three were announced today by European captain  Colin Montgomerie . The Ryder Cup will be played Oct. 1 to 3 at Celtic
Manor in Wales. The U.S. won the last competition in 2008.  
 “Any winning team has fantastic support behind the
scenes,” Montgomerie said at a televised press conference.
“These are three people who are committed to the regaining of
the Ryder Cup.”  
 Bjorn, 38, won both of his Ryder Cup appearances as a
player and added a third victory as assistant to  Bernhard Langer 
in 2004. He became the first Ryder Cup player from Denmark in
1997.  
 Clarke, 41, played in the Ryder Cup five times, winning
four. He was the inspirational leader of the 2006 team in
Ireland, winning all three of his matches months after the death
of his wife Heather.  
 The Northern Irishman still has an outside chance to make
the European team, ranking 21st in the current standings.  
 “We spoke at length about it and Monty said he wants me
there one way or another,” Clarke said. “Right now as it
stands I’m outside the team and am delighted to be part of his
back-room staff.”  
 Ireland’s McGinley, 41, has been on the winning team in all
three of his Ryder Cup appearances, including sinking the
deciding putt in 2002.  
 The nine automatic qualifiers for the European team will be
determined after the Johnnie Walker Championship on Aug. 29.
Montgomerie will also name his three captain’s picks that day.  
 The eight automatic U.S. team qualifiers will be determined
at the conclusion of the PGA Championship on Aug. 15. Captain
 Corey Pavin  announced his four selections on Sept. 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        