-- Honda CEO Ito Eases Skepticism, Joins Push for Electric Cars, Plug-Ins
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-07-21T00:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/honda-aims-to-sell-plug-in-hybrid-vehicle-in-japan-u-s-in-2012-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Honda Motor Co.  will start
selling a battery-powered car in 2012, curbing the skepticism
about such vehicles that made it the last of Japan’s largest
automakers to enter the market for rechargeable autos.  
 Honda also plans to sell mid-size to large plug-in
hybrids in Japan and the U.S. in 2012, Chief Executive
Officer  Takanobu Ito  told reporters yesterday in Saitama
prefecture, north of Tokyo.  
 Japan’s second-largest automaker follows rivals  Toyota
Motor Corp.  and Nissan Motor Co. in planning plug-in models
and battery-powered cars as governments tighten emissions
rules, and as inadequate infrastructure hampers
popularization of the hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles favored by
Honda. A zero-emission vehicle rule in California is forcing
Honda to make the move to electric cars, which the carmaker
still considers suitable only for short-distance drives.  
 “My predecessor didn’t like batteries,” Ito said,
referring to former President  Takeo Fukui . “But we have been
researching them all along. Since I became president, that
was accelerated quite a bit.”  
 In California, the most populous U.S. state, the largest
carmakers by volume must sell about 60,000 plug-in hybrids
and electric cars combined from model years 2012 through 2014,
according to the state’s Air Resources Board.  
 “There’s tremendous pressure being put on, in
California and nationwide by the Obama administration, to
offer these advanced vehicles,” said  Jim Hossack , an
industry analyst at AutoPacific Inc. in Fountain Valley,
California.  “Every major manufacturer is going to have to
play ball.”  
 U.S. fuel-economy rules that phase in after 2015 make
the addition of plug-ins and hybrids inevitable, Hossack said.  
 Ghosn’s Prediction  
 Nissan , Japan’s third-largest automaker, will sell its
lithium-ion battery-powered Leaf hatchback late this year in
Japan, the U.S. and Europe.  
 Toyota will start selling a short-distance pure electric
car and plug-in hybrid by 2012.  
 Nissan CEO  Carlos Ghosn  predicts electric vehicles will
account for 10 percent of global car sales by 2020. By
contrast, Ito said yesterday electric cars won’t reach a
mass-market level of demand in 20 or even 30 years and that
plug-in hybrids are more “realistic” in the shorter term.  
 Pure electric cars will make up 0.63 percent of global
car production in 2016, or about 600,000 vehicles, according
to a forecast by consulting company IHS Automotive.  
 Short Driving Ranges  
 Electric vehicles sales will be limited by short driving
ranges and the high cost of batteries, said  Toru Hatano , an
analyst at IHS Automotive in Tokyo. “The EVs being
introduced are only for short distances, so I don’t see this
as a big sign that the market will expand,” he said. “Even
assuming prices come down in five years, it could take until
2020 to extend the driving range.”  
 Honda will expand its line-up of gasoline-electric
hybrid cars and expects production of those models and plug-
ins to make up more than 10 percent of its global output by
2014 from less than 6 percent now, Executive Vice President
 Koichi Kondo  said. The company isn’t including electric cars
in its forecast.  
 Shares in Honda  fell  0.2 percent in Tokyo Stock Exchange
trading to 2,601 yen as of 9:41 a.m. Honda has declined 16
percent this year, compared with an 11 percent drop in the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  
 The company’s hybrid line-up now includes the Insight
and Civic compacts and sporty CR-Z coupe. Honda plans to sell
a hybrid version of the Fit compact in Japan later this year.  
 Toyota’s Success  
 The carmaker hasn’t matched Toyota’s success with hybrid
cars. The Prius, the world’s most popular hybrid, outsold
Honda’s Insight 6-to-1 in the U.S. this year through May.  
 Honda’s next version of the Civic hybrid, due within a
year, will use lithium-ion batteries rather than the current
nickel-metal hydride pack, Ito said. The carmaker had
previously said it would offer lithium-ion versions of Civic
and Acura luxury models. Lithium batteries can store as much
as twice the energy of nickel-metal hydride batteries that
currently power  Toyota’s  Prius and Honda’s hybrids.  
 Honda will shift gradually to lithium-ion batteries as
depreciation costs for nickel-metal hydride battery
production are booked, Ito said.  
 The carmaker will also introduce a 500,000-rupee
($10,600) car in India next year and will sell a similar
model in Thailand, he said.  
 Honda, also the world’s biggest motorcycle maker, aims
to build a new plant in Indonesia next year with capacity to
make 500,000 two-wheelers a year.  
 In Japan, Honda will start minicar production at its
Suzuka plant in 2012 and at its Yorii plant in 2013, Ito said.
Yachiyo Industry Co., Honda’s 50 percent-owned subsidiary,
canceled the planned construction of a factory. Minicar
assembly at Yachiyo’s existing plant will continue, Honda
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Takanobu Ito, president and chief executive officer of Honda Motor Co. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
