-- London Financial Vacancies May Gain in Second Half of Year, Survey Shows
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-07-20T10:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/london-financial-vacancies-may-gain-in-second-half-of-year-survey-shows.html

          
          
             About half of financial services
companies in London expect job vacancies to rise in the second-
half of the year, according to a survey by recruitment
consultants Morgan McKinley.  
 About 47 percent of respondents said hiring levels would
increase, while 29 percent said they would stay the same,
according to today’s survey. About 48 percent said pay will stay
the same as the first-half of the year and 47 percent said it
will increase.  
 “Overall, there is still a lack of clarity as to how
healthy the financial services hiring market will be over the
rest of the year,” said  Andrew Evans , managing director of
Morgan McKinley’s financial-services unit, in the statement.
“With financial institutions awaiting greater visibility on
regulatory issues and the impact of the debt issue, it remains
to be seen how strong job growth will be.”  
 Governments, forced to rescue their nations’ financial
services firms, are pressuring the industry to curb banker
compensation.  The International Monetary Fund  in April called on
the Group of 20 leaders to tax banks to help pay for future
bailouts. In December, the U.K. put a one-time 50 percent levy
on bankers’ discretionary bonuses.  
 The survey showed 71 percent of the 194 respondents, drawn
from personnel and hiring managers at financial services
companies, said bonuses would stay the same and 17 percent
expect them to rise.  
 Separately, Morgan McKinley said job vacancies at London’s
financial services firms fell 2 percent in June to 5,645 from a
month earlier. The average salary for candidates securing new
roles fell 4 percent in June to 53,231 pounds ($80,895) from a
month earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        