-- Ocado Cuts IPO Price Range After Analysts Question Online Grocer's Value
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-07-20T16:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/online-grocer-ocado-cuts-ipo-price-range-after-analysts-question-valuation.html

          
          
             Ocado Ltd., the unprofitable U.K.
online grocer, cut the price range for its initial public
offering after analysts questioned the valuation.  
 Shares in the Hatfield, England-based grocer will be sold
for 180 pence to 200 pence each, after initially being offered
for 200 pence to 275 pence, according to a statement today. A
price at the top end of the new range would give the company a
market value of about 1 billion pounds ($1.52 billion).  
 Ocado has enough orders for all the shares at a price of
180 pence, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
situation. The retailer cut its range to secure investor support
following weeks of analyst scepticism.  Clive Black  at Shore
Capital and  David McCarthy  at Evolution Securities were among
those that said the proposed valuation was too high.  
 Ocado plans to sell 200 million pounds of new stock in the
IPO, the same amount that existing shareholders plan to raise.
The new funds will be used to pay down 45 million pounds of
debt, extend the company’s storage facilities and buy a second
warehouse in the north of the U.K.  
 The online grocer, founded by three former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. bond traders in 2000, mainly delivers products within
London and southeast England from the Waitrose grocery chain.
Waitrose owner John Lewis Partnership Plc invested in Ocado
within months of the grocer’s inception and still holds a stake
in its pension fund. The retailer secured a 10-year extension on
its supply agreement with Waitrose at the end of May.  
 Lack of Profit  
 Ocado’s reliance on the agreement with Waitrose,
competition from its supplier’s own online delivery service
within London and the lack of profit all concerned analysts.  
 “Ocado is effectively a distributor for Waitrose,” Black
said. “We believe that investors should avoid paying more than
around a 533 million-pound entry price for Ocado.”  
 Al Gore ’s Generation Investment Management and Fidelity
International invested in Ocado in a 50-million pound
fundraising last year. Procter & Gamble Co. holds 1 percent of
the shares, while a group of investors including Goldman Sachs,
UBS AG and Lloyds Banking Group Plc hold 36 percent. The company
hasn’t said which shareholders are selling their stakes.  
 The online grocer reported a first-half operating loss of
2.7 million pounds, according to a company statement. Ocado is
Britain’s fourth-largest online food and grocery retailer after
Tesco Plc, J Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda,
according to research company Verdict.  
 JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd., UBS and Goldman Sachs are managing
Ocado’s share sale, along with Barclays Capital, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Jefferies Group Inc., Lloyds Banking Group and Numis
Securities Ltd.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        