-- Montreal Port Lockout May Spark Abitibi Layoffs, Cascade Investment Delays
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2010-07-20T20:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/montreal-port-lockout-may-spark-abitibi-layoffs-cascade-investment-delays.html

          
          
             A lockout of workers at the Port of
Montreal may trigger layoffs at exporters such as  AbitibiBowater
Inc.  and delay an investment project at Cascades Inc. if an
agreement isn’t reached within days.  
 AbitibiBowater, North America’s largest newsprint maker,
ships a “significant” portion of its paper and lumber through
the port, said spokesman  Jean-Philippe Cote . The company has
been forced to store products in warehouses and may need to make
temporary layoffs should the lockout drag on, Cote said.  
 “We really didn’t need this problem,” said  Cote . “We are
trying to find alternative routes wherever we can, but it’s not
possible for all our shipments and it comes with additional
costs.”  
 The Maritime Employers Association, which represents
shipping companies and negotiates with port workers in Montreal,
Toronto and other Canadian cities, on July 18 imposed a lockout
on 850 longshoremen in a dispute over wages. Negotiators for
both parties will meet with government-appointed mediators July
22 and 23, said Gilles Corriveau, a spokesman for the
association.  
 “We are available to negotiate day and night if
required,” Corriveau said today in a telephone interview. “We
are very conscious of the impact of the current situation.”  
 Daniel Tremblay, president of Local 735 of the longshoremen
union, said his group is “always willing to sit down at the
negotiating table.”  
 Second Largest  
 The Port of Montreal is Canada’s second largest after
 Vancouver , handling 1.25 million twenty-foot equivalent units,
or containers last year, according to its  website . Besides
containers, the port handles liquid bulk such as gasoline and
jet fuel, and dry bulk such as iron ore and raw sugar. The
lockout is costing member companies of the employers association
about C$800,000 ($757,000) weekly, Corriveau said.  
 AbitibiBowater has 31 plants in Quebec, including eight
newsprint and paper mills and another 23 that process lumber,
according to its  website . The Montreal-based company and several
units sought bankruptcy protection last year after U.S. lenders
refused to accept a proposed debt restructuring.  
 Bombardier  Inc., the world’s second-largest trainmaker,
usually gets parts shipped via the Port of Montreal, said
spokeswoman  Isabelle Rondeau . Shippers working for the train and
aircraft maker may deliver the parts through alternative ports
such as Halifax, Nova Scotia, she said. Bombardier doesn’t have
any containers stuck in Montreal, she said.  
 Project Timing  
 Paper maker  Cascades  may delay a C$20 million investment at
one of its Quebec plants because some of the parts for machines
are stuck inside a container at the port, spokesman  Hubert Bolduc  said.  
 Cascades fell 2 cents, or 0.3 percent, to close at C$6.34
on the Toronto Stock Exchange, while Bombardier gained 22 cents,
or 5 percent, to C$4.65.  
 “We may have to re-evaluate the timing of our project,”
Bolduc said in a telephone interview. “We had planned to have
our contractors start work in August, but we’re not sure how
this is going to play out if the dispute drags on.”  
 About half of the goods destined for Canada’s eastern-most
province of Newfoundland come through the Port of Montreal,
according to a provincial government  statement . Due to the
lockout, St. John’s, Newfoundland-based  Oceanex Inc.  will
redirect its ships to Halifax, Chairman  Sid Hynes  said.  
 “We could see this was coming weeks ago, so we have been
preparing,” Hynes said in a telephone interview. “Halifax can
handle a lot of extra business. These are kinds of possibilities
we always think about.”  
 Should the dispute persist, Hynes said Oceanex may set up
cranes at other ports on the St. Lawrence River to offload its
ships.  
 “There are loads of options we could look at if this were
to drag on,” he said. “We’ll do what we have to do. There are
no winners in a work stoppage.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        