-- Morgan Stanley Lagging Goldman in Restoring Investor Faith: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-21T16:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/morgan-stanley-lagging-goldman-in-restoring-investor-faith-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, is lagging rivals in regaining debt
investors’ confidence after the 2008 financial crisis, trading
in credit-default swaps shows.  
 Contracts on Morgan Stanley, which last month climbed to
the widest relative to its peers in more than a year, trade 55
basis points higher than those of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
other Wall Street firm that converted into a bank after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy almost two years ago,
according to data provider CMA.  
 Since Lehman’s failure, Morgan Stanley has sought to reduce
its reliance on trading businesses by purchasing a controlling
stake in a joint venture with Citigroup Inc.’s Smith Barney
brokerage, with $1.6 trillion in client assets. Derivatives
prices signal investors remain concerned that Morgan Stanley,
which reported earnings today that beat analysts’ estimates, is
most vulnerable if market confidence were to evaporate again.  
 “It’s basically a difference in their business model,”
said  Michael Donelan , who oversees $3.5 billion of bonds as
director of trading and head portfolio manager at Ryan Labs Inc.
in New York. “Morgan has been lagging on the operating side.”  
 Morgan Stanley credit swaps have climbed 92 basis points
since April 15 to 214 basis points, CMA prices show. The
contracts dropped 12.5 basis points today after the earnings
report. They have fallen from a more than one-year high of 305
basis points on June 10 as investor concern eases that sovereign
debt strains in Europe will derail the global economic recovery.  
 Earnings Beat Estimates  
 The bank reported second-quarter earnings from continuing
operations of 80 cents a share, which included a 20-cent tax
benefit, compared with a 47-cent average estimate of 21 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said
profit margins will remain “subdued” for 2010.  
 Morgan Stanley spokesman  Mark Lake  declined to comment on
the swaps prices.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds instead of government debt
remained at the lowest since May. Corporate bond spreads were at
187 basis points, or 1.87 percentage points, unchanged for a
third day at the lowest since May 20, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields fell to 3.854 percent from 3.87 percent on July 19.  
 Benchmark credit-default swaps indexes that gauge investor
perceptions of credit risk declined in the U.S. and Europe.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 0.4 basis point to 109.6 basis points as of 12:16 p.m. in
New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings fell 5 basis points to 114.7, Markit prices show.  
 Goldman Swaps  
 The indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of bonds
and loans.  
 Credit-default swaps on Goldman Sachs fell 5 basis points
to 159.5 today after yesterday reporting second-quarter profit
that was below analysts’ estimates, CMA prices show. Goldman
Sachs, which settled U.S. fraud charges last week by paying a
$550 million penalty, reported earnings of 78 cents a share,
below the average analyst estimate of $1.99 a share in a
 Bloomberg survey .  
 Converted to Banks  
 Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs converted to bank holding
companies in September 2008 amid the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, giving the  Federal Reserve 
regulatory oversight over the firms and allowing them to
increase funding through deposits from retail investors.  
 Both firms said at the time that they intended to increase
their base of insured deposits, viewed by investors as a more
secure form of funding than borrowing in the markets.  
 Morgan Stanley had $64 billion in bank deposits at the end
of March, up from $36 billion as of August 2008, according to
regulatory filings. Goldman Sachs had $38.4 billion in deposits
as of March, compared with $29.1 billion.  
 Private Bank  
 Morgan Stanley is building a private bank to offer more
products such as jumbo mortgages and structured loans to Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney clients. It has hired 100 bankers for the
new unit and may quintuple their numbers by the end of 2011, a
person with knowledge of the strategy said last month.  
 Investors demand 260 basis points in extra yield to own
Morgan Stanley debt instead of Treasuries, 9 basis points wider
than the average for U.S. banks, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  
 “Broad market uncertainty tends to be more negative for
Morgan Stanley than it does for the commercial banks,” said
 Matthew Burnell , an analyst at Wells Fargo Advisors. “And
historically, it’s less of a negative for Goldman Sachs than
Morgan Stanley.”  
 The gap in spreads between Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs
has almost quadrupled since the end of 2009, when the difference
was 15.1 basis points, CMA prices show.  
 “Should they trade that wide to Goldman?” said Ryan Labs’
Donelan, who said he expects Morgan Stanley to issue bonds soon.
“Well, the market’s telling you yeah, but we’re actually
looking at them as a buy.”  
 Morgan Stanley’s credit-default swaps had increased 67
percent in the past quarter, nearly double the average spread
widening on North American financial companies, Fitch Solutions
said yesterday in a statement. Goldman Sachs spreads increased
32 percent and Wells Fargo & Co. contracts widened 16 percent,
Fitch said.  
 “Concerns over lingering sovereign risks, a double-dip
recession and financial reform implications have sent spreads in
the North American financial sector wider by 34 percent,”
Jonathan Di Giambattista, a managing director at the Fitch 
Ratings unit, said in the statement. “Morgan Stanley is an
outlier, however.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James Gorman, chief executive officer of Morgan Stanley, speaking in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Ralph Silva of Silva Research Network talks about the outlook for the results of stress tests on 91 European banks.
     Silva, speaking to Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown," also discusses earnings and trading activity at U.S. investment banks.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
