-- Morgan Stanley Offers Eight-Year Structured Notes Tied to Euro Swap Rates
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-20T10:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/morgan-stanley-offers-eight-year-structured-notes-tied-to-euro-swap-rates.html

          
          
             Morgan Stanley is selling as much as
10 million euros ($12.9 million) of eight-year structured notes
that are linked to euro-area interest rates.  
 The bonds pay a fixed 4.5 percent coupon in the first year,
which steps up by 0.25 percentage point in years two, three and
four, according to the term sheet. In the final four years, the
securities pay eight times the difference between the two-year
and 30-year euro swap rate up to a maximum 8 percent.  
 Bonds linked to swaps allow investors to bet on the future
direction of interest rates. Morgan Stanley’s notes perform best
the more the 30-year swap rate, the cost of exchanging fixed for
floating interest payments, is above the two-year rate.  
 “The product is for retail investors interested in the
possibility of high coupons in a low interest-rate
environment,” said  Joern Schiemann , a vice president at Morgan
Stanley’s derivatives solution group for Germany and Austria.  
 The 30-year swap rate is 3.29 percent and the two-year rate
is 1.42 percent. The coupon has a zero percent floor so if
short-term rates rise above longer-dated ones, or invert,
investors won’t incur a loss on their principle.  
 The difference between two-year and 30-year swap rates has
averaged 1.34 percentage points in the past 10 years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. By 2015, the two-year rate will
be about 0.04 percentage point more than the 30-year rate,
according to the forward rate curve.  
 “If we enter a rate hiking cycle in three years the curve
will flatten,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate strategist
at BNP Paribas SA in London. “Investors may be enticed by the
huge yields of this product in the short-term, which they can
lock in, while they could lose in the longer-term. In that
respect, the eight times leveraging factor provides a cushion to
such risk.”  
 The initial target issuance size may be increased,
depending on investor demand, according to Morgan Stanley. The
deal is the third series of “Interest Expander” notes sold by
the bank and will be listed on Germany’s Frankfurt and Stuttgart
stock exchanges.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        