-- U.S. Housing Starts Drop to Lowest Level Since October
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-20T20:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/housing-starts-in-u-s-slide-to-lowest-level-since-october-on-sales-slump.html

          
          
             Housing starts fell in June to the
lowest level in eight months after the expiration of a U.S.
government tax incentive caused sales to slump.  
 Work began  on 549,000 houses at an annual rate last month,
fewer than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 5 percent from May, Commerce Department
figures showed today in Washington.  
 The retreat following the end of government support shows
it will be difficult for the industry that precipitated the
recession to sustain a recovery. Mounting foreclosures will
swell the supply of houses on the market and pressure prices,
while prospective buyers shy away as a lack of jobs shakes
confidence in the world’s largest economy.  
 “Given the excess of existing homes for sale, there is no
rush to boost starts significantly,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York, who forecast a decline
in starts to 550,000. “There has been volatility in the data
because of the tax credit. The best you can say is the big drag
on growth from housing ended a year ago.”  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 1.1 percent to
1,083.48 at the 4 p.m. close in New York on speculation Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke may announce new measures to
stimulate economic growth when he testifies before the Senate
tomorrow. Treasury securities were little changed.  
 Worse Than Forecast  
 Economists forecast starts would fall to a 577,000 annual
rate, according to the median of 75 projections in a Bloomberg
News survey. Estimates ranged from 525,000 to 620,000.  
 Building permits , a gauge of future construction, rose 2.1
percent last month to a 586,000 pace, propelled by a 20 percent
jump in multifamily applications that are often volatile.
Permits for single-family housing, the biggest part of the
market, dropped 3.4 percent to a 421,000 pace, the lowest since
April 2009.  
 Starts were down 5.8 percent from the same month last year,
while permits decreased 2.3 percent.  
 Construction of single-family houses fell 0.7 percent to a
454,000 rate, a 13-month low, after the prior month’s 19 percent
slump.  
 Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and apartment
 buildings , decreased 22 percent to an annual rate of 95,000.  
 Credit Ends  
 The drop in housing starts followed the April 30 deadline
to sign purchase agreements and become eligible to receive a
government credit worth as much as $8,000.  
 All four regions of the country had a decrease in starts
last month, led by an 11 percent slump in the Northeast and a
6.9 percent decline in the Midwest.  
 Builders have to contend with a growing supply of existing
homes that is driving down home values as foreclosures  rise .
Home seizures jumped 38 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, RealtyTrac Inc. said last week, putting lenders on
pace to claim more than 1 million properties this year.  
 Homebuilder sentiment  fell in July to its lowest level
since April 2009, according to the National Association of
Realtors yesterday, and Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased in July to the
lowest level in 11 months, the group reported last week.  
 Earlier in the month, the Labor Department reported private
payrolls rose a less-than-forecast 83,000 in June and total jobs
fell by 125,000, the first job decline this year. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast unemployment will end the year at
9.5 percent, unchanged from the rate in June.  
 Slowing Orders  
 Homebuilders are seeing slowing orders.  Lennar Corp .’s home
sales were running 20 percent to 25 percent lower last month
than a year earlier as the expiration of the tax credit sapped
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller  said June 24.  
 “The new home market and housing in general still face
serious headwinds from current economic and legislative
conditions,” Miller said on a conference call with investors.
“The prospect of additional delinquencies ahead continues to
moderate this recovery as shadow inventory continues to be
absorbed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Partially completed townhouses under construction in Des Plaines, Illinois. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Housing starts fell in June to the lowest level since October as a slump in sales following the expiration of a government tax incentive caused U.S. builders to cut back. Bloomberg's Michael McKee and Betty Liu report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg economist Joseph Brusuelas talks with Mark Crumpton about this week's U.S. housing data and the prospects for the economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
