-- Outgoing United Nations Aide Says Ban's Leadership `Deplorable', Post Says
-- 
-- 2010-07-20T02:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/outgoing-united-nations-aide-says-ban-s-leadership-deplorable-post-says.html

          
          
              
By Colum Lynch
     July 20 (Washington Post) -- UNITED NATIONS -- The outgoing
chief of a U.N. office charged with combating corruption at the
United Nations has issued a stinging rebuke of Secretary General
Ban Ki-moon, accusing him of undermining her efforts and leading
the global institution into an era of decline, according to a
confidential end-of-assignment report.
     The memo by Inga-Britt Ahlenius, a Swedish auditor who
stepped down Friday as undersecretary general of the Office of
Internal Oversight Services, represents an extraordinary personal
attack on Ban from a senior U.N. official. The memo also marks a
challenge to Ban's studiously cultivated image as a champion of
accountability.
     Shortly after taking office in 2007, Ban committed himself
to restoring the United Nations' reputation, which had been
sullied by revelations of corruption in the agency's oil-for-food
program in Iraq.
     But Ahlenius says that, rather than being an advocate for
accountability, Ban, along with his top advisers, has
systematically sought to undercut the independence of her office,
initially by trying to set up a competing investigations unit
under his control and then by thwarting her efforts to hire her
own staff.
     "Your actions are not only deplorable, but seriously
reprehensible. . . . Your action is without precedent and in my
opinion seriously embarrassing for yourself," Ahlenius wrote in
the 50-page memo to Ban, a copy of which was obtained by The
Washington Post. "I regret to say that the secretariat now is in
a process of decay."
     Ban's top advisers said that Ahlenius's memo constituted a
deeply unbalanced account of their differences and that her
criticism of Ban's stewardship of the United Nations was patently
unfair.
     "A look at his record shows that Secretary General Ban has
provided genuine visionary leadership on important issues from
climate change to development to women's empowerment. He has
promoted the cause of gender balance in general as well as within
the organization. He has led from the front on important
political issues from Gaza to Haiti to Sudan," Ban's chief of
staff, Vijay Nambiar, wrote in a response.
     "It is regrettable to note," Nambiar added, "that many
pertinent facts were overlooked or misrepresented" in Ahlenius's
memo.
     The departure of Ahlenius, 72, coincides with a period of
crisis in the United Nations' internal investigations division.
During the past two years, the world body has shed some of its
top investigators. It has also failed to fill dozens of
vacancies, including that of the chief of the investigations
division in the Office of Internal Oversight Services. That post
has been vacant since 2006, leaving a void in the United Nations'
ability to police itself, diplomats say.
     "We are disappointed with the recent performance of [the
U.N.'s] investigations division," said Mark Kornblau, spokesman
for the U.S. mission to the United Nations. "The coming change in
. . . leadership is an opportunity to bring about a significant
improvement in its performance to increase oversight and
transparency throughout the organization."
     The U.N. General Assembly established the Office of Internal
Oversight Services in 1994 to conduct management audits of the
United Nations' principal departments and to conduct
investigations into corruption and misconduct. The founding
resolution granted the office "operational independence" but
placed it under the authority of the secretary general and made
it dependent on the U.N. departments it policed for much of its
funding and administrative support.
     The dispute between Ahlenius and Ban has underscored some of
the resulting tensions and exposed a protracted and acrimonious
struggle for power over the course of U.N. investigations.
     While Ahlenius cited Ban's move to set up a new
investigations unit as a sign that he was seeking to undermine
her independence, Nambiar said that it was intended to strengthen
the United Nations' ability to fight corruption.
     Ahlenius also clashed with Ban over her efforts to hire a
former federal prosecutor, Robert Appleton, who headed the U.N.
Procurement Task Force, a temporary white-collar crime unit that
carried out aggressive investigations into corruption in U.N.
peacekeeping missions from 2006 to last year. The unit's
investigations led to an unprecedented number of misconduct
findings by U.N. officials and prompted federal probes into
corruption.
     Ban's advisers said they blocked Appleton's appointment on
the grounds that female candidates had not been properly
considered and said that the final selection should have been
made by Ban, not Ahlenius.
     "The secretary general fully recognizes the operational
independence of OIOS," Nambiar said. But that, he said, "does not
excuse her from applying the standard rules of recruitment."
 
          
          


  


        