-- Toyota, Axcess, Pearls, Sify, AshleyMadison.com: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-20T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/toyota-axcess-pearls-sify-ashleymadison-com-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
biggest automaker, settled a patent-infringement dispute that
had threatened U.S. imports of its newest hybrid vehicles,
including the Prius.  
 The agreement with Paice LLC, ending six years of
litigation, was announced yesterday as a hearing was to begin on
a claim against Toyota before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington. Terms weren’t disclosed and lawsuits
pending in Texas and at a U.S. appeals court will be dismissed.  
 Paice founder  Alex Severinsky , a Soviet emigrant who began
his career developing antitank-warfare instrumentation, had said
his 1994 patented system for a high-voltage method to power gas-
electric hybrid cars was used by Toyota without permission.
Severinsky, 65, has sought royalties from the automaker.  
 Ford Motor Co., maker of the Fusion hybrid car, agreed to
license Paice’s technology, the companies said on July 16
without revealing terms.  
 The Paice patent covers a way to supply torque to a car’s
wheels from both an electric motor and internal combustion
engine using a combination of high voltage and low current.  
 Toyota, which was found to have infringed the patent in an
earlier case, had said its hybrid vehicles are the result of its
own research and asked the  trade commission  to deny Severinsky’s
latest claims.  
 “The parties agree that, although certain Toyota vehicles
have been found to be equivalent to a Paice patent, Toyota
invented, designed and developed the Prius and Toyota’s hybrid
technology independent of any inventions of Dr. Severinsky and
Paice as part of Toyota’s long history of innovation,” both
companies said in separate statements.  
 The ITC is an independent agency set up to protect U.S.
markets from unfair trade practices. When a violation is found,
it has the power to block imports of products and typically
sides with patent owners unless there are health or public-
policy issues.  
 The issue in the trial that was to begin today hinged on
which is more important: Severinsky’s right to protect the
millions of dollars invested in his invention or the potential
economic harm of banning Toyota’s hybrid-vehicle imports.  
 ITC Judge  Theodore R. Essex  had said Toyota couldn’t try to
reargue the validity of the patent or whether it’s infringed,
leaving open the question of whether Paice has a domestic market
to protect, and if it was in the public interest to issue a ban.  
 Citing potential job losses, lawmakers wrote the ITC to
side with Toyota. Among them were Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, who has a Toyota plant in his state that
makes hybrid vehicles, and Democratic Representative  Travis Childers  of Mississippi, where Toyota is building a factory.  
 Toyota is the biggest seller of hybrid vehicles in the U.S.
In June, the company sold 14,639 hybrids in the U.S., including
1,933 Lexus hybrids, about 10 percent of its total sales. The
ITC’s case related to the company’s current, third-generation
Prius as well as the Camry hybrid, Lexus HS250h and Lexus
RX450h.  
 Toyota was found in a 2005 trial to have infringed
Severinsky’s patent on torque technology used in earlier
versions of the Prius, Lexus RX400h and hybrid Toyota
Highlanders. A federal jury awarded $4.27 million to the company
Severinsky founded, Bonita Springs, Florida-based  Paice .  
 The judge declined to halt sales of the hybrids, and
instead told the automaker to pay Paice $25 for every car. He
later raised the amount to about $98 after an appeals court
ordered a recalculation. Toyota appealed that decision.  
 If the $98 rate were applied to all of Toyota’s hybrids now
on sale in the U.S., the company would have to pay $1.43 million
in royalties for June alone. The company reported fourth-quarter
net income of 112 billion yen ($1.27 billion) on May 11.  
 Paice Chairman  Frances M. Keenan , vice president of finance
at Baltimore’s  Abell Foundation  that has invested $20 million in
Paice since 1998, declined to say if the company is talking to
additional automakers about licensing the Paice patent.  
 The ITC case is In the Matter of Hybrid Electric Vehicles,
337-688, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
civil cases are Paice LLC v. Toyota Motor Corp., 04-cv-211;
07cv180 and 08-cv-261, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Marshall).  
 Axcess Sues Baker Botts for Patent-Related Malpractice  
 Axcess International Inc., a provider of radio-frequency
identification technology, sued Houston’s  Baker Botts LLP  for
malpractice.  
 The complaint, filed in federal court in Dallas July 15,
relates to patent-application work the firm did for Axcess, and,
Axcess claims, its competitor  Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s SAVI
Technologies unit.  
 Addison, Texas-based Axcess claims Baker Botts was pursuing
patents in the same field for its competitor SAVI at the same
time it was working on Axcess’ behalf. According to court
papers, both companies received patents for what is known as
RFID technology.  
 SAVI’s patents enabled that company to obtain contacts with
the U.S. Department of Defense worth more than $1 billion and
have its specifications incorporated as industry standards,
Axcess claimed in its pleadings.  
 These patents covered technology disclosed in some of the
Axcess applications handled by Baker Botts, according to court
papers.  
 Axcess accused Baker Botts of negligence and “conscious
indifference” to its client’s rights and economic welfare. It
asked the court to award it money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 Michael A. Cinelli, a spokesman for the firm, said Baker
Botts had reviewed the complaint and believes “it is without
merit.”  
 Axcess sued SAVI in the same court in May 2010. The
complaint accused the Lockeed Martin unit of infringing two
patents, one of which had been handled in the application
process by Baker Botts, according to court papers. The disputed
patents are 6,294,953, issued in September 2001; and 7,271,727,
issued in September 2007.  
 In the patent case, Axcess is represented by  Kevin P.
Perkins  and  Kenneth W. Biermacher  of  Kane Russell Coleman &
Logan PC  of Dallas.  
 The case is Axcess International Inc., v. Savi Technologies
Inc., 3:10-cv-01033-F, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Dallas).  
 In the case against Baker Botts, Axcess is represented by
 Steven E. Aldous  and  Robert R. Varner Jr.  of Dallas-based  Braden
Varner & Aldous PC .  
 The case is Axcess International Inc. v. Baker Botts LLP,
3:10-cv-01383-K, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  
 Bayer Sues Lupin to Block Copies of Yaz, Yasmin Contraceptives  
 Bayer AG , the world’s biggest maker of birth-control pills,
sued  Lupin Ltd.  to prevent sales of generic copies of the Yaz
and Yasmin contraceptives in the U.S.  
 Lupin is seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval
to sell lower-cost versions of the pills, Bayer said in a July
15 lawsuit in federal court in Baltimore, where Mumbai-based
Lupin has offices. Bayer wants the court to block approval until
a patent expires in 2013 and three others expire in 2014.  
 The Yasmin family of contraceptives is Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer’s top-selling pharmaceutical, generating about 1.28
billion euros ($1.7 billion) in revenue last year, according to
company filings. As part of its FDA applications, Lupin said its
versions of the drugs wouldn’t infringe the patents or that the
patents are invalid, according to Bayer’s complaint.  
 An official with Lupin in Maryland didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment.  
 Bayer is represented by  Michael James Wasicko  and  Charles
P. Goodell Jr. , of Baltimore’s  Goodell, DeVries, Leech & Dann
LLP .  
 The case is Bayer Schering Pharma AG v. Lupin Ltd.,
10cv1914, U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 No ‘Pearl’ Permitted for New Dehli Fashion Week, Court Rules  
 Pearls Infrastructure Projects Ltd. ,  an Indian real-estate
development company, and the  Fashion Design Council of India 
can’t use the word “Pearl” in connection with the six-day
couture event they’re sponsoring,  Sify Technologies Ltd. ’s
SifyNews  reported .  
 Justice S. Ravindra Bhat of the Delhi High Court yesterday
barred the use of “Pearl” following a claim from the Little
People Education Society that trademarks associated with its
 Pearl Academy of Fashion , according to SifyNews.  
 The fashion-school proprietors argued they registered their
trademarks in 1993 and have been spending money promoting the
school, the news site reported.  
 The court said “Pearl Infrastructure Projects Ltd.,”
“Pearl Tourism and “PACL” were permitted for  the fashion
event , set to begin in New Delhi today, according to SifyNews.  
 Raymond Ltd. Can’t Bar Raymond Pharmaceutical’s Use of Name  
 Raymond Ltd. , a textile manufacturer, can’t claim Raymond
Pharmaceuticals of Mumbai infringed its trademarks, the Bombay
High Court ruled and India’s Economic Times  reported .  
 The court ruled that the closely held pharmaceutical
company didn’t infringe as they do not deal in the same kinds of
products, according to the Economic Times.  
 Amit Vyas of Mumbai’s  Rajani Associates , counsel for the
Worli, India-based textile company told the Economic Times he
would recommend the company appeal the ruling.  
 Vyas argued that Indian trademark law protects a famous
trademark against other users, even those whose goods and
services are dissimilar, according to Economic Times.  
 AshleyMadison.com Owner Claims AshleyMadisonsucs.com Infringes  
 Avid Dating Life Inc., which operates the AshleyMadison.com
dating site aimed at those who want to have extramarital
affairs, sued two Los Angeles residents for trademark
infringement.  
 The suit, filed in Canadian federal court in Vancouver,
claims  Dennis Bradshaw’s and Lena Karachun’s
AshleyMadisonSucs.com and AshleyMadisonScam.com website names
are “confusingly similar” to Avid Dating’s site.  
 Bradshaw and Karachun “have directed public attention to
their websites’ in a way that causes the public to confuse their
“identity, services and business” with Avid’s, according to
court papers.  
 Avid, based in Toronto, seeks an order barring use of its
trademarks, money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs,
and transfer of the domain names to which it objects.  
 According to the Los Angeles Times , in January 2009 Avid
Dating claimed its AshleyMadison.com had 3.2 million members,
with Los Angeles as its biggest market. The name “Ashley
Madison” was chosen because they are currently among the most
popular names given baby girls.  
 Avid is represented by  Corey D. Steinberg  of the  Double
Diamond Law Corp.  of Whistler, British Columbia.  
 The case is Avid Dating Life Inc. v. Dennis Bradshaw and
Lena Karachun, T-1071-10, Federal Court, Vancouver, British
Columbia.  
 Lleyton Hewitt Fails to Block Use of ‘Come On’ Trademark  
 Owners of a Brisbane, Australia-based sporting goods
company persuaded Australia’s trademark authority to reject a
challenge to a mark made by tennis pro  Lleyton Hewitt , the
AdelaideNow.com news website  reported.   
 Hewitt had claimed that John Patrick Sheils’ registration
of the phrase “come on” was made to trade off the tennis
star’s reputation, according to AdelaideNow.com.  
 The trademark hearing officer said Sheils, of Rochedale,
Australia, who  registered the mark in October 2004  demonstrated
“genuine commercial use,” and rejected Hewitt’s claim, the
news website reported.  
 Hewitt will appeal the ruling, AdelaideNow.com reported.  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Russian Copyright Enforcement Still Problematic, Medvedev Says  
 Copyright enforcement problems are a barrier to Russia’s
joining the  World Trade Organization , President Dmitry Medvedev
said, and Russia’s RIA Novosti news  reported  yesterday.  
 He said that during the Soviet era, “the protection of
intellectual property rights was imperfect” and IP rights
enforcement is still problematic, according to RIA Novosti.  
 “Russian nerds” working in California’s Silicon Valley
told Medvedev on a recent visit there that they did not feel
protected in Russia, RIA Novosti reported.  
 In addition to the issue of membership in the trade group,
Medvev told RIA Novosti IP rights enforcement was also important
to Russia’s inventors and authors.  
 Iran Amends Copyright Law, Gives More Choices to Rights Holders  
 Although Iran is not a member of international IP bodies,
the country’s parliament has modified its copyright law to give
content creators more control over ultimate uses of their work,
Iran’s PressTV  reported .  
 Writers, composers and artists now have the ability to
transfer financial rights to their work to whomever they wish,
according to PressTV.  
 Previously, the rights would go to heirs or, in the absence
of heirs, the rights would be held by the government for public
use, PressTV reported.  
 The changes affect only works produced inside Iran,
according to PressTV.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Sonnenschein Expands Silicon Valley IP Practice with New Hire  
 Sonnenschein, Nath & Rosenthal LLP  hired Dana Finberg for
its Silicon Valley IP practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a
 statement .  
 Finberg  joins from Richmond, Virginia’s  LeClairRyan  where
he headed the IP litigation practice. He’s handled patent,
trademark, trade dress and copyright disputes in trial and
appellate courts.  
 He has an undergraduate degree in English from Randolph
Macon College and a law degree from the University of Richmond.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        