-- Toyota Ordered by U.S. Grand Jury to Submit Report on Steering-Rod Flaws
-- Tak Kumakura
-- 2010-07-20T07:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/toyota-to-submit-steering-rod-problems-report-to-u-s-federal-grand-jury.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , facing more than
325 U.S. lawsuits after recalling more than 8 million vehicles
to fix defects, was ordered by a U.S. federal grand jury to
submit a report on steering-rod problems.  
 Toyota announced the order in a statement today to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. “The company and our subsidiaries will
cooperate with the investigation with sincerity,” Toyota said
in the statement, without elaborating.  
 Toyota recalled more than 8 million autos worldwide in the
11 months since an off-duty California Highway Patrol officer
and his family were killed in August 2009, when the Lexus ES350
sedan he was driving sped out of control near San Diego. Reviews
by Toyota and government investigators pinned the cause to a gas
pedal trapped by the floor mat, leading to a September 2009
warning that owners should remove driver’s side mats.  
 “It may lead to another recall with other models, and if
lawsuits start taking place, it will affect the company’s
earnings performance,”  Satoru Takada , an analyst in Tokyo at
TIW Inc., said of the grand-jury order announced today. “It
could impact its performance and share price.”  
 Toyota’s Tokyo-based spokeswoman  Ririko Takeuchi  declined
to say which models have the parts with problems.  
 “The document says everything the company can share right
now,” Takeuchi said by phone.  
 The automaker is facing more than 325 lawsuits in U.S.
state and federal courts related to unintended acceleration,
which has also been probed by U.S. lawmakers.  
 Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  pledged a comprehensive
overhaul of quality control steps earlier this month.  
 Toyota  shares  fell 2.6 percent to close at 3,055 yen in
Tokyo before the announcement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        