-- Toyota Scrutiny Persists as U.S. Grand Jury Seeks Defect Data
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-07-20T23:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/toyota-scrutiny-persists-as-u-s-grand-jury-seeks-steering-rod-defect-data.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , working to
rebound from its worst recall crisis, said it faces further
scrutiny over potential defects in vehicle steering rods.  
 A federal grand jury in New York issued Toyota a subpoena
to provide documents related to flaws in steering relay rods,
the company said in a  filing  yesterday. The National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration said in May it opened an
investigation into the matter.  
 “We’ll cooperate with the investigation,”  Steve Curtis , a
spokesman for Toyota’s U.S. unit, said in a phone interview.
Toyota isn’t discussing specific models involved at this time,
he said.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, has been under
investigation this year by the Transportation Department and its
NHTSA auto-safety regulator for responses to safety defects in
the company’s cars and trucks. The automaker agreed in April to
pay a record $16.4 million fine over a delayed defect
notification for accelerator pedals that can stick.  
 The steering-rod flaw is separate from scrutiny of Toyota
models for defects related to unintended acceleration. The
Toyota City, Japan-based company recalled more than 8 million
vehicles worldwide in the past year for floor mats that can
accidentally jam accelerator pedals and to fix sticky gas pedals.  
 The office of the U.S. Attorney in Manhattan won’t confirm
or deny whether there’s an investigation of the steering rods,
spokeswoman  Yusill Scribner  said, citing agency policy. Toyota
said in the filing it learned of the subpoena on June 29.  
 Agency’s Role  
 NHTSA and the Transportation Department didn’t have a role
in the federal grand jury subpoena, the agency said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 In 2004,  Toyota  recalled Hilux trucks in Japan with
steering-relay rods prone to fatigue, cracks and possible breaks.
At that time, Toyota told NHTSA in a letter that the defect was
limited to vehicles in Japan and that it hadn’t received similar
information from the U.S.  
 In 2005, Toyota told the agency that the steering-relay rod
defect was in models sold in the U.S. and conducted a recall.
NHTSA said last May that it was alerted to complaints filed with
Toyota by U.S. consumers before the recall in Japan.  
 Toyota, in an Oct. 26, 2004, letter to NHTSA, said it was
recalling 330,496 Hilux and Hilux Surf trucks in Japan because
the steering-relay rods may crack “if the driver maneuvers the
steering under conditions where there is high steering effort.”  
 U.S. Recall  
 Almost nine months later, Toyota  recalled  977,839 4Runner,
Toyota Trucks and Toyota T100s vehicles in the U.S. for the same
defect.  
 “We all know the government has been investigating this,”
John Kristensen, a lawyer suing Toyota, said yesterday.
Kristensen, of O’Reilly Collins in San Mateo, California,
represents the family of Michael Levi Stewart, 18, who died when
his 1991 Toyota pickup truck rolled over into a ditch in Idaho
on Sept. 15, 2007.  
 The lawsuit filed on behalf of Stewart’s family claims a
defective steering relay rod led to the fatal accident. A trial
in that case is scheduled to begin in November in state court in
Los Angeles.  
 Kristensen said he hasn’t spoken to the New York grand jury.
He said he shared information he collected in researching
steering rod defects with the NHTSA.  
 Toyota’s  American depositary receipts , equal to two
ordinary shares, fell $1.03, or 1.45 percent, to $70.19
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The ADRs
have fallen 16.6 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        