-- Paris Prosecutors Probe L'Oreal Consulting Contract for Bettencourt Friend
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-20T10:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/paris-prosecutors-probe-l-oreal-consulting-deal-with-bettencourt-s-friend.html

          
          
             Paris prosecutors are investigating
a complaint by a  L’Oreal SA  investor over an artistic consulting
contract the company has with a friend of  Liliane Bettencourt ,
daughter of the company’s founder and its largest shareholder.  
 The complaint was filed July 5 by a retiree and alleges the
10-year contract, which pays photographer and writer Francois-
Marie Banier 405,000 euros ($523,000) a year, was a misuse of
company funds, the investor’s lawyer said today.  
 Dominique Borron , a spokesman for the prosecutors, said
today the preliminary investigation, which seeks to determine if
there are grounds for a criminal probe, was opened last week.  
 Bettencourt’s daughter has pursued a private prosecution
against Banier in nearby Nanterre, claiming he manipulated her
87-year-old mother into giving him about 1 billion euros in
gifts ranging from artwork to real estate. The trial was
postponed indefinitely earlier this month, when the judge
decided to investigate new evidence from secret recordings made
by a former butler.  
 “Did he really give artistic advice on things like the
color of perfume bottles?” Frederik-Karol Canoy, the investor’s
lawyer, questioned in a telephone interview today. He didn’t
name his client.  
 The complaint wasn’t filed against a specific person,
leaving it up to investigators to determine whom to target.  
 L’Oreal is aware of the complaint and can’t comment further
because its content is unknown, spokeswoman  Guylaine Mercier 
said. She confirmed the company has a 10-year contract with
Banier that lasts through 2011.  
 The tapes made by Bettencourt’s former butler have prompted
several probes by the Nanterre prosecutor into possible tax
evasion, political campaign finance law violations and invasion
of privacy.  
 A call to Banier’s lawyer wasn’t immediately returned.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        