-- Payrolls Fall in 27 U.S. States, Led by California
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-20T15:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/payrolls-decline-in-27-u-s-states-signaling-broad-based-hiring-slowdown.html

          
          
             Payrolls decreased in 27 U.S. states
in June, led by California and New York, signaling the slowdown
in hiring is broad-based.  
 Employers in California cut staff by 27,600 workers last
month and those in New York reduced employment by 22,500, the
Labor Department said today in Washington. Tennessee, Arizona
and New Mexico rounded out the five states with the biggest job
losses.  
 The U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month as the government cut
temporary workers conducting the 2010 census and private
payrolls rose a less-than-forecast 83,000, according to Labor
Department figures issued July 2. The data signal companies are
becoming reticent to hire as the economy cools.  
 “Businesses are looking at what’s going on in Europe and
the stock outlook and people are becoming a little more
skittish,”  Marisa Di Natale , a director at Moody’s Economy.com
in West Chester, Pennsylvania, said before the report. “We may
see that for a couple of more months until we start to see some
real momentum in some sector of the economy.”  
 Of the top five, declines in government payrolls accounted
for more than the entire loss of jobs in California and Arizona
last month, today’s report showed. Excluding government
agencies, employment would still have dropped in New York,
Tennessee and New Mexico. New York employers cut payrolls in a
broad range of industries, including finance, manufacturing, and
education and health services.  
 Record in Nevada  
 For the second month, Nevada had the highest jobless rate
in the country, rising to a record 14.2 percent from 14 percent
in May. Data collection began in 1976. Unemployment in Michigan,
the second-highest, dropped to 13.2 percent from 13.6 percent.  
 Thirty-nine states showed a decrease in joblessness, paced
by a half percentage-point drop in New Hampshire. In addition to
Nevada, unemployment also rose by 0.2 percentage point in
Louisiana, to 7 percent.  
 Texas, with a gain of 14,000, and Kentucky, with a 6,200
increase, paced states showing an improvement in employment. The
leisure and hospitality industry and retail and wholesale  trade 
and transportation were the areas with the biggest increases.
Government agencies cut 213,000 workers from payrolls, in part
reflecting the drop in census workers.  
 New York City’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell
for the sixth straight month, to 9.5 percent from 9.6 percent,
the state Labor Department said July 15. The state’s rate
dropped 0.1 point to 8.2 percent, the lowest since April 2009.  
 New York, New Jersey  
 New Jersey’s jobless rate fell to 9.6 percent, an 11-month
low, although overall hiring contracted “marginally,” the
state Labor Department said July 14. Nonfarm employment dropped
by 1,900 to 3.87 million, the department said.  
 State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  
 Today’s report showed 16 states had unemployment of 10
percent or higher, the same as in May.  
 State and local governments are facing mounting budget
deficits that in turn are forcing some municipalities to make
their own staff reductions. New York City said on July 19 that
it plans to cut about 3,000 “back-office” jobs through
attrition in order to consolidate operations.  
 Budget Turmoil  
 Job cuts among state and local entities may deepen this
year if they don’t receive the federal funding some governments
estimated they’d get in their budgets for this fiscal year, Di
Natale said.  
 “At least some of the budgets that were balanced included
the assumption of getting more funding for Medicare and Medicaid
and it’s looking like they may not,” Di Natale said. “So with
some of these budgets there could be significant problems once
it’s clear they won’t be getting the kind of help they thought
they would.”  
 Illinois Governor Pat Quinn last week doubled to 24 the
number of unpaid furlough days for 2,700 managers and staff
members this fiscal year as he tries to close a budget deficit
of about $10 billion. The unpaid days off for non-unionized
workers amount to a 9.2 percent cut in compensation, and will
save $18 million in the state’s budget, Quinn said in a press
release July 16.  
 -- With assistance from Mark Schoifet in New York. Editor:
 Carlos Torres   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A job seeker takes note of job listings at the Denver Workforce Center. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Walter "Bucky" Hellwig, a senior vice president at BB&T Wealth Management, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the possibility that the U.S. economy may fall back into recession. 
     Hellwig also discusses the outlook for the U.S. labor market and stocks. Bloomberg's Joe Brusuelas and Dominic Chu also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  The History of Unemployment
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
