-- Peabody Raises Forecast After Demand Gains Boost Second-Quarter Earnings
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-20T20:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/peabody-raises-forecast-after-demand-gains-boost-second-quarter-earnings.html

          
          
             Peabody Energy Corp ., the largest
U.S. coal producer, raised the lower end of its earnings
forecast after beating analysts’ estimates for the second-
quarter on increased demand in China for Australian coal.  
 Net income swelled to $206.2 million, or 76 cents a share,
from $79.2 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier, St. Louis-based
Peabody said today in a statement. The company was expected to
 earn  66 cents a share, according to the median of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 24 percent to $1.66
billion from $1.34 billion.  
 Peabody lifted its full-year targets for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to between $1.7
billion and $1.9 billion and for adjusted earnings per share of
$2.60 to $3.15. Earlier this year, the company forecast Ebidta
of $1.6 billion to $1.9 billion with adjusted earnings per share
of $2.45 and $3.15. Peabody also said it expects the second half
to be stronger than the first.  
 “We are modeling the second half to be stronger than the
first half both for Peabody and the market,” said  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.
“Frankly, in this market it’s tough to fault anyone for an
earnings beat or for raising the low end of guidance.”  
 Peabody rose 75 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $43.06 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen
4.8 percent this year.  
 Adjustments Unlikely  
 The revised forecast isn’t likely to prompt analysts to
adjust forecasts, according to  Meredith Bandy , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in Denver.  
 “The Street was already at the higher end of guidance, so
raising the lower end really didn’t do anything,” she said
today in a telephone interview. “ The upside is going to be on
the Australian market.”  
 Ebidta for the third-quarter will be $475 million to $550
million with adjusted earnings per share of 75 cents to $1,
Peabody said.  
 The company sold 6.4 million tons of coal out of Australia,
up 28 percent from a year ago. Peabody received $92.69 a ton, 49
percent higher than a year earlier.  
 Peabody sold 2.2 million tons of metallurgical coal during
the quarter, up from 1 million tons a year earlier, when demand
for the steelmaking fuel sank because of the most severe
recession since the 1930s.  
 Billiton Contract  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the largest coking coal exporter, signed
a contract with JFE Holding Inc.’s steel unit to supply
metallurgical coal at $200 per metric ton for the second-
quarter, up 55 percent from the $129 a ton agreed for the year
that ended March 31. The contract is considered the industry
benchmark.  
 The contract, which was changed to settle on a quarterly
basis this year, rose 12.5 percent to $225 a ton for the July
quarter, the second-highest ever behind the $305 negotiated in
2008.  
 “They delivered yet again in Australia and next quarter
they will be able to do the same because of the uptick in
pricing,” Sussman said.  
 Peabody said it expects China imports to hit a record this
year amid mine consolidation, logistical constraints, growing
consumption and demand for steelmaking coal. The country
surpassed the U.S. as the world’s largest energy consumer,
according to the International Energy Agency.  
 ‘Justifiably Bullish’  
 Chief Executive Officer  Gregory Boyce , 55, on a conference
call today with analysts and investors, said those factors make
him “justifiably bullish” on the global demand for coal.  
 India’s coal imports have surged 22 percent so far this
year and Peabody estimates that the country will increase
imports as much as 20 percent from a year ago.  
 The coal producer started operations at the Bear Run mine
in Sullivan County, Indiana, during the quarter. The company
estimates that it will produce about 3 million tons of coal this
year, increasing to 8 million tons by 2012.  
 Peabody said in January that it planned to sell 240 million
to 260 million tons of coal this year compared with 243.6
million in 2009 because of increased demand in the Asia Pacific
region.  
 The company said it expects to sell 27 million to 29
million tons of coal out of Australia, up from an earlier
forecast of 26 million to 28 million tons.  
 Peabody may start its School Creek operation in Campbell
County, Wyoming, if demand for thermal coal improves and it is
considering doing so next year, Boyce said.  
 The company is still “very acquisitive” particularly for
operations that serve the seaborne coal market, Boyce said.  
 He abandoned his takeover attempt for Macarthur Coal Ltd.
earlier this year after the Australian government proposed a 40
percent tax on mining profits.  
 Arch Coal Inc. , also based in St. Louis, is the second-
biggest U.S. coal producer, followed by  Alpha Natural Resources
Inc. , in Abingdon, Virginia.  
 (Peabody held a conference call with analysts and investors
to discuss results at 11 a.m. in New York. To listen, go to the
company’s Web site at  http://www.peabodyenergy.com .)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        