-- Poland Won't Know Extent of Natural Gas Shale Reserves Until End of 2011
-- Ewa Krukowska
-- 2010-07-20T11:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/poland-won-t-know-extent-of-natural-gas-shale-reserves-until-end-of-2011.html

          
          
             The extent of Poland’s shale gas
reserves should be known by the end of next year, the country’s
Geological Institute said.  
 “We will probably have 3-4 wells this year and there will
be 5-10 next year,” said Pawel Poprawa, the head of the
petroleum geology laboratory at the institute. “By the end of
2011 we should know if there’s gas in the rocks and, if so, how
rich the deposits could be.”  
 Poland’s reserves of shale and tight gas, which have drawn
interest from producers including ConocoPhillips, may be about 3
trillion cubic meters, according to Advanced Resources
International. If drilling proves economically viable, that
could turn the country into a net exporter of gas and reduce
Europe’s dependence on Russian supplies, analysts and government
officials have said.  
 “It’s a little premature to estimate the potential of
shale gas in Poland,” Poprawa said in an interview at the
Global Shale Gas Summit in Warsaw. “The area of rock formations
in the country is very large and we still have to confirm if
there is any gas at all. But if it is there, the deposits may be
huge indeed.”  
 Shale development, where rock formations are horizontally
drilled and fractured using water and other liquids under high
pressure, is driving a surge in U.S. gas output. Still, drilling
shale gas fields in Europe profitably may prove harder than in
the U.S., according to geologists.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  Chevron Corp.  are also interested in
tapping Poland’s shale deposits.  Talisman Energy Inc. , the
Canadian oil and natural gas explorer, and PKN Orlen SA,
Poland’s largest oil refiner, plan to start drilling next year.  
 “If there is gas in the rock, the next step would be to
choose an appropriate production technology,” Poprawa said.
“Only then will investors be able to start evaluating economic
viability.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        