-- Portugal Told to Recover State Aid for Banco Privado From Guaranteed Loan
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-20T12:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/portugal-told-to-recover-state-aid-for-banco-privado-from-guaranteed-loan.html

          
          
             The Portuguese government must
recover state aid given to creditors of Banco Privado Portugues
SA, the European Union’s top competition authority said.  
 The Portuguese government broke EU state aid laws when it
guaranteed a 450 million-euro ($578 million) loan to Banco
Privado in 2008, the European Commission said in a statement
today.  
 The Bank of Portugal ordered the liquidation of the closely
held lender in April, after efforts to recapitalize the Lisbon-
based financial institution failed. It was the country’s first
bank failure in more than 20 years.  
 The commission said it “temporarily approved the loan
guarantee as emergency support on the condition Portugal would
submit a restructuring plan within six months,” adding it “got
no such restructuring plan for BPP, which was later put into
liquidation and the loan paid by the state.”  
 Banco Privado faced liquidity difficulties, the Bank of
Portugal said in December 2008, after Moody’s Investors Service
this previous month cut the lender’s credit rating to Ba2, two
levels below investment grade, from Baa3, citing its dependency
on capital markets to fund operations.  
 In December 2008 a group of six lenders helped BPP with a
450 million-euro loan, backed by a government guarantee, with
Banco Privado assets as collateral. The government earlier
rejected Banco Privado’s proposal that it invest as much as 200
million euros to bolster the bank’s balance sheet.  
 Filing Claim  
 Portugal must now “file its claim as a creditor in the
liquidation procedure and recover the difference between the
price the bank should have paid for the guarantee and the lower
fee actually paid,” the commission said. The government has
already filed the necessary claims, according to the statement.  
 While the government doesn’t agree with the commission’s
position on the guarantee, it will respect the ruling, “acting
to recover the amount that may be at stake, in the framework of
the credit-recovery process,” the Finance Ministry said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The Bank of Portugal named provisional board members at
Banco Privado in February 2009, and a year later a fund
administered by the group that owns the company was set up to
manage the clients’ assets and limit their losses. In July 2009,
an offer by  Sociedade Comercial Orey Antunes SA  to buy BPP and
two units of Grupo Privado Holding for 1 euro failed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        