-- Portugal Telecom Said to Be in Talks for Stake in Oi
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-07-20T17:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/portugal-telecom-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-purchase-a-stake-in-brazil-s-oi.html

          
          
             Portugal  Telecom SGPS SA is in
discussions to buy part of Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA,
Brazil’s biggest phone company, said a person with knowledge of
the matter.  
 A deal with Tele Norte, also known as Oi, may allow
Portugal Telecom to sell its stake in its existing Brazilian
venture, Brasilcel NV, to  Telefonica SA (TEF) , said the person, who
declined to be named because the talks are not public. No
agreement has been reached, according to the person.  
 The Portuguese government blocked Madrid-based Telefonica’s
7.15 billion-euro ($9.23 billion) offer for Portugal Telecom’s
50 percent stake in Brasilcel because it was concerned the
former phone monopoly would be left without a fast-growing
asset. Brasilcel controls Vivo Participacoes SA, Brazil’s
largest wireless operator.  
 “The confirmation of this deal would allow Portugal
Telecom to sell Vivo,” Paulo Pinto Oliveira, an analyst at
Oporto, Portugal-based Banco BPI SA, said in a note today.  
 A spokesman for Telefonica declined to comment. Portugal
Telecom has no “pre-agreement or agreement” to buy a stake in
Oi, it said today in a regulatory filing. Oi also said in a
separate filing it has no agreement with Portugal Telecom.  
 Portugal’s government used its “golden share” veto powers
to block the deal on June 30, saying that remaining in  Brazil 
was strategic for Portugal Telecom. On July 17, Telefonica
turned down a request by Portugal Telecom to extend the offer to
July 28 to give the sides more time to find a solution.  
 Record Profit  
 Rio de Janeiro-based Oi, Brazil’s fourth-biggest wireless
carrier, provides Internet access, mobile, fixed-line and paid
television services. The company on May 14 reported a record
first-quarter  profit  after acquiring its smaller rival Brasil
Telecom SA in 2009.  
 Privately held Telemar Participacoes SA controls Oi’s
holding company Tele Norte Leste Participacoes, which has
publicly traded voting and  preferred  shares. Investors in
Telemar Participacoes include AG Telecom, La Fonte Telecom SA
and pension fund Fundacao Atlantico de Seguridade Social,
according to Oi’s website.  
 Telefonica Chairman Cesar Alierta had raised the bid twice
to win the support of Portugal Telecom investors. The latest
offer was equivalent to 99 percent of Portugal Telecom’s entire
market value based on July 16 closing prices.  
 Telefonica wants to combine Vivo’s mobile-phone network
with  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or Telesp, the Spanish
company’s fixed-line unit in Brazil.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        