-- Insurers' Risk of Municipal Debt Defaults `Overblown,' FBR Says
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-20T19:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/property-casualty-insurers-risk-of-muni-defaults-overblown-fbr-says.html

          
          
             U.S. property and casualty insurers ,
which hold more than $369 billion in municipal debt, face
minimal default risk by state and local governments, FBR Capital
Markets said.  
 “Even in a Draconian scenario such as the Great
Depression, we believe that there is no out-sized risk in the
municipal bond market,”  Bijan Moazami , an insurance analyst
with FBR, said today in a research note. “States and
municipalities are so dependent on capital markets for their
financing needs that they would not want to risk financial
suicide and would default only in most extreme circumstances.”  
 Property-casualty companies, which invest in municipal
bonds to fund future claims on home and commercial-property
policies, are counting on states and local governments to honor
their obligations even as the economic slump curbs tax revenue.
 Allstate Corp. , which owns about $20 billion of municipal debt,
cut its holdings for three straight quarters through the end of
March and blamed local governments for not bolstering their
finances.  
 The “worst-case scenario” for municipal defaults would
lower shareholders’ equity by 1.8 percent at Allstate, by 1.9
percent at  Chubb Corp.  and by 2.4 percent at  Travelers Cos. ,
Moazami said.  
 “Despite increased concerns about state budget deficits,
muni bond prices continue to hold up well,” Moazami said. While
concerns about insurers’ municipal holdings “are certainly not
unfounded, our analysis indicates that they are somewhat
overblown.”  
 Big Weighting  
 Municipal bonds accounted for about 27 percent of insurers’
investment securities as of March 31, Moazami said. That’s down
from about 31 percent at the end of 2008, according to FBR. At
the end of December, Travelers had about 62 percent of its
investments in municipal bonds, compared with 43 percent for
Chubb and 25 percent at Allstate, according to FBR.  
 Travelers, the insurer added to the Dow Jones Industrial
Average last year, said in May that municipal bond investors may
be spared defaults as politicians and taxpayers demand budget
cuts. Travelers held more than $40 billion of municipal debt at
the end of March.  
 Billionaire Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
sells auto policies and catastrophe coverage, told the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission last month that municipal bonds faced
a “terrible problem.” The U.S. government may be compelled to
rescue at least one state facing default, he told shareholders
at Berkshire’s annual meeting May 1.  
 ‘No Intestinal Fortitude’  
 “Nobody has the intestinal fortitude to actually move
forward to try to change anything,” Allstate Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Wilson said of government debt at the federal,
state and local levels in a July 6 Bloomberg Television
interview. “They’re just sort of sitting there waiting for
disaster to happen.”  
 Property-casualty companies cut their holdings of municipal
debt 3.3 percent to  $369.4 billion  in the 12 months ended Dec.
31, according to the Federal Reserve. U.S. banks added more than
$84 billion to their holdings since 2003, according to the Fed.  
 Allstate, New York-based Travelers, Chubb of Warren, New
Jersey, Progressive Corp. and  Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. , which are the biggest U.S. property-casualty insurers
covered by Moazami, held about $95 billion of municipal debt as
of March 31, according to FBR.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        