-- Traders See Meirelles Raising Rates Half Point as Economists Predict More
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-20T22:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/traders-see-meirelles-raising-rates-half-point-as-economists-predict-more.html

          
          
             Brazilian traders are wagering for
the first time since at least April that policy makers will lift
the benchmark interest rate a half percentage point this week
even as economists maintain forecasts for a bigger increase.  
 The average estimate fell to a 50 basis-point change from
75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, after  inflation 
slowed, according to yields on interest-rate future contracts
maturing Aug. 2. The decline marks the first time since at least
April 26 that traders are betting on an increase of less than 75
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The call  clashes  with forecasts by 46 of the 49 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for the central bank to raise the
overnight rate to 11 percent from 10.25 percent. Traders are
trimming their prediction after Brazilian consumer prices
dropped for the first time in four years, retail sales rose less
than economists forecast and growth in China and the U.S.,
Brazil’s two biggest trading partners, slowed.  
 “So many things have changed since the last meeting,”
said  Marina Santos , an economist at Squanto Investimentos Ltda
in Sao Paulo, in a telephone interview. “They will reduce the
pace” of increases, she said.  
 Squanto is one of the three firms in the Bloomberg survey
predicting a 50 basis-point increase tomorrow.  
 Overreacting  
 Traders are overreacting because the central bank remains
focused on cooling  credit growth  and the labor market as the
economy expands at its fastest pace since 1995, according to
 Eduardo Castro  at Santander Asset Management, who correctly
predicted last month that yields on rate futures would decline.  
 “I don’t think the central bank will slow the pace of
interest-rate hikes without communicating it to the market
first,”  Castro , who helps oversee 100 billion reais ($56
billion) in Sao Paulo at Santander, Brazil’s fifth-biggest fund
manager, said in a telephone interview. “Internal demand,
credit and wage growth and the labor market remain very
strong.”  
 Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , 64, has lifted
the benchmark lending rate, known as Selic, to 10.25 percent
from a record low of 8.75 percent in April. Yields on the Aug. 2
contract showed traders’ average increase estimate for
tomorrow’s meeting fell to 58 basis points today, signaling a
base-case prediction of 50 basis points.  
 Slowing Inflation  
 Yields on rate futures contracts due in January, the most
traded contracts at BM&FBovespa SA, suggest the central bank
will lift the Selic to about 11.3 percent by year-end, down from
a 12.5 percent estimate in September, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Economists are predicting a  year-end rate  of 12
percent, according to a central bank survey of about 100
financial institutions published yesterday.  
 Industrial output increased 14.8 percent from a year
earlier in May and retail sales gained 10.2 percent, both slower
than analysts forecast. Consumer prices, as measured by the
IPCA-15 index, fell 0.09 percent in the month through mid-July,
cutting the twelve-month inflation rate to 4.7 percent from 5.1
percent in June, the national statistics agency said today. The
government targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent.  
 U.S. retail sales dropped for a second month in June while
annual industrial-output growth in China slowed to 13.7 percent.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities narrowed three basis points to
218 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The real gained 1
percent to 1.7742 per dollar.  
 Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell to 123, according
to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 While Brazilian inflation has slowed in recent months,  the
outlook  is deteriorating, which will prompt the central bank to
maintain the 75-basis-point increase pace tomorrow, said
 Alejandro Cuadrado , a Latin America economist at Societe
Generale SA in New York.  
 Economists raised their  forecast  for inflation over the
next 12 months for a third straight week, pushing it up to 4.96
percent, according to the central bank survey released
yesterday.  
 Rally ‘Overdone’  
 “Traders are reacting to the very short term data,”
Cuadrado said in a telephone interview. “But I think the
underlying trend in inflation and growth is still supporting a
stronger reaction from the central bank. In the longer term
inflation expectations have been rising and that should not give
much of a breather to policy makers.”  
 RBS Securities Inc. recommended yesterday that its clients
bet yields on futures contracts due in January will rise because
the central bank is “more likely” to raise the Selic rate by
75 basis points this week.  
 The “rates rally looks overdone,” strategists  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky  and  Siobhan Morden  in Stamford, Connecticut,
wrote in a research note yesterday.  
 The  unemployment rate  probably dropped to 7.3 percent in
June from 7.5 percent the previous month, according to the
median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
government is slated to report the figure on July 22.  Bank loans 
rose 2.1 percent to 1.5 trillion reais in May, the fastest pace
in 10 months, according to the central bank.  
 The yield difference between January 2011 and January 2013
contracts widened to 95 basis points today from a 16-month low
of 69 basis points on July 5 as traders bet smaller rate
increases will boost inflation expectations in coming years.  
 “Investors have been changing positions from 75 basis
point to 50 basis points, but I still believe in 75,”  Carlos Eduardo Olinto , who helps manage 3 billion reais at Mercatto
Investimentos in Rio de Janeiro, said in a telephone interview.
“The first quarter was very strong.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        