-- RBA's Stevens Says Push to Stop Next Crisis Mustn't Curb Economic Growth
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-20T03:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/rba-s-stevens-says-push-to-stop-next-crisis-mustn-t-curb-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Global efforts to regulate away the
threat of another financial crisis must ensure they don’t
undermine economic growth or push risk taking underground,
Australia’s central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said.  
 “The reforms do need to be carefully calibrated with an
eye to potential unintended consequences,” Stevens told a
gathering of economists in Sydney today. “One such consequence,
obviously, would be unnecessarily to crimp growth if the reforms
are not well designed and/or implementation not well handled.”
His speech didn’t address Australian interest rates.  
 Regulators, central bankers and governments around the
world are engaged in a “high-level debate” on shaping the
financial system to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis
that pushed the global economy into its worst recession since
World War II, Stevens said. His remarks come less than a week
after the U.S. Senate passed the biggest overhaul of financial-
industry regulation since the Great Depression.  
 “In a nutshell, what regulators are pushing toward is a
global banking system characterized by more capital and lower
leverage, bigger holdings of liquid assets and undertaking less
maturity transformation,” Stevens said.  
 “It is hoped that this system will display greater
resilience to adverse developments than the one that grew up
during the 1990s and 2000s,” Stevens said.  
 U.S. Regulation  
 The U.S. bill will create a mechanism for liquidating
failing financial firms whose collapse could roil markets, a
council of regulators to police firms for threats to the
economic system, and a consumer bureau at the Federal Reserve to
monitor banks for credit-card and mortgage lending abuses. It
also expands oversight of executive compensation and derivatives,
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities.  
 One of the consequences of increased regulation, which is
being headed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
could be an increase in the cost of bank intermediation for
customers, the governor said.  
 “The conclusion most people are reaching is that economic
activity will, to some extent and over some horizon, be lower
than otherwise,” Stevens said, adding that it is “impossible”
to estimate the size of that impact on growth.  
 “Clearly we wish the new rules to be constraining risk
taking and leverage as the next boom approaches its peak, but
that will probably be some years away, so we have time to
implement strong standards and allow an appropriate period of
transition,” the governor added.  
 ‘Very Inventive’  
 Another issue is that “very restrictive regulation” could
prompt bankers to move into unregulated parts of the system.  
 “Financiers will be very inventive in working out how to
do this,” Stevens said. “If the general market conditions are
conducive to risk taking and raising leverage, which sooner or
later they will be if the cost of short-term money remains at
zero, people will ultimately find a way to do it.”  
 Stevens has led Group of 20 policy makers in boosting
 borrowing costs  six times since October to prevent a rebound in
Australia’s economy, fueled by China’s demand for resources,
from stoking house prices and  inflation .  
 Policy makers will use the results of this month’s European
bank stress tests and local inflation figures due next week to
decide whether to resume  rate increases , according to a record
of their July meeting released in Sydney today.  
 “The important question for the board at its next meeting
would be whether the new information materially changed the
medium-term outlook for inflation,” the  minutes  said. Results of
the tests of European banks’ resilience to any potential
financial crisis may “have a significant impact on
financial markets and global confidence,” the members said.  
 European Capital  
 Stevens said in his speech that injections of capital in
European banks “could quite possibly grow soon as a result of
the forthcoming stress tests.”  
 Australia has been “spared the worst impacts of serious
economic recession in terms of  lost jobs , much as we will be
spared the prospect of higher taxes that face so many in the
developed world.  
 “These are factors which support our native optimism, at
least about economic conditions,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        