-- Treasuries Advance as Bernanke Says Policy Makers Are Ready to Take Action
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-21T20:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/treasury-two-year-yield-near-record-low-on-prospects-housing-starts-fell.html

          
          
             Treasuries  rose, pushing two-year
yields to the fourth record low in five days, as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic outlook is
“unusually uncertain” and policy makers are prepared “to take
further policy actions as needed.”  
 Ten-year note yields touched a 15-month low as Bernanke
told the Senate Banking Committee that  central bankers are
ready to act to aid growth even as they prepare to eventually
raise interest rates from almost zero and shrink a record
balance sheet.  
 “An unusual outlook may call for unusual measures, and
that means the Fed may take more action as needed, which would
lead to lower rates,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas, one of the 18 primary
dealers that trade with the central bank.  
 The benchmark 10-year note yield dropped 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 2.88 percent at 4:42 p.m. in New York.
It touched 2.85 percent, the lowest level since April 21. The
3.5 percent security due in May 2020 rose 5/8, or $6.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 105 1/4.  
 The two-year  Treasury  note yield fell as much as 2 basis
points to touch 0.5520 percent, the lowest ever, before trading
at 0.5601 percent. It previously reached record lows July 15, 16
and yesterday. Thirty-year bond yields slid 9 basis points to
3.89 percent.  
 U.S. stocks tumbled after fluctuating earlier.  
 The Treasury will announce tomorrow it will auction $105
billion in 2-, 5- and 7-year notes next week, the smallest
monthly offering of the securities since June 2009, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of 10 primary dealers, which are
required to bid on the sales.  
 No Decisions  
 The Fed chief, responding to questions, outlined options
for further steps, including giving more information on the
Fed’s commitment to low interest rates. Tools to boost the
economy also include reducing the rate paid on banks’ reserves
held at the Fed and using the central bank’s balance sheet, he
said. Officials haven’t decided which they might use, he said.  
 Economic data over the past month that were weaker than
analysts projected have prompted investor speculation the Fed
may increase monetary stimulus in a bid to keep the economy
growing and reduce a  jobless rate  from close to a 26-year high.  
 Policy makers have kept the  target  for overnight loans
between banks in a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  
 ‘Extended Period’  
 Bernanke today affirmed the central bank’s policy of
keeping rates low for an “extended period,” saying it expects
moderate growth, a decline in the jobless rate and “subdued
inflation” over several years.  
 Policy makers at their June policy meeting lowered their
forecast for growth this year to a range of between 3 percent
and 3.5 percent, from 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April,
minutes released last week showed.  
 In his eight-page statement to the Senate panel, the Fed
chairman devoted almost 10 times as many words to discussing the
exit from stimulus as he did to potential actions to boost
growth. Exit options include reinvesting proceeds from maturing
Treasuries into shorter-term issues, selling housing debt and
raising the interest rate paid on the $1 trillion of bank
deposits at the Fed, Bernanke said.  
 Exit-Strategy Focus  
 “The market was looking for some kind of groundwork of
what further accommodation would look like,” said  Steve Rodosky , head of Treasury and derivatives trading at Newport
Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s largest bond fund. “If anything there was more
of a focus on an exit strategy.”  
 A gauge of trader expectations for inflation, the  gap 
between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, narrowed to 1.71 percentage points from this year’s
high of 2.49 percentage points in January. It touched 1.68
percentage points yesterday, the least since October.  
 Initial jobless claims rose to 445,000 last week and
existing-home sales fell 9.9 percent in June, Bloomberg News
surveys forecast before reports tomorrow.  
 The U.S. will auction $39 billion in 2-year notes, $37
billion in 5-year securities and $29 billion in 7-year debt next
week, according to the median estimate in the Bloomberg survey
of primary dealers. The sales will take place on three
consecutive days beginning July 27.  
 The $105 billion total would mark the third straight month
the government has reduced its offering of the notes, and would
be the lowest since it sold $104 billion of them 13 months ago.  
 ‘Heavy Lifting’ Done  
 The U.S. budget deficit in June shrank from a year
earlier, to $68.4 billion from $94.3 billion, the Treasury
reported on July 13. Even so, the deficit this fiscal year is
forecast to reach a record $1.6 trillion as the government funds
efforts to revive growth and employment.  
 Matthew Rutherford , the Treasury’s deputy assistant
secretary for federal finance, said earlier this year the
department was confident the “deficit situation” would improve
and that auction sizes had reached their peak. “The heavy
lifting is done,” he said at a Feb. 3 press conference.  
 Two-year interest-rate swap spreads widened today for the
first time in eight days after Bernanke damped speculation that
policy makers were considering reducing the interest rate paid
on reserves. The Fed will need to increase that rate at some
point in the future when it begins lowering the support it
provides the economy, Bernanke said told lawmakers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
