-- China's Three Gorges Says Yangtze Flooding Exceeds 1998 Level
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T08:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/three-gorges-dam-reports-water-flows-this-morning-that-exceed-1998-levels.html

          
          
             China’s Three Gorges Dam, the
largest in the world, helped alleviate flooding in central China
by containing the heaviest rush of water in more than 12 years.  
 Water flow down Asia’s longest river was contained and
released at a “safe level,” Huang Hua, assistant director of
public affairs at  China Three Gorges Corp. , the operator, said
by phone today. Operations at the Hubei province dam, including
power generation, are “all normal”, he said.  
 Rainfall since July 1 has affected about 38 million people
and forced the relocation of 1.3 million in 11 provinces, the
Ministry of Civil Affairs said July 16. Rice output in China,
which accounts for 35 percent of global production, may drop by
10 percent on torrential rains and outbreak of pests, industry
 website  cngrain.com said today.  
 “Three Gorges can comfortably handle the flood water,”
Chairman  Cao Guangjing  said in a  statement  on its website today.
“For the control of flooding downstream, Three Gorges is
working very effectively.”  
 The speed of the water rushing down the river peaked at
70,000 cubic meters a second, though the volume probably won’t
be as big as 1998, with the peak level lasting a shorter time,
Cao said in the statement. The flow is expected to drop to
60,000 cubic meters a second by 8 a.m. tomorrow, it said.  
 The 1998 flood, when the water flow reached 50,000 cubic
meters a second, killed about 4,000 people and forced the
evacuation of 18.4 million, causing economic losses of at least
166.6 billion yuan ($25 billion). That flood, which had affected
central and northeast China, lasted for months.  
 Record Level  
 The Three Gorges Dam, which started operations in 2003, can
handle water flow at 98,800 cubic meters a second, the official
Xinhua News Agency  said , citing Cao. The record high was 70,800
cubic meters per second in 1981, the news agency said, citing an
unidentified spokesman at the dam operator.  
 Flood and landslides triggered by torrential rains have
left at least 41 people dead and 84 missing in Shaanxi and
Sichuan provinces, the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing
flood control authorities. Economic losses in the 11 provinces
totaled 29.52 billion yuan,  the civil affairs ministry said .  
 “Heavy rains in July pounded on Hubei’s grain, cotton,
vegetable, aquaculture and livestock producing areas before
shifting westward and northward,” said cngrain.com, which is
owned by China Grain Reserves Corp. “The rains also induced
pests outbreaks this week.”  
 Ravages Crops  
 In some of the main producing areas, the output decline
may be as much as 20 percent, cngrain said. Persistent and wide-
ranging rains ravaged early rice crops in Jiangxi and Anhui
provinces, with about 23 percent of the area in Jiangxi affected,
it said. The early rice crop was in flowering stage when the
rains hit, it added.  
 Hu Zaoping, director of the news department at Yangtze
River Flood Control and Draught Relief Office, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  
 Regions in Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia,
Shandong, Anhui, Hubei, Hunan, Chongqing, Guizhou, Yunnan and
Guangdong will have heavy rain in the next 24 hours, the China
Meteorological Administration said in a  statement .  
 Typhoon Chanthu may land in Guangdong or Hainan province on
July 22, the weather bureau said at 11:18 a.m. local time.  
 Highways, Old Towns  
 More than 80 percent of the old township in Guangan city
in Sichuan province were submerged after the biggest flood since
1847 hit the city, China Broadcasting Union  reported today . More
than two kilometers of the No. 318 national highway in county Qu,
located in the eastern part of Sichuan Basin, was flooded
yesterday at 6 p.m. The water blocked cars from the area and
left the county an “isolated island,” according to the  Chengdu
Business Day .  
 The Chongqing Maritime Bureau has suspended shipping in the
areas of Baishatuo Bridge, Chongqing Port, Tongluoxia, and
Huangcaoxia since yesterday , Xinhua said . Chaotianmen port, the
largest in Chongqing and the site where the Yangtze River and
Jialing River merges, was partly inundated by the peak flow
yesterday afternoon, People.com.cn reported.  
 Part of the Sichuan-Tibet highway may only be open again on
July 28, after rain led to spillage of mud and rock, Xinhua said,
citing the Communications Bureau of Tibet.  
 Flooding in southern China this year poses a challenge for
agricultural production, Chen Mengshan, the Ministry of
Agriculture’s spokesman and chief economist, said July 16.  
 China Three Gorges, the parent of Shanghai-listed  China
Yangtze Power Co. , is building dams on the Yangtze River to
control floods and help end electricity shortages in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. The nation is the world’s largest
consumer of energy, according to the International Energy Agency.  
 -- Winnie Zhu  and  Feiwen Rong , with assistance from  Penny Peng 
and  Miao Han . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  John Liu .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Three Gorges Dam. Source: Qing Cao/ImagineChina via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
