-- Regulator Liu Mingkang Sees Challenges to Maintain Healthy Bank Industry
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T14:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/regulator-liu-mingkang-sees-challenges-to-maintain-healthy-bank-industry.html

          
          
             China faces many challenges in its
efforts to maintain the health of the banking industry,
including risks from local government financing vehicles,
property loans and industrial overcapacity, bank regulator  Liu Mingkang  said.  
 While the economy is moving in the “expected direction,”
structural changes pose challenges for the country, Liu said in
a  statement  posted on the website of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission today after a meeting of officials at the
watchdog to discuss the country’s economic situation.  
 Growth  in the world’s third-largest economy slowed to 10.3
percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous
three months as Premier Wen Jiabao ordered curbs on real-estate
and industrial lending. The nation’s policy makers are grappling
with the risks posed by last year’s $1.4 trillion  credit boom 
that fueled the nation’s comeback from the global recession.  
 “The current macroeconomic financial situation is still
complex and changing, the sustained healthy development of the
banking industry faces a multitude of challenges, especially
risks in the areas of government financing vehicles, real estate
and sectors with overcapacity, which need attention,” Liu said.  
 The regulator reiterated previous orders for banks to step
up scrutiny of lending to local government financing vehicles
and to curb credit to new investment projects run by local
authorities after outstanding loans to these entities surged 70
percent last year to 7.38 trillion yuan.  
 Stress Tests  
 Banks must adhere to restrictions on lending to property
developers and mortgage loans to individuals, Liu said. They
should also conduct “stress tests” on their lending for real-
estate projects and other sectors related to property to ensure
they properly understand and can cope with the risks they’ve
taken on, the regulator said.  
 China’s government is targeting 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion) of new loans this year, a 22 percent reduction from
last year’s record, to cool the property market and limit the
resurgence of bad loans while sustaining economic growth.  
 Fitch Ratings last week estimated that bank lending in the
first half of the year was 28 percent higher than the official
4.6 trillion yuan ($679 billion) figure as loans were repackaged
into off-balance sheet investment products. The regulator
imposed a temporary ban on such “informal securitization”
earlier this month, according to Fitch.  
 China’s five largest state-controlled commercial banks,
which include  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , plan to raise as
much as $53.5 billion to replenish capital after last year’s
lending surge weakened their capital adequacy ratios.
Agricultural Bank this month sold $19.2 billion of shares in the
world’s largest initial public offering in four years.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top financial stories: FTOP <GO>
Stories on China banks: TNI CHINA BNK <GO>
Banking industry debt and equity monitor: BANK <GO>
Relative value comparison: 1398 HK <Equity> RVC <GO>  
          
          


  


        