-- Republicans Gain Money Edge in Races for Democratic-Held Open House Seats
-- Patricia Laya
-- 2010-07-20T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/republicans-gain-money-edge-in-races-for-democratic-held-open-house-seats.html

          
          
             Republican candidates have the
financial lead in most of the 15 competitive races for U.S.
House seats in which Democratic incumbents aren’t running again,
 Federal Election Commission  reports show.  
 Republicans in 10 of the open-seat races had more money in
their campaign bank accounts as of June 30 than the Democratic
contenders who are striving to keep the seat in their party’s
column. Democrats held the financial edge in the other five
races.  
 The Republican fundraising edge and opinion-poll findings
provide evidence that the party is poised to pick up House seats
in the November congressional elections.  
 “The competitive races are the red flag for Democrats,”
said  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs
at Princeton University in New Jersey. “Fundraising figures
like this suggest that Republicans will be able to make
significant dents into the Democratic majority, narrowing their
margin considerably.”  
 The House’s current breakdown is 255 Democrats and 178
Republicans, with two seats vacant. Republicans need a net
pickup of 40 seats to become the chamber’s majority party.  
 Bloomberg Poll  
 A July 9-12 Bloomberg National Poll found Americans
divided, 43 percent to 43 percent, as to whether they would vote
for a Democratic or Republican House candidate in November. The
figures include those who said they were leaning toward one
party or the other.  
 The poll also found public support lagging for President
 Barack Obama ’s handling of almost every major issue and that
they are pessimistic about the nation’s direction. The survey of
1,004 adults had a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.1
percentage points.  
 While predicting Republicans would make gains in the House,
Zelizer said he expects the Democrats to retain the chamber’s
majority, in part because of fundraising numbers.  
 Among the 35 Democratic incumbents seeking re-election who
three Washington-based publications each rate as vulnerable to
defeat, just three --  John Hall  of New York and  Steve Driehaus 
and  Mary Jo Kilroy  of Ohio -- had less money to spend as of June
30, according to the FEC reports. The publications tracking the
campaigns and offering the ratings are  Congressional Quarterly, 
the  Cook Political Report  and the  Rothenberg Political Report .  
 Senate Candidates  
 Democratic House candidates also had more money than their
opponents in two districts where the Republican incumbent is
giving up the seat to run for the U.S. Senate. Those incumbents
are  Mike Castle  of Delaware and  Mark Kirk  of Illinois.  
 Among Republican House members seeking re-election, just
two --  Dan Lungren  of California and  Dave Reichert  of Washington
-- trailed their opponents in cash-on-hand June 30.  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said June 11 on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” that enough Democrats were vulnerable that
the Republicans could win back the House majority they lost in
the 2006 elections.  
 “There’s no doubt there are enough seats in play that
could cause Republicans to gain control,” Gibbs said. “This
will depend on strong campaigns by Democrats.”  
 House Democratic incumbents retiring this year include
 Marion Berry  and  Vic Snyder  of Arkansas, and the Republican
nominees to succeed them each had had more money than their
Democratic opponents as of June 30.  
 More Than Double  
 Broadcaster Rick Crawford, running in Berry’s district, had
$213,593 in the bank, supplemented by a $70,000 personal loan.
That was more than double the $90,685 in the account of Democrat
Chad Causey, who was Berry’s chief of staff.  
 Tim Griffin, a former U.S. attorney seeking Snyder’s seat,
banked $315,663, which was almost triple the $106,334 for state
Senator  Joyce Elliott , the Democratic candidate.  
 In an upstate New York race for the seat Democratic
Representative  Eric Massa  resigned in March, Republican
candidate  Tom Reed  had $344,912 in the bank. The total included
$100,000 that Reed, the former mayor of Corning, New York, lent
his campaign. Democratic contender Matt Zeller, an Afghanistan
War veteran, had $85,990. Massa cited a  House ethics committee 
investigation in giving up his post.  
 In Pennsylvania, Republican Patrick Meehan, a former U.S.
attorney, banked $1.1 million in the race to succeed
Representative  Joe Sestak , the Democratic nominee for U.S.
Senate. Democrat  Brian Lentz , a state representative, had
$785,935.  
 ‘Surge in Support’  
 “Just as the White House is publicly acknowledging that
Democrats are headed for substantial losses in November,
Republican candidates are benefiting from a surge in support and
momentum all across the country,” said  Ken Spain , a spokesman
for the  National Republican Congressional Committee.   
 Democrats with a fundraising advantage include freshman
Representative  Alan Grayson  of Florida, who angered Republicans
when he announced on the House floor last September that “if
you get sick, America, the Republican health-care plan is this:
Die quickly.” He had banked $1.4 million as of June 30. Among
the several Republicans vying for the party’s nomination to run
against him, none have come close to matching that amount.  
 “It’s really tremendously concentrated on small donors,”
Grayson said in an interview regarding his fundraising.
“Populism is popular.”  
 In Nevada, freshman Representative  Dina Titus , a Democrat,
had $1.2 million in the bank while former state Senator  Joe Heck , a Republican, had less than one-third as much, $362,139.  
 “We had known since Day One that this would be a very
difficult environment” to run in, said Representative  Steve Israel  of New York, recruitment chairman for the  Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee.  “We made sure our candidates
were raising money robustly. At the end of the day, it keeps us
in control of the House.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Laya  in Washington at 
 playa1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “The competitive races are the red flag for Democrats,” said Julian Zelizer, a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University in New Jersey. Photographer: Jon Roemer/Basic Books via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
