-- Roche May Lose $1 Billion a Year on Avastin Change
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-21T15:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/roche-s-avastin-fails-to-win-u-s-advisory-panel-backing-for-breast-cancer.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG’s  top-seller
Avastin may shed $1 billion in annual revenue if U.S. regulators
follow a panel recommendation to revoke approval of the drug for
use in breast cancer.  
 Scientific advisers to the Food and Drug Administration
voted 12-1 yesterday to rescind Avastin’s clearance in breast
cancer after finding the drug paired with chemotherapies didn’t
work better than other medicines alone. The agency usually
follows panels’ advice, though it isn’t required to do so.  
 Roche, Europe’s largest drugmaker, won FDA approval of
Avastin for breast cancer in 2008 under an accelerated review
that required the company to conduct trials proving the drug,
with $5.97 billion in sales last year, slows progression of the
disease. Tests failed to meet this goal, the FDA panel found.
Withdrawal of U.S. approval could trim as much as $1 billion
from annual sales by 2015, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
analyst  Tim Anderson , in a report yesterday after the vote.  
 “Given the overwhelming majority against Avastin, we think
there is a good chance the FDA will follow the committee’s
advice,” Anderson said. He projected worldwide Avastin sales of
about $6.5 billion this year, including approximately $1.2
billion from breast cancer. Eliminating U.S. breast cancer sales
may cut Roche’s earnings a share by about 5 percent, he said.  
 No Expanded Use  
 Panelists also rejected Roche’s application to expand use
of Avastin in breast cancer for pairings with more varieties of
chemotherapy. Wider use from that approval could have pushed
global breast-cancer revenue for Avastin to about $3 billion a
year, said  Martin Voegtli , an analyst with Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich, in a telephone interview yesterday before the
panel vote.  
 “We are disappointed by the committee’s recommendation and
believe Avastin should continue to be an option,”  Sandra Horning , head of clinical development hematology/oncology at
Roche said in an e-mailed statement today. “We will continue to
discuss the data from the more than 2,400 women who participated
in three phase III studies with the FDA.”  
 Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, fell 6 Swiss francs, or
4.2 percent, to 137 francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in
Zurich. The stock declined 4.2 percent, the most in more than a
year, July 16 after a  FDA report  concluded Avastin didn’t slow
breast tumors in new studies as much as in earlier tests used to
win approval.  
 “It is clear that the FDA do not believe Avastin adds a
clinically meaningful benefit to patients,” said  Dominic Valder , a London-based analyst with Evolution Securities, in a
July 19 research report.  
 Sept. 17 Decision  
 “Today’s advisory committee vote does not change the
current availability of Avastin for women with advanced breast
cancer,” Charlotte Arnold, a spokeswoman for Roche’s South San
Francisco, California-based Genentech unit, said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The FDA will make a final decision by Sept.
17, she said.  
 Avastin is the first medicine to fight cancer by blocking
the growth of blood vessels that feed tumors, a process called
angiogenesis. It targets a chemical signal known as vascular
endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. The treatment, also approved
for brain, lung and colon tumors, costs about $50,000 a year.
Avastin was developed by the company’s Genentech unit, fully
acquired by the European drugmaker last year for $46.8 billion.  
 Most Common Malignancy  
 Breast cancer  is the most common malignancy in females and
strikes about 1 million women a year globally, according to the
Geneva-based World Health Organization. Avastin is approved for
about three quarters of women whose breast cancer has been
recently diagnosed as having spread to other organs. It doesn’t
include women who have a mutation to the HER2 protein, a known
risk factor. Patients with HER2 mutations are eligible for
another Roche drug, Herceptin.  
 The FDA’s 2008 clearance of Avastin for breast cancer
overruled an advisory panel that concluded the benefit of
slowing the spread of tumors wasn’t worth the risk of side
effects including high blood pressure and death.  
 Approval was based on a clinical trial, called E2100, which
showed Avastin slowed the spread of breast cancer by an
additional 5.5 months when paired with paclitaxel chemotherapy,
compared with the other drug alone, the FDA said in its report.  
 One trial completed since then, called Avado, showed that a
high dose of Avastin paired with docetaxel chemotherapy extended
the time patients lived without their disease worsening by 0.9
months, compared with treatment with chemotherapy alone, the FDA
report said. A lower dose of Avastin gave patients 0.8 months.  
 Extended Life  
 A second trial finished after approval, called Ribbon-1,
found Avastin combined with taxane or anthracycline-based
chemotherapies stalled tumor growth by 1.2 months, compared with
treatment with chemotherapy alone, the agency said in its
review. Patients who got Avastin combined with Xeloda lived 2.9
months longer without their disease progressing, compared with
chemotherapy alone.  
 “We have a far more comprehensive picture here of the role
of Avastin than we had in 2008,” said  Richard Pazdur , director
of the FDA’s Office of Oncology Drug Products, told the panel
before yesterday’s vote.  
 Drugs that win conditional clearance through the FDA’s
accelerated-approval program can later be pulled from the market
if subsequent data fails to show that a treatment increases
long-term survival or slows progression of the disease while
improving quality of life.  
 ‘Overwhelming Majority’  
 While Avastin is expensive and doesn’t work as well as
early trials suggested, the “overwhelming majority” of breast
cancer specialists think the drug has a use in certain patients,
 Jack Scannell , a Bernstein analyst in London, said in a July 15
research note.  
 Breast-cancer patients may lose insurance coverage for
Avastin if the FDA revokes approval of the treatment, said
Francisco Esteva, a professor of breast medical oncology at the
University of Texas  MD Anderson Cancer Center  in Houston.  
 “Even if we wanted to use it, patients would have to
consider that it’s a very expensive therapy,” Esteva said July
15 in a telephone interview. “Without insurance support, I
don’t think patients would be able to take it.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Gaithersburg, Maryland at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Roche's Colon-Cancer Drug Avastin  
                       
                         
                           J.B. Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Roche's colon-cancer drug Avastin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Roche's colon-cancer drug Avastin. Photographer: J.B. Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
