-- Rubber Gains on Yen's Retreat, Concern Near Contract to Jump on Stockpiles
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-20T07:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/rubber-gains-as-yen-retreat-boosts-appeal-stockpiles-reach-nine-year-low.html

          
          
             Rubber increased as a weaker
Japanese currency raised the appeal of yen-based contracts and
data showed stockpiles monitored by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
dropped to the lowest level in at least nine years.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed for a second day and gained as
much as 0.8 percent after declining last week by 3.3 percent.
The yen retreated from a seven-month high against the dollar on
speculation that the central bank may weaken the currency.  
 Natural-rubber  stockpiles  monitored by the Tokyo exchange
dropped by 29 percent to 1,341 metric tons as of July 10, data
from the bourse showed. It was the lowest volume since at least
2001, exchange spokesman Seiki Ichimura said. Data before that
year were unavailable, he said.  
 “As domestic stockpiles are at a very low level, short-
position holders may have to buy back the nearby contract,”
 Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today.
Speculators with short, or sell, positions in the nearby
contract must buy them back by the July 26 expiry date, unless
they can deliver the raw material.  
 December-delivery rubber gained as much as 2.1 yen to 266
yen per kilogram ($3,059 a metric ton) before settling at 264.5
yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. July-delivery rubber, which
lost 3 percent today, surged by as much as 2.8 percent on July
16 amid speculation that the low stockpiles may make physical
delivery difficult at the expiry.  
 “The market was supported by speculation that the nearby
contract may surge before its expiry,”  Shigemoto  said today by
phone. The July contract settled at 344.4 yen.  
 Gains Limited  
 Gains in futures were limited after U.S. home-builder
confidence dropped more than forecast, renewing concern the
economic recovery may falter.  
 The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index dropped to 14 this month, the lowest level
since April 2009, from 16 in June, data from the Washington-
based group showed yesterday. Builders in the U.S. turned more
pessimistic in July than forecast, a sign the expiration of a
government tax credit will depress home construction.  
 The yen fell against all of its 16 major counterparts amid
speculation recent gains will spur Japanese authorities to
weaken the currency.  
 The Bank of Japan may take steps to ease monetary policy
should the yen stay at about 85 per dollar, Dow Jones Newswires
reported yesterday, citing people familiar with deliberations at
the central bank.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 1.7 percent to 21,720 yuan ($3,205) a ton at 2:45 p.m.
local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        