-- Rupee Slides to a Six-Week Low on Concern Global Recovery Is Faltering
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-20T11:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/rupee-slides-to-a-six-week-low-on-concern-global-recovery-is-faltering.html

          
          
             India’s rupee fell to a six-week low
after economic data from the U.S. showed that the global
recovery is faltering, stoking concern investors will cut
holdings of riskier emerging-market assets.  
 The currency slid for a third day after Commerce Secretary
 Rahul Khullar  said yesterday India’s  exports  rose at the slowest
pace in five months during June. The U.S. National Association
of Home Builders/Wells Fargo Confidence Index dropped to the
lowest level since April 2009 this month, according to data
issued overnight. A July 16 report showed consumer sentiment in
the U.S. dropped to an 11-month low.  
 “Economic woes have now spread from the euro zone to the
U.S., and the risk of a double-dip recession is gaining credence
to send shock waves in the emerging markets,” J.  Moses Harding ,
executive vice-president at IndusInd Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote
in a research note today. “The rupee is expected to stay under
pressure.”  
 The currency retreated 0.5 percent to 47.36 per dollar as
of the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, taking this week’s losses to 1.25
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It fell as low
as 47.385 earlier, the weakest level since June 7. It has slid
1.9 percent so far this month, the worst performance among Asian
currencies.  
 Offshore forward contracts indicated the rupee will trade
at 47.96 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations for a rate of 47.68 yesterday. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  declined 0.3
percent today, taking its losses this week to 0.4 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        