-- Russia's First Auto Loan-Backed Bond Since 2006 Planned as Car Sales Surge
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-07-20T21:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/russia-s-first-auto-loan-backed-bond-since-2006-planned-as-car-sales-surge.html

          
          
             VTB Group’s retail arm is
considering the country’s first sale of bonds backed by auto
loans since 2006 after June car sales increased 45 percent.  
 VTB-24 of Moscow is likely to offer securities tied to
vehicle debt next year as a way of providing credit for car
buyers,  Alexei Tokarev , head of the bank’s auto loan unit, said
in an interview in Moscow. ZAO Toyota Bank, the Russian lending
unit of the world’s largest auto manufacturer, also may issue
the notes in the future, President  Alexander Koloshenko  said.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is deploying 11 billion
rubles ($360 million) of the government’s economic stimulus
package this year to revive Russia’s car market from a slump the
Moscow-based Association of European Business says sent car
sales plunging 49 percent last year. Russia surpassed Germany in
the first half of 2008 as Europe’s biggest auto market, before
the global credit crisis and the ruble’s 35 percent tumble
between August and January 2009 choked demand.  
 “The car loan market is experiencing a kind of
resurrection,” said  Martin Jahn , managing director of
Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen AG’s sales operations in
Moscow. “The auto loan market was the engine of the Russian car
market growth up to the year 2008.”  
 Russians bought 1.65 million cars in the first half of
2008, a 41 percent increase from the same period a year earlier,
according to data from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Sales totaled
174,838 in June, an increase of 45 percent from the year before,
according to a report this month from the Association of
European Business in the Russian Federation in Moscow.  
 Auto Loans  
 The last Russian securities backed by auto loans were sold
four years ago, according to  Stanislav Ponomarenko , a fixed-
income analyst at ING Groep NV in Moscow. Securities linked to
vehicle debt in the U.S. represent about $34 billion of the $55
billion in bonds tied to consumer and business lending this
year, according to data compiled by Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp.  
 VTB-24 sold 15 billion rubles of bonds backed by mortgage
loans in its most recent asset-backed transaction in December.
The bonds due in 2014 with a put option for redemption in 2011
have rallied since their issue, cutting the yield to 6.850
percent yesterday from 9.7 percent at the time of the sale, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. VTB is rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poor’s, in line with
Russia’s government.  
 Toyota  
 Loans will be used to finance between 45 and 50 percent of
all car purchases in Russia this year, according to UniCredit
and Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota’s Moscow-based consumer
finance unit. About 35 percent of sales are currently financed
with loans, according to Volkswagen and car dealership Rolf
Group in Moscow.  
 Bonds backed by auto loans will probably be used to fund a
third of total car loans, or about 150 billion rubles, VTB’s
Tokarev said in the July 19 interview.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points yesterday to
255, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. That
compares with 172 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 222 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  
 Bonds Gain  
 Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 sold in April gained,
lowering the yield 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
5.237 percent.  
 Russian bonds  yield  50 basis points less than the average
for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of 105 in
February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 4 basis points on
July 19 to 177.84, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 Russia credit-default swaps cost 1 basis point more than
contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at Ba2 by
Moody’s Investors Service. That  difference  has narrowed from 40
basis points on April 20.  
 Ruble Rises  
 The ruble gained 0.1 percent to 30.5075 per dollar in
Moscow yesterday. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble at 30.6738 per
dollar in three months.  
 While Toyota Bank “hopes very much” to issue bonds backed
by auto loans, issuing such securities is now too costly,
Koloshenko said.  
 Bonds tied to auto lending are “an interesting and
promising instrument, but in practice auto lending is funded
directly by means of deposits and bank loans,” said  Ivan Syskov , head of car lending development at Milan-based UniCredit
SpA in Moscow.  
 OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, has no plans to
issue bonds backed by auto loans because it has “no
difficulties financing the planned lending volumes,”  Natalia Karaseva , the bank’s Moscow-based head of consumer lending, said
by e-mail yesterday.  
 “I wouldn’t touch it,” said  Hakem Saidi , a fund manager
at Pioneer Investments Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mbH in
Unterfoehring in Germany, which holds VTB’s bonds. “People come
out with packaging of this type of loan to enhance the yield.
We’ve seen this before in the years of 2003, 2007 and everybody
knows it ended up in tears.”  
 Asset-Backed Bonds  
 Sales of asset-backed securities will allow banks to keep
expanding credit to car buyers without using up their capital,
VTB’s Tokarev said.  
 “The lack of a market for such bonds inhibits loan
growth,” Tokarev said. “Many market players will consider”
issuing securities tied to auto lending next year, including
VTB-24, he said.  
 Increases in  employment  and  consumer spending  rekindled
auto purchases this year. Retail sales rose for a sixth month in
June, jumping an annual 5.8 percent, while the jobless rate fell
to 6.8 percent, the lowest level in 20 months.  
 The total amount of Russian car loans will probably
increase 19 percent to 500 billion rubles by the end of this
year, Tokarev said.  
 “The global risk appetite will start to improve and demand
should follow,” ING’s Ponomarenko said. “There could be few
deals just to satisfy particular demand for that kind of
instrument.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        