-- Russia Discovers Foot-and-Mouth Disease in Livestock Near Chinese Border
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-20T09:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/russia-finds-foot-and-mouth-disease-in-farm-near-china-border-oie-says.html

          
          
             Russia is suffering from its first
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease since 2006 after the virus
was found in livestock near the Chinese border, according to the
World Organization for Animal Health, or OIE.  
 The virus infected 112 cattle and four pigs located 12
kilometers (7.5 miles) from the border, an alert by Russia’s
Ministry of Agriculture published yesterday on the Paris-based
OIE’s website shows. Vaccination and quarantine measures have
been applied, according to the alert.  
 Foot-and-mouth disease is one of the most contagious animal
illnesses and can kill young offspring, according to the OIE. A
2001 outbreak in the U.K. caused at least 9 billion pounds
($13.7 billion) in damages including direct expenses, costs to
tourism and compensation payments to farmers,  according  to
Cardiff University’s Centre for Business Relationships,
Accountability, Sustainability and Society.  
 The Russian outbreak started on July 5 and was confirmed by
laboratory testing on July 18, the alert shows. Before now, the
disease most recently occurred in the country in June 2006,
according to the notice.  
 Russia had 19.6 million pigs and 17.9 million head of
cattle in 2009, according to data from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The country’s livestock herd ranks behind countries
including the U.S. and Brazil.  
 China in November reported an outbreak of the viral disease
among cattle in the northwestern region of Xinjiang.  
 The foot-and-mouth virus infects cloven-hoofed animals
including cattle, pigs and sheep. It can cause foot lesions, as
well as weight loss and permanently reduced milk production in
cattle.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        