-- Rwanda Killings Won't Stop Kagame From Winning Second Election, Party Says
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-20T11:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/rwanda-killings-won-t-stop-kagame-from-winning-second-election-party-says.html

          
          
             Rwanda’s ruling party said a spate
of political killings in the run-up to next month’s presidential
election won’t stop President  Paul Kagame  from securing a second
term.  
 Kagame will start his campaign today for the Aug. 9 vote by
promoting his achievements in building the central African
country’s economy, enforcing good governance and broadening
social welfare, Wellars Gasamara, spokesman for the Rwandan
Patriotic Front, said in an interview today.  
 The “attacks were sad events, but they have not affected
our party and we are not concerned because it is a matter for
government not the party to handle,” Gasamara said from the
capital, Kigali.  
 The deputy leader of  Rwanda ’s opposition Democratic Green
Party was found dead last week with his head nearly severed.
Newspaper editor Jean-Leonard Rugambage has been killed and a
dissident former Rwandan army chief of staff, Faustin Kayumba
Nyamwasa, was shot and hospitalized in Johannesburg. The Rwandan
government denies involvement in the incidents.  
 Kagame, an army general who helped Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  into power, led the rebel forces that in 1994 ended the
genocide of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus. He won a
first 7-year term in September 2003 after Rwanda’s first
democratically contested multi-party elections, according to  his
website .  
 World Bank Accolade  
 Kagame has overseen a period of economic growth, with the
World Bank’s Doing Business 2010 report ranking Rwanda as the
world’s top “business reformer.” The coffee-based economy is
projected to grow 5.4 percent this year, the International
Monetary Fund said on July 9.  
 “The message will be around the economy, justice, good
governance and social welfare,” Gasamara said. “We will give
account of the achievements in these areas which the party
promised to deliver in the last campaign, and put forward new
pledges for the next seven years.”  
 Victoire Ingabire, leader of the opposition United
Democratic Forces, said on July 16 that she was under house
arrest and hadn’t been able to register for the election, making
Kagame’s victory “certain.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya via  Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        