-- Ryanair Profit Declines Less Than Estimated
-- Steve Rothwell
-- 2010-07-20T08:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/ryanair-first-quarter-profit-falls-24-on-volcano-disruption-fuel-prices.html

          
          
             Ryanair Holdings Plc , Europe’s
largest discount airline, reported a quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and forecast fares may rise by as much as 15
percent in the current period.  
 Net income  for the first quarter ended June 30 fell 24
percent to 93.7 million euros ($122 million) after plumes of
volcanic ash shut European airspace in April and fuel costs
rose, the Dublin-based carrier said today. Sales gained 16
percent to 896.8 million euros.  
 Ryanair was forced to cancel 9,400 flights after the
eruption of Iceland’s Eyjafjallajökull volcano prompted
regulators to shut European airspace on concern volcanic ash
could damage aircraft engines. The carrier is boosting fares by
adding longer routes and new bases at holiday destinations such
as Barcelona and Malaga in Spain.  
 “The second quarter is the bumper quarter, and if you can
raise fares by that much it gives you a huge tailwind going into
the year end,” said  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Securities
in Dublin who recommends buying Ryanair shares. “It says
something when you’re able to put up fares aggressively when
you’re putting in extra seats.”  
 Ryanair rose as much as 16 cents, or 4.2 percent, and was
 trading  up 0.6 percent at 3.80 euros as of 9:11 a.m. in Dublin.
The carrier’s stock has risen 15 percent this year, boosting its
market value to 5.6 billion euros.  
 Full-Year Forecast  
 The carrier had been projected to report a profit of 76
million euros on sales of 880 million euros, according to the
 median of analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Ryanair maintained its forecast for the full-year,
predicting net income will rise as much as 15 percent to a range
of 350 million euros to 375 million euros. The carrier estimates
that it will carry as many as 73.5 million passengers this year,
excluding the impact of the disruption caused by volcanic ash.  
 “Our first-quarter profits were adversely impacted by the
unnecessary closure of European airspace,” Chief Executive
Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in the statement. “We continue to
see enormous opportunities to grow our business across Europe.”  
 The ash disruption caused Ryanair to cancel flights for
about 1.5 million passengers, at a cost of 44.8 million euros,
the company said.  
 Yields, a measure of average fares, rose by 5 percent as
the average length of Ryanair flights increased by 13 percent,
the airline said.  
 Fuel Costs  
 First-quarter fuel costs rose 34 percent to 286.6 million
euros after the price of oil rebounded as the global economy
pulled out of recession. The average price of oil contracts
traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose to $78.14 a
barrel from $59.63 in the same period last year.  
 The carrier has hedged 90 percent of its fuel needs for
this fiscal year at an average price of $730 per ton, and 90
percent for the fiscal year ending in 2012 at an average price
of $755 a ton. Jet fuel prices rose $10.5 dollars, or 1.5
percent, to $691.5 a ton yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The rise in fuel costs were in part offset by lower airport
charges as competition for business increased amongst European
terminals following the recession, Ryanair said. The carrier’s
airport and handling fees fell to 116.2 million euros from 116.7
million euros, even as it expanded its fleet.  
 Ryanair plans to a pay its first-ever  dividend  this year
after scrapping a plan to expand its fleet by buying more planes
from Boeing Co. The carrier said last month that it would make
the special payment totaling 500 million euros in October.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ryanair CEO Michael O’Leary said “We continue to see enormous opportunities to grow our business across Europe.” Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ryanair check-in counter at Barajas airport in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
