-- Sallie Mae Posts $338 Million Profit on Derivatives
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-20T21:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/sallie-mae-posts-338-million-profit-on-derivatives.html

          
          
             SLM Corp. , the largest U.S. student
lender known as Sallie Mae, reported second-quarter profit of
$338 million, citing derivative gains.  
 Net income of 63 cents a share compares with a loss of
$122.7 million, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier, according
to a statement distributed by Business Wire. Sallie Mae said its
core earnings were 39 cents. The Reston, Virginia-based company
was predicted to earn 30 cents, excluding some items, according
to the average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The  lender  extended $3.1 billion in government-guaranteed
debt in the second quarter, compared with $219 million in
private loans, or those that don’t carry U.S. backing.
Legislation that ended lending through the Federal Family
Education loan program, which took effect June 30, will
eliminate a large part of Sallie Mae’s origination business.
Students will now obtain federally backed loans directly from
the government.  
 “Growth in private student loans is expected to be one of
the largest drivers of business growth,” said  Sameer Gokhale ,
an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. in New York. “We
would like to see more robust origination volumes at some point.
But we never want to see them growing too fast as that’s almost
always a sign of lax underwriting.”  
 The company made $387 million in private student loans
during the year-ago period, according to the statement. May and
June are typically slow months for lending, as students don’t
usually borrow at that time, said  Matt Snowling , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets, in an interview before the earnings
announcement.  
 Private Loan Charge-offs  
 “The third quarter is when they need to deliver on
originations,” said Snowling, who is based in Arlington,
Virginia.  
 Private education loan charge-offs rose to $336 million
from $284 million during the prior three months. The loan-loss
provision for the debt was $349 million, compared with $325
million in the first quarter.  
 Sallie Mae has cut back on extending private student loans,
concerned that students would be unable to pay off debt, and may
have become too conservative, according to Snowling.  
 “They can loosen their underwriting to some degree without
jeopardizing the credit performance,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        