-- San Francisco Sells $387 Million as Build Americas Trail Tax-Exempt Munis
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-20T14:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/san-francisco-sells-387-million-as-build-americas-trail-tax-exempt-munis.html

          
          
             San Francisco’s Public Utilities
Commission, which supplies water to 2.5 million people in the
Bay Area, is selling about $387 million in Build America Bonds
as issuance of the taxable debt falls to a two-month low.  
 The securities are set to trail tax-exempt muni bonds for
the first month since February. Build Americas have lost 0.68
percent in July, compared with a 0.85 percent gain for tax-
exempts, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
underperformance comes as legislation to extend the Build
America program beyond this year has stalled in Congress.  
 “It’s a combination of it being the middle of the summer,
people are more worried about state budget concerns and people
are worried that the program won’t be continued,” said  Philip Fang , who manages an  exchange-traded fund  investing mainly in
Build Americas at New York-based Invesco Powershares Capital
LLC.  
 About $827 million in Build Americas, whose interest costs
are federally subsidized, are scheduled for sale this week.
That’s the lowest amount for a non-holiday period since the week
ended April 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers
are slated to sell $4.4 billion in tax-exempt debt.  
 States have projected combined budget deficits of $127
billion from the last month of fiscal 2010 through 2012,
according to a report last month by the National Governors
Association and the National Association of State Budget
Officers.  
 Corporate Debt  
 Top-rated U.S. corporate debt maturing in at least 15 years
has lost 0.5 percent this month while Treasuries have returned
0.2 percent, according to Merrill Lynch. Investors have sought
the perceived safety of U.S. government securities amid concern
that some European nations may default on their debts.  
 Build Americas have still given investors a return this
year of more than double that of tax-exempts, at 9.3 percent
versus 4.2 percent, according to Merrill Lynch data. The average
bond in the Build America index yields 5.80 percent, compared
with 3.84 percent in the tax-exempt group.  
 “The BAB program is doing very well,” Fang said. “I
don’t think BABs are falling out of favor.”  
 The Bay Area utility sold $417 million of the debt last
month. The authority plans $4.6 billion in improvements to the
system, including earthquake protection. San Francisco pumps
 water  more than 180 miles (290 kilometers) from  Yosemite
National Park  to supply four Bay Area counties.  
 Competitive Sale  
 The bonds are rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and
AA- by Standard & Poor’s, third- and fourth-highest. In the
competitive sale last month, the utility paid investors 185
basis points more than 30-year Treasuries for Build Americas
maturing in 2040. Those securities traded July 14 at an average
yield of 5.89 percent, 186 basis points above the benchmark.  
 “We’re looking to get similar range or perhaps better,
dependent on the continued flight to quality and flight to
certainty in these markets,” said Todd Rydstrom, chief
financial officer of the utility commission.  
 Los Angeles Department of Water & Power, also rated AA- by
S&P, sold $616 million in Build Americas on May 19, with 30-year
bonds priced to yield 6.17 percent, 193 basis points above
Treasuries. The securities traded yesterday at an average yield
of 5.96 percent, 198 basis points above the benchmark. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Extra Yield  
 Investors in taxable, 30-year Build Americas demanded an
 average  of  205 basis points  in extra yield above comparable-
maturity Treasuries yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The so-called spread has widened 63 basis points
since May 6.  
 “The composition of the market has been highly
concentrated in a handful of states, and names within those
states -- some early investors have reached risk limits,” said
 Peter DeGroot , head of the municipal index and strategies group
at  Barclays  Capital in New York. “Spreads may tighten as
issuance becomes more diversified and the investor base expands
over time.”  
 This week’s competitive sale also includes about $67
million in tax-exempts to refinance existing debt and cover the
cost of issuance, preliminary offering documents show. Yields on
top-rated general obligations due in 10 years stayed at  2.88
percent  yesterday, the lowest in at least nine-and-a-half years,
according to Municipal Market Advisors data starting in January
2001.  
 Build America Bonds, created last year as part of the
federal economic-stimulus program, are the fastest-growing part
of the $2.8 trillion municipal market. Issuers are eligible for
a 35 percent subsidy on interest-rate costs. About $121 billion
of the securities have been sold, Bloomberg data show.  
 The future of the program, which is set to expire in
December, is still undetermined, after an extension that would
have lowered the subsidy rate stalled in Congress.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        