-- HSBC, Standard Chartered to Offer Higher-Yielding Yuan Products After Pact
-- Andrea Wong
-- 2010-07-20T04:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/hsbc-standard-chartered-to-offer-higher-yielding-yuan-products-after-pact.html

          
          
             Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC
Holdings Plc plan to offer higher-yielding yuan products in Hong
Kong after regulators agreed to encourage the city’s residents
to invest using the currency.  
 Standard Chartered will offer yuan investments that link
returns to the performance of an underlying index, the London-
based bank said in a press release. HSBC, Europe’s largest
lender, said in a statement it will have a product that offers
an “enhanced yield” with interest payments tied to the
performance of the currency, known as the renminbi.  
 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the People’s Bank of
China yesterday signed an agreement allowing financial
institutions to offer higher returns on yuan savings accounts in
the city, which currently pay interest of less than 0.5 percent.
Deposits in China’s currency in Hong Kong rose 4.7 percent in
May to 84.7 billion yuan ($12.5 billion), HKMA figures show.  
 “A variety of RMB-based financial products is likely to
emerge in Hong Kong, including deposits and loans, insurance,
stocks, mutual funds as well as derivatives,” economists led by
 Joanne Yim  at Hang Seng Bank Ltd. wrote in a report. “Renminbi
trading in Hong Kong is likely to be more volatile, allowing
policy makers on the mainland to gain experience before full-
scale convertibility.”  
 Under the agreement, there will be no restrictions on
companies buying or selling yuan in Hong Kong subject to banks
holding enough of the currency, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
said at a press briefing. Restrictions on transfers of funds
between banks and other financial companies were also lifted.  
 “More renminbi-denominated products will become available,”
Chan told reporters yesterday. “This will further solidify Hong
Kong’s role as a renminbi market platform and global financial
center.”  
 Cross-Border Trade  
 China approved the use of the yuan to settle cross-border 
trade with Hong Kong in June 2009, part of a drive to broaden
use of the currency and reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. The
popularity of this program has been limited by the availability
of attractive investments using China’s currency.  
 Yuan settlement of trade between the city and China more
than doubled to 7.2 billion yuan in May, compared with as much
as 3 billion yuan in both March and April, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said last month.  
 Hong Kong accounted for 75 percent of the total 70.6
billion yuan in local-currency settlement in the first half of
this year, PBOC’s Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said. Yim expects
total yuan trade settlement between Hong Kong and China will
rise to 113 billion yuan by the end of this year from 53 billion
yuan in the first half.  
 “China’s currency has a mounting role in international
trade and investment,”  Mark McCombe , chief executive officer
for Hong Kong at HSBC, said in a statement yesterday. “We want
to be quick off the mark to roll out new renminbi-denominated
offerings.”  
 McCombe said HSBC will start to offer time deposit rates of
1.41 percent per year for customers starting July 20. The bank
will also start to provide yuan exchange-rate-linked deposits
from tomorrow.  
 Cross-border flows of yuan will remain limited by People’s
Bank regulations, HKMA’s Chan said. The maximum amount Hong Kong
residents can convert from their Hong Kong dollar deposit
accounts per day is 20,000 yuan.  
 China Life Insurance Co. and BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.
will introduce yuan insurance policies through units in Hong
Kong, the Hong Kong Economic Times said, citing the companies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at  at
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Saiyu Zhou in Hong Kong at 
 Szhou40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        