-- Schaeuble, Denied by Merkel, Defies Doctors in Saving Euro
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-07-20T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/schaeuble-denied-twice-by-merkel-defies-doctors-to-save-euro-with-germany.html

          
          
             German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  defied doctors in March after an operation, traveling
to Brussels for a European Union debt crisis meeting. The EU was
preparing a financial package to avert a Greek default as
traders placed bets against the euro.  
 Wheelchair-bound Schaeuble, 67, and his peers from the
other 15 euro countries crafted an emergency loan bailout in
case Greece’s efforts for tax increases and wage cuts failed.
The rescue plans, opposed by more than half of Germans, were
hatched before Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed the initiative.  
 “He came right out of the hospital to the meeting and was
a very active member in our discussions,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister  Luc Frieden  said in an interview. “He showed his
commitment to public service in a way that maybe others wouldn’t
have done.”  
 Fighting for the EU has been a cornerstone of Schaeuble’s
politics during his four decades in parliament. His path has
been made more difficult by his relationship with Merkel, 56,
who twice denied him the chance to lead Germany.  
 “We are the country in the middle of Europe,” Schaeuble
said in a July 8 interview with Bloomberg News. “Germany has
always been at the center of every major war in Europe, but our
interest is not to be isolated.”  
 Less than a week after Schaeuble left his hospital bed,
Merkel told reporters that EU leaders should discuss allowing
the International Monetary Fund to aid Greece, publicly
disagreeing with Schaeuble. She told Deutschlandfunk radio that
a March 25 summit was unlikely to produce an aid package for
Greece and that the EU shouldn’t create “illusions.”  
 Cost Burden  
 European governments said on April 11 that they were
prepared to lend at least 30 billion euros ($39 billion) to
Greece, complementing IMF aid. The total bailout package was
raised May 2 to 110 billion euros over three years, with Germany
shouldering more than 25 percent of the euro countries’ cost.  
 “His goal has always been for Germany to be recognized and
anchored in Europe, with less national political responsibility,
and an acceptance of Germany paying the EU’s bills,” said  Carl Graf von Hohenthal , a management adviser at public-relations
firm  Brunswick Group Inc.  in Berlin. Merkel is “pro-EU, but she
wants a bigger political voice for Germany in Europe and she
doesn’t want to pay all the bills anymore,” he said.  
 Schaeuble, a lawyer, has served in Germany’s  Bundestag ,
parliament’s lower house, since 1972. He gained a reputation as
a troubleshooter after five years as then-Chancellor  Helmut Kohl ’s chief of staff and minister for special affairs from 1984
to 1989, the year the Berlin Wall fell. He also held the post of
interior minister twice before becoming Merkel’s choice of
finance minister in October.  
 Inside and Out  
 “Schaeuble knows the EU inside and out because he did the
heavy lifting on Europe for Chancellor Kohl in the 1980s and
1990s,” said  Ulrich Deupmann , the author of a Schaeuble
biography and director of Berlin-based political advisory
company Ideas.ag. “He’s been helping construct the EU since his
time as Kohl’s chief of staff and in his role in getting the
euro approved.”  
 His relationship with Merkel is complex because of her role
in undermining him as  Christian Democratic Union  leader during a
party financing scandal in the late 1990s. Schaeuble admitted
taking a donation of 100,000 deutsche marks ($66,000) from an
arms dealer who later fled the country before being convicted of
tax evasion and sentenced to eight years in prison.  
 Schaeuble resigned as CDU chairman in 2000, meaning he
would never become chancellor. His departure paved the way for
Merkel’s ascent. Merkel  blocked Schaeuble’s path  again in 2004
by ruling against his candidacy for the mainly ceremonial office
of German president.  
 ‘Wealth of Experience’  
 Merkel appointed Schaeuble as her finance minister on Oct.
24. After debates over who would serve in her cabinet ended at 2
a.m., Merkel cited Schaeuble’s “wealth of experience” and said
he had her confidence.  
 “Schaeuble is the person everybody assumes would have been
a great chancellor,” said  Gary Smith , executive director of the
 American Academy in Berlin . “Merkel can’t not have him. He’s
the figure in the cabinet who gives her gravitas.”  
 It was Schaeuble who negotiated the unification treaty that
brought East and West Germany together in 1990. That was when he
first encountered  Robert B. Zoellick , then chief U.S. negotiator
in international talks that led to German reunification, and now
World Bank president.  
 “Schaeuble served Germans and all the rest of us so well
with his steadiness,” Zoellick said in an e-mail.  
 University Days  
 Hans-Peter Repnik , a former parliamentarian and a friend
from university days, said Schaeuble has always used his “sharp
intellect” to convince others of his views.  
 “If he feels he has to throw a stone very far into the
water, he lets the waves ripple for a bit and in the end he
mostly reaches his goals,” Repnik said in an interview.  
 He doesn’t always act multilaterally. The finance minister
caused ripples in markets in May with a surprise ban on naked
short-selling, which involves investors speculating on declines
in companies that they don’t own. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
AG, Germany’s biggest bank, dropped as much as 3.7 percent the
day after Schaeuble’s May 18 announcement and the euro slid to a
four-year low.  
 Three weeks later, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  lent
his voice to the German campaign in a joint letter with Merkel
to the EU, urging faster curbs in the 27-nation bloc on
financial speculation. In response, the  European Commission  said
it would accelerate proposals to regulate short selling and
credit-default-swaps.  
 ‘It Works’  
 “Sometimes one has to go ahead at a unilateral level and
others will follow,” Schaeuble said in the interview in Berlin.
“You see, it works.”  
 The minister grew up in  Freiburg , a southwestern German
city in the wine-growing region that borders France and
Switzerland. It was this experience that honed his vision of an
integrated Europe with Germany firmly anchored at its core,
Repnik said.  
 “The Franco-German tension from the past was omnipresent
until the great mood of optimism and reconciliation with France
came about in the 1950s and 1960s,” Repnik said. “German unity
and Europe. These are the two topics that have kept Wolfgang
Schaeuble busy as long as I’ve known him.”  
 After an assassination attempt by a deranged man in 1990
left him paralyzed from the chest down, he returned to work
within three months. Schaeuble, a chess player and music lover
who used to play the violin, is regularly seen around Berlin
exercising on a  hand bike . Married with four children, he
carries a battered  10-year-old briefcase  to work.  
 Directing by Phone  
 The March EU session wasn’t the only time Schaeuble
jeopardized his health for the EU. During a May 9 crisis
meeting, the minister was rushed to the hospital in Brussels
after reacting to medication. From his bed, he directed
negotiations by phone, the  Finance Ministry  said, helping the EU
craft an unprecedented $1 trillion loan package and bond
purchases.  
 His rapport with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who offered advice in a phone call the day before,
helped Schaeuble convince European finance ministers that the EU
had to make a show of force on Greece, the ministry said.  
 He has earned the respect of Geithner, who refers to
Schaeuble as one of the “adults” at the policy table.  
 Urged on by Schaeuble, the German parliament backed loan
guarantees of 22.4 billion euros for Greece, more than a quarter
of the euro region’s contribution of 80 billion euros,
complemented by 30 billion euros from the IMF. German guarantees
for the euro rescue package, totaling 750 billion euros, amount
to as much as 147.6 billion euros.  
 No Specialist  
 He “makes no pretense of being a financial specialist, but
he nevertheless cuts to the core of issues in common sense
terms,” Zoellick said. “His words carry great weight with his
colleagues.”  
 Schaeuble’s approach to the EU differs from that of Merkel,
who grew up in communist East Germany and speaks some English
and fluent Russian after study trips to the then-Soviet Union.  
 It was Schaeuble, who is comfortable in French and English,
who floated the idea of a European Monetary Fund, modeled after
the IMF to lend to troubled euro members states in return for a
say in their budgetary affairs. Merkel adopted the idea,
highlighting the envisaged expulsion of euro zone members as a
measure of last resort.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Cullen  in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, speak during a news conference in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wolfgang Schaeuble, Germany's finance minister, arrives  for a German cabinet meeting at the German federal chancellory, in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
