-- Sell SanDisk Call Options on Slowing Chip Demand, JPMorgan Strategists Say
-- Jeff Kearns
-- 2010-07-20T13:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/sell-sandisk-call-options-on-slowing-chip-demand-jpmorgan-strategists-say.html

          
          
             Investors should sell bullish
SanDisk Corp.  options  because slowing demand signals that the
biggest maker of flash-memory cards won’t extend gains after
more than doubling in  a year , JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  
 Equity derivatives strategists  Amyn Bharwani  and  Marko Kolanovic  recommended selling October $48 calls on the
chipmaker, which has surged 124 percent from a year ago to
$41.79 as of yesterday. That’s the  biggest gain  among 76
technology companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 The strategists cited JPMorgan semiconductor analyst
 Christopher Danely , who said last week that chipmaker stocks may
retreat because inventory is increasing as demand slows, and
 Harlan Sur , who assumed coverage of SanDisk July 15 with a
“neutral”  rating  and $50 year-end share-price forecast. That’s
$1 below JPMorgan’s prior estimate.  
 “We are seeing multiple indications of a downturn,” San
Francisco-based Danely wrote July 12. “We do not believe the
downside is priced into the stocks and expect semis to continue
to trade off over the coming months.”  
 The New York-based derivatives strategists also said call
selling is “attractive” because  implied volatility , the key
gauge of option prices, for three-month SanDisk contracts is
higher than the stock’s  historic volatility  over the past month.  
 Selling a call option, which gives the right to buy a stock
at a set price and date, is a bet that the shares won’t exceed
the strike price before the contract’s expiration date, allowing
the seller to keep what the buyer paid. Milpitas, California-
based SanDisk closed at a 32-month high of  $49.70  on June 17 and
isn’t likely to exceed that level before October, the
strategists wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        