-- Senate Advances Jobless Aid Plan Over Republican Objections
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-20T22:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/senate-advances-unemployment-extension-plan-over-objections-of-republicans.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate broke a Republican
filibuster and moved toward a final vote on legislation
restoring  unemploymen t benefits to 2.5 million Americans who
lost aid during a dispute over how to pay for it.  
 The chamber  voted  60-40 to end debate on the measure,
clearing the way for a final vote as soon as tomorrow. The bill
has been held up for weeks by Republican demands that Democrats
find savings elsewhere in the budget to prevent the $34 billion
in aid from adding to the federal  deficit .  
 Democrats had been one vote short in a previous attempt to
extend the aid. Today’s swearing-in of Democratic Senator  Carte Goodwin  of West Virginia, successor to the late Senator  Robert Byrd , gave them the clinching vote.  
 “It’s such an honor to come to the United States Senate
and fill the seat occupied by Senator Byrd,” Goodwin, 36, a
former aide to West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin , said after
the vote. “But to come on my first day, in my first vote and
help out millions of Americans -- it’s really quite an honor.”  
 Republicans said the measure could have been approved weeks
ago if Democrats had agreed to find other funds to pay for it.  
 Debt Debate  
 “There’s no debate in the Senate about whether we should
pass a bill -- everyone agrees that we should,” said Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. “This
debate is about whether in extending these benefits we should
add to the  debt  or not.”  
 Maine Senators  Olympia  Snowe and  Susan Collins  were the
only Republicans to support the bill;  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska was
the only Democrat to oppose it. His state boasts a 4.9 percent
unemployment rate, the nation’s third lowest.  
 Although the House previously approved the measure, it must
be passed there again because of minor changes made by Senate
Democrats. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland
Democrat, said his chamber would take up the measure as early as
tomorrow following Senate passage.  
 The legislation would extend through November a program
offering the long-term unemployed up to 99 weeks of assistance
and provide aid retroactively to those whose checks were cut off
by the impasse.  
 It would push total unemployment benefit spending this year
to more than $130 billion, a 50 percent increase from last year,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.  
 Abandoned Provisions  
 Democrats dropped other  unemployment  assistance provisions
amid complaints over the cost, including a 65 percent subsidy
created last year to help the jobless buy health insurance
through their former employers. It benefited 2 million
households last year, according to the Treasury Department.  
 The measure wouldn’t renew an additional $25 weekly jobless
benefit that was part of last year’s economic stimulus. Nor
would it extend a tax exemption for the first $2,400 in
unemployment aid.  
 Also, Democrats don’t plan to extend aid to the growing
number of Americans who have already received the maximum 99
weeks of allowable aid. A number of other jobs-related
provisions, including plans to send additional aid to state
governments, that once comprised Democrats’ election-year agenda
were jettisoned amid complaints they would add too much to the
deficit.  
 ‘Bare Essentials’  
 “We have stripped this measure down to the bare
essentials,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus ,
a Montana Democrat.  
 An April report by a pair of economists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco said that the aid extensions,
which are the longest ever, have contributed to the unemployment
rate, though the effect was “relatively modest.” It estimated
the jobless rate at the end of last year would have been 9.6
percent, rather than 10 percent, without the extensions.  
 A study by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  last month said the
earliest Congress allowed extended unemployment benefits to
lapse during an economic recovery was in 1978 and 1985, when the
jobless rate in each case was 7.4 percent -- a figure the nation
won’t see again before 2012, according to CBO.  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday the
current extension probably won’t be the last. “I think it is
fair and safe to assume that we are not going to wake up at the
end of November and find ourselves at a rate of unemployment
that no one would consider not to be still in an emergency,”
Gibbs told reporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Max Baucus  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator Max Baucus, Democrat from Montana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Max Baucus, Democrat from Montana. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Evan Bayh, an Indiana Democrat, talks about the importance of unemployment benefits in the current economic climate and the need for additional measures to create jobs.
     The Senate today ended a Republican filibuster and moved toward a final vote on legislation extending unemployment benefits to 2.5 million Americans who lost aid during a dispute over how to pay for it. Bayh talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
