-- Senate Democrats Set to Pass Extension of Unemployment Benefits
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-20T18:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/senate-democrats-are-set-to-pass-extension-of-unemployment-benefits-today.html

          
          
             Senate Democrats are poised today to
break an impasse over financing unemployment benefits that has
resulted in aid being cut off to more than 2.5 million
Americans.  
 With the seating of Carte Goodwin, the successor to the
late Senator  Robert Byrd , Democrats say they will have the 60
votes needed to overcome procedural tactics by Republicans that
has stalled the legislation. The Republicans have demanded that
Democrats find savings in the federal budget to prevent the $34
billion bill from adding to the deficit.  
 Democrats, who came up one vote short in their latest bid
to extend the aid, opted to wait for Goodwin to be sworn in
today to give them the clinching vote. Senate leaders have
scheduled a procedural vote this afternoon to bring debate on
the matter to a close, immediately after Goodwin’s seating.  
 “For these two-and-one-half million Americans, this bill
is about food on the table -- it’s that simple, that
important,” said Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus ,
a Montana Democrat.  
 Republicans said the measure could have been approved weeks
ago if Democrats had agreed to pay for the legislation.
“There’s no debate in the Senate about whether we should pass a
bill -- everyone agrees that we should,” said Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican. “This debate is
about whether in extending these benefits we should add to the
 debt  or not.”  
 Snowe, Collins  
 Along with Goodwin, a Democrat, Maine Republicans  Susan Collins  and  Olympia  Snowe are expected to vote to end the
filibuster. Nebraska Democrat  Ben Nelson , whose state has a 4.9
percent unemployment rate, has sided with Republicans. In June,
the  national jobless rate  was 9.5 percent.  
 The legislation could clear the Senate as soon as today. It
has already been approved by the House, though it will need to
pass there one more time because of minor changes to the bill
made by Senate Democrats. House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a
Maryland Democrat, said his chamber would take up the
legislations tomorrow.  
 “The Senate is going to pass it today, we are going to pass
it the day following,” Hoyer told reporters.  
 The legislation would extend through November a program
offering the long-term unemployed up to 99 weeks of assistance
while providing aid retroactively to those whose checks have
been cut off by the impasse. It would push total unemployment
benefit spending this year to more than $130 billion, a 50
percent increase from last year, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office.  
 Dropped Provisions  
 Democrats dropped other pieces of unemployment assistance
amid complaints over the cost. So even with passage of this
measure, the unemployed will receive less benefits.  
 A 65 percent subsidy created last year to help the jobless
buy health insurance through their former employers will be
allowed to lapse. It benefited 2 million households last year,
according to the Treasury Department.  
 The measure also wouldn’t renew a provision boosting
unemployment checks by $25 that was part of last year’s economic
stimulus package. Nor would it extend provisions exempting the
first $2400 in unemployment aid from taxation.  
 In addition, Democrats have no plans to extend aid to the
growing number of Americans who have already received the
maximum amount of allowable aid.  
 ‘Most Important Objective’  
 “It’s not a policy preference,” said Senator  Jack Reed , a
Rhode Island Democrat. “After weeks and weeks of stalemate, we
had to accomplish the most important objective, which is the
unemployment compensation.”  
 The bill comes amid a growing debate among lawmakers over
whether the aid extensions, the longest ever, are contributing
to the jobless rate.  
 An April report by a pair of economists at the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco found the extensions have had a
“relatively modest effect” on the unemployment rate,
estimating the figure would have been 9.6 percent at the end of
last year rather than 10.0 percent without the aid. There are
almost five unemployed workers for every job opening, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  
 White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday the
extension probably won’t be the last. “I think it is fair and
safe to assume that we are not going to wake up at the end of
November and find ourselves at a rate of unemployment that no
one would consider not to be still in an emergency,” he told
reporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Resume Help at a Job Fair  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Candice Petersen, right, works with a job seeker on her resume at a job fair in Washington, D.C.. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Candice Petersen, right, works with a job seeker on her resume at a job fair in Washington, D.C.. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
