-- Sinopec Quarterly Oil-Processing Rises at Slower Pace
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-20T07:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/sinopec-quarterly-oil-processing-rises-at-slower-pace-update1-.html

          
          
             China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, processed crude oil at a slower pace in
the second quarter as a cooling economy cut fuel demand.  
 Oil processing rose 13 percent from a year earlier to 51.95
million metric tons, or 4.17 million barrels a day, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on first-half data released today
by Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known. That compares with a 20
percent increase in the first three months.  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production cooled more than
forecast in June, restraining fuel demand growth. Diesel
consumption is likely to fall in the second half because of
government curbs on high energy-consuming industries, the
National Energy Administration said in a statement today.  
 “The economic slowdown will have a more obvious impact on
second-half refining growth figures,”  Qiu Xiaofeng , an oil
analyst with China Merchants Securities Ltd., said by telephone
in  Shanghai . The volume of crude refined in the second quarter
is actually “pretty good,” Qiu said.  
 Compared with the first three months, oil processing gained
5 percent in the April to June period, today’s figures show.
Auto sales will support gasoline consumption in the second half,
the energy administration said.  
 Sinopec’s first-half oil processing increased 17 percent
from a year earlier to 101 million metric tons, the company said
in a  statement  on its website. That’s 49 percent of the
country’s total.  
 The refiner’s domestic oil-product sales rose 18 percent to
68.15 million tons in the first half. Gasoline output climbed
4.6 percent to 17.77 million tons and diesel production gained
13 percent to 36.7 million tons.  
 Crude production increased 0.05 percent to 149.2 million
barrels in the first six months, while gas output surged 41
percent to 200.6 billion cubic feet.  
 --Winnie Zhu, with assistance from Chua Baizhen and  Wang Ying  in
Beijing. Editors: Ryan Woo, John Chacko.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        