-- Sky Is Cleared to Bid for Italian TV Frequencies, Challenging Berlusconi
-- Steve Scherer
-- 2010-07-20T15:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/sky-is-cleared-to-bid-for-italian-tv-frequencies-challenging-berlusconi.html

          
          
             The European Commission said  News
Corp.’s  Italian unit, Sky Italia SpA, can bid for digital free-
to-air frequencies, prompting  Mediaset SpA  to say it would
challenge the ruling in court.  
 Citing “significant changes” to the Italian market, the
commission said it would drop a restriction imposed on Sky
Italia when it merged two competing satellite platforms in 2003
and allow it to enter the free-to-air digital market.  
 “We are obviously very happy with today’s decision,”  Tom Mockridge , Sky Italia’s chief executive officer, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “If Sky Italia is successful in its
digital terrestrial television bid, the Italian consumer stands
to gain once again, as do potential advertisers.”  
 Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is the country’s
biggest media owner. He controls Mediaset, Italy’s largest
private TV broadcaster, which competes with  Rupert Murdoch ’s
Milan-based Sky Italia. This is the latest skirmish between the
two companies in their bid to command the majority of the
country’s TV advertising market.  
 In January, the government passed new regulations to limit
the maximum amount of advertising per hour of pay television
programming, to 12 percent in 2012 from 18 percent last year.
Free-to-air broadcast channels, including those on Berlusconi’s
network, will be able to increase advertising to a maximum of 20
percent per hour from 18 percent.  
 After today’s ruling, Mediaset pledged to appeal the ruling
at the European Court of Justice.  
 “This decision authorizes the satellite, pay-TV
monopolist” to “operate in the free market and it authorizes
it to possess frequencies that are already insufficient for the
current operators,” Mediaset said in an e-mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        