-- Skyy Spirits Looks to Whiskey for Growth After Gambling on Infused Vodka
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/skyy-spirits-looking-for-its-next-winner-after-gambling-on-infused-vodka.html

          
          
             When flavored vodkas emerged as  Skyy
Spirits ’ second-biggest moneymaker, Chief Executive Officer
Gerry Ruvo made a surprise decision: He killed off the business.  
 Ruvo, acting against the guidance of his chief financial
officer, didn’t like how consumers would confuse Skyy’s flavored
vodkas with the scads of competitors, such as Absolut. So two
years ago, he switched instead to making  infused vodka , aiming
to impart a more natural taste by steeping the liquor in fruits
rather than using syrup.  
 “People were telling us our flavors were just like
everyone else’s, and that didn’t ring in our ears well,” Ruvo
said. “It would have been easy for us to just keep producing
another flavor every year.”  
 The gamble paid off: The new category now has double the
sales of the discontinued line, Ruvo said. Even so, he’ll need
to take more risks to maintain growth at the San Francisco
company. Skyy, which also sells Cabo Wabo tequila, Wild Turkey
whiskey and Glenrothes scotch, is still shaking off the
recession and faces mounting competition from brands like
Smirnoff and Grey Goose.  
 While alcohol consumption didn’t drop during the economic
slump, customers drank more at home -- rather than at
restaurants and bars. That hurt sales to distributors because
they didn’t stock as many bottles. The market for premium vodka
also has gotten more competitive on prices,  Bob Kunze-Concewitz ,
the CEO of Skyy’s parent company,  Davide Campari-Milano SpA .  
 Retail Sales  
 Vodka sold at U.S. supermarkets, gas stations and other
retailers -- excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc. -- grew
5.7 percent to $1.08 billion in the 12-month period through mid-
June, according to  SymphonyIRI Group , a Chicago-based research
firm. Total spirits generated $3.58 billion, up 2.5 percent.  
 A 750-milliliter bottle of Skyy sells for about $16 in the
U.S., putting it in the same range as  Diageo Plc’s  Smirnoff or
 Pernod Ricard SA’s  Absolut. Vodka can range in price from $70
for a 750-milliliter bottle of Chopin to less than $10 for
brands like Gordon’s and Seagram’s.  
 To get ahead of rivals, Skyy regularly invites so-called
mixologists to its office to experiment with liquors. They use
the company’s entire lineup of beverages to concoct new drinks
and share ideas. The company, which has about 70 employees in
San Francisco, is looking especially at whiskey as a source of
innovation and growth.  
 Bacon-Flavored Vodka  
 While some suggestions haven’t worked out -- tobacco
bitters, bacon-flavored vodka -- a few of the drink ideas have
taken off at bars. That includes Blood and Sand, a drink
combining Glenrothes scotch with orange juice, sweet vermouth
and cherry brandy, Ruvo said.  
 “It’s brought Scotch whisky to a female consumer we didn’t
have before,” he said. Three years ago, these customers would
have ordered a  Cosmopolitan , Ruvo said.  
 To handle a surge in whiskey drinking, Skyy is expanding
its facility in Kentucky to double production.  
 These days, the liquor industry has to react much more
quickly to trends, said  David Ozgo , chief economist at the
 Distilled Spirits Council  in Washington. Whether it’s
pomegranate cocktails or Tiki drinks, consumer preferences can
spread quickly over websites and social networks.  
 “In today’s environment, trends move across the country at
the speed of light,” Ozgo said. “If it’s in San Francisco this
month, you can guarantee it’s going to be in Des Moines next
month.”  
 Rivals’ Growth  
 Skyy is the No. 3 vodka brand in the U.S., behind Smirnoff
and Absolut, according to SymphonyIRI. Aside from the infused
lineup, Skyy’s flagship vodka hasn’t kept up with the growth of
some rivals. Its sales were down 1.7 percent in the past year at
U.S. retailers, while Smirnoff, Grey Goose and  Ketel One  all
jumped about 5 percent. Absolut was down less than 1 percent.  
 Skyy got its start 18 years ago, when local inventor and
entrepreneur  Maurice Kanbar  sought to develop a hangover-free
drink. His innovation: a four-column distillation process that
used different temperatures to extract impurities, followed by a
triple filtration.  
 Impurities in spirits can contribute to hangovers, so
removing them through filtration is one way to lessen the pain.
The company also put the vodka in a blue bottle, helping it
stand out from rivals. Skyy expanded its lineup in 1999, when it
won sole U.S. distribution rights to  Cutty Sark Scotch whisky .
Deals to offer Campari’s aperitif and Glenrothes followed that
year.  
 Campari Deal  
 Skyy was  acquired  by Campari in 2002, giving it more access
to European markets, as well as new brands to sell in the U.S.
Skyy is now the biggest brand for  Campari , a 150-year-old
company based in Milan. It accounts for 13 percent of total
sales, Kunze-Concewitz said in March.  
 Skyy now offers a range of liquors to U.S. drinkers, though
none of the other brands has reached the “super-star” status of
its vodka, said David Fleming, editor of Impact, a trade
publication.  
 “They’ve really branched out very impressively and picked
up a lot of little jewels,” he said. “On the negative side, we
really haven’t seen any of them reach critical mass or take off
to the point that Skyy has done.”  
 Skyy first released its infused vodkas in 2008, offering
five flavors: citrus, cherry, grape, raspberry and passion
fruit. Pineapple and ginger followed. The infusion business
helped boost Skyy sales about 18 percent last quarter, Campari
reported in May. They face competition from a still-growing
range of flavored vodkas, from Absolut’s Berri Acai to
Stolichnaya’s White Pomegranik.  
 No Ivory Tower  
 Skyy Spirits makes more of an effort than rivals to reach
out to local bartenders, said Josh Harris, who runs a cocktail-
consulting firm called  Bon Vivants  with partner Scott Baird.  
 “They understand that people like us and our
contemporaries are in the trenches every day,” Harris said. “So
they don’t sit in their ivory tower and try to think what the
next big thing is -- they come and ask us.”  
 A lot of other companies don’t do that, Baird said. “They
send out their marketing teams, and pay consultants to go out
there and figure out what the next trend is, and the guys at
Skyy will just call us.”  
 Ruvo doesn’t stop his fact-finding missions when he’s off
the clock. During a recent night out at Rickhouse, a bar in San
Francisco’s financial district, he scoped out what customers
were drinking. He sipped Russell’s Reserve, a whiskey sold by
Skyy, before joining his wife for dinner.  
 “It’s my 36th wedding anniversary, but I will still
interrogate the bartender at the restaurant about what’s new,”
Ruvo said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Skyy CEO Gerry Ruvo  
                       
                         
                           David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gerry Ruvo, chairman and chief executive officer of Skyy Spirits LLC, at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gerry Ruvo, chairman and chief executive officer of Skyy Spirits LLC, at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Skyy Spirits CEO Gerry Ruvo  
                       
                         
                           David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gerry Ruvo, chairman and chief executive officer of Skyy Spirits LLC, at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gerry Ruvo, chairman and chief executive officer of Skyy Spirits LLC, at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Skyy Infusions Ginger Vodka  
                       
                         
                           David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A bottle of Skyy Infusions Ginger vodka at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A bottle of Skyy Infusions Ginger vodka at the Skyy Spirits office in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of Cabo Wabo Tequila, a liquor distributed by Skyy Spirits LLC, at Skyy's office in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
