-- European Union Will Appeal WTO Ruling That Some Aid to Airbus Was Illegal
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-20T09:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/socgen-s-mustier-is-cleared-in-insider-trading-probe-by-paris-prosecutors.html

          
          
             The Paris prosecutor dropped an
investigation into alleged criminal insider trading by former
 Societe Generale SA  investment bank chief  Jean-Pierre Mustier  a
month after the French market regulator fined him for the same.  
 “The prosecution classified it for no follow-up,” said
 Dominique Borron , a spokesman for the prosecutor, by telephone
today. He declined to provide a reason for ending the probe.  
 The Autorite des Marches Financiers fined Mustier 100,000
euros ($130,000) on June 30 for his Aug. 21, 2007, sale of 6,000
shares in Societe Generale. He liquidated most of his equity
portfolio at the same time.  
 Mustier, 49, led the division where  Jerome Kerviel  worked
before his unauthorized bets cost the bank 4.9 billion euros to
unwind. Mustier testified at the former trader’s Paris trial
last month. He said then that the decision to sell off his
investments was based on his own observations of the world
economy, and that he expected to be cleared by the AMF. Mustier
retained 7,000 shares in the bank, France’s second-largest.  
 The AMF sanctioned the former banker, noting the bank had
begun an internal modeling system to estimate losses related to
the  subprime market  prior to the sale. The bank reported 1.1
billion euros of write downs linked to the U.S. residential
real-estate market Jan. 24, 2008, when it announced the Kerviel
trading loss.  
 “The level of Mr. Jean-Pierre Mustier’s responsibilities
imposed on him” the requirement to know not to sell the shares
at that time, according to the AMF statement on the punishment.  
 Mustier is appealing the AMF decision. Calls to his lawyer,
 Jean Veil , for comment were not immediately returned.  
 An engineer by training, Mustier joined Societe Generale in
1987 in Paris as a stock options trader. He held senior
executive positions at the investment bank in Paris, Tokyo and
Hong Kong before becoming chief executive officer of the
corporate and investment bank in 2003.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        