-- Spain, Ireland, Greece Sell Debt as `Funding Pressure' Eases
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-20T15:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/spain-ireland-greece-sell-debt-as-funding-pressure-eases.html

          
          
             Spain, Ireland and  Greece  auctioned
almost 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of debt, while Hungary
sold less than planned, as investors favored nations backstopped
by the European Union’s 750 billion-euro aid package.  
 The yield premiums investors demand to hold the debt of the
three euro-region nations, all covered by the EU lifeline,
instead of benchmark German bonds fell following the sales,
while the Hungarian  yield spread  with bunds rose. Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s government sold 35 billion forint ($157 million)
of three-month bills, 10 billion forint less than planned.  
 Borrowing costs among the euro-region’s high-deficit
nations have dropped from peaks in May after the EU devised the
financial backstop in return for government-austerity measures.
Hungary has refused more cuts, prompting the International
Monetary Fund to break off talks over its 20-billion-euro aid
program on July 17. That sent bond yields higher and the forint
to a 14-month low.  
 “Although Hungary is in the European Union, it’s a non-
euro country,” said  Christoph Kind , head of asset allocation at
Frankfurt-Trust, which manages $17 billion. “The market seems
to be much more convinced following the bailout that the euro
zone is working and the peripheral countries will be able to
finance their debt.”  
 The bonds of euro-region peripheral members outperformed
German debt as concern eased the countries will struggle to
finance their deficits. Ireland had the area’s largest shortfall
at 14.3 percent of gross domestic product last year, followed by
Greece at 13.6 percent and Spain at 11.2 percent.  
 Spreads Narrow  
 The spread between Irish and German 10-year bonds fell
seven basis points to 277 basis points. The  spread  between Spain
and Germany narrowed five basis points to 171 basis points, the
least in a month. The Greek spread with bunds also declined.  
 Greece sold 1.95 billion euros of 13-week bills, its second
sale in a week, raising money to pay 4.5 billion euros of short-
term debt maturing this month. Greece has no bonds due until
next year.  
 Ireland sold six- and 10-year bonds, with investors bidding
for 3.6 times the 2016 securities offered, compared with 3.1
times at a sale in June. The debt agency said the government is
now fully funded until the second quarter of next year.  
 ‘Losing Steam’  
 Spain sold 6 billion euros of bills, the maximum target for
the auction, with increased demand pushing down borrowing costs.
The government sold 4.25 billion euros of 12-month bills at an
average yield of 2.221 percent, compared with 2.303 percent at
the last sale on June 15. Demand was 1.95 times the amount sold,
versus 1.49 times in June. It also auctioned 18-month
securities.  
 “Overall funding pressure is losing steam,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London.
“We expect the peripheral markets to enjoy even more potential
outperformance against the core.”  
 Hungary paid 5.47 percent to sell the bills, the highest
level since March 2.  
 The IMF and EU ended talks with government officials
without endorsing Hungary’s plans for controlling its budget
deficit. The forint fell to the lowest since April 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        