-- Springboks Make Four Changes to Face Wallabies on `Fastest' Rugby Surface
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-07-20T06:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/springboks-make-four-changes-to-face-wallabies-on-fastest-rugby-surface.html

          
          
             South Africa made four starting
changes for the July 24 Tri-Nations Test against Australia as
the defending champion seeks to rebound from back-to-back losses
to New Zealand.  
 Springboks coach  Peter de Villiers  called up winger Gio
Aplon in place of the suspended Jean de Villiers and also
included scrumhalf Ruan Pienaar, flanker Ryan Kankowski and prop
BJ Botha for the match in Brisbane.  
 De Villiers said he based the team selection on the
expected conditions at Suncorp Stadium, where Australia is
unbeaten against the Springboks and has won 14 of 17 Tests.  
 “Statistics show that Suncorp has the fastest playing
surface in the Super 14 and we have to be prepared for a faster
game,” de Villiers said in a statement.   
 Australia, which will be playing its first match in this
year’s Tri-Nations, recalled prop Benn Robinson, lock Nathan
Sharpe and scrum-half Will Genia.  
 Center Rob Horne, fly-half Quade Cooper, prop Salesi Ma’afu
and hooker Saia Faingaa will make their first start in the
annual southern hemisphere championship.  
 AUSTRALIA: Adam Ashley-Cooper, James O’Connor, Rob Horne,
Matt Giteau, Drew Mitchell, Quade Cooper, Will Genia, Richard
Brown, David Pocock, Rocky Elsom (captain), Nathan Sharpe, Dean
Mumm, Salesi Ma’afu, Saia Faingaa, Benn Robinson.  
 Replacements: Stephen Moore, James Slipper, Rob Simmons,
Matt Hodgson, Luke Burgess, Berrick Barnes, Kurtley Beale.  
 SOUTH AFRICA: Zane Kirchner, Gio Aplon, Jaque Fourie,
Wynand Oliver, Bryan Habana, Morne Steyn, Ruan Pienaar, Pierre
Spies, Ryan Kankowski, Schalk Burger, Victor Matfield, Danie
Rossouw, BJ Botha, John Smit (captain), Gurthro Steenkamp.  
 Replacements: Chiliboy Ralepelle, CJ van der Linde, Flip
van der Merwe, Dewald Potgieter, Francois Hougaard, Butch James,
Juan de Jongh.  
          
          


  


        