-- Stanford Officers Seek to Not Testify at Lloyd's Insurance Coverage Trial
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-20T19:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/stanford-officers-seek-to-not-testify-at-lloyd-s-insurance-coverage-trial.html

          
          
             Former Stanford Financial Group
executives shouldn’t be forced to testify at an insurance-
coverage trial about their roles in an alleged $7 billion fraud
run by  R. Allen Stanford  before a criminal trial can be held,
their lawyer said in a court filing.  
 Former Chief Investment Officer  Laura Pendergest-Holt  and
two former top accounting officers at Stanford’s financial
services firm said in a court filing yesterday that Lloyd’s of
London is trying to “place the civil cart before the criminal
horse’’ in their lawsuit against the underwriters.  
 The executives sued Lloyd’s for denying them access to
legal defense funds under Stanford’s $100 million directors and
officers liability policies.  
 The attempt by Lloyd’s to force the executives to testify
and provide written answers to justify their activities forces
them into “a constitutional Hobson’s choice” over their right
against self-incrimination, said their lawyer, Lee Shidlofsky,
in the filing in federal court in Houston.  
 Anything the executives say under oath in the insurance
case could be used against them in the criminal case, he said.
Yet if they invoke their Fifth Amendment right not to testify,
the judge in the insurance case can legally infer that they’re
guilty and may rule against their insurance claim, which they
say is their only source of funds to pay defense lawyers.  
 Defendants’ Roles  
 Stanford, Pendergest-Holt, former Chief Accounting Officer
 Gilbert Lopez  and former global controller  Mark Kuhrt  were
indicted in June 2009 on charges they swindled investors through
a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of deposit issued
by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.  
 The executives have denied any wrongdoing. A separate trial
of Stanford is scheduled for January. The other three executives
will face a jury after Stanford’s trial.  
 All four defendants sued Lloyd’s in November, after the
underwriters denied their claims because former Chief Financial
Officer  James M. Davis  pleaded guilty and Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver released a forensic accounting report. The
insurance-coverage case is set for trial in August before U.S.
District Judge  Nancy Atlas  in Houston.  
 Shidlofsky said the insurance dispute shouldn’t be decided
until after the criminal trial, when the Lloyd’s policies give
the underwriters the right to sue for reimbursement of any funds
spent defending guilty individuals.  
 Lloyd’s Argument  
 Lloyd’s lawyers have said in court filings that the dispute
must be resolved before underwriters spend hundreds of millions
of dollars defending the executives. They claim the underwriters
won’t be able to recover those funds after a conviction, when
the defendants’ assets may be seized in criminal forfeiture.  
 All personal and corporate assets of Stanford and the other
executives were seized and placed under the control of the
receiver when they were sued in February 2009 on parallel civil-
fraud claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 Akin Gump attorney Neel Lane, who represents Lloyd’s of
London, didn’t immediately an e-mail seeking comment today on
the filing.  
 The case is Pendergest-Holt v. Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London, 4:09-cv-03712, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  


        