-- Sugar Fibonacci Retracement Signals 10% Gain by August: Technical Analysis
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-07-20T15:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/sugar-fibonacci-retracement-signals-10-gain-by-august-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Sugar prices may rise as much as 10
percent by the end of this month, according to a technical
analysis by  Paul Kavanaugh , senior analyst and broker at
PFGBest.  
 The sweetener may advance to 19.29 cents a pound,
reclaiming most of its drop between March and May, according to
Fibonacci analysis, Chicago-based Kavanaugh said.  
 The attached chart shows prices have climbed above the
resistance level of 17.15 cents and have to trade above the next
level of 18.22 cents before moving to the target price, he said.  
 “There is momentum in the market,” Kavanaugh said in a
telephone interview. “We expect the climb to continue helped by
the short-term shortages in the market.”  
 Yesterday, raw sugar for October delivery jumped 0.5 cent,
or 2.9 percent, to 17.61 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York. The most-active contract has risen 9.7 percent this
month through yesterday, after a 13 percent increase in June,
the first advance in five months.  
 Global production in the year ending September is projected
at 158.9 million tons, with consumption expected to total 166.9
million tons, the executive director of the  International Sugar
Organization  said in an interview last week.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Fibonacci analysis is based on the
theory that securities tend to rise or fall by specific
percentages after reaching a new high or low. It is based on a
formula developed by a 13th century mathematician, Leonardo da
Pisa, known as Fibonacci.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        