-- Swiss Banks Find Winning Deposits From Asia Brings `07 Salaries
-- Warren Giles
-- 2010-07-21T11:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/swiss-banks-find-winning-deposits-from-asians-brings-salaries-to-07-level.html

          
          
             Swiss banks face the highest wage
demands in three years from bankers skilled at winning wealthy
clients in Asia, where the number of millionaires rose 26
percent last year.  
 UBS AG,  Credit Suisse Group AG  and Julius Baer Group Ltd.,
three of Switzerland’s biggest fund companies, are competing for
so-called relationship managers as heightened scrutiny of
individuals’ tax affairs in Europe drives them to seek rich
customers living in the world’s fastest-growing economies.  
 Retaining or hiring senior advisers in Asia can cost two to
three years of bonuses, said  John Koh , managing director of  WMRC
Pte Ltd. , a recruitment firm in Singapore. Base pay increases of
about 30 percent are available for switching firms and bankers
with eight to 10 years of experience who have brought in assets
of $300 million to $500 million can earn S$500,000 ($363,742).
Entry-level advisers are paid about S$120,000, he said.  
 “We’re back to levels seen in maybe 2006 or 2007 with lots
of people in the market at reasonably expensive prices,” said
 Boris Collardi , chief executive officer of Zurich-based Julius
Baer. The trick is to find people who “pay for themselves” by
attracting assets, he said.  
 Higher salaries will depress profits from Asia, where UBS
reported 3.77 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion) of revenue
last year and Credit Suisse had 3.44 billion francs, said  Roman Scott , managing director at fund company Calamander Capital Ltd.
in Singapore. Every 1 percent increase in wages, which account
for two-thirds of the banks’ total costs, will reduce pretax
profit by 0.7 percent, he said.  
 Taking the Risk  
 “Costs may be higher in Asia, but it’s a gamble the banks
have to take,” Scott said, adding that profitability in Asia is
now similar to more mature markets, such as the U.S. and Europe.
“You may get lower margins and profits, but at least the volume
of the market is growing.”  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, plans to increase
headcount in the Asia-Pacific region to 9,500 in three years
from 7,300. Credit Suisse employed 6,400 people in Asia at the
end of 2009, representing 13 percent of the firm’s workforce.  
 Zurich-based Credit Suisse, ranked by Scorpio Partnership
as the world’s fifth-largest manager for millionaires, expects
to add about 60 so-called private bankers in the region in 2010.  
 “I would not necessarily want to be a newcomer and set up
now because entry costs are going up,” said  Marcel Kreis , head
of  Credit Suisse ’s private-banking unit in Asia-Pacific, which
attracted a record 11.5 billion francs of net funds last year.  
 Skyrocketing Expenses  
 Julius Baer , which managed 166 billion francs at the end of
June, expects  Asia  to account for as much as a quarter of the
bank’s assets within five years, up from less than 16 percent in
2009. The region will account for as much as 50 percent of the
bank’s wealth-manager hires in the second half of this year.  
 “Everyone is fighting for the same shallow reservoir of
talent,” said  Hanspeter Brunner , head of Lugano, Switzerland-
based BSI SA’s Asian unit, which by March had increased its
headcount to 180 in Singapore from 30 last year. “The region is
leading global growth and that has cost consequences.”  
 Pay increases helped push up cost-to-income ratios at Asian
fund managers to 86 percent in 2009 from 61.8 percent two years
earlier, according to data compiled by industry consultants at
Boston Consulting Group. The ratio at Swiss banks rose 12.9
percentage points to 66.7 percent in the same period.  
 The gain occurred as the number of millionaires in the
Asia-Pacific region reached 3 million in 2009, matching those in
Europe for the first time, according to a report published last
month by Capgemini and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch
brokerage unit. The assets of the millionaires rose 31 percent
to $9.7 trillion, the study showed.  
 ‘Chasing Talent’  
 Reyl & Cie., a Geneva-based money manager with about 4
billion francs of client assets, aims to attract S$1 billion
within a year, said  Charles Bok , head of the firm’s Singapore
office, which opened last month.  
 “Competitors are busy chasing talent and we have to
differentiate ourselves with a more entrepreneurial approach
from the classic big banks,” Bok said. Singapore “allows us to
take advantage of Asia’s unprecedented growth and is a fiscally
and legally stable door to China,” he said.  
 The cross-border market for millionaires in Hong Kong and
Singapore will grow at an annual rate of 6 percent to about 800
billion francs in 2012, Zurich-based UBS estimated in November.
The bank boosted the maximum bonus for managers winning assets
in those two centers to 200,000 francs, and said in May that
it’s reviving efforts to recruit and train people in Asia as
competition for private bankers accelerates.  
 Swift Turnaround  
 Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, has increased the
hiring of graduates in Asia, instead of paying up to recruit
industry veterans, the Wall Street Journal reported July 18.
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  was quoted as saying
that competition for talent may cause a bubble in bankers’ pay.  
 “The Swiss are going to Hong Kong and Singapore to access
these growth markets, but the difficulty they have are high set-
up costs, and the problems of acquiring talent and establishing
a brand name,” said Stephen Wall, a director at London-based
Scorpio. “There’s inevitably pressure on banks’ global
profitability, but in the long run the big players will expect
to see a turnaround in cost-income ratios relatively swiftly.”  
 Swiss banks are expanding in Asia as attacks on bank
secrecy by the U.S., Germany and France threaten their domestic
position as managers of 27 percent of the world’s privately held
offshore wealth.  
 The Swiss Parliament approved a settlement last month with
the U.S. by agreeing to hand over account details on UBS
clients. That followed the decision in 2009 when the country
offered greater assistance to catch tax evaders in order to
avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven.  
 While sacrificing cost-to-income ratios to win business in
Asia isn’t a “sustainable model,” banks can’t overlook the
region’s potential, said  Lok Yim , Deutsche Bank’s head of
private wealth management for China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and the
Philippines.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boris F. J. Collardi, chief executive officer of Julius Baer. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
