-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Fifth Day, Led by Slump in Cable & Wireless Shares
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-20T16:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-as-mining-rally-offsets-cable-wireless-decline.html

          
          
                  July 20 (Bloomberg) --  U.K. stocks  fell for a fifth day,
the longest losing streak for the FTSE 100 Index in two months,
led by a slump in Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc after warning
profit will be at the “lower end” of forecasts.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide tumbled 17 percent as the phone
company said government spending cuts are hurting earnings. BT
Group Plc, Britain’s largest fixed-line phone company, dropped
3.2 percent. Mining shares limited declines as copper rallied on
the London Metal Exchange.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100  fell 0.2 percent to 5,139.46 as of
the close of trading at 4:30 p.m. in London, paring an earlier
drop of as much as 1.1 percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index  slid
0.2 percent and Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  was little changed.  
 “Cable & Wireless revealed a profit warning as a result of
the government’s austerity plans,” said  David Jones , London-
based chief market strategist at IG Index. “Investors have been
hit with reminders that business recovery across all sectors is
going to have a few bumps along the way.”  
 U.K. equities followed European shares lower earlier today
as Hungary raised less than targeted in a debt sale, reigniting
concern about the ability of European governments to tame their
budget deficits.  
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide sank 17 percent to 69 pence, the
biggest drop in four months. The company blamed government
spending cuts as it warned that full-year earnings will be at
the lower end of forecasts.  
 Government Cuts  
 “Non-contracted spending in the U.K. public sector has
slowed very significantly,” C&W said in a statement. “Given
the nature of our public-sector business, this reduction will
adversely impact trading.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its  recommendation  for the
shares to “underweight” from “neutral.”  
 BT dropped 3.2 percent to 134.5 pence. Vodafone Group Plc,
which was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at ING Groep NV,
slid 1.2 percent to 142.95 pence.  
 Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
surged 4.1 percent to 3,173 pence as copper jumped the most in a
week after a gain in U.S. building permits boosted the demand
outlook for the metal used in electrical wiring and plumbing.  
 Shares of Xstrata Plc increased 3.7 percent to 951.9 pence
and Antofagasta Plc rose 2.5 percent to 936 pence.  
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd., the world’s fourth-largest producer
of the metal, surged 12 percent to 255.1 pence after the South
African government said a mine safety order wasn’t intended to
halt mining operations.  
 International Power Plc  gained 1.6 percent to 355.7 pence,
extending yesterday’s 10 percent advance. UBS AG analysts said
in a report today that GDF Suez SA’s bid to gain control of the
U.K. company may be worth more than 400 pence a share and may
include a cash payment.  
 Separately, Les Echos reported the French government is
backing GDF Suez’s plan to gain control of International Power.
The newspaper did not say where it got the information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        