-- U.K. Budget Deficit Wider Than Estimated in June as Spending Cuts Started
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-20T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-k-budget-deficit-wider-than-estimated-in-june-as-spending-cuts-started.html

          
          
             Britain’s budget deficit narrowed in
June as the economic recovery lifted tax receipts and spending
curbs began to bite.  
 The 14.5 billion-pound ($22 billion) shortfall compared with
14.7 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for National
Statistics said in London today. The result was above the 13
billion-pound median forecast of 17 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  
 Finance Minister George Osborne’s pledge to step up the pace
of deficit reduction has eased concerns Britain might lose its
top credit rating, driving down government-bond yields. The
shortfall hit a post-war high of 11 percent of economic output in
the last fiscal year.  
 The “deficit has been front page news for the last few
months, but over those months the finances have been showing
persistent signs of improvement, the gap consistently smaller
than a year ago and annual receipts growth markedly higher,”
said David Page, an economist at Investec Securities in London.  
 Current income rose 4 percent in June from a year earlier,
with cash receipts of value-added tax gaining 19 percent and
corporation tax climbing 11 percent. Government spending rose 4.6
percent.  
 The benchmark 10-year government bond yield has fallen 16
basis points to 3.35 percent since June 22, when Osborne set out
plans for the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  
 While ratings companies welcomed the move, Standard & Poor’s
said on July 12 that its projections for the economy are less
optimistic than those of the Office for Budget Responsibility and
“there is still a material risk that the U.K.’s net general
government debt burden may approach a level incompatible with the
‘AAA’ rating.”  
 Debt Burden  
 Net debt rose to 63.9 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of the second quarter. Excluding government support for
the financial sector, debt was 56.1 percent of GDP. The deficit
on the same basis was 15.2 billion pounds in June.  
 The coming squeeze has cast a shadow over the prospects for
recovery.  Geoffrey Dicks , who heads economic forecasting at the
OBR, said on July 13 the budget had increased the chance of
Britain sliding back into recession.  
 A measure of cash entering and leaving the public sector
showed a 20.9 billion-pound deficit in June compared with 20.2
billion pounds a year earlier. Economists predicted a 16 billion-
pound shortfall, according to the median forecast in a separate
Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        