-- Clinton Presses Karzai Over Rights of Afghan Women Amid Taliban Peace Move
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-20T10:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-s-s-clinton-presses-karzai-on-rights-of-afghanistan-s-women-at-summit.html

          
          
             The rights of Afghan women must be
protected during any effort to reconcile Taliban insurgents with
the government of President  Hamid Karzai , U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said at a summit in Kabul.  
 Some Afghan women’s groups said they were concerned that in
his effort to make peace with Taliban militants, an initiative
backed by a June gathering of tribal elders and local leaders,
Karzai will agree to conditions that would curtail women’s
rights.  
 “I also want to emphasize the importance of President
Karzai’s statement that the rights of women, Afghan ethnic
groups, and civil society will not be sacrificed,” she told a
major donors’ meeting in the Afghan capital today.  
 Clinton and European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  met with Afghan women leaders shortly before the
conference began. Ashton said leaders were aware of the women’s
fears and understood why they had them. Clinton said the U.S.
would not let women pay the price for peace with those battling
U.S.-led forces.  
 “Peace and justice are very important,” Clinton told the
women. “But it can’t come at the cost of women and women’s
lives,” she said.  
 Clinton told the women that she had stressed to Karzai at
dinner the night before the importance of maintaining the gains
Afghan women have made. Karzai told her that people had
questions about having “so many” women in the June peace jirga,
held to discuss reconciliation issues. In the end, though, women
had led committees and it had worked well, he told Clinton.  
 ‘Threats Increasing’  
 A recent report by Human Rights Watch, the New York-based
advocacy organization, warned that the government wasn’t fully
enforcing laws to protect women.  
 “The government’s failure to take attacks and threats
against women seriously greatly increases the threats that women
face by creating a permissive culture for those who seek to
silence and sideline women,” the report said.  
 Mary Akrami, founder of a skills development center for
Afghan women, said today that rights were already being eroded.
“We are seeing women’s rights are not included in some laws,”
Akrami told Clinton. “Some laws are made by men without the
presence of women. We really want to be present in any plan that
will be for the future of Afghanistan.”  
 Fouzia Kofi, a former speaker in Afghanistan’s lower house
of parliament, told Clinton that Karzai seemed to be shifting on
earlier promises. “The mood has changed,” Kofi said. “The
palace is talking about reintegration” of the Taliban.  
 “Women deserve peace more than anyone else,” Kofi told
Clinton. Under the Taliban “we lost our husbands, we lost our
children, we lost the right to go to school.”  
 Karzai Decisions  
 The protection and enforcement of these laws “becomes all
the more pressing if women are entering an era that will become
even more hostile to their rights -- which reintegration and
reconciliation may create,” it said.  
 Women’s groups point to two decisions by Karzai that raise
questions about his commitment to their rights. In 2009, he
approved a law that the United Nations said sanctioned marital
rape. He later agreed to re-examine the law.  
 In 2007, Karzai had pardoned three men who had been found
guilty of gang raping a woman in the northern province of
Samangan. The pardon, signed by Karzai and reported by the
British paper the Independent, freed the men from their 11-year
sentence because “they had been forced to confess to their
crimes.”  
 Arturo Munoz , an analyst at the Santa Monica, California-
based research group RAND Corporation, said that under any
reconciliation, the Taliban will likely ask for control over
women’s rights in their territory.  
 “You can expect that in negotiations, they will say in our
areas, we’re not going to have your girls schools, women are not
going to work,” said Munoz, a former analyst for the Central
Intelligence Agency. “They’ll re-impose rules they had in place
when they were the government.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        