-- U.S. Economy Will Avoid Recession, Global Stocks to Rally, RCM Asia Says
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-07-21T05:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-s-will-avoid-second-recession-spurring-rally-in-stocks-rcm-asia-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. economy will avoid its
second recession in three years, helping  global stock markets 
recover losses in the second half of 2010, according to RCM Asia
Pacific Ltd.  
 Investors will regain an appetite for risk in the third
quarter, said  Mark Konyn , chief executive officer of RCM Asia
Pacific, which oversees more than $12 billion. Institutional
funds are building up cash that will be spent on equities, he
said.  
 The  MSCI World Index  has gained 5.1 percent since June 30,
rebounding from an 11 percent loss in the first half of the year
as European budget deficits and China’s steps to curb asset
bubbles threatened to derail the global recovery. Speculation
the U.S. economy will contract intensified as reports pointed to
a retreat in manufacturing and home sales.  
 “There are challenges along the road, and growth will be
subdued,” Konyn told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday.
“Corporate earnings growth is buoyant, low interest rates will
remain. We are confident that the U.S. can avoid a double dip.”  
 Of the 54 companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  that
have reported results from July 12, all but 10 beat earnings-
per-share forecasts, according to Bloomberg data. Growth in U.S.
gross domestic product is forecast to average 3 percent through
2012, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Property Curbs  
 “In the second half of the year, we’ll see better
performance in the equity market,” Konyn said. “There’s a good
chance investors will recover their losses, and end the year in
the positive territory.”  
 Konyn’s views echo those of  Robert Doll , vice chairman of
BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, who told
Bloomberg Television this week that a recession was unlikely.  
 The  RCM Hong Kong Fund  has gained 112 percent in the past
five years as of May 31, based on the fund’s latest factsheet.
That beat the 67 percent advance in its benchmark FTSE Mandatory
Provident Fund Hong Kong Index in the same period. RCM is a unit
of Allianz Global Investors.  
 Konyn, who has been based in Hong Kong since 1989, was the
head of institutional business development for Fidelity
Investments in Hong Kong before joining RCM in 1997. He is a
fellow of the Royal Statistical Society, and was previously a
committee member of the FTSE Index Asia Pacific.  
 RCM favors Hong Kong and Chinese banks because of a lower
risk of non-performing loans over U.S. and European financial
shares, according to Konyn.  
 ‘Soft Landing’  
 Chinese government measures to curb increases in property
prices have raised concerns over the strength of the world’s
third-largest economy. Growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter, from 11.9 percent the previous three months, the
country’s statistics bureau reported on July 15.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 23 percent this
year, following an 80 percent rally in 2009. Hong Kong’s  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index  has declined 9.3 percent after
gaining 62 percent in 2009.  
 Konyn predicted in January that concerns over banking
reforms in the U.S. and China’s tightening measures could lead
to a long “correction” in Hong Kong and Chinese equities.  
 Underlying demand has led him to believe that China’s
property market will have a “soft landing,” Konyn said. New
home sales in Shanghai climbed 33 percent in the week ended July
18 from the previous week, according to figures from Shanghai
Uwin Real Estate Information Services Co.  
 “All signs are there and if China’s economy can sustain
growth, there’ll be a potential of reallocation into Chinese
equities as we move into 2011,” Konyn said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Will Avoid Recession, Spurring Stock Rally  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Investors will regain an appetite for risk in the third quarter, said Mark Konyn, chief executive officer of RCM Asia Pacific, which oversees more than $12 billion. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Investors will regain an appetite for risk in the third quarter, said Mark Konyn, chief executive officer of RCM Asia Pacific, which oversees more than $12 billion. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Philip Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy for global stocks. 
     Orlando, speaking from New York, also discusses the outlook for the U.S. economy and stock market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Doll, vice chairman and chief equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     Doll, speaking from Princeton, New Jersey, also discusses his investment strategy for emerging market stocks, and China's economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
