-- Supreme Court Nominee Kagan Is Cleared by Senate Committee
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-07-20T16:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-s-supreme-court-nominee-kagan-is-approved-by-senate-judiciary-committee.html

          
          
             The  Senate Judiciary Committee 
approved the nomination of  Elena Kagan  to the U.S. Supreme
Court, clearing the way for President  Barack Obama ’s second pick
for the high court to be confirmed by early August.  
 The panel voted 13-6 today, with Senator  Lindsey Graham  of
South Carolina the only Republican on the panel to support her.
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, plans a
vote by the full Senate during the week of Aug. 2.  
 “What’s in Elena Kagan’s heart is that of a good person
who adopts a philosophy that I disagree with,” Graham said. She
“understands the difference between being a liberal judge and
being a politician.”  
 Democrats will control the Senate 59-41 with the swearing
in later today of Carte Goodwin to replace the late  Robert Byrd 
of West Virginia. The margin all but ensures Kagan will become
the 112th justice in U.S. history and the third woman on the
current court.  
 She would replace Justice  John Paul Stevens  and likely
align as he did with the court’s more liberal members, leaving
intact the court’s 5-4 conservative majority on such issues as
abortion, gun rights and campaign finance.  
 Democrats say Kagan has impressive professional
credentials, including being dean of  Harvard Law School , and
would bring balance to a court they say favors corporations over
legal precedent. Republicans have called her a political
activist who lacks any experience as a judge.  
 “She has worked to bend the law to fit her personal
political wishes,” said Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican.  
 Working for Clinton  
 Kagan, 50, was nominated by Obama on May 10 to replace
Stevens, who retired after 35 years on the nine-member court.
She is the U.S. solicitor general, the government’s top lawyer
before the Supreme Court, and worked for four years in President
 Bill Clinton ’s White House as a lawyer and policy adviser.  
 A New York native, Kagan was approved by the Senate 61-31
in 2009 to be solicitor general. Obama’s first Supreme Court
nominee,  Sonia Sotomayor , was confirmed last year 68-31, with
nine Republicans supporting her.  
 At her confirmation hearings, Kagan testified that she
believes justices should seek more consensus when possible,
while refusing to criticize narrowly decided decisions reached
by the court under Chief Justice  John Roberts .  
 She also made clear she doesn’t share the “originalist”
approach of Justices  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas , who say
the Constitution should be interpreted in line with the meaning
of its provisions when they were adopted.  
 Baseball Umpires  
 She took issue with an analogy made by Roberts during his
2005 confirmation hearing, when he likened judges to baseball
umpires who call balls and strikes. That analogy is “correct in
several important respects but like all metaphors it does have
its limits,” Kagan said, adding that it suggests judging is a
“robotic enterprise.”  
 Republicans have raised questions about recently released
documents from her White House years. She served as an associate
counsel to Clinton in 1995 and 1996 and a deputy assistant for
domestic policy from 1997 to 1999.  
 Many of the records reflect an aide searching for pragmatic
solutions for a Democratic president wrestling with a
Republican-led Congress on issues such as a ban on a procedure
opponents call partial-birth abortion. In one memo she said a
federal law banning assisted suicide by doctors would be a
“fairly terrible idea.”  
 Gun Control Case  
 Republicans also have raised concerns about memos she wrote
as a law clerk to former Justice  Thurgood Marshall . In one 1987
memo, she urged Marshall to vote against hearing a Washington
man’s appeal in a gun control case. She said she was “not
sympathetic” to his claim his rights were violated when he was
convicted for carrying an unlicensed pistol.  
 Another issue in her confirmation is her decision as
Harvard law school dean, a job she held from 2003 to 2009, to
bar military recruiters from the campus in protest of the
Pentagon’s ban on openly gay troops. Kagan backed a lawsuit
seeking to overturn the withholding of federal funds from
schools that blocked the recruiters.  
 She said at her hearings that she took steps to ensure
recruiters could meet with students “every single day” at an
off-campus site and stressed her respect for students who served
in the armed forces.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elena Kagan, nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, smiles during a Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing in June. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
