-- U.S. Stress Tests Augur Well for EU's, BlackRock's Fisher Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-20T15:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-s-stress-tests-augur-well-for-eu-s-blackrock-s-fisher-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Europe should benefit from its bank
stress tests if they’re anything like the U.S.’s assessment of
its biggest financial firms last year, according to  Peter Fisher 
of BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager.  
 “We all harped on the stress tests in the U.S. and said
they weren’t realistic,” Fisher, BlackRock’s vice-chairman and
head of fixed-income portfolio management, said today in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance. “They
turned out to be pretty accurate predictors of what was likely
to unfold and which balance sheets were under stress.”  
 European  regulators  will release stress-test results on
July 23 after determining whether 91 banks can survive potential
losses on sovereign-debt holdings. Firms failing to meet the
standard will be required to raise extra capital.  
 Last year the Federal Reserve gave stress tests to the
nation’s largest 19 banks and said 10 needed to raise a total of
$74.6 billion of capital. The tests were designed to show how
the firms would fare in a deeper, longer recession.  
 Fisher, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary who is based
in New York, said he will look to see whether European
regulators compared “apples to apples,” conducting each bank’s
test consistently, and whether the results reveal with
“candor” which banks need assistance.  
 “That would actually be the good news for the market, that
we can identify those firms that have to step up and raise a
little capital,” Fisher said. “Separating the sheep from the
goats is the big benefit.”  
 Enough transparency is needed to disclose the kinds of
scenarios the tests simulated, which would allow observers to
“gauge the results to see whether it feels like they’ve
actually done that,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        