-- U.S. Says Up to 24 Million Americans Lack Access to Broadband Net Service
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/u-s-says-up-to-24-million-americans-lack-access-to-broadband-net-service.html

          
          
             As many as 24 million U.S. citizens
have no access to broadband Internet service and are unlikely to
get the higher-speed connection any time soon, the  U.S. Federal
Communications Commission  said yesterday.  
 “The immediate prospects for deployment to them are
bleak,” the Washington-based commission said in a  statement .
Between 14 million and 24 million live without Web service that
can transmit at least 4 megabits per second, the agency said.  
 The FCC recommended several measures to move closer to its
goal of universally available broadband: releasing more spectrum
for mobile broadband, allowing for more infrastructure to
support the service and further data collection to help more
U.S. citizens get broadband. The  U.S. population  is about 310
million, according to the Central Intelligence Agency.  
 “There’s a large chunk of Americans who can’t compete and
can’t conduct commerce as the rest of the country does today,”
 Art Brodsky , communications director for advocacy group Public
Knowledge, said in an interview. “You can’t force industry to
expand to rural areas, but can you can through regulation
encourage them to do so.”  
 In March, the FCC released a plan to expand the
availability of broadband throughout the U.S. The agency aims to
boost the share of those using broadband at home to 90 percent
from about 65 percent currently, and having at least 100 million
households with connections of 100 megabits per second.  
 “The rest of the world is not standing still on their
broadband infrastructure,”  Julius Genachowski , the FCC
chairman, told Bloomberg TV at the time. “We are lagging behind
globally.”  
 Broadband Video  
 In yesterday’s statement, the FCC said it had increased its
decade-old measurement of broadband speeds by 20-fold to 4
megabits per second downstream and 1 megabit upstream. That’s a
speed required for using video-rich services, while retaining
capacity for Web-browsing and e-mail, the agency said.  
 FCC Commissioner  Robert McDowell  disagreed with the
agency’s conclusion, citing data that showed broadband is more
widely available than subscriber rolls suggest.  
 “The majority is sidelining the deployment figure of 95
percent in favor of a seemingly smaller subscribership number,”
McDowell said in a statement.  
 The commission’s conclusion “makes no sense” given
earlier studies about the availability of broadband,  Kathleen Grillo , senior vice president for federal regulatory affairs at
 Verizon Communications Inc. , said in a statement.  
 “We hope that the FCC’s finding is not used as a
justification to roll back the bipartisan, pro-investment
policies,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        