-- Udvar-Hazy Jolts Jet Leasing Out of Credit-Crunch Coma
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-07-20T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/udvar-hazy-s-9-billion-comeback-jolts-jet-leasing-out-of-two-year-slump.html

          
          
             Steven Udvar-Hazy  is the face of the
aviation industry’s rebound.  
 The 64-year-old chief executive officer of Air Lease Corp.
is the biggest buyer at this year’s Farnborough Air Show,
ordering 136 planes valued at more than $10 billion. Absent from
last year’s Paris show, leasing companies accounted for the bulk
of the deals at the event, eclipsing purchases by airlines.  
 Hazy’s ability to identify demand swings makes him a
barometer for the global aviation market. His comeback with a
four-month-old company follows the near collapse of Hazy’s
former employer,  American International Group Inc. , and signals
the recovery of an industry that lost $19 billion in the last
two years as the global financial crisis weighed on air travel.  
 “His market timing has always been impeccable for
ordering, and I sure hope he’s right because we’re ordering some
too,” said  Norm Liu , president and chief executive of General
Electric Co.’s aircraft leasing unit, the world’s largest.
“He’s the dean of the industry.”  
 Aircraft lessors buy planes for airlines so carriers can
avoid burdening their  balance sheets  with the billions of
dollars required to fund purchases and have more flexibility
with their fleets. In 2000, about 20 percent of the world’s
planes flying were leased, and the proportion has doubled since.  
 Rival to GE  
 Hazy’s main competitors are GECAS, with a fleet of 1,800
owned and managed planes, and International Lease Finance Corp.,
the company he founded three decades ago and built into the
industry leader. Hazy  sold ILFC  to insurer AIG in 1990, making
him a billionaire and giving ILFC better access to capital.  
 The relationship unraveled after AIG was forced to seek a
government bailout to prevent bankruptcy, depriving Hazy of the
means to buy new planes. Hazy went into self-described
retirement in February, only to return and start Air Lease Corp.
Joining him was  John Plueger , ILFC’s former CEO and Hazy’s
business partner for more than two decades.  
 “I put in my years and I felt this was a good time to
restart on another company, using all the experience and
knowledge that our team has amassed over the years,” Hazy said
in an interview at the Farnborough show yesterday.  
 While Hazy’s comeback with Air Lease Corp. signals a
recovery of the airline business, he may find conditions aren’t
what they were when he ruled the industry, said Qatar Airways
Ltd. Chief Executive  Akbar al-Baker .  
 “He knows this business inside out, no doubt about that,
he’s very capable,” al-Baker said. “But he’s re-emerging at a
difficult time for the aviation industry.”  
 Curbing Credit  
 The credit crisis curbed banks’ willingness to lend,
freezing capital for many airlines and forcing governments in
the U.S. and Europe to step in to guarantee 34 percent of
aircraft purchases in 2009. That’s more than double the total of
about 15 percent in 2008. While lenders have begun returning to
the markets, the price of borrowing remains above 2007.  
 Air Lease Corp. will be up against jet lessors with access
to cheaper credit. GECAS benefits from the high credit rating of
its parent company, General Electric Co., to raise capital at
lower costs than bank-funded firms.  
 Hazy secured $3.3 billion in financing for Air Lease Corp.
this month in equity and debt, including credit lines from nine
banks. Air Lease Corp. will have as many as 120 jets by the
middle of next year, and up to 350 in three years time, Hazy
said in the interview. At its peak, ILFC owned the world’s
largest fleet of Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. jets.  
 ‘Bet on Him’  
 “I’d bet on him,” said  Mike Cave , the president of Boeing
Capital, the aircraft maker’s finance arm. “He knows good
business when he sees it. He acts quickly and decisively. He’ll
be successful.”  
 Hazy, with a net worth estimated at $2.7 billion by Forbes,
“signs a deal with a handshake,” said  John Leahy , the Airbus
head of sales. Hazy often shows up personally at negotiations to
help clinch the deal, traveling in his Gulfstream V business jet
that he pilots himself, according to  Tim Clark , the president of
Emirates, the largest Middle Eastern airline.  
 At Farnborough, Hazy agreed to buy as many as 20 regional
jets from Brazil’s Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA and
planes from ATR, the venture of European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. and Italy’s Finmeccanica. The deals marked a departure
from his previous strategy to buy only Airbus or Boeing.  
 Sporting his signature moustache and a pair of metal-rim
sunglasses, Hazy dominated the first days of the air show, with
journalists flocking around him after every announcement to hear
his market predictions and industry insights.  
 Plane Fanatic  
 “He’s a phoenix,” said Emirates President Clark. “He’s
an absolute fanatic about airplanes.”  
 Hazy was born in Budapest, the son of a sports surgeon and
a fashion designer. His family moved to the U.S. when he was 13,
and Hazy said he had no command of the English language upon
arrival. By the time Hazy was an economics undergraduate at the
University of California, Los Angeles, he was raising money with
two other Hungarians to start leasing aircraft.  
 Hazy said Air Lease’s capital structure and financial
reserves will help the company grow, propelled by rebounding
travel. The airline industry will post a $2.5 billion profit in
2010, reversing two years of losses , the International Air
Transport Association said last month.  
 “We feel the industry is recovering, rebounding,” Hazy
said in the interview. “There’s significant replacement demand
for old aircraft, and we’re seeing growth demand, particularly
outside the U.S. We’re optimistic.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Farnborough, England, via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Farnborough, England, via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steven Udvar-Hazy, chief executive officer and founder of Air Lease Corp. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
