-- Ukrainian Government May Resell Ammonium Producer Odeskyi for $630 Million
-- Kateryna Choursina
-- 2010-07-20T14:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/ukrainian-government-may-resell-ammonium-producer-odeskyi-for-630-million.html

          
          
             Ukraine may resell VAT Odeskyi
Pryportovyi Zavod, its second-biggest ammonia producer, for 5
billion hryvnia ($630 million), said Oleksandr Ryabchenko, the
head of the State Property Fund.  
 Should the government fail to make a final decision on the
sale of Odeskyi or state phone company VAT  Ukrtelecom  by Aug.
15, it will have to be postponed until next year and the state
will probably miss its target for state budget revenue from
state-asset sales, Ryabchenko said.  
 “For the time being, the government has not delivered any
decision,” said Ryabchenko today at a press conference in Kiev.  
 The Cabinet aims to raise 6.35 billion hryvnia this year
from selling state-run companies, he said, adding that
Parliament approved the reduction from 10 billion hryvnia.  
 The fund tried to sell Odeskyi Pryportovyi, based in
Yuzhnyi, Ukraine, at an auction in September last year. TOV
Nortima, a Ukrainian company, won the bid for 99.57 percent of
Odeskyi  Pryportovyi, offering 5 billion hryvnia, or $594
million at that time. Two other companies participated in the
bidding. Still, the Cabinet of then-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  cancelled the result, saying it was the result of “a
conspiracy.”  
 Ukraine’s state property fund plans to sell its 50 percent
plus one share stake in  VAT Dniproenergo , the country’s biggest
electricity producer, or  VAT Zakhidnenergo , another energy
producer, in which the government controls 70 percent, in the
fourth quarter of this year, said Ryabchenko.  
 Ryabchenko also said the fund has submitted a five-year
program to the government. Under the program, Ukraine may
receive between 50 billion hryvnia to 70 billion hryvnia in
proceeds from state-asset sales through 2014, Ryabchenko said.  
 The government has to approve the program, which later
should be approved by Parliament, he added.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        