-- Hungary's Forint Gains From 14-Month Low, Stocks Rise; Bond Risk Retreats
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-20T07:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/hungary-s-forint-strengthens-from-14-month-low-budapest-bourse-advances.html

          
          
             The forint strengthened from its
weakest level in 14 months and stocks gained as analysts
speculated Hungary’s central bank may step in to support the
currency and a rebound in emerging-market shares signaled
increased appetite for riskier assets.  
 The currency advanced 0.2 percent to 289.71 per euro as of
9:50 a.m. in Budapest, snapping a four-day losing streak. The
BUX Index increased 1.2 percent, rebounding from its biggest
sell-off in six weeks. The cost of protecting against a default
on Hungary’s debt fell, with credit-default swaps dropping eight
basis points to 359 basis points.  
 The forint tumbled yesterday and the cost to insure
Hungary’s debt against default soared after the government
failed to gain the International Monetary Fund and European
Union’s approval for its budget plan. Monetary policy makers may
need to raise interest rates and will strive to stem forint
volatility, the central bank said yesterday after keeping
borrowing costs unchanged for a third month.  
 “A defensive rate hike cannot be ruled out if the selling
pressures on the forint build up,” emerging market strategists
at Societe Generale SA including  Benoit Anne  and  Gaelle Blanchard  wrote in a note. “The central bank will also probably
use some of its reserves to intervene in the foreign currency
market, but this cannot be sustained for a long time.”  
 Emerging-market stocks rose for the first time in four days
on speculation China may relax policy tightening measures and as
Indian exports surged last month.  
 Hungary plans to sell 50 billion forint ($223 million) of
three-month Treasury bills today. The debt management agency has
missed its sales target at three forint-denominated debt
auctions since June 3, after an official of Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim chance to
avoid a Greek situation.”  
 The Polish zloty rose 0.3 percent to 4.1178 against the
common currency and the Czech koruna strengthened 0.2 percent to
25.314.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        