-- Hungary Yields Jump as Debt Sale Misses Target After IMF Suspends Talks
-- Balazs Penz
-- 2010-07-20T14:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/hungary-yields-jump-as-debt-sale-misses-target-after-imf-suspends-talks.html

          
          
             Hungary’s short-term borrowing costs
rose to a  19-week high  at its first debt sale since
international creditors suspended talks, weakening the forint
and stoking concern that interest rates may increase.  
 The government raised less than targeted for the fourth
time since June, selling 35 billion forint ($156 million) of
three-month Treasury bills, compared with the 45 billion forint
planned, according to the debt management agency’s Bloomberg
page. Bids at the weekly auction totaled 52.5 billion forint.
The average yield climbed to 5.47 percent, the highest since
March 2, from 5.28 percent.  
 The International Monetary Fund and European Union ended
talks with the government officials on July 17 without endorsing
Hungary’s plans for controlling its  budget deficit . The forint
fell to the lowest since April 2009 and central bank President
 Andras Simor  said that a “sustained increase” in risk premiums
may prompt a rate increase.  
 “What the market is pricing in right now is that this rate
increase, if it happens, will take place within three months,”
 Gyorgy Cselenyi , a bond trader at BNP Paribas SA in Budapest,
said in a phone interview. “This is a perfectly logical step
from the market’s perspective.”  
 Forint, CDS  
 The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency over the
past three months with an 8.2 percent drop against the euro,
traded down at 288.01 at 4:05 p.m. in Budapest, rebounding from
the weakest close in more than 14 months of 290.35. Hungary’s
currency, which tumbled 2.9 percent yesterday, is still down 2.1
percent from before the IMF said that talks were halted.  
 “After yesterday’s knee-jerk reaction, markets are taking a
breather and it’s everyone’s expectations that the government
will reach an agreement with the international creditors at the
next round of talks,” said  Levente Blaho , an analyst at
Raiffeisen Centrobank in Budapest. “I don’t expect Hungarian
assets to firm back to their pre-IMF talk levels any time soon,
it’s more likely they’ll stabilize at current levels.”  
 The cost of protecting Hungarian debt against nonpayment
for five years fell 5 basis points to 361 basis points today,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps jumped
yesterday the most in six weeks. Credit swaps rise as the
perception of creditworthiness deteriorates.  
 The yield on the country’s benchmark three-year bond fell
to 7.42 percent today from 7.45 percent on the secondary market.
The BUX index of stocks slipped 0.2 percent.  
 Suspended Review  
 The IMF suspended its review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
($25.8 billion) emergency bailout because “a range of issues
remain open,” the Washington-based lender said in a July 17
statement. The government must make “tough decisions, notably
on spending,” to comply with deficit requirements, the EU said.  
 The IMF delegation may return to Budapest in September, and
Hungary will eventually reach an agreement with the IMF, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said yesterday at a news conference in
Vienna. Hungary is seeking a new “precautionary” loan
agreement from next year as the current program expires in
October.  
 Hungary has refrained from tapping its bailout this year
because it was able to finance spending through debt sales,
leaving about 5.7 billion euros of the package still available.
The central bank’s foreign-currency reserves were at 29.9
billion euros at the end of June, compared with 16.1 billion
euros in September 2008, before the emergency loan.  
 ‘Fairly Comfortable’  
 “From the funding perspective, they are in a fairly
comfortable situation at least until October, when the loan runs
out and they didn’t really draw on it,” said  Esther Law , an
emerging-markets strategist at Societe Generale SA in London.
“So this year is not really a problem at all, it’s more a
question of what’s going to happen in 2011.”  
 Hungary’s debt management agency sees “no financing
problems whatsoever” stemming from a debt auction falling short
of the government’s target today,  Laszlo Andras Borbely , the
agency’s deputy chief executive, said in a phone interview.  
 Hungary has raised 115 billion forint ($513 million) more
from bond sales this year than it planned, compared with a 15
billion-forint shortfall in short-term bill offerings, Borbely
said. So, its total sales have exceed its target by 100 billion
forint year to date, he said.  
 The debt management agency on June 24 sold 40 billion
forint of 12-month Treasury bills, 10 billion forint less than
planned, at a yield of 5.41 percent compared with 5.35 percent
on June 10, when it missed a 50 billion-forint goal by 15
billion forint. On July 1, Hungary raised 45 billion forint in
bonds, compared with a planned 50 billion forint.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        