-- Unilever, Syngenta Challenge European Patents on Tomato, Broccoli Breeding
-- Stephanie Bodoni
-- 2010-07-20T15:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/unilever-syngenta-challenge-european-patents-on-tomato-broccoli-breeding.html

          
          
             Unilever NV , the world’s second-
biggest consumer goods maker, and  Syngenta AG  are challenging
the validity of European patents on breeding processes for
tomatoes and broccoli at a hearing that attracted about 150
demonstrators.  
 The hearing, which started this morning at the  European
Patent Office , will establish the validity of patents on
breeding vegetables. A unit of Basel, Switzerland-based Syngenta
and Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam, challenged the
patents as invalid because they cover a biological rather than
technical process.  
 Farmers and representatives from Greenpeace were among
those protesting against the patents outside the Munich,
Germany, office today. Patents that cover vegetables should
never have been granted and must be stopped, Greenpeace said in
a statement today.  
 Failure to do so would lead to “rising prices for farmers
and consumers” because fewer companies would control food
production,  Christoph Then , a patent consultant for Greenpeace,
said in the statement.  
 “The cases today will decide to what extent the patents
can be maintained,”  Rainer Osterwalder , a spokesman for the
patent office said by telephone. “The patents will remain valid
until there’s a final decision, which we expect by the end of
this year.”  
 Plant Bioscience Patent  
 In 2003, Syngenta filed its challenge against the patent
U.K.-based Plant Bioscience Ltd. got a year earlier on a
breeding process for broccoli plants. Unilever in 2004 opposed a
patent granted to the Israeli Ministry of Agriculture for a
method for breeding tomatoes, according to the patent office.  
 While Syngenta backs patent protection for new breeding
methods that respect the law, the company doesn’t support
patents on methods that already exist.  
 “We originally filed an opposition to the ‘broccoli
patent’ because we did not believe the requirements of
patentability were met,” Syngenta said in an e-mailed
statement. “Our opposition was in relation to this very
specific patent application.”  
 Unilever spokesman Flip Doetsch said in an e-mail he had no
comment at this stage.  
 A European patent is the easiest way for companies at the
moment to get patent protection across several countries at
once. The European Patent Office isn’t part of the European
Union.  
 The European Commission, the executive agency for the 27-
nation region, earlier this month presented plans to create
patents to cover the whole EU. Similar plans for EU-wide patents
have failed in the past over language issues.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Brussels via 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        