-- UAL Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates on Higher Airline Fares
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-20T20:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/united-airlines-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-ticket-prices-fuller-jets.html

          
          
             United Airlines  parent UAL Corp.,
which plans to merge with  Continental Airlines Inc . to form the
world’s largest carrier, posted profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates on fuller planes and higher fares.  
 Second-quarter profit excluding some costs was $430
million, or $1.95 a share, topping the $1.75 average of 12
 analysts’ predictions  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
a loss of $321 million, or $2.21, a year earlier, the Chicago-
based company said today in a statement.  
 Revenue jumped 28 percent to $5.16 billion as United took
advantage of increasing business and leisure travel by raising
fares. United and other carriers haven’t added back planes that
were parked during the recession, giving them more control over
pricing as demand improves.  
 “To improve profitability, we need pricing power, and you
get that by managing capacity,” Chief Financial Officer  Kathryn Mikells  said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  
 United’s  capacity  was little changed in the second quarter,
and its planes flew 84.3 percent full, 2.3 percentage points
more than the same period a year earlier. Revenue for each seat
flown a mile jumped 27 percent, showing that the carrier is
regaining control over fares.  
 UAL rose $1.02, or 4.8 percent, to $22.20 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have advanced
72 percent this year, outpacing a 9.8 percent increase for the
12-carrier  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index .  
 ‘Very Disciplined’  
 United’s capacity will be little changed this year, and
competitors have been “very disciplined” as well, Mikells
said.  
 Mikells declined to provide a capacity forecast for 2011
beyond saying that it’s “too early in this recovery period to
suggest that it’s the right time to add capacity.”  
 Second-quarter net income rose to $273 million, or $1.29 a
share, from $28 million, or 19 cents, a year earlier. UAL ended
the quarter with $5.2 billion in cash, of which $4.9 billion was
unrestricted.  
 Over time, United Airlines sees a potential $1 billion in
revenue from fees for checking luggage and other services such
as snacks for purchase, President  John Tague  said today on a
conference call with investors and analysts. The carrier gets
about $400 million from bag fees now, he said.  
 Bag Fees  
 Only about 40 percent of bags that flow through United’s
system right now generate revenue. The company  charges  most
passengers $25 each way for the first checked bag and $35 for
the second, with discounts for pre-paying online. Some frequent-
flier members and first- and business-class travelers can check
bags for free.  
 “As you’ve seen growing applicability of these fees not
only domestically but throughout the world by other carriers in
other regions, it appears the trend is firmly in place that over
time more and more bags will be assessed fees,” Tague said.
“Were it to become ubiquitous, the trend is toward” fee-
generated revenue of $1 billion.  
 UAL agreed in May to merge with Continental in an all-stock
deal, and together they will surpass  Delta Air Lines Inc.  as the
world’s biggest carrier. United is currently third-largest and
Continental is No. 4. AMR Corp.’s American Airlines is the
second-largest.  
 Pilot Accord  
 United and Continental also said today they have agreed in
principle on a transition and process accord with the pilots of
both companies before the merger, providing a framework for
pilots until the carriers’ operating certificates are combined.  
 “We are pleased to have reached this important agreement
at such an early stage of the integration planning process, as
it is a key first step in building a long-term, productive
relationship between the combined company and our pilots,”  Jeff Smisek , Continental’s chairman and chief executive officer, said
in a statement. He will serve as CEO of the combined carrier.  
 The two companies’ pilots said last month that they hope to
reach a joint contract by the time the merger closes. The
carriers expect the transaction to be completed in the fourth
quarter of this year.  
 Support from unions, particularly pilots, can be pivotal to
the success of a combination because unified labor contracts let
airlines operate more efficiently.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     United Airlines jets at Logan International Airport in Boston. Photographer: J.B. Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Kathryn Mikells, chief financial officer of UAL Corp., discusses the airline's second-quarter profit and its planned merger with Continental Airlines Inc.
     Second-quarter profit excluding some costs was $1.95 a share, which topped the $1.75 average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Mikells speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
