-- Turkish-PKK Fighting Near the Border With Iraq Leaves Seven Soldiers Dead
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-20T13:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/turkish-pkk-fighting-near-the-border-with-iraq-leaves-six-soldiers-dead.html

          
          
             Fighters from the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, killed at least seven Turkish soldiers in clashes
in eastern Turkey, triggering renewed sparring between the
government and the opposition over anti-terrorism policies.  
 Troops and Kurdish militants were still fighting today in
the region around Kavusak village in Hakkari province where six
soldiers were killed, according to the state news agency
Anatolia. Television channels  reported  a military mobilization
in the mountainous region and helicopter ambulances landing at
local hospitals.  
 A seventh soldier was killed in the southeastern city of
Van, and Turkish forces backed by aircraft began sweeping the
area.  
 The fighting is the latest outbreak in a two-month-old
upsurge in violence that has piled pressure on Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  over his policies on terrorism and
development in Turkey’s poorer Kurdish regions. Opposition
parties have attacked Erdogan for his so-called Kurdish opening,
a program of cultural and economic incentives begun last year.
The opposition says the violence shows the policies are flawed.  
 “We have before us a prime minister who has surrendered to
terrorism,” nationalist opposition leader  Devlet Bahceli  said
in a speech in Ankara today.  
 Kurdish Television  
 Erdogan’s initiatives have included allowing television
broadcasts in the Kurdish language, the use of which was
restricted by law before his party came to power in 2002, as
well as increased investment in the southeast in an effort to
weaken PKK recruitment and end the conflict.  
 Some 40,000 people, most of them Kurds, have died in
fighting over the past 26 years since the PKK, considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S. and the European Union, took
up arms against the Turkish state.  
 Erdogan says economic issues are at the core of terrorism
in Turkey and that he won’t back down from his plan to increase
investment in the southeast, where many Kurds live.  
 “Unemployment is the most important reason for terrorism,
and it didn’t start under our government,” the prime minister
said in a speech in Ankara today.  
 He spoke hours before parliament was to begin debating a
law that would prevent minors from being tried under anti-terror
legislation. The law would apply to young Kurds who have been
arrested for throwing stones at soldiers.  
 Meanwhile, the armed forces are working to establish a
corps of professional soldiers so that career troops, and not
conscripts, patrol the border with Iraq, Justice Minister
 Sadullah Ergin  said yesterday in Ankara. The government said it
may recall parliament if necessary to form the corps.  
 The PKK has bases in northern Iraq, and Turkey often
strikes the rebels’ positions with jet fighters and helicopters.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        