-- USC Hires Former QB Pat Haden as Athletic Director, Replacing Mike Garrett
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-07-20T20:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/usc-hires-former-qb-pat-haden-as-athletic-director-replacing-mike-garrett.html

          
          
             The University of Southern
California will make former Trojan quarterback and Rhodes
Scholar  Pat Haden  its next athletic director, replacing
 Mike Garrett , the university said on its website.  
 Haden, 57, who went on to play quarterback for the Los
Angeles Rams, is a partner at the private investment firm
of  Riordan, Lewis & Haden  and is a Notre Dame football
analyst for  General Electric Co. ’s NBC network.  
 “As a new administration prepares to take office on
Aug. 3, 2010, the opportunity has arisen to bring new
leadership to the athletic department,” president-elect
 Max Nikias  said in a letter posted today on the athletic
department’s website. “USC, which experiences both the
opportunities and challenges involved with a high-profile
athletics program at a global hub, will seek to excel in
the coming years in a manner that is consistent with the
highest values of the academy.”  
 Garrett, 66, a former Heisman Trophy winner at running
back for the Trojans, was  USC  athletic director for the
past 17 years. The school last month was given four years
probation by the National Collegiate Athletic Association
for having a lack of institutional control over its sports
programs.  
 The NCAA stripped the school of football victories
including its 2004 season national championship, barred the
school from bowl games for two years and took away 30
scholarships for violations uncovered in a four-year
investigation into USC’s football and men’s basketball
programs.  
 The violations primarily involved agent and amateurism
issues surrounding former USC football player  Reggie Bush 
and basketball player O.J. Mayo. USC is appealing some of
the penalties.  
 Board of Trustees  
 Haden has been a member of the USC board of trustees
for 19 years and was the head of the board’s academic
affairs committee. He was offered the job by Nikias, who
will replace the retiring  Steven Sample .  
 Haden told the  Los Angeles Times  that one of his first
moves will be to create the position of associate athletic
director for football, which will serve as a liaison to
coach  Lane Kiffin .  
 He told the Times he would like to hire J.K. McKay, a
Los Angeles-based attorney, the son of former USC coach
John McKay and a former Trojan teammate of Haden’s, to fill
the position.  
 Integrity and Talent  
 “It is absolutely unsurprising and typical that Pat
would want to be there for his beloved alma mater in a time
of need,” NBC Universal Sports & Olympics Chairman  Dick Ebersol  said in a statement. “His integrity, his talent
and his engaging manner are just what the Trojans need.”  
 Nikias, who has hired David M. Roberts, a managing
partner of Roberts, Raspe & Blanton LL, as vice president
for athletic compliance, said the school will remove
athletic jerseys and murals displayed in recognition of
Mayo and Bush by mid-August and that it will return Bush’s
2005 Heisman Trophy to the Heisman Trophy Trust.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        