-- Vale, Steelmakers Rally on Outlook China May Ease Tightening Policies
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-07-20T21:48:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/vale-rises-most-in-two-months-on-outlook-china-may-ease-tightening-policy.html

          
          
             Vale SA  led gains among raw-
materials producers in Sao Paulo trading on speculation that
China, the world’s fastest expanding major economy, will ease
measures to curb domestic growth.  
 Vale, the world’s largest producer of iron ore, climbed 6.2
percent to 40.90 reais, the most since May 27, as of the close
of trading at 4 p.m. New York time. Cia. Siderurgica Nacional
SA, Brazil’s third-biggest steelmaker, rose 5.3 percent to 27.63
reais, also the biggest gain in almost two months. Gerdau SA,
Brazil’s biggest steelmaker, and No. 2 producer Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA also gained.  
 Stocks rallied after International Strategy & Investment
Group and Morgan Stanley said China may loosen measures to curb
overheating as the economy slows. Chinese investors may see a
“visible softening” in the government’s policy tone in the
third quarter, according to Morgan Stanley. China is the biggest
consumer of iron ore, the main raw material used to make steel.  
 “The prospects of China loosening measures to curb
overheating tell us iron-ore and steel demand are going to
remain strong,”  Fausto Gouveia , who helps manage 200 million
reais ($112 million) in stocks at Legan Administracao de
Recursos in Sao Paulo, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Steel Price Increase  
 Bradespar SA, part of the group that controls Vale, jumped
6.7 percent, the most since Oct. 29, to 34.56 reais.  
 Usiminas plans to raise steel prices by between 3.5 percent
and 6 percent as of Aug. 1 after iron-ore, coal and other raw-
material costs climbed, the company said today in an e-mailed
statement after the close of regular trading.  
 Vale is producing iron ore at full capacity as Chinese-led
demand rebounds, said Claudio Alves, the company’s director for
iron-ore sales in the Americas. China is starting to rebuild
steel stockpiles, while the U.S. and Europe will likely increase
inventories in the fourth quarter, Alves said today at an event
in Rio de Janeiro.  
 Iron-ore prices are set to rebound this year, said  Roger Downey , chief executive officer of MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA.
The iron-ore miner controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista  is “ramping up” production and adding capacity, Downey
said at the same event.  
 MMX rose 3.6 percent to 11.08 reais.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        