-- Veritas's McKeon Can't Be Represented by Schulte Roth, Appeals Court Says
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-07-20T22:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/veritas-s-mckeon-can-t-be-represented-by-schulte-roth-appeals-court-says.html

          
          
             Robert B. McKeon , founder of the
private-equity firm  Veritas Capital Management LLC , can’t be
represented by the law firm  Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP  in
litigation with an ex-employee, a New York appeals court ruled.  
 The court today upheld a lower-court ruling that Schulte
Roth and partner  Benjamin M. Polk  were barred from representing
McKeon in the suit because McKeon’s “interests are adverse to
other members” of the Veritas entities, including the
plaintiff,  Thomas Campbell .  
 In dueling litigation, Campbell accuses McKeon and the
Veritas entities of pushing him out of an investment in DynCorp
International Inc., and Veritas accuses Campbell of violating
his employment terms by entering deals with  Omnicom Group Inc. 
to help the advertising company hide losses. Both cases have
been on hiatus until the legal-representation question was
decided.  
 McKeon had sought to overturn the lower court’s ruling on
representation while Campbell asked the appellate division of
New York Supreme Court to reverse a determination that the law
firm can represent McKeon’s entities. The appeals panel upheld
both decisions.  
 Ronald E. Richman , a lawyer for Veritas and McKeon at New
York-based Schulte Roth, said he couldn’t immediately comment on
the ruling. Edward M. Spiro, a lawyer for Campbell at Morvillo,
Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer PC, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  
 ‘Off Its Books’  
 In March 2001, Campbell asked McKeon whether New York-based
Veritas would form a company with an affiliate of Omnicom to
help the advertising company get “certain assets off its
books,” according to an August 2008 affidavit by McKeon.
McKeon, after looking at the deal, declined and told Campbell
not to pursue it on his own.  
 Campbell ignored that command, according to Veritas.  
 Veritas accuses Campbell of creating or controlling,
between 1999 and 2002, 13 entities that engaged in transactions
with Omnicom or its affiliates. Those deals saved Omnicom, the
world’s second-biggest owner of advertising agencies, millions
of dollars, Veritas says. Campbell himself made about
$100 million from the deals, Veritas says.  
 ‘Shocked to Discover’  
 “I was shocked to discover that Mr. Campbell had secretly
engaged in a transaction with Omnicom,” McKeon wrote in his
August 2008 affidavit.  
 Veritas says it fired Campbell in January 2007 after it
learned, through a class-action investor lawsuit against
Omnicom, of his deals with the advertising company.  
 In 2002, shareholders accused New York-based Omnicom, owner
of the BBDO Worldwide and DDB Worldwide agencies, of securities
fraud by making false and misleading statements about its
Internet investments.  
 The investors accused the company of hiding more than
$1 billion in losses from online companies it owned after the
dot-com crash of 2000. The investors said Omnicom didn’t write
down the assets it shifted to a new entity, Seneca Investments
LLC, and that it improperly accounted for the transaction.  
 One analysis calculated that the value of the Internet
companies declined to $100 million from $2 billion by May 2001,
according to a 2005 court decision.  
 Tossed Complaint  
 U.S. District Judge  William Pauley  in January 2008 tossed
out the investors’ complaint, saying they failed to show a link
between inflated share price and disclosures they said corrected
earlier company misstatements. The federal appeals court in New
York upheld Pauley on March 9.  
 Pat Sloan , a spokeswoman for Omnicom, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  
 The investors’ allegations remain alive in Veritas’s suit
against Campbell.  
 The investors’ expert in the class action found five
transactions he evaluated to have been fraudulent.  
 For example, Campbell’s Chaucer Investments Co. bought the
assets of several of Omnicom’s Internet companies, including
Answerthink, Netcentives and Headhunter.Net Inc., by exercising
a backdated option, a deal that made Campbell $28 million,
according to an affirmation by  Holly H. Weiss , a Schulte Roth
lawyer. The purpose of the deal was for Omnicom to avoid missing
its earnings targets, according to the affirmation.  
 In pretrial sworn testimony in the Omnicom litigation,
Omnicom Chief Financial Officer  Randall Weisenburger  said
Campbell controlled at least six entities, some of which did
business with Omnicom, and he made at least $174 million between
1999 and July 2002 on his Omnicom transactions, according to the
Weiss document.  
 Business Partner  
 Campbell is a friend and former business partner of
Weisenburger, according to court papers.  
 Campbell sued McKeon and the Veritas entities in state
court in New York in March 2008. He claims McKeon used the
Omnicom situation to oust him from Veritas and that his former
boss also pushed him out of the deal for DynCorp, a military-
services provider in Falls Church, Virginia.  
 “Campbell’s personal investment transactions with Omnicom
were passive in nature, not appropriate for the Veritas Funds,
and did not usurp any corporate opportunity that belonged to
Veritas or divert any of Campbell’s professional time or
resources away from the operation, management or investment of
Veritas,” Campbell said in his complaint.  
 The DynCorp investment would require about $100 million,
according to Campbell’s court papers. McKeon, after promising
other members and employees they could participate, instead
personally invested $48 million, according to Campbell. Thus,
Campbell says he missed out on the profit from DynCorp’s May
2006 initial public offering.  
 DynCorp Stake  
 McKeon’s DynCorp stake was worth about $225 million in
March 2008, according to Campbell’s complaint.  
 Private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP this
month completed its purchase of DynCorp for about $1.47 billion,
including the assumption of debt.  
 Campbell claims that he’s owed a year-end distribution of
$2 million for 2006 and that he’s entitled to remain a member of
the Veritas entities.  
 In January 2009, New York Supreme Court Justice  Herman Cahn 
threw out five of Campbell’s 10 claims, including one for
wrongful termination. Others remain, such as breach of contract.  
 Veritas also sued Campbell in March 2008, accusing him of
violating his obligations to the entities. In November 2008,
Cahn threw out four of seven claims, leaving in two contract
claims and one for declaratory judgment.  
 Capital Partners  
 After leaving Veritas, Campbell started Washington-based DC
Capital Partners LLC, also a private-equity firm focusing on
defense, intelligence and other government-contract companies.
In March,  International Business Machines Corp.  completed its
acquisition of National Interest Security Co. from DC Capital.
Terms weren’t disclosed.  
 WPP Plc, based in London, is the world’s biggest owner of
advertising agencies.  
 The cases are Campbell v. McKeon, 600673/2008, and Veritas
Capital Management LLC v. Campbell, 650058/2008, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        