-- Volkswagen's U.S. Unit to Become Profitable `Shortly,' CEO Winterkorn Says
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-20T00:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/volkswagen-says-u-s-unit-to-be-profitable-shortly-will-get-chief-soon.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG’s money-losing U.S.
unit will be profitable “shortly,” Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  told reporters in Palo Alto, California.  
 The company will appoint a chief for the unit soon,
Winterkorn also said at an event to discuss VW’s electric-car
strategy.  
 Winterkorn hasn’t selected a permanent successor to U.S.
chief  Stefan Jacoby  almost a month since the VW veteran of 25
years stepped down. Jacoby’s exit coincides with the final phase
of introducing a new Jetta compact, VW’s best-selling American
model, and as VW prepares to open a factory in Tennessee and
present the first car built exclusively for the U.S. market.  
 The CEO has promised almost to triple VW’s share of the
second-biggest auto market to 6 percent by 2018 and boost
deliveries to 1 million cars, including the Audi luxury unit.  
 Winterkorn, 63, is banking on localization of models and
giving up the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker’s premium-
pricing strategy in the U.S. to compete with small-car leaders
Toyota and  Honda Motor Co.   
 In the first six months, VW boosted U.S. deliveries by 30
percent to 126,000. Jetta sales increased 19 percent to 55,258
cars, accounting for 44 percent of the total. Other models that
posted gains included the Tiguan, Passat CC and Rabbit.  
 VW unexpectedly named Barnes and  Michael Lohscheller  on
June 24 to run the U.S. operations on an interim basis, saying
the company was holding contract talks with Jacoby. The
negotiations focused on Jacoby’s obligations to VW before he
takes over as CEO at Volvo Cars, people familiar with the matter
said June 25.  
 Winterkorn also said the company plans to introduce
electric cars in 2013 and forecast sales from the vehicles will
be 3 percent of total annual sales by 2018.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Detroit via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        