-- VW Chief Winterkorn Targets U.S. Market With Jetta Hybrid, Electric Cars
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-20T10:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/vw-chief-winterkorn-targets-u-s-market-with-jetta-hybrid-electric-cars.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG  unveiled plans for a
range of hybrid and electric vehicles that Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said will account for 3 percent of the
German carmaker’s global sales by 2018.  
 VW will introduce either the Up! city-car or the Golf
compact, its best-selling model, as an all-electric vehicle in
the U.S. by 2013, Winterkorn said. The automaker also plans to
sell a gas-electric hybrid version of the Touareg sport-utility
vehicle later this year, followed by a Jetta hybrid in 2011.  
 Europe’s  largest carmaker  joins Toyota Motor Corp., Honda
Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co. in planning plug-ins and battery-
powered cars as governments tighten rules to cut emissions. In
California, the most populous U.S. state, the largest carmakers
by volume must sell about 60,000 plug-in hybrids and electric
cars combined from model years 2012 through 2014, according to
the state’s Air Resources Board.  
 “VW is trying to prove that being a latecomer isn’t
necessarily a bad thing,” said  Christian Aust , an analyst at
UniCredit in Munich who rates the stock “buy.” “They’ve
rarely been the first mover, but have often entered the market
with mature products. They’ve got a strong development
department and their comfortable market position in Europe.”  
 Honda Motor Co., whose fleet of vehicles is rated the most
fuel-efficient in the U.S., announced plans today to introduce
an all-electric car and a plug-in hybrid in 2012 as rival
carmakers threaten its leading position.  
 Chevrolet Volt  
 General Motors Co. is planning to build 10,000 units of its
new Chevrolet Volt electric car next year, and  Nissan Motor Co. 
will begin selling its all-electric Leaf compact. Tesla Motors
Inc. sells the $109,000 Roadster, an electric sports car powered
by 1,000 pounds of lithium-ion battery cells.  
 VW spends more than 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) a year
on vehicle research and development. Winterkorn, who will test
drive a revamped Jetta compact sedan near San Francisco today,
reiterated his goal of surpassing  Toyota , the world’s largest
auto manufacturer, in profitability and deliveries by 2018.  
 “Our goal is clear and ambitious,” Winterkorn said
yesterday at VW’s research laboratory in Palo Alto, California.
“Volkswagen will be the automaker to mass produce the electric
car for everyone.”  
 Volkswagen’s preferred shares  rose  as much as 85 cents, or
1.1 percent, to 75.48 euros and traded at 74.29 euros as of
12:27 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the carmaker at 33.7 billion
euros.  
 ‘Important’ Market  
 VW will test an electric version of the Lavida model in
China as preparation for a broader launch, as well as the second
generation of the Golf TwinDrive, a plug-in hybrid that can run
about 50 kilometers on electric drive, in Berlin later this
year, the carmaker said.  
 The U.S. will be an “important” market for electric
vehicle for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, which will make
research on electric cars a “top priority,” Winterkorn said.  
 VW aims to almost to triple its share in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest auto market, to 6 percent by 2018 and
boost deliveries to 1 million cars, including 200,000 Audi
luxury vehicles.  
 In the first six months, VW’s U.S. deliveries climbed 30
percent to 126,000. Jetta sales increased 19 percent to 55,258
cars, accounting for 44 percent of the total. Other models that
posted gains included the Tiguan, Passat CC and Rabbit.  
 Winterkorn, 63, is banking on localization of models and
giving up VW carmaker’s premium-pricing strategy in the U.S. to
compete with small-car leaders Toyota and  Honda .  
 Unexpected Change  
 VW unexpectedly named  Mark Barnes  and  Michael Lohscheller 
on June 24 to run the U.S. operations on an interim basis,
saying the company was holding contract talks with U.S. chief
 Stefan Jacoby , a VW veteran of 25 years. The negotiations
focused on Jacoby’s obligations to VW before he takes over as
CEO at Volvo Cars, people familiar with the matter said June 25.  
 Winterkorn plans to appoint a chief for the unit soon, he
said yesterday, without elaborating.  
 Jacoby’s  exit  coincides with the final phase of introducing
a new Jetta compact, VW’s best-selling American model, and as VW
prepares to open a factory in Tennessee and present the first
car built exclusively for the U.S. market.  
 Volkswagen is targeting a second consecutive year of  record
deliveries  as it adds about 70 models, including upgrades in
2010. VW, which increased first-half deliveries 15 percent to
more than 3.5 million units, sold 6.29 million cars and sport-
utility vehicles in 2009.  
 “Our efforts to become the world’s No. 1 also involve the
U.S. as we have chances to achieve considerable growth here,”
Winterkorn said. “It’s our goal to make Volkswagen the leading
volume brand here too.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Palo Alto, California via the Berlin newsroom
at   acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Martin Winterkorn, chief executive officer of Volkswagen AG. Photographer: Jochen Eckel/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
