-- WaMu Shareholders Win Court Investigation of Biggest U.S. Bank Failure
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-20T17:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/wamu-shareholders-win-court-investigation-of-biggest-u-s-bank-failure.html

          
          
             Shareholders of  Washington Mutual
Inc.  won court approval of a new investigation of the biggest
U.S. bank failure, further delaying the company’s effort to
reorganize in bankruptcy.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  in Wilmington,
Delaware, agreed that an examiner should be appointed to review
WaMu’s assets, including the value of a potential lawsuit
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. for their role in the 2008 collapse of Washington Mutual
Bank.  
 Shareholders claim that lawsuit could be worth $30 billion,
a figure disputed by the FDIC, WaMu and its creditors.  
 “An examiner is necessary both to reduce the cost of
litigation and to ensure that all parties have a forum,”
Walrath said.  
 WaMu, based in Seattle, dropped its opposition today to a
new investigation, provided that it doesn’t cause a long delay
in its proposal to distribute more than $6 billion to creditors.  
 Walrath said the examiner should file a preliminary work
plan by Aug. 6. She also said the examiner would immediately
meet with the FDIC and other critics of a potential lawsuit to
hear their arguments.  
 A preliminary report on the examiner’s findings should be
presented to the court at its Sept. 7 hearing, Walrath said.  
 “We are thrilled by today’s ruling,” shareholder attorney
Justin Nelson said in an interview after the hearing. “We look
forward to an independent investigation.”  
 Limited Investigation  
 WaMu argued that an investigation should be limited and
last no longer than 75 days. Shareholders proposed giving an
examiner 120 days to file a preliminary report.  
 WaMu agreed not to sue JPMorgan and the FDIC as part of a
settlement that splits almost $10 billion in cash and tax
refunds. That agreement expires Aug. 30. Shareholders would get
nothing under a proposed liquidation of most of the company’s
remaining assets.  
 The examiner will be named by the U.S. Trustee, an arm of
the U.S. Justice Department that oversees bankruptcy cases.
Attorneys for shareholders, WaMu and others involved in the
bankruptcy can submit names of potential examiner.  
 WaMu filed for bankruptcy Sept. 26, 2008, the day after its
banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to JPMorgan 
for $1.9 billion. Before it failed, Washington Mutual Bank had
more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  
 Disclosure Statement  
 Walrath pushed back to Sept. 7 a hearing on whether a
disclosure statement for the company’s liquidation plan contains
enough information for creditors to vote on it.  
 WaMu, its bondholders and the official committee of
unsecured creditors support the proposed settlement.  
 Bondholder attorney  Thomas Lauria  said in court that
shareholders cannot recover anything until creditors owed $15
billion are repaid, which he said is not possible. Lauria said
shareholders pushed for an examiner in order to delay WaMu’s
bankruptcy case.  
 “What an examiner will be is a filibuster,” Lauria said.  
 Common and preferred shareholders oppose the settlement,
along with bondholders owed money by the banking unit.  
 The case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        