-- WaMu Would Agree to Bank Failure Probe With No Long Delay, Attorney Says
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-20T14:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/wamu-would-agree-to-bank-failure-probe-with-no-long-delay-attorney-says.html

          
          
             Washington Mutual Inc. , the former
parent of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, will agree to a new
investigation of the collapse by a bankruptcy court examiner
under certain conditions, a lawyer for the bank said.  
 As long as an examiner does not cause a long delay in the
company’s plan to distribute more than $6 billion to its
creditors, WaMu would agree to a new investigation, company
attorney  Susheel Kirpalani  today told the judge in Wilmington,
Delaware, overseeing the company’s bankruptcy.  
 Shareholders want U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath  to
order a broad investigation of WaMu’s assets, including the
value of a potential lawsuit against JPMorgan and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. for their role in the 2008 collapse of
Washington Mutual Bank.  
 “An investigation needs to be more than a whitewash,”
shareholder lawyer  Justin A. Nelson  said in court. “It is
inappropriate to limit the scope to simply whether the
settlement is fair.”  
 WaMu, based in Seattle, said an investigation should be
limited and last no longer than 75 days. Shareholders have
proposed giving an examiner 120 days to decide the scope of any
investigation.  
 A settlement expires Aug. 30 that would split almost
$10 billion in cash and tax refunds with JPMorgan and the FDIC
in exchange for WaMu’s promise not to sue them.  
 Shareholders oppose that settlement. Their proposal would
mean an investigation would not be finished by the time the
settlement expired.  
 The case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        