-- Warburg Institute, Saved From Nazis, Faces Bureaucratic Threat
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-07-20T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/warburg-institute-saved-from-nazis-battles-bureaucrats-martin-gayford.html

          
          
             A great cultural foundation that was
saved from the Nazis is now under threat from a different, more
insidious menace: the bureaucratic policies of modern British
higher education.  
 The  Warburg Institute  at London University is renowned
throughout the scholarly world for its remarkable library,
founded over a century ago. Yet today its existence as an
independent entity is in doubt, and may be decided in court.  
 The story is a long and sad one. “Everybody has a feeling
of disbelief that we have got to this point,” the director of
the Warburg, Charles Hope, said in an interview. “The
university has said that it wishes to change the Trust Deed,
according to which the Warburg was originally handed over to the
 University of London  in 1944, and is talking to its lawyers --
and we are talking to our lawyers.”  
 The founder of the institute was Aby Warburg (1866-1929),
the descendant of a Hamburg banking family and an intellectual
with a brilliance that led him to be compared to  Sigmund Freud 
by art historian Ernst Gombrich.  
 Warburg’s originality lay in seeing that art had to be
understood in the context of the whole society from which it
came. To this end he formed a library devoted to “the study of
the science of culture,” especially the ways in which the
heritage of classical Greece, Rome and other early civilizations
had metamorphosed in the centuries that followed. Rare volumes
on magic, the discoveries of Galileo, Arabic treatises on
algebra, astrology and the lives of saints all found room on his
shelves.  
 Nazi Menace  
 As the fame of his library grew it attracted other creative
thinkers and in time was affiliated to  Hamburg University . With
the advent of the Nazis, it became clear that, since it was
regarded as a Jewish institution the Warburg would have to leave
Germany. This transfer, at the invitation of farsighted U.K.
patrons, was carried out in the nick of time. A fortnight later,
and its fate would have been decided by  Joseph Goebbels .  
 Fortunately, the library continued safely in London. In
1944, it was incorporated into the University of London, to be -
- according to the Trust Deed -- maintained and preserved “in
perpetuity” as “an independent unit.”  
 Since the 1950s it has occupied a specially constructed
building in the Bloomsbury area of London. The library has grown
to 350,000 from 80,000 volumes, arranged according to Warburg’s
unique system of interconnecting ideas (and the complementary
photographic collection now contains more than 300,000 images).  
 Among these book stacks generations of distinguished
thinkers have pursued unexpected connections and written
important books. These include Gombrich, the art historian
Michael Baxandall, and Professor Anthony Grafton of Princeton, a
highly regarded scholar of the humanities.  
 ‘Book Depository’  
 Researchers continue to beat a path to the Warburg, though
perhaps not for much longer. As Grafton wrote recently in the
 New York Review of Books , the academic administrators of London
“seem bent on turning the Warburg Institute from a unique
research center, its open stacks laden with treasures uniquely
accessible to all readers, into a book depository.”  
 The problems are various. University of London policies
decree that all libraries come under common management, and the
Warburg has been merged into a combined “School of Advanced
Study.” Subsequently the University changed the way that it
allocated costs for rent.  
 “The consequence of this was that whereas historically we
paid between 20 percent and 30 percent of our grant for our
premises, we now pay more than 60 percent,” according to
Professor Hope. “It has plunged us into an annual deficit of
half a million pounds ($765,000) out of a turnover of 2 million
pounds that is completely unsustainable.”  
 The costs can only be reduced by destroying the character of
the library. This seems to conflict with the terms of the
original gift, that the institute would be maintained “in
perpetuity.” As Hope insists, “there is an overwhelming
scholarly consensus that it ought to be left as it is. You can
get further in a week in the Warburg Library than in a month
elsewhere.” To lose this unequaled source of inspiration and
discovery would be a cultural disaster.  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at
 martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Aby Warburg  
                       
                         
                           Warburg Institute via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Aby Warburg. A descendant of a Hamburg banking family, Warburg is the founder of the Warburg Institute. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Aby Warburg. A descendant of a Hamburg banking family, Warburg is the founder of the Warburg Institute. Source: Warburg Institute via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       E. H. Gombrich  
                       
                         
                           Warburg Institute via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The late E. H. Gombrich in front of the Warburg Institute in London. Gombrich was director of the Warburg Institute from 1959-76. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The late E. H. Gombrich in front of the Warburg Institute in London. Gombrich was director of the Warburg Institute from 1959-76. Source: Warburg Institute via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
