-- Transocean Is BP Spill Focus as Five Workers Named `Parties of Interest'
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-21T20:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/well-boss-kaluza-was-bp-temporary-replacement-on-rig-refuses-to-testify.html

          
          
             Transocean Ltd.  employees onboard
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig when it exploded in the Gulf
of Mexico have become the focus of a U.S. government probe into
the cause of the fatal disaster.  
 Stephen Bertone, chief engineer on the rig, and Mike
Williams, chief engineer technician, were designated as parties
of interest yesterday by a joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior
Department  investigative panel . That boosted to five the number
of Transocean workers who could face criminal charges stemming
from the accident that killed 11 people.  
 No one from  BP Plc , which leased the Deepwater Horizon to
drill the Macondo well, or from other companies involved in the
work has been named a party of interest, according to the
panel’s website. Transocean, the largest offshore oil driller,
may be held liable because under maritime law the vessel owner
has ultimate responsibility for the safety of those onboard,
said Paul Sterbcow, an attorney representing Williams.  
 Transocean “cannot delegate that duty to anybody else,”
Sterbcow said in a telephone interview before his client was
named. “The law prevents it and the facts prevent it.”  
 If Transocean employees are found to have taken steps that
led to the explosion, deaths and spill, they may face criminal
charges, regardless of whether they were following orders from
their client, BP, said Jane Barrett, who spent 20 years
prosecuting environmental crimes at both the federal and state
levels.  
 Parties of Interest  
 Sterbcow said that even if the joint panel finds that BP
advocated unsafe drilling practices or a questionable well
design, Transocean employees may be faulted for acquiescing. He
later declined to comment on Williams.  
 Other parties of interest named by the panel include James
Harrell, who as offshore installation manager was the highest-
ranking Transocean drilling official on the rig; Captain Curt
Kuchta, who escaped from the burning vessel by jumping from the
deck 100 feet (30 meters) above the sea; and Douglas Brown, the
chief mechanic, according to the panel’s website.  
 The panel began a third round of hearings this week in
Kenner, Louisiana, near the New Orleans airport. Today’s hearing
was canceled after four Transocean employees declined to
testify, said Coast Guard Captain Hung Nguyen, co-chairman of
the proceedings.  
 Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for Switzerland-based Transocean,
declined to comment on the details of the investigation.  
 Imprisonment, Fines  
 Under federal rules, anyone designated a party of interest
could face criminal charges if the investigative panel concludes
crimes were committed, Kyle Schonekas, an attorney representing
Kuchta, said in a July 19 interview.  
 The rig workers may face imprisonment and fines under an
array of federal statutes that includes the Clean Water Act, the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Seaman’s Manslaughter Law,
said Barrett, who now runs the Environmental Law Clinic at the
University of Maryland.  
 Transocean fell $1.25, or 2.6 percent, to $47.75 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
dropped 48 percent since the disaster.  
 Pat Fanning, a lawyer representing Harrell, said it’s too
soon to determine which individuals or companies may shoulder
most or all of the blame.  
 The six-member panel, composed of equal numbers of Coast
Guard officers and Interior Department regulators, appears to be
divided about which element of rig operations to concentrate on,
Fanning said in an interview in the lobby of the hotel hosting
the proceedings.  
 ‘Marine Safety’ Focus  
 “The Coast Guard guys are very focused on marine safety
because they see it as a case of you’re the master of the
vessel, so you’re responsible,” Fanning said. The Interior
Department representatives are more interested in questions
about the design of the well and drilling practices, he said.  
 Fanning said investigators’ focus eventually will turn to
BP’s well design and the manner in which the company directed
Transocean and other contractors to execute the drilling
program. The Macondo well, about 40 miles off the Louisiana
shore in 5,000 feet of water, was months behind schedule and
millions of dollars over budget when the rig exploded.  
 Corporate Entities  
 “It’s becoming pretty clear as the testimony goes on that
the rig was under BP’s control and BP was giving the orders,”
Fanning said.  
 So far, the highest-ranking onboard BP managers who were
overseeing the well when it exploded haven’t answered questions
from the panel.  
 Robert Kaluza , a BP well-site leader who was on temporary
assignment to the project, has refused to appear, citing his
Constitutional right against self incrimination.  Donald Vidrine ,
a well manager of equal rank, declined to testify yesterday,
citing undisclosed health reasons.  
 Nine corporate entities have been designated as parties of
interest by the panel. They are BP and its partners in the well,
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which
is 70 percent owned by Japan’s Mitsui & Co.; Transocean;
Halliburton Co.; Cameron International Corp.; Weatherford
International Ltd.; M-I Swaco; and Dril-Quip Inc.  
 Cameron International and Mitsui Oil are among those that
received letters on May 5 from the Justice Department telling
them to preserve documents related to the oil spill.  
 The letters told the companies they need to take steps to
preserve “potentially relevant information” related to the
Deepwater Horizon accident. The Justice Department provided the
letters in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.  
 Cameron, Moex  
 Cameron, based in Houston, made the blowout preventer, a
stack of valves that’s meant to shut off the flow of oil and gas
during a pressure surge, or blowout.  Rhonda Barnat , an outside
spokeswoman for Cameron, declined to comment.  
 The letter to Mitsui was sent in care of Moex USA, a
subsidiary of Mitsui Oil Exploration. Mitsui & Co. owns a
majority stake in Moex, which holds a 10 percent stake in the
well.  
 Naoki Ishii, the assistant secretary of Moex USA, said in a
May 10 letter to the Justice Department that “we had already
made arrangements to preserve possibly relevant materials,
including paper and electronic documents.”  
 Ronald Sepulvado, the BP well-site leader for whom Kaluza
was standing in when the disaster unfolded, told the panel
yesterday that Transocean’s offshore installation manager, or
OIM, had the authority to veto any drilling operations he deemed
unsafe.  
 Asked yesterday by Hariklia Karis, a Kirkland & Ellis LLP
attorney representing BP, “where the buck stops” on the rig
with regard to safety, Sepulvado responded, “It stops with the
OIM.”  
 A fourth round of hearings is scheduled for Aug. 23-27 in
Houston.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in New Orleans at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Transocean, the largest offshore oil driller, may be held liable because under maritime law the vessel owner has ultimate responsibility for the safety of those onboard, said attorney Paul Sterbcow. Photographer: Derick E. Hingle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jonathan Barratt, managing director at Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc. 
     BP seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP's talks to sell half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field to Apache Corp. stalled twice over the weekend, raising doubts about whether the deal will be completed, said a person with knowledge of the matter.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
