-- Whirlpool Declines as Appliance Demand Seen Slowing in U.S., Latin America
-- Lauren Coleman-Lochner
-- 2010-07-20T20:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/whirlpool-declines-as-appliance-demand-seen-slowing-in-u-s-latin-america.html

          
          
             Whirlpool Corp. , the world’s largest
appliance maker, fell 2.9 percent after saying demand will slow
in North America and Latin America this year.  
 Whirlpool, the maker of Maytag washing machines and
KitchenAid refrigerators, slid $2.66, or 2.9 percent, to $88.70
at 4:03 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 10 percent this year.  
 The company sees a “moderating growth rate” in the U.S.
because of a lack of inventory rebuilding at retailers and the
end of an appliance rebate program,  Marc Bitzer , president for
North America, said on a conference call today. Demand in Latin
America will also slow compared with “strong” growth in the
same period a year ago, Whirlpool said.  
 Brian Sozzi , an analyst with Wall Street Strategies Inc.,
called the company’s earnings results today “mixed,” saying
Whirlpool didn’t increase its forecast for unit shipments to
Europe, Asia and Latin America. Revenue and operating profit
gains are slowing quarter over quarter, New York-based Sozzi
wrote in a report today.  
 Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, today raised
its full-year profit forecast, helped by cost cuts and overseas
sales. Earnings will be as much as $9.50 a share, up from a
prior forecast of as much as $8.50. Analysts projected earnings
of $8.86, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Housing Slowdown  
 The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Fettig ,
said in 2008 it would fire 5,000 workers through 2010 to reduce
costs as the U.S. housing slowdown and rising unemployment hurt
demand for refrigerators and dishwashers. In the second quarter,
sales rose 43 percent in Asia and 24 percent in Latin America.  
 “We expect to deliver a record year of earnings per share
in this fragile, global economic environment,” Fettig said in
today’s statement.  
 Second-quarter profit more than doubled to $205 million, or
$2.64 a share, from $78 million, or $1.04, a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose about 6 percent to $4.53 billion,
excluding the effect of currency exchanges.  
 Excluding some items, profit was $2.82 a share. Five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit of $2.19, on
average.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        