-- Dallas, Kansas City Feds Backed Discount Rate Increase in June
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-20T19:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/two-fed-district-banks-called-for-boost-in-discount-rate-to-1-last-month.html

          
          
             Directors at two Federal Reserve
district banks renewed their calls for an increase in the rate
charged on direct loans to banks, while one bank pulled back
from such a stance, according to minutes of Board of Governors
meetings last month.  
 Fed banks in Dallas and Kansas City called for an increase
in the so-called  discount rate  by a quarter-point to 1 percent,
according to the minutes, released today in Washington. The St.
Louis Fed reversed its calls in April and May for a higher rate,
joining the other nine regional Fed banks in requesting the rate
remain unchanged.  
 St. Louis Fed directors “have decided to back off their
view about how quickly short-term interest rates should rise,”
said  Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. With U.S. unemployment at 9.5 percent
and weakening in industries such as housing, the directors
“feel an increase is the wrong message to send,” he said.  
 The Board of Governors  kept the discount rate at 0.75
percent last month, in line with requests from the other 10 Fed
regional bank boards. Directors of Fed banks said a “moderate
economic recovery was continuing” while they were “cautious
about the outlook,” according to the minutes.  
 Treasury two-year note yields reached a record low for the
third time in four days after data showing U.S. housing starts
fell last month to the least since October. Two-year yields were
little changed at 0.5845 percent at 3:30 p.m. in New York after
falling as low as 0.5683 percent.  
 Housing Starts  
 Work began on 549,000 houses at an annual rate last month,
fewer than the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News and down 5 percent from May, Commerce Department
figures showed today.  
 The discount rate applies to a small volume of loans. As of
July 14, banks were borrowing $150 million from the Fed discount
window at the rate.  
 The St. Louis Fed is probably concerned with “the
announcement effect, the psychological effect” from asking for
a rate increase, Hoffman said.  
 District bank directors last month noted “downside risks
posed by the fiscal condition of state and local governments and
by financial developments abroad,” the minutes said. “Most
directors recommended that the current accommodative stance of
monetary policy be maintained.”  
 Among the Fed’s Washington-based governors, there was “no
sentiment” for a  discount-rate  change, according to the
minutes.  
 ‘Normalization’  
 The central bank raised the rate in February, a move it
described as a “normalization” of lending terms rather than a
tightening of monetary policy. Prior to August 2007, the Fed
kept the rate, also known as the primary credit rate, 1
percentage point above the target for the  benchmark  federal
funds rate.  
 In meetings in April, the Kansas City, Dallas and St. Louis
regional banks supported an increase in the discount rate as
“another step toward restoring a pre-crisis discount-rate
structure.”  
 The Dallas and St. Louis Fed banks wavered in their support
of a further increase. The Dallas Fed voted on May 13 to leave
the rate unchanged, then voted on May 27 and June 8 to raise it.
The St. Louis Fed voted for an increase on May 13 and May 27,
then voted on June 10 to leave the rate unchanged.  
 Discount-window lending, which rose to a record $110.7
billion in October 2008, has returned to pre-crisis levels. On
July 7, banks had borrowed only $17 million, the lowest level
since before the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. in 2008.  
 Labor Market  
 In their discussions of the economy, regional Fed bank
directors said “although the labor market showed signs of
gradual improvement, directors generally expected hiring to
remain subdued.”  
 At their meeting last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and his fellow policy makers left the federal funds rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent and repeated a pledge to keep
rates low for an “extended period.” They said financial
conditions had become “less supportive of economic growth” in
the wake of Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Discount-rate changes are requested by boards of directors
at the 12 regional Fed banks. The requests are subject to final
review and determination by the  Fed Board  in Washington. Central
bank governors review requests about every two weeks.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, listens during a forum in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
