-- Woolworths Reports Fourth-Quarter Sales of $10.3 Billion; Shares Decline
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-21T06:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/woolworths-reports-fourth-quarter-sales-of-10-2-billion-shares-decline.html

          
          
             Woolworths Ltd.,  Australia’s
biggest retailer, said sales growth slowed in the fourth
quarter on tamer food inflation and as the government
withdrew stimulus spending. The shares fell.  
 Revenue rose 3.9 percent to A$11.6 billion ($10.2
billion) in the three months ended June 27 from A$11.1
billion a year earlier, Woolworths said in a statement today.
The  shares  fell the most in almost seven months as sales
growth slowed from 4.7 percent in the third quarter.  
 Demand for clothing, groceries and electronics is
slowing following the end of more than A$10 billion in cash
handouts to families that boosted 2009 sales at the Sydney-
based retailer. Woolworths also faces a challenge from
second-ranked  Wesfarmers Ltd. , which intends to win customers
with revamped supermarkets at its Coles chain.  
 “It’s got everything to do with the stimulus,”
Woolworths Chief Executive Officer  Michael Luscombe  said in a
telephone interview today. “We were far and away the biggest
recipient of the extra money that was in the community’s
hands last year and we have to cycle that.”  
 Woolworths shares fell 49 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
A$26.19 at the 4:10 p.m. market close in Sydney, their
largest decline since Jan. 28. The stock has fallen 6.5
percent this year compared with a 9.4 percent decline in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  
 Slowing Growth  
 Adjusted for the timing of Easter holidays in April,
sales growth slowed to 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter from
5.4 percent a year earlier.  
 “The weak sales result highlights challenges in cycling
fiscal stimulus and the drag of low food inflation in the
fourth quarter,”  Craig Woolford , an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a note to clients today. “We believe that this
weakness is temporary.”  
 Woolford, who  rates  Woolworths shares “hold,” had
estimated fourth-quarter sales growth at 5 percent.  
 Full-year sales rose 4.2 percent to A$51.7 billion. Food
inflation slowed to 1.1 percent in the 12 months compared
with 4.1 percent in the previous year, Woolworths said.  
 Revenue from Australian supermarkets, the company’s
biggest  division , rose 2.8 percent to A$7.8 billion in the
quarter.  
 Grocery Sales  
 Sales from domestic grocery outlets open at least a year
gained 1.8 percent compared with Citigroup’s 1.5 percent
estimate. Same-store or comparable sales strip out the
effects of recently opened outlets.  
 The company’s  New Zealand  supermarkets unit posted a 5.4
percent rise in sales to NZ$1.2 billion ($859 million). In
Australian dollar terms, the division posted a 5.6 percent
rise in revenue.  
 Fuel sales rose 12 percent in the quarter to A$1.3
billion.  
 Woolworths  attracts  shoppers  to its filling stations by
offering a discount of at least 4 cents a liter on fuel when
they spend more than A$30 at its supermarkets.  
 Big W, a chain of discount department stores, posted an
11 percent fall in sales to A$808 million. Adjusted for
Easter’s timing, Big W revenue fell 9.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, compared with 13 percent growth a year earlier.  
 Year-Earlier Sums  
 “Big W is alive and well and doing really well in terms
of volume,” Luscombe said. “We just need to cycle over
these year-earlier sums.”  
 Sales at the consumer electronics unit, which includes
the Dick Smith brand, rose 3.4 percent to A$395 million as
growth in India limited the effect of declining demand in
Australia.  
 Revenue at the Australian hotels unit, the nation’s
biggest pub owner, fell 1.6 percent to A$247 million.  
 The  Australian Woolworths  isn’t related to London-based
Woolworths Group Plc, which was founded in 1909 as part of
its U.S. parent’s expansion, or Woolworths Holdings Ltd.
based in Cape Town, South Africa.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        