-- Yahoo Revenue Falls Short of Analysts' Estimates on Ad Sales
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-20T22:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/yahoo-revenue-misses-estimates-on-ad-competition-from-google-shares-fall.html

          
          
             Yahoo! Inc. , owner of the second-
most popular U.S. Internet search engine, reported sales that
missed analysts’ estimates as marketers devoted online search-ad
spending to rival sites. The shares fell in late trading.  
 Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, Yahoo had
sales of $1.13 billion, the Sunnyvale, California-based company
said today in a statement. That compares with the average
estimate of $1.16 billion among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Yahoo is grappling with competition from companies such as
 Google Inc.  and Facebook Inc., which have benefited from
increases in market share and user growth. While Yahoo posted
gains in display advertising, its  sales  from ads that appear
next to search results dropped in the quarter.  
 “Their search business is losing share and is in decline,”
said  Jason Helfstein , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York, who rates the shares “market perform” and doesn’t own any.
“They’re not cutting enough costs to offset that.”  
 Yahoo fell 6.2 percent to $14.26 in  extended trading , after
rising 10 cents to $15.20 today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
 shares  have dropped 9.4 percent this year.  
 Search ad sales didn’t meet expectations, Chief Financial
Officer  Tim Morse  said in a telephone interview. The company
experienced a “pullback” with customers in June, though that has
reversed this month, he said.  
 “Revenue fell a little bit short for us, so plenty of work
still to do,” Morse said. Currency fluctuations also hurt sales,
he said.  
 Revenue Forecast  
 The company joins International Business Machines Corp. and
Texas Instruments Inc. in falling short of analysts’ sales
estimates last quarter.  
 Yahoo  forecast  revenue of $1.57 billion to $1.65 billion
for the current quarter, compared with the $1.64 billion
estimate of  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in San
Francisco.  
 In the second quarter, search-based ad sales declined 8
percent from a year earlier, after a 14 percent slide in the
January-March period. Display ad revenue, including banner ads,
rose 19 percent in the second quarter.  
 U.S. online advertising is rebounding. The market should
expand 11 percent this year after declining 3.4 percent last
year, according to  EMarketer Inc.  in New York. Last week, Google
reported a 24 percent increase in second-quarter profit, which
is derived mostly from online ads.  
 ‘Not Happening’  
 Yahoo is bringing new content to its site to attract
visitors and keep pace with rivals. The company’s U.S. user base
rose 10 percent in June from a year earlier, a smaller increase
than Google’s 14 percent and Facebook’s 84 percent, according to
ComScore Inc. in Reston, Virginia.  
 Visitor are also spending less time on the site. They
logged on for 2 hours and 11 minutes in June, down from 2 hours
and 56 minutes in December, according to Nielsen Co. in New
York.  
 “What they need are people staying up late, spending time
on Yahoo,” said  Heath Terry , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets
Corp. in New York, who rates Yahoo shares “ underperform .” “From
all the numbers that we see, that’s just not happening.”  
 Second-quarter  net income  attributable to Yahoo rose to
$213.3 million, or 15 cents a share, from $141.4 million, or 10
cents, a year earlier.  
 In May, Yahoo said it would feature social games on its
home page from Zynga Game Network Inc., including “FarmVille”
and “Mafia Wars.” Zynga has more than 235 million active users.  
 Yahoo also has a deal with Facebook, owner of the world’s
largest social-networking service, to integrate more content on
Yahoo’s sites.  
 Search Transition  
 Yahoo is investing in its own properties, using savings
from its efforts to cut expenses. The company is offloading the
costs of running a search engine through a 10-year agreement
with  Microsoft Corp.  Yahoo will use Microsoft’s Bing search
product on its sites and sell ads next to the results.  
 The search transition is progressing well and the companies
still aim to have it completed before the holiday shopping
season, Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  said on a
conference call. Yahoo has begun testing the new search
services, both for consumers and advertisers, she said.  
 The companies aim to use the partnership to compete with
industry leader Google, which had more than triple Yahoo’s U.S.
market share of online searches last month, according to
 ComScore . Microsoft was third.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Carol Bartz, president and chief executive officer of Yahoo! Inc. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Jason Helfstein, a media analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., discusses Yahoo! Inc.'s second-quarter earnings reported today and the outlook for the company.
     Yahoo, owner of the second-most popular U.S. Internet search engine, reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates as marketers devoted online search-ad spending to rival sites. Helfstein talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
