-- Yen Falls on Speculation Recent Advance Will Spur Calls for Intervention
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-20T11:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/yen-falls-on-speculation-recent-advance-will-spur-calls-for-intervention.html

          
          
             The yen fell for a second day
against the dollar on speculation the Bank of Japan will
intervene to weaken the currency after it climbed to a seven-
month high last week.  
 The yen dropped versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts as
importers sold the currency and technical indicators signaled
the recent rally was overdone. The euro weakened from a two-
month high against the dollar as European equity markets
declined, pushing the Stoxx Europe 600  Index  down 0.3 percent.
The Australian dollar snapped a three-day losing streak as gains
in Asian shares spurred demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 “The yen weakened as the risk background was more
positive, along with the talk of BoJ intervention,” said  Adam Cole , head of global currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London. “The yen’s move against the Aussie dollar in
particular indicated a better bid for risk. The euro retreated
as equities reached their lows for the day, and that spilled
over into the currency market.”  
 The yen declined to 86.78 per dollar as of 6:29 a.m. in New
York, from 86.69 yesterday, after climbing to 86.27 on July 16,
the strongest since Dec. 1. The euro dropped 0.1 percent to
112.06 yen, and fell 0.2 percent to $1.2912. It reached $1.3029
earlier today, the highest level since May 10, on optimism
stress-test results from European banks this week will show the
region’s debt crisis is easing.  
 The Australian dollar strengthened 0.8 percent to 87.52
U.S. cents and 1 percent to 76.01 yen.  
 Poised to Rally  
 The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the
yen, a gauge that compares the magnitude of gains and losses,
was at 29 yesterday, below the 30 threshold that some traders
see as a sign a price has fallen too far and is poised to rally.  
 The Bank of Japan may ease monetary policy if the yen stays
around 85 against the dollar, Dow Jones Newswires reported
yesterday. Central bank Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said last
week a stronger yen and stock declines may hurt the economy.  
 The yen also weakened on speculation Japanese importers
took advantage of its recent surge to sell the currency.  
 “There’s talk that importers are selling the yen,” said
 Shinichi Hayashi , a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central Bank, the
central institution for Japan’s financial cooperatives. “The 86
yen level hasn’t been seen by them for a while, so they’re
probably buying dollars.”  
 Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to average 90.16
versus the greenback in the six months to March 2011, according
to Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey released July 1.  
 The central bank has limited measures it can use should it
wish to weaken the yen, according to Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd.  
 ‘More of the Same’  
 “The BoJ appears only willing to offer more of the same --
a possible increase in Japanese government bond purchases, or
more likely a further increase in its lending facility to
financial institutions,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of
global currency research, wrote in a report. “Bar outright
intervention, which we doubt is being considered at present, the
yen will remain at the mercy of the direction of global
yields.”  
 European regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks
to determine whether they can survive potential losses on
sovereign-debt holdings. Results will be released July 23.
Spanish officials including Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said
last week they’re confident about the results of the stress
tests on Spanish banks.  
 Stress Tests  
 “Our bank credit analysts expect positive results and
favor being long risk heading into the release of the European
bank stress tests,” said  David Forrester , a currency economist
at Barclays Capital in Singapore. “For the euro, we expect an
initial rally, but the most important change would be a
reduction in the likelihood of a large downside move.”  
 The euro’s gains are close to petering out amid “fragile
market confidence,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  
 “Confidence will take a hit if European economic growth
begins to fade,”  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at RBS in
Sydney, wrote in a report. “It’s hard to see confidence in
European debt markets improving further from here. Perhaps the
stress tests will deliver one more spurt of confidence. But it’s
close to a peak and so is the euro.”  
 Australia’s dollar strengthened versus all 16 major
currencies as the S&P/ASX 200 Index of shares rose 1 percent and
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 2.2 percent.  
 China Consumption  
 China’s commerce ministry said domestic consumption will
expand at a relatively fast pace and become the most important
element of growth in the nation, which is Australia’s largest
trading partner. The country may revise its loan targets higher,
while investment project approvals may be eased by the fourth
quarter, Morgan Stanley economists  Qing Wang  and  Steven Zhang 
wrote in a note to clients.  
 “There’s talk about China ramping up the pace of
infrastructure spending and toning down the severity of curbs on
the property markets,” said  Imre Speizer , a market strategist
in Wellington at Westpac Banking Corp. “China growth means more
demand for Aussie and kiwi commodities, supporting the
currencies.”  
 Reserve Bank of Australia officials said in minutes of
their July 6 meeting released today that they’ll use the results
of European bank stress tests and local inflation figures due
next week to decide whether to resume raising interest rates.  
 The Canadian dollar rose for a second day against its U.S.
counterpart on speculation the nation’s central bank will
increase borrowing costs today.  
 Canadian Rates  
 The Bank of Canada will raise its policy rate by a quarter-
percentage point to 0.75 percent, according to all 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Governor  Mark Carney  became the first
Group of Seven central banker to lift borrowing costs since the
global financial crisis on June 1, increasing the benchmark to
0.5 percent.  
 “We remain constructive on the Canadian dollar and expect
to see further support coming through as the BOC looks likely to
gradually tighten monetary conditions over the months ahead,”
 Amelia Bourdeau , a currency strategist in Stamford, Connecticut,
at UBS AG, wrote in a research note yesterday.  
 Canada’s dollar strengthened 0.1 percent to C$1.0537 per
U.S. dollar.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        