-- Your Health-Care Fine Relies on Flawed Ruling: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-07-20T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/your-health-care-fine-relies-on-flawed-ruling-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             As the hearings over her
confirmation move forward and the scrutiny of  Elena Kagan 
intensifies, both parties seem convinced that the drama will
benefit them.  
 Even white college-educated women are turning away from
President  Barack Obama , according to a July Washington Post/ABC
News  poll . The administration thinks that its strong support of
Kagan, the educated feminist’s heroine, will help the president
and fellow Democrats.  
 Republicans think that by grilling Kagan they please their
anti-Obama constituents. Both parties are desperate: a Rasmussen
poll published last week shows that only 23 percent of Americans
believe their government rules with “the consent of the
governed.”  
 But it’s not Supreme Court nominees who should receive so
much national attention. Rather, it is certain Supreme Court
decisions that need to go under the national microscope. Instead
of a congressional hearing about Kagan, Congress should hold a
hearing about past Supreme Court rulings that will shape many of
that court’s future opinions.  
 One such case is  Wickard v. Filburn . Wickard is the 1942
case that the Obama administration has cited as evidence of the
constitutionality of penalties that will hit those who don’t buy
insurance mandated by the new health-care law.  
 Scrutiny of the Wickard ruling and its abuses over the
years does much to explain voters’ current disenchantment.  
 Regulating Commerce  
 The Constitution gives the federal government the power to
regulate commerce “among the several states,” later known as
interstate commerce. For the first 150 years of U.S. history,
interstate commerce meant what it sounded like: business
transactions involving companies in different states or a
company operating in more than one state.  
 But in the 1930s, President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s
administration sought repeatedly to widen that definition.
Policy makers contended, wrongly, that raising crop prices would
benefit the economy overall. Authorities such as Agriculture
Department Secretary  Henry Wallace  therefore endeavored to drive
up prices by making farmers curtail supply. The federal
government fined farmers who grew more than prescribed amounts.  
 There was one farmer, however, whose wheat crop seemed
clearly outside the definition interstate commerce. Roscoe
Filburn, living in Ohio, grew wheat to feed his own animals on
his own land. Yet when Filburn produced more than the allowable
amount of grain, authorities demanded he pay the standard
penalty for overproduction, 49 cents a bushel.  
 Landmark Ruling  
 By 1942, Wallace was vice president and had been replaced
at the Agriculture Department by  Claude Wickard . In the case
Wickard v. Filburn, the Supreme Court endorsed the fine. Justice
Robert Jackson maintained that Filburn’s wheat could be fined
because its very existence had a “substantial economic effect”
on the wheat market.  
 Betraying some wonder at this outcome, the New York Times
noted that Jackson actually wrote in his opinion that Filburn
might have won his case had he fed his animals unthreshed wheat.
The act of threshing the wheat, Jackson said, was what made
Filburn’s wheat part of the national wheat market.  
 Even in the 1940s, the Times wasn’t alone in sensing the
absurdity of Wickard. Americans knew that limiting supply to
drive up prices didn’t necessarily promote general economic
growth. They recognized that the justices were allowing the old
definition of commerce to be stretched like a rubber band. But
Americans accept Supreme Court opinions more respectfully than
the Ten Commandments.  
 Cynicism Rises  
 Wickard became established law. One administration after
another has hidden behind the generous cover of the ruling when
rewarding the farm vote with subsidies. There has been a cost
beyond the dollars wasted: a rise in political cynicism.
Americans see that to get votes the government will spend where
spending doesn’t make sense.  
 They also see that Wickard routinely leads politicians to
hypocrisy. President Obama has said repeatedly that he would
like to save billions in the federal budget by trimming farm
subsidies.  
 Achieving that is hard to do thanks to the established farm
lobby that lives off revenue made possible by the Wickard
ruling. Yet Obama won’t attack Wickard. That’s because many
nonagricultural projects important to his party are legitimized
by Wickard. Criticizing farm subsidies that flourished under
Wickard, even as Obama’s lawyers lean on the ruling to defend
the new health plan, is the very sort of inconsistency that puts
off voters.  
 Political Foolishness  
 Democrats aren’t the only ones who make fools of themselves
with Wickard. In recent decades two impulses have driven the
Grand Old Party. The first is federalism, curtailing the power
of the federal government and pushing back against efforts at
government expansion such as Wickard. The second policy impulse
is to push socially conservative legislation and to advance a
family values agenda in court rulings.  
 The latter moved  John Ashcroft , attorney general under
 George W. Bush , to defend an administration policy of enforcing
a federal drug law that prohibited use of medical marijuana
within the state of California. One user,  Angel Raich , contended
she couldn’t be prosecuted under federal drug laws because she,
like the wheat farmer of yore, was consuming a plant grown in
state. By assailing modern-day Filburns, the Bush administration
made its emphasis on federalism look ridiculous.  
 It is time to focus not on justices but on the body of
precedent they work from. Overturning Wickard is possible: the
Supreme Court can do it. Better yet would be passage of a
constitutional amendment that explicitly delineates limits to
government intervention in states. Both parties will call such
an endeavor difficult. But undertaking difficult tasks is what
earning the “consent of the governed” is all about.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        