-- Zapatero Wins Vote on Spain Spending Plan, Setting Up Battle Over Budget
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/zapatero-wins-vote-on-spain-spending-plan-setting-up-battle-over-budget.html

          
          
             Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  won parliamentary approval for next year’s
spending plan by four votes in the first phase of a battle over
the 2011 budget that could decide the fate of his government.  
 Aided by 13 abstentions, Zapatero’s Socialists carried the
vote 170 to 166, Speaker  Jose Bono  said yesterday in Madrid.
Smaller groups including the Basque Nationalist Party that
Zapatero relied on to pass his minority government’s program
voted against the spending limit, which is the first stage of
the budget process.  
 Zapatero also lost a separate, non-binding vote yesterday
calling on the government to scrap a freeze next year on
pensions, part of the austerity plan passed in May. The motion
was carried 178-163, increasing pressure on the government to
backtrack on the measure.  
 As a  20 percent  unemployment rate and the deepest budget
cuts in three decades erode support for the government, Zapatero
has also lost the backing of smaller parties in parliament that
he relied upon. He pushed through emergency austerity measures
with a margin of one vote on May 27, and failure to pass the
2011  budget  by the end of the year would probably bring down the
government.  
 Zapatero has riled unions and some members of his Socialist
party with a policy U-turn aimed at cutting the third-largest
budget deficit in the euro region and stemming a surge in
borrowing costs.  
 The  budget shortfall  was 11.2 percent of gross domestic
product last year and the government aims to cut it to 6 percent
in 2011 by paring public workers’ pay by 5 percent, reducing
infrastructure investment and raising taxes.  
 Bond Spread  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Spanish debt
rather than German equivalents reached a euro-era high of 233
basis points on June 17. The spread narrowed to 169 basis points
yesterday from 176 basis points a day earlier.  
 Zapatero has also prompted criticism from traditional
allies by changing labor legislation to make it cheaper for
companies in difficulty to fire workers and for firms to opt out
of wage bargaining deals. That, coupled with plans to raise the
retirement age, has prompted the two largest unions to call a
general strike on Sept. 29.  
 The policies have alienated small parties that define
themselves as leftist and used to provide votes to Zapatero, who
is seven seats shy of a majority. CiU, a pro-business,
nationalist Catalan party, warned Zapatero in May he couldn’t
count on its 10 votes for the final budget vote while the Basque
Nationalist Party, which voted against yesterday’s plan has yet
to decide whether it will lend its support, and at what price.  
 Backing for Zapatero is also waning among voters. A poll by
ABC newspaper published on June 14 showed the opposition
People’s Party, which has started billing itself as the party of
“workers,” opened up an 11.8 percentage-point lead over the
Socialists. A survey published by La Gaceta newspaper on July 11
showed a 9.6 percentage-point lead over the ruling Socialists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jose Luis Zapatero  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jose Luis Zapatero, prime minister of Spain, speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jose Luis Zapatero, prime minister of Spain, speaks at a news conference during the Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
