-- Zimbabwe Preparing for an Influx of Nationals Returning From South Africa
-- Brian Latham
-- 2010-07-20T09:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-20/zimbabwe-prepares-for-an-influx-of-nationals-returning-from-south-africa.html

          
          
             Zimbabwe is preparing for a possible
influx of its nationals from South Africa because of mounting
concern over xenophobic attacks in the neighboring country.  
 Tents have been erected in preparation for any flood of
people returning from South Africa, Madzudzo Pawadyira, head of
the government’s Civil Protection Unit in the border town of
Beitbridge, said by phone from the town today.  
 “We have put up three very big tents, acquired 10,000
blankets and 1,000 buckets and put in place similar measures at
Plumtree on the border between Zimbabwe and Botswana,” he said.
“The International Organization for Migration has told us that
the number of people crossing back into Zimbabwe has almost
doubled in recent days, but this includes nationals from
countries like Malawi and Zambia.”  
 At least five people were injured in Kya Sands in northern
Johannesburg late yesterday when immigrants were assaulted by
mobs, Talk Radio 702 reported on its website, the latest in a
series of attacks. At least 3 million Zimbabweans, many of them
illegal immigrants, live in South Africa, according to
government estimates.  
 Attacks on foreigners led to the death of 62 people in
2008, some of whom were doused with gasoline and set alight.
South African police have said they will not allow xenophobic
attacks to resurface this year.  
 “The situation is tense in the informal settlements and
squatter camps and many people, Zimbabweans, Malawians, Rwandans
and even Somalis, are seeking temporary safety outside the
country,” Jacob Kadzviti, a Zimbabwean waiter, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg today. “I have sent my wife and two
children home until the tension has calmed down.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        