-- Bank of China Buys Aircraft Lessor for $965 Million
-- Chan Sue Ling
-- 2006-12-15T12:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-15/bank-of-china-buys-aircraft-lessor-for-965-million-update2-.html

          
          
             Bank of China  Ltd., the nation's
second-biggest bank, said it will buy all shares of Singapore
Aircraft Leasing Enterprise for $965 million, the first major
acquisition made by a state-owned Chinese bank.  
 The Beijing-based bank will buy 100 percent of  Asia 's
largest plane lessor from the existing shareholders and assume
$2.28 billion of debt, according to its press release today. The
price represents 1.8 times to the company's equity value of $535
million as of Sept. 30.  
 China 's commercial airline fleet flew 133 million people,
more than the population of  Japan , in the first 10 months of
this year and will probably more than triple in size to 3,900
planes in the next two decades, according to Boeing Co. Leasing
aircraft lets airlines expand and replace aging planes quicker
with less of their own money.  
 ``In the long run, there must be some sort of aircraft
leasing company to serve the country's demand,'' said Winson Fong, who helps manage about $2.3 billion of assets at SG Asset
Management in  Singapore . ``Aircraft leasing will grow along with
the fleet expansion in China.''  
 Bank of China said the acquisition is part of its strategy
to diversify into non-interest income, and will provide a
platform for it to expand into aircraft leasing. The lender will
also get cross-selling opportunities with airline companies.  
 ``Bank of China will leverage on its global client
resources and institutional network in China and overseas to
support Singapore Aircraft's global business development, and
particularly in the Chinese aviation sector,'' the bank said.  
 New Directors  
 The Chinese lender said it will appoint directors to the
 board  of Singapore Aircraft, which will be run by the company's
existing management based in Singapore. Robert Martin will
remain the company's chief executive officer.  
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , the world's largest carrier by
market value, said its share of the sale is about S$528 million
($342 million), based on current  exchange rate . The book value
of the unit was about S$306 million as at the end of September,
the carrier said in an e-mailed reply to  Bloomberg News  queries.  
 Singapore Aircraft said in September it wants to increase
the number of planes it operates for airlines, earning
management fees in addition to lease payments. The company
manages 14 planes for third parties out of a fleet of 77, and
has 28 planes on order. It also has an option to buy 20
additional aircraft.  
 More Passengers  
 Bank of China  wants to expand into plane leasing and has an
agreement with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc., which holds about
4.4 percent of the Beijing-based company, to develop aircraft
finance. Rival Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Corp. has
already loaned more than $8.9 billion to the aviation industry,
covering at least 100 aircraft loans and 200 guarantees,
according to its Web site.  
 China's airlines flew 16 percent more passengers in the 10
months ended October than a year earlier, Yang Guoqing, vice
minister at the Civil Aviation Administration of China, said on
Dec. 11. Airlines in the country will buy 2,880 new airplanes
till 2025, costing about $280 billion in the period, according
to Boeing.  
 Founded in 1912, Bank of China has been providing
guarantees on almost all planes leased by Chinese carriers since
the 1980s, according to its Web site.  
 BOC International (Holding) Ltd., the investment bank of
Bank of China,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  advised the Chinese
bank. Officials of the investment banks are prohibited to
comment before the announcement.  
 Major Purchase  
 ``This is the first major foreign acquisition by a Chinese
bank,'' said David Chin, managing director of UBS in Hong Kong.
``It is also a unique opportunity for Bank of China to acquire a
global leasing platform,'' said Chin.  
 Singapore Aircraft leases planes to 34 airlines including
 Canada 's WestJet, China's Shandong Airlines and Kenya Airways,
posting a profit every year since it began operations in 1993.
The company had $3.1 billion of assets as of Sept. 30.  
 Earnings are rising even as airlines in the Asia-Pacific
region, the fastest-growing area for air traffic in the world,
struggle with high  oil prices .  
 Singapore Airlines and German Bank WestLB AG, each own 35.5
percent owner of Singapore Aircraft. Temasek Holdings Pte,
Singapore's state-owned investment agency, and GIC Special
Investments, the private-equity unit of the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp., each have a 14.5 percent stake.  
 The shareholders hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in June to explore
options including an initial public offering or a stake sale.
The New York-based bank's spokesman in  Hong Kong , Richard Tesvich, declined to comment.  
 Singapore Aircraft, which reported a sevenfold jump in net
income to $34.7 million in the year ended March 31, is planning
to boost the number of aircraft it owns and manages to 300 in
five years, Martin said in an interview in September.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net 
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        