-- IMF sees sharp U.S. slowdown
-- By V. Ramakrishnan and Anurag Joshi
-- Mon Feb 11, 2008 7:47am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/11/businesspro-imf-usa-slowdown-dc-idUSDEL3056620080211

 

 MUMBAI  (Reuters) - Economic slowdown in the United States 
will be significant and will last for some time, the head of 
the International Monetary Fund said on Monday, calling for a 
coordinated response to financial turmoil around the world. 

  While it was unclear how long the crisis facing 
international banks over subprime losses would last, complex 
financial links between regions may mean emerging economies 
could also be hit if the situation worsened, IMF Managing 
Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said in a speech.  Uncertainties facing markets and policymakers included a 
possible worsening of the U.S. housing market, which would hurt 
consumption, and any more disclosures from European banks on 
losses resulting from the market turbulence.  "The problem is today we have unknown unknowns," he said at 
the start of a three-day visit to India.  Last month, the IMF cut its forecast for world growth this 
year in the face of continued stress in global credit markets, 
and warned that economic activity could slow even further.  The IMF chief said the main reasons for the revision were 
the weak growth outlook in the United States and Europe.  The Fund lowered its global 2008 growth projection to 4.1 
percent from 4.4 percent, reflecting a marked slowdown from the 
4.9 percent pace achieved last year.  Slowing of the U.S. economy has worried investors and 
policymakers and concerns have also surfaced that the U.S. 
downturn is spreading to the 15-nation euro-zone economy.  "For the U.S. at least, the slowdown will be both 
significant and will last for some time," Strauss-Kahn said.  "There is no way to escape a rather long period of slowdown 
in economic growth."
  GLOBAL SOLUTIONS  He said global solutions had to be found to the financial 
market turmoil and there were already signs of coordination 
between the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank.  "We are in a globalized world and global problems require 
global solutions," he said.  "I am not arguing that it has to be today," he said. "What 
I am arguing is that everybody should prepare themselves to 
something that had to be coordinated because, again, there is 
no local answer to a global problem."  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 
Seven (G7) top industrialized nations said at the weekend the 
U.S. economy was likely to escape a 2008 recession but more 
work was needed to restore markets to good working order and 
safeguard global growth.  The G7 leaders also urged banks to fully disclose losses 
and shore up balance sheets to restore markets to normal.  Strauss-Kahn called the message from the G7 finance leaders 
"positive" but said while exposure of European banks to the 
subprime market could be lower than American banks, they could 
also be facing losses as they invested in complex instruments.  He added that "a lot of disclosures may come in European 
banks."  The IMF has also cautioned that the main risk to the global 
outlook was ongoing turmoil in financial markets, which would 
further reduce domestic demand in advanced economies and create 
more significant spillovers into emerging markets and 
developing economies.  Strauss-Kahn said decoupling between emerging markets and 
developed economies was a "misleading idea."  "The linkages between the financial and real sector, 
developed and emerging markets, are much more complex than they 
were before," he said.  (Editing by  Charlotte Cooper  and Stephen Nisbet)