-- Chrysler dealers endorse latest restructuring move
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Sun Feb 10, 2008 7:01pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/11/businesspro-chrysler-dealers-dc-idUSN1057586720080211

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Chrysler dealers, meeting as a 
group for the first time with the struggling automaker's new 
management team, on Sunday expressed support for a newly 
unveiled plan to shrink Chrysler's retail network and 
streamline its product line-up. 

  The privately held No. 3 U.S. automaker last week outlined 
plans to reduce its roughly 3,600 U.S. dealerships to a much 
smaller number that will represent all three of its brands: 
Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge.  The plan marks an extension of efforts already under way at 
Chrysler to encourage dealers to merge with or buy out other 
dealers to create "superstores" for its three brands.  But by more aggressively restructuring its retail network, 
Chrysler expects to be able to stop making many of the 30 
models it now offers -- such as the Dodge and Chrysler-branded 
versions of its top-selling minivan.  The promise is that in turn will reduce product development 
and marketing costs for Chrysler and boost profits for a 
smaller network of allied dealers able to save on inventory 
costs and spend more on marketing and dealership improvements.  Some dealers had expressed concern heading into Sunday's 
annual meeting with executives that Chrysler could look to 
strong-arm smaller dealers out of the market or pull out of 
some areas altogether.  "I was a little down, but now I'm more upbeat," said Jeff 
Dubose, a Dodge dealer in Wilmington, North Carolina, since 
1965. "I thought they were going to force dealers, but that 
doesn't seem to be the issue."  About 55 percent of Chrysler dealers now carry all three of 
its brands. The new restructuring -- known internally as 
"Project Genesis" -- is aimed at encouraging mergers between 
dealers in cities and suburban areas, executives said.  "I think the big concern among some of the small dealers 
was that somehow they got the conception that Chrysler wanted 
to get rid of the small dealers, which is not the case," said 
John Schenden, who owns a Chrysler and Jeep dealership in 
Thornton, Colorado.  Dealers who attended a meeting led by Chrysler's recently 
named sales chief and vice-chairman Jim Press said he had not 
offered any targets for the number of dealerships or vehicle 
models to be cut. Several said they expected to be briefed in 
the next month on more detailed plans.  "Everybody needs to be patient and take a deep breath," 
said Hayden Elder, who owns Elder Chrysler-Dodge-Jeep in 
Athens, Texas, near Dallas. "They're not trying to take the 
little guys out. They're trying to get the metro areas back in 
line, and when it happens it's going to be great."  Chrysler is owned by private equity company Cerberus 
Capital Management CBS.UL, which bought an 80 percent stake 
in the company from Daimler AG ( DAIGn.DE ) last August.
  'ROCKING TOWARD A SOLUTION'?  Since appointing former Home Depot Inc ( HD.N ) Chief 
Executive Robert Nardelli to run the company, Cerberus has been 
expected to shake up Detroit's business practices and some 
Chrysler dealers said they saw that already happening.  Joel Lieberman, a dealer from East Hampton, New York, said 
he sold his General Motors Corp ( GM.N ) franchises two months 
ago to buy a Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge store because he believed 
Chrysler's new Wall Street owners would succeed where Daimler 
failed.  "They're going to streamline it and make it better, and 
that's just what this company needs," Lieberman said. "These 
guys are on the ball and rocking toward a solution in the auto 
industry that you haven't seen in 100 years."  Press, who was hired away from Toyota Motor Corp ( 7203.T ) 
last year, said Chrysler dealers were positive about a separate 
initiative announced this month to throw in more options on 12 
models, effectively cutting prices.  "When times are tough and the economy's tough and the stock 
market's going haywire, you ought to lower your price and help 
people make it through," Press said. "As a small American 
company that's privately held, we can do that."  Press said Chrysler's 2008 sales goal was to hold retail 
market share as it cuts back on loss-making sales to car rental 
agencies that it previously relied on to support production.  "On retail we should do about the same. Our share will go 
up a little bit because the market's going to be more 
difficult," Press told Reuters.  (Editing by  Braden Reddall )