-- Bank of Montreal eyes LaSalle Bank assets: analyst
-- 
-- Mon Apr 2, 2007 5:13pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/02/businesspro-bankofmontreal-lasallebank-a-idUSN0244801620070402

 

 VANCOUVER, British Columbia  (Reuters) - Bank of Montreal 
( BMO.TO ) has indicated it would be interested in the 
Chicago-based assets of LaSalle Bank Corp. if they come on the 
market, a UBS analyst based in Toronto said on Monday. 

  LaSalle is owned by Dutch bank ABN AMRO AAH.AS, which is 
expected to become the target of a takeover bid by British bank 
Barclays ( BARC.L ). There has been speculation that LaSalle may 
be sold to help finance the deal.  BMO's interest in LaSalle was noted on Monday by UBS 
analyst Jason Bilodeau in a research report to clients. 
Bilodeau recently accompanied BMO Chief Financial Officer Karen 
Maidment to a series of meeting with institutional investors in 
Europe.  BMO spokesman Ralph Marranca declined to comment on the 
report but said: "We have said in the past that we look at 
everything that comes on the market and this would be no 
different."  Bilodeau wrote that he doubted that BMO would be keen on, 
nor could it afford, all of LaSalle.  "However, management was clear in expressing their interest 
in the Chicago-based retail business, which would be a very 
attractive asset to combine with Harris," Bilodeau said.  Based in Chicago, Harris Bank is BMO's personal and 
commercial banking operation in the United States. BMO, 
Canada's fourth biggest bank, has often said it would like to 
expand its presence in the U.S. Midwest.  Bilodeau estimates LaSalle's Chicago assets could be worth 
roughly between $10 billion and $12 billion, a "large" 
transaction for BMO although he believes a joint venture 
structure "could be workable."  "Pricing would be an issue given BMO's discipline, but it 
may be too important for them to pass by should an opportunity 
present itself," Bilodeau wrote.  However, Bilodeau believes it is more likely that LaSalle 
will emerge as a stronger competitor to Harris Bank than as a 
partner.  "If an ABN AMRO deal occurs, a new management could 
reinvigorate a platform that has suffered from inconsistent 
focus at times under the current structure, potentially giving 
rise to a pick-up in competition in the Chicago land market," 
he said.  Another option is that LaSalle is bought by another 
competitor. UBS believes several banks, including Citigroup 
( C.N ), Bank of America ( BAC.N ), Fifth Third ( FITB.O ) and 
National City NCC.N are possible purchasers.  BMO's shares rose 26 Canadian cents to C$69.98 on the 
Toronto Stock Exchange on Monday.  ($1=$1.16 Canadian)