-- U.S. Justice Department Letter Calls For Stronger Ownership Rules on Swaps
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2010-12-29T18:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/-more-stringent-ownership-governance-rules-for-swaps-called-for-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. Justice Department, which
has been investigating possible anticompetitive practices in
derivatives markets, called for “more stringent” limits on the
control banks and swap dealers have over clearinghouses and
trading platforms.  The Justice Department said aggregate caps on ownership and
higher requirements for independent directors on corporate
boards and risk committees would boost competition in the $583
trillion swaps market.  The comments came in letters to the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  and  Securities and Exchange Commission  signed
by  Christine A. Varney , assistant attorney general in the
antitrust division. The letters, dated Dec. 28, were responding
to rules the agencies have proposed on clearinghouses and
trading platforms, required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  “Major dealers might use their control of a dominant
trading platform to disadvantage rivals by refusing to trade
their products or to continue trading over the counter even in
instances where exchange trading is feasible,” Varney wrote.  The Justice Department, which first confirmed in July 2009
that it was examining the swaps market, said that the probe is
continuing. “The antitrust division is investigating the
possibility of anticompetitive practices in the credit
derivatives clearing, trading and information services
industries,” Alisa Finelli, spokeswoman for the Justice
Department, wrote in a Dec. 14 e-mail.  Mid-January Deadline  Dodd-Frank, enacted by President Barack Obama in July,
seeks to boost transparency and reduce risk by having most swaps
processed through clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or so-
called swap execution facilities. The CFTC and SEC are required
to enact the conflict-of-interest rules by mid-January.  The regulators in October  proposed  a 20 percent cap on the
ownership stake any member of an exchange or execution facility
can have. The proposal didn’t include a limit on the aggregate
stake banks and other dealers may have. The Justice Department
said the proposed rules “will not sufficiently reduce the risk
that major dealers” will control trading platforms. Regulators
would encourage competition and the development of new trading
systems if they set a 40 percent overall cap, Varney said.  Five commercial banks represent 96 percent of the U.S.
derivatives market, according  to data compiled  by the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency. In  comments to regulators ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other banks
oppose setting strict limits on ownership. In a Nov. 16 letter,
the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  said
the derivatives market will be “highly regulated” and under
“strict supervision” because of Dodd-Frank.  Choice of Limits  “This level of supervision obviates any possible need for
ownership and voting limitations,”  Robert Pickel , executive
vice chairman of Isda, wrote.  The Justice Department also said regulators should set
higher governance requirements for clearinghouses that don’t
face aggregate caps on ownership. The CFTC proposed that
clearinghouses could choose between two ownership limitations,
including one that would cap an individual member’s stake at 5
percent, while not imposing an aggregate cap.  Congressional Democrats, including Senator  Carl Levin  of
Michigan and  Stephen Lynch  of Massachusetts, have criticized the
proposal. Lynch wrote in an  Oct. 18 letter  that the proposal
would provide a “loophole” allowing dealers to “dominate a
clearinghouse.”  Under the option without an aggregate cap, the Justice
Department said, regulators should require that independent
directors make up the full nominating committee and at least a
majority of each of the risk management and executive committees
for clearinghouses.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, intends to register
as a swap-execution facility, Ben Macdonald, the company’s
global head of fixed income, said in a Nov. 17 comment letter to
the CFTC. The letter didn’t comment specifically about the
proposed ownership limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  