-- AIG Didn't Report $18.7 Billion of Guarantees, Pennsylvania Regulator Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-12-29T22:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/aig-didn-t-report-18-7-billion-of-guarantees-pennsylvania-regulator-says.html
American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out U.S. insurer, failed to report $18.7 billion of
policyholder guarantees at two property-casualty subsidiaries in
2008, a Pennsylvania regulator said.  National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh and
American Home Assurance Co., which issued the guarantees to
bolster other AIG units, had contingent liabilities tied to the
promises of $157 billion on Dec. 31, 2008, compared with the
$138.3 billion disclosed at the time,  Robert Pratter , the
state’s acting insurance commissioner, said today in a report.  AIG was instructed by the regulator to limit or end its
intra-group guarantees, according to the report. It doesn’t face
financial penalties, Rosanne Placey, a spokeswoman for the
Pennsylvania regulator, said in an e-mail. The New York-based
insurer, once the world’s largest, was brought to the brink of
collapse in September 2008 when the company was unable to meet
its obligations without a cash injection from the government.  Failing to report contingent liabilities may be “a serious
problem because of the systemic risk for the whole enterprise,”
said  Robert Hunter , a former Texas insurance commissioner who is
now insurance director at the Washington-based Consumer
Federation of America.  AIG fell $1.66, or 2.8 percent, to $57.27 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company was the
 biggest decliner  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Remediation Plan  Insurance companies are required to disclose their
subsidiaries’ guarantees to state regulators. They aren’t bound
to recognize the obligations as liabilities on balance sheets.  “We have adopted a remediation plan to ensure that our
disclosures are more accurate going forward,”  Mark Herr , an AIG
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are not required
to establish a liability for these guarantees in which the
likelihood of payment is remote.”  National Union, American Home and New Hampshire Insurance
Co. issued 56 guarantees to AIG insurance units, Pennsylvania
said. Thirty-six promises were terminated and nine expired.
Terminations don’t eliminate all obligations, the regulator
said. In one instance, American Home had $31.4 billion of
obligations in 2008 tied to a guarantee with American General
Life Insurance Co. that was terminated in 2006.  The Pennsylvania review found that New Hampshire
Insurance’s guarantees were $99.8 million at the end of 2008,
compared with the $100,516 that AIG reported at the time. The
guarantors have never faced demands on any of the promises,
Pennsylvania said.  AIG’s Pricing  AIG came under investigation in Pennsylvania as rivals
including Chubb Corp. and Liberty Mutual Holding Co. complained
that the company’s government backstop was allowing the insurer
to sell policies below competitive rates.  Pennsylvania said in the report that AIG’s pricing and
underwriting were “not out of line” with competitors. The
Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of the
U.S. Congress, said in a March 2009 report it found no evidence
of under-pricing by AIG.  AIG agrees with Pennsylvania’s findings,  Robert Schimek ,
chief financial officer of Chartis, the company’s property-
casualty business, said in a Dec. 7 letter to the regulator.
AIG’s units “have the appropriate controls to ensure more
accurate disclosures,” Schimek said in the letter, which was
attached to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 