-- Alberta Fund to Buy Skanska's 50% Stake in Chile Highway for $875 Million
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-12-29T08:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/alberta-fund-to-buy-skanska-s-50-stake-in-chile-highway-for-875-million.html
Alberta Investment Management Corp.
agreed to buy a 50 percent stake in a Chilean highway from
 Skanska AB , the Nordic region’s biggest builder, for about
6 billion kronor ($875 million).  The investment management firm that oversees funds for
Canada’s Alberta province is buying Skanska’s stake in the
company that owns the  Autopista Central  highway in Santiago,
generating a gain after tax of about 5 billion kronor, the
Swedish company said in a statement.  “This opens up the possibility of a higher dividend to the
shareholders,"  Peter Gimbe , Skanska’s spokesman, said by phone.
"That will be up to the board to decide next year.”  Autopista Central, a 61-kilometer (38-mile), six-lane road
that runs through Santiago, is Skanska’s most valuable asset,
spokesman Gimbe said. Skanska had invested 1.2 billion kronor in
the road, Gimbe said in February after an 8.8-magnitude
earthquake damaged pedestrian overpasses and the road’s
administrative base. Skanska said then it assessed the damage as
minor and decided to proceed with its planned sale.  “This deal gives a very good result for Skanska and our
shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  Johan Karlstrom  said in
the statement. “The investment in Autopista Central is
Skanska’s most successful ever."  Spanish toll-road operator  Abertis Infraestructuras SA  and
Banco Santander SA own the rest of Autopista Central.  Skanska’s  shares  rose as much as 4.4 percent and traded up
3.7 percent at 135.8 kronor as of 9:45 a.m. in Stockholm.  The agreement is conditioned upon receiving approval within
nine months from the bond guarantor and necessary amendments to
the financing agreements, the Stockholm-based builder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 