-- Manchester Utd. Plans Bid for Real Madrid's Lassana Diarra: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-29T10:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/manchester-utd-plans-bid-for-real-madrid-s-lassana-diarra-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  United Wants Diarra  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is plotting a 12
million-pound ($18.5 million) bid for Real Madrid midfielder
Lassana Diarra, the  Sun  reported.  Ferguson wants to strengthen his midfield with  Owen Hargreaves  struggling to overcome injury problems that have
sidelined him for two years and  Paul Scholes , 36, nearing the
end of his career, the newspaper said.  Diarra, 25, moved to Real from Portsmouth two years ago.
His chances this season have been limited as the Spanish team
signed German national team players  Mesut Ozil  and  Sami Khedira .  Wolves Plan Keane Reunion  Wolves are looking at the possibility of bringing Tottenham
striker  Robbie Keane  back to Molineux, more than 11 years after
he quit the club, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Manager  Mick McCarthy  feels signing the Ireland
international may be difficult because of competition from other
teams and costs associated with the move, the newspaper said.  “There are a lot of factors that need to be looked at,”
McCarthy was cited as saying. “It is not just a question of
whether I just want someone.”  Kaka to Chelsea?  Brazilian forward Kaka is “90 percent” certain to join
Chelsea if he cannot get into the Real Madrid first team
following an injury layoff, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Kaka has been sidelined since August after undergoing knee
surgery. In his absence, Ozil has been given Kaka’s attacking
midfield role.  Italian agent Ernesto Bronzetti is quoted by the Mail as
saying Real’s 70 million-euro player would be priced out of a
return to Italy, with champion Inter Milan reportedly
interested.  “If he were to leave in June, he has a 90 per cent chance
of going to Chelsea and not Inter,” the Mail cited Bronzetti as
saying.  Balotelli Staying  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  says striker Mario
Balotelli won’t be sold in the January transfer window, the
 Telegraph  reported.  Mancini said the 20-year-old is struggling to adapt to life
in England after joining from Inter Milan before the start of
the season.  “I think maybe he could be homesick because he’s 20 and
it’s his first time away from his family and it’s normal to miss
your family,” Mancini said after Balotelli scored three times
in yesterday’s 4-0 win over Aston Villa. “I don’t think it’s a
long-term problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 