-- Arcade Fire Beats Robert Plant, Cee Lo Green to 2010’s Best CD
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-12-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/arcade-fire-beats-robert-plant-cee-lo-green-to-2010-s-best-cd-mark-beech.html
Of the more than 1,000 new rock CDs
that landed on my desk this past year, the hottest album came
from an alternative band in frozen Canada.  Arcade Fire’s “The Suburbs” easily defeated challenges
from the Gorillaz,  Robert Plant  and  Cee Lo Green .  Record companies are always trying to hype no-hopers, has-
beens and copycats. It’s worth waiting for the heart-skipping
moment of finding something as fresh and exciting as the title
track of the third Arcade Fire collection (Merge Records), with
its bittersweet optimism and washes of frenetic sound.  “Plastic Beach” by Gorillaz (Parlophone) is also shot
through with inventiveness.  Damon Albarn ’s band, with guest
stars  Lou Reed  and  Snoop Dogg , showcased the CD magnificently at
Glastonbury. Some other critics at the festival unfavorably
compared Gorillaz with U2, which it replaced when  Bono  fell ill,
though for my money Albarn staged the gig of the year.  “Contra” by Vampire Weekend (XL) started 2010 on a high
note. It’s a good way to end the year too, especially for anyone
who saw the band perfecting jangly pop during its world tour.
“In December drinking horchata, I’d look psychotic in a
balaclava” indeed.  “The Runaway” by the Magic Numbers (Heavenly) didn’t get
the acclaim it deserved. It’s still one of the best CDs of 2010.  MALE STARS: Plant’s “Band of Joy” (Universal) is an
object of beauty, from its elaborate artwork of a clown holding
a ring through to the folk, blues and rock celebrated inside.  Green’s “The Lady Killer” (Elektra) has the standout
track of the year in the uncensored version of “Forget You.”  Kanye West  is an acquired taste, though “My Beautiful Dark
Twisted Fantasy” (Def Jam) is his best yet. The record easily
bests rap rival  Eminem , for all his 10 Grammy nominations and 3
million sales for “Recovery” (Interscope). Canadian actor
 Drake’s  “Thank Me Later” (Cash Money) is a wonderfully
downbeat riposte to rap, with some self-critical soul-searching
about the perils of fame and overinflated egos.  FEMALE STARS: “The ArchAndroid” (Atlantic) by Janelle
Monae, 25, is so dizzily ambitious that it simply shouldn’t
work. It does. Comparisons with the young  Prince  are not
farfetched.  “I Speak Because I Can” (Virgin) by Laura Marling, 20,
has echoes of  Joni Mitchell .  “Have One on Me” (Drag City) by harpist Joanna Newsom is
a triple CD with 10-minute tracks. It’s as demanding as the late
Captain Beefheart’s “Trout Mask Replica.”  Laurie Anderson ’s highly original “Homeland” (Elektra)
includes the biting song “Only an Expert.”  Sade’s  comeback “Soldier of Love” (Sony) predictably sold
millions, though it was too smooth for its own good. The silky
tone of  Corinne Bailey Rae , telling of the death of her husband,
was truly moving. Marnie Stern’s incandescent guitar work on
“For Ash,” a song for a former boyfriend who committed
suicide, is even more spectacular.  REISSUES: 2010 has been a vintage year for reissues, with
pick of the bunch being “Exile on Main Street” (Universal) by
the Rolling Stones. Not far behind come “Raw Power” (Sony
Legacy) by Iggy & The Stooges and “Station to Station” (EMI)
by  David Bowie . “The Witmark Demos: 1962-1964” (Columbia) by
 Bob Dylan , “The Promise” (Columbia) by  Bruce Springsteen  and
“Valleys of Neptune” by  Jimi Hendrix  (Sony) consist of newly
released archive material.  VETERAN ROCK: “Le Noise” (Warner) is  Neil Young ’s punning
title of a CD featuring producer  Daniel Lanois  and a lot of
feedback on periodically excellent songs.  Eric Clapton ’s
“Clapton” (Warner) is likeably laid back, while  Tom Jones 
blows them both away with impassioned singing on “Praise &
Blame.” Even more powerful voices came from beyond the grave:
 Elvis Presley  with the remix album “Viva Elvis” (RCA) and
 Johnny Cash  with “American VI: Ain’t No Grave” (Lost Highway).  Elton John ’s album with  Leon Russell  and comebacks for Gil
Scott Heron, John Mellencamp and  Elvis Costello  were welcome.
Britain’s  Paul Weller  continued his purple patch with “Wake Up
The Nation.”  Also recommended:  Steve Miller ’s entertaining “Bingo”
(Roadrunner); he slammed music companies for his 17-year break
from recording when I  interviewed  him. Sting’s
“Symphonicities” (Deutsche Grammophon) has the singer playing 
with an orchestra “like a kid with a train set,” as he  told me 
at the time.  SO HIP IT HURTS: The year ends with  Taylor Swift ’s sweet
“Speak Now” topping the charts, followed by the less
impressive  Susan Boyle  album “The Gift” and  Michael Jackson ’s
“Michael.” Yet again, some of the best albums are by
alternative rock bands that trouble Billboard less: The
National, Hot Chip, Massive Attack, Dead Weather, Deerhunter,
Beach House, Women, Midlake, LCD Soundsystem and the Black Keys.  Download fees vary across services. The CDs are priced from
$12.98 in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 