-- Arsenal Draws 2-2 With Wigan; Chelsea Beats Bolton 1-0, Liverpool Loses
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-12-30T00:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/arsenal-draws-2-2-with-wigan-missing-chance-for-tie-atop-premier-league.html
Arsenal drew 2-2 at 10-man Wigan,
missing a chance to pull even on points with Manchester United
and Manchester City atop England’s Premier League. Chelsea
defeated Bolton 1-0 at home, and Liverpool lost 1-0 to last-
place Wolverhampton.  Arsenal last night fell behind on a  Ben Watson  penalty in
the 18th minute, then  Andrey Arshavin  and  Nicklas Bendtner 
scored for the visitors in the last 10 minutes of the first
half. Wigan, which lost midfielder  Charles N’Zogbia  to a second-
half red card, tied the match when Arsenal defender  Sebastien Squillaci  headed into his own net.  The result left Arsenal with 36 points after 19 games, one
more match than United and one fewer than City, who are even on
38 points. Gunners coach  Arsene Wenger  made eight changes to the
side that beat Chelsea earlier in the week as he tried to rest a
team that travels to Birmingham on New Year’s Day and then hosts
Manchester City at midweek.  “We are frustrated not to have won the game,” Wenger told
the British Broadcasting Co. “We were very good in the first
half and not quite so good in the second, but it’s partly
because of the number of games we are playing we made so many
changes.”  At Stamford Bridge in west London, Chelsea got a 61st-
minute goal from  Florent Malouda  to beat Bolton. It was the
Blues’ first league win in seven matches, and moved the team
into fourth place. Chelsea lost 3-1 to Arsenal earlier this
week.  “The first half was very difficult,” Chelsea manager
 Carlo Ancelotti  told the BBC. “We didn’t play so well and there
was a lot of weight on our shoulders. After two games in two
days, we must say that the players did very well.”  Liverpool’s loss was greeted with boos from home supporters
as the team dropped to 12th place. Wolverhampton, which moved
past West Ham into 19th place with the victory, got a 56th-
minute goal from Stephen Ward. That gave Wolves their first
Premier League win at Anfield.  “It was a performance way below what we are capable of and
what we wanted to give,” Liverpool manager  Roy Hodgson  told the
BBC. “I’d like to give Wolves credit, but I think we were a bit
unlucky to lose the game; probably 0-0 would have been a fair
result. It was nowhere near our expectations or hopes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  