-- As in Sex, WikiLeaks Founder Tests Limits of Press: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/as-in-sex-wikileaks-founder-tests-press-limits-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
For better and for worse,  Julian Assange  pushes limits. In his work life and his sex life, he
stands at the border dividing legal conduct from criminality,
though it’s not clear which side of that border he occupies.  U.S. officials are looking for a way to prosecute him for
publishing secrets while women in Sweden say he crossed the line
between consensual romps and rape.  Mainstream journalists say Assange’s release of thousands
of classified documents isn’t real journalism. And yet, they
realize their plight is tied to his. Some have urged the Justice
Department not to prosecute him knowing the reporter’s essential
task of uncovering truth could suffer if it did.  For all the lines we’d like to draw, the law makes no
distinction among civilian publishers of classified documents,
whether unleashed in raw form on WikiLeaks or verified, fleshed
out with interviews, analyzed and wrapped into articles in the
New York Times.  As for the value of the documents, some contained little
more than gossip while others proved quite newsworthy. Last
week, for example, we learned that the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration is doing more than its name implies.  It has become “a global intelligence organization” with
“an eavesdropping operation so expansive it has to fend off
foreign politicians who want to use it against their political
enemies,” the New York Times  reported , citing diplomatic cables
WikiLeaks obtained.  Israel is on the verge of admitting and apologizing for
using forged British documents to get within assassination range
of a Hamas leader in Dubai. The admission will come as WikiLeaks
was poised to release documents that would prove Israel’s role.  WikiLeaks on Russia  In Russia, the independent weekly newspaper Novaya Gazeta
says it will soon publish documents from WikiLeaks that will
reveal corruption in the Kremlin. How can that not be good?  No doubt Assange’s carelessness with documents has cramped
diplomatic communications. Whether it has also cost lives as
some predicted, we don’t know.  But unless publication created “a clear and present
danger” to the nation’s security, as Supreme Court Justice
 Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.  put it in a 1919 case, the
Constitution bars U.S. prosecution for free speech by most of
us.  As recently as 2001 the top court said that, “absent a
need of the highest order,” a radio commentator couldn’t be
sued for airing a tape that someone else had gotten by illegally
eavesdropping on a phone conversation. In that tape, a labor
official had been talking about a teacher’s strike.  Private Manning  Yes, the government can prohibit its employees from
leaking, so the U.S. Army arrested the private suspected of
leaking to Assange, Bradley Manning, who is facing court
martial. It is also why investigators are looking for evidence
that Assange encouraged the leak or helped him submit the
material.  Charging Assange with conspiring with the leaker could put
him under the Espionage Act of 1917. But even if he did
conspire, how would Assange be different from a Washington Post
reporter who coaxes a government source into disclosing secret
information that the public really should know?  Prosecuting Assange would “set a dangerous precedent for
reporters in any publication or medium, potentially chilling
investigative journalism,” 20 journalism professors at Columbia
University  wrote  to Attorney General  Eric Holder  and to
President  Barack Obama  this month.  History shows that “government overreaction to publication
of leaked material in the press has always been more damaging to
American democracy than the leaks themselves,” the professors
wrote.  Nixon’s Response  Congress and presidents have periodically tried to punish
perfectly constitutional speech, dating from the Alien and
Sedition Acts of 1787 and again during the Civil War, World War
I and the Cold War, as University of Chicago law professor
 Geoffrey Stone  told Congress this month.  Baby boomers might recall that 1969 news reports revealing
the U.S.’s secret bombing of Cambodia led to something of a
 backlash  by President  Richard Nixon . He ordered phone taps on
officials and reporters to track down the leaks.  Two years later Nixon was so incensed by  Daniel Ellsberg ’s
slipping the Pentagon Papers to the New York Times that he
ordered a group of aides to find the leaks and plug them.  These “plumbers,” as they became known, burgled
Ellsberg’s psychiatrist’s office in a search for dirt, and broke
into the Watergate headquarters of the Democratic National
Committee in 1972.  War’s End  The idea of a president directing a criminal enterprise to
suppress the truth and to punish those who reveal it isn’t
exactly what one expects from the leader of a democratic
society.  Weigh the reaction against the leak, which gave Americans a
history of the unwinnable war in Vietnam. It revealed that they
had been deceived by president after president. The publication
helped hasten an end to U.S. involvement.  What it didn’t do is hurt national security, as the Nixon
administration had claimed when it went to court to halt
publication by the New York Times.  I don’t think Assange is a true journalist, either, and
there is much about the way he operates I find deplorable. But
history gives us every reason to doubt official proclamations
that he has harmed national security.  It should also warn us against governmental overreaction.
If the Obama administration slams Assange with charges,
 reporters  around the world could find it harder to uncover what
is really going on and risk prosecution if they do.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  