-- Most Asian Stocks Climb as Oil, Gold Producers Advance on Increased Prices
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-29T10:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/asian-stocks-fall-for-first-time-this-week-on-u-s-data-canon-bhp-drop.html
Asian stocks  rose, sending the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to a 2 1/2-year high for a second day, as
increased oil and gold prices boosted commodities companies.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. , Australia’s largest gold producer,
increased 2.5 percent after the metal rose the most in seven
weeks yesterday. Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil
company, gained 2.6 percent in Hong Kong as crude traded near a
26-month high. PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil and gas
producer, rose 2.3 percent. Kangwon Land Inc. lost 5.6 percent
in Seoul as it traded without dividend rights.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.7 percent to 136.94 as
of 7:34 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than three times as many stocks
advancing as declining. The gauge has risen 13 percent this year
to close yesterday at the highest level since July 24, 2008, on
speculation that corporate-profit growth will weather Europe’s
debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb inflation and concern about
the pace of the U.S. economic rebound. The index’s daily gain or
loss has exceeded 1 percent only once in the past three weeks.  “Markets in the Asian region are probably in a holding
pattern until the start of the new year,” said  Tim Schroeders ,
who helps manage $1 billion in Melbourne at Pengana Capital Ltd.
“Continued concerns about sovereign debt in Europe and a
further rate hike in China are likely to weigh on markets in
January.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.5 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index jumped 1.5 percent and China’s Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.7 percent. The Kospi Index gained 0.5
percent as South Korean companies went ex-dividend.  Taiwan Borrowing Costs  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed after last
trading on Dec. 24. Taiwan’s Taiex index slipped 0.1 as
speculation increased the country will raise borrowing costs
tomorrow for the third time this year to curb gains in property
prices and tackle accelerating inflation.  Futures on the U.S.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.2
percent. The index rose 0.1 percent yesterday in New York as
commodity producers gained.  The New York-based Conference Board said yesterday that its
index of U.S.  consumer confidence  decreased to 52.5 in December,
lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. A separate report showed U.S. home prices
dropped more than economists estimated.  Energy and finance companies advanced the  most  today among
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups, all of which
have increased this year. Cnooc gained 2.6 percent to HK$18.46
in Hong Kong, today’s  biggest contributor  to the MSCI gauge.
PetroChina rose 2.3 percent to HK$9.99. Inpex Corp., Japan’s
largest oil explorer, gained 0.3 percent to 483,500 yen in Tokyo.  Oil, Gold Advance  Crude oil for February delivery gained 0.5 percent to
$91.46 a barrel in the New York yesterday. Crude futures closed
at $91.51 a barrel Dec. 23, the highest price since October 2008.  Newcrest Mining increased 2.5 percent to A$40.80 in Sydney.
Medusa Mining Ltd. jumped 5 percent to A$6.57. Zijin Mining
Group Co., China’s biggest gold miner, climbed 2.2 percent to
HK$6.99 in Hong Kong.  Gold futures for February delivery climbed 1.6 percent in
New York yesterday, their biggest gain in seven weeks. Gold is
headed for the 10th straight annual increase as governments keep
borrowing costs low to revive their economies. The precious
metal was little changed today.  “Resources stocks, including producers of oil and other
fuel, are in favor because of the seasonal factor,” said  Steve Tse , a research manager at BEA Union Investment Management in
Hong Kong.  South Korea Ex-Dividend  Tower Australia Group Ltd. surged 42 percent to A$3.87, the
biggest increase on record, after Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.
agreed to take over the insurer. Dai-ichi Life, which is Japan’s
second-biggest life insurer and owns 29 percent of Tower
Australia, said yesterday it will pay A$1.2 billion ($1.2
billion) to buy the remainder in its largest foreign acquisition.  In South Korea, companies went ex-dividend today, meaning
investors who bought the shares won’t get the rights to the
year’s final dividend payments.  Kangwon Land Inc., KT Corp., KT&G Corp. and SK Telecom Co.
had the biggest percentage declines among the 1,018 companies in
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today, with each falling more than 4
percent. They have the highest  dividend yields  among South
Korea’s 50 largest publicly traded companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is on course for a 6.5 percent
increase this month. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued
at 14.8 times  estimated earnings  on average at yesterday’s close,
the same as for the S&P 500, while stocks in the Europe Stoxx
600 Index trade at 12.4 times.  Manila Electric Co. the Philippines’ largest power retailer,
jumped 7.3 percent to 221 pesos, the  biggest increase  on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Chief Operating Officer Oscar Reyes
said the company may select two to four partners in the coming
year for power-generation projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 