-- AstraZeneca's Brennan Poaches Pfizer to Renew Failing Research
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-12-29T19:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/astrazeneca-s-ceo-poaches-pfizer-chases-merck-ideal-to-counter-failures.html
David Brennan couldn’t sit still.
During a meal of beef and potatoes at  AstraZeneca Plc ’s drug
research center near  Stockholm  in October, Brennan, the
company’s chief executive officer, grilled six drug-development
managers over a concern raised by a laboratory scientist.  That morning, the newly recruited researcher told Brennan
during a town hall-style meeting that he didn’t have the freedom
he would have in academia to pursue unusual ideas. Brennan
wanted to know why.  “It was quite amazing to see how agitated he was over one
question,” recalls  Samantha Budd , who left her own lab in  San
Diego  10 years ago to head neurological research at AstraZeneca
in  Sweden .  Brennan, 57, has more reason than most drug-company CEOs to
ensure that his scientists are happy and productive, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Jan. 3 edition. While competitors
such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  Sanofi-Aventis SA  expand into
flea sprays and energy drinks to offset slowing drug revenue,
AstraZeneca is sticking to one business -- developing
pharmaceuticals innovative enough to command premium prices.  Betting on drug discovery is risky these days. The industry
has gone through a dry spell, with none of the 15 best-selling
drugs winning approval in the past six years, according to data
compiled by IMS Health Inc., a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
provider of market information, and Bloomberg. More than half of
London-based AstraZeneca’s $32.8 billion in sales came from
drugs that may face generic competition by 2014. The company is
one of the worst performers among big drugmakers in winning
regulatory approval of new medicines in the U.S. or European
Union in the past three years, according to statistics compiled
by a competitor,  Novartis AG .  ‘Get Through This’  “We’re going to figure out how to get through this,”
Brennan, a 6-foot, 2-inch former college linebacker who has
spent his 35-year career in the drug industry, said during an
interview in his west London office. “People are living longer
and getting older, and they are consuming more health care. They
want advances.”  Investors are skeptical. AstraZeneca’s shares trade at
about 7.2 times estimated earnings, the cheapest of the world’s
big drug companies.  Basel , Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG ,
which gets about 20 percent of sales from disease-detecting
tests, and Johnson & Johnson of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , which
derives almost two-thirds of revenue from medical devices and
consumer products, are more highly valued.  ‘Different World’  “The market seems to be saying essentially that R&D
productivity is dead, that they’re destroying value by investing
in research and development,” said Gareth Powell, who helps run
$200 million in health-care funds at Polar Capital Partners Ltd.
in London. “We’re in a completely different world now.”  Brennan’s commitment to research has its origins at Merck &
Co., when the U.S. drugmaker dominated global drug discovery and
blockbusters were easier to find. He joined Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey-based Merck as a 21-year-old salesman in 1975, and
was there when the company’s labs pioneered new ways to treat
hypertension and cholesterol.  “This is what David saw happening,” says P. Roy Vagelos,
who ran Merck’s R&D and later, when he became CEO, promoted
Brennan to run its collaboration with Swedish drugmaker Astra
AB, a predecessor to AstraZeneca.  “That apparently has influenced his view of running a
pharma company, which I think is a correct view,” Vagelos, 81,
said in an interview. “The world has changed but the impact of
important new drugs that fulfill unmet medical needs is no
different.”  Limited Success  While researchers now understand diseases better because of
genetic breakthroughs, drugmakers are having limited success
translating that into medicines for  heart disease , pain or
cancer. Regulators also are requiring greater safety after
several big-selling drugs proved more dangerous than
anticipated, and governments, especially in Europe, and insurers
in the U.S. are pushing back on price increases.  Despite these headwinds, Brennan’s commitment to R&D as the
road to growth is making AstraZeneca a magnet in the research
community.  Menelas Pangalos helped build an industry-leading pipeline
of experimental drugs at Wyeth, helping persuade  Pfizer Inc . to
buy the company in 2009 for $68 billion. He was lauded by New
York-based Pfizer’s then-CEO Jeffrey Kindler for his
“incomparable” expertise.  Courting Pangalos  Looking for someone to invigorate his labs, Brennan courted
Pangalos, 43, who says he was impressed by the CEO’s “hunger
for change.” Pangalos joined AstraZeneca in May as head of
early-stage drug research.  “As the head of research, you want to be hearing your CEO
say that the way we are going to grow the business is by driving
successful research and development,” Pangalos said. “It’s an
incredible challenge.”  Brennan also poached Pfizer’s global research chief, Martin Mackay, for AstraZeneca’s most senior R&D role, president of
research and development.  Brennan, a Philadelphia native, says he has taken steps to
breathe life back into AstraZeneca’s labs. The company reviewed
every step in the development process, narrowed the scope of
research to focus on more promising areas such as diabetes and
cancer, and shut sites to save $1 billion annually by 2014 to
pay for rising costs. What Brennan won’t do is move out of
prescription drugs.  Stung by Failures  To succeed, Brennan will have to fix an R&D operation stung
by failures.  The company this month dropped development of motavizumab
for infant respiratory disease, taking a $445 million charge,
after a U.S. advisory panel recommended against approval of the
drug because studies linked it to allergic reactions and didn’t
prove it worked better than the company’s older medicine
Synagis.  A study published in May showed the experimental drug
Recentin didn’t help colon cancer patients. In June, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  failed to approve Axanum for
ulcers. These follow four potential blockbusters that failed in
late-stage trials between 2006 and 2008: stroke drug Cerovive,
heart medicine AGI-1067, blood thinner Exanta and Galida for
diabetes.  AstraZeneca did win permission in December to sell
Brilinta, the company’s most important experimental product, in
the European Union, where it’s known as Brilique. The clot-
preventing drug proved more effective in studies than Paris-
based Sanofi and New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co .’s
 Plavix , which had $9.8 billion in sales last year.  Brilinta  Still, the FDA failed to approve Brilinta Dec. 17, saying
it wanted additional analysis of a study that compared the two
drugs. That may push back a decision to the second half of 2011,
according to  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink, Swann &
Co. in  Boston . If approved, the medicine would be Plavix’s only
rival.  Like its competitors, AstraZeneca is experimenting with new
ways to organize research to improve productivity. Glaxo of  London  and Novartis of Basel,  Switzerland , are breaking up labs
into teams encouraged to quickly exploit new approaches.  At AstraZeneca, scientists now are responsible for
candidate drugs until they begin the final human trials, ending
a culture of handing off early-stage products -- along with
responsibility -- to other researchers as if in an assembly
line, Brennan said. He’s also willing to license experimental
compounds from other companies.  ‘Need to Change’  “In a couple of years, we’re going to look very
different,” Brennan said. “We need to change the way we’re
doing it because we haven’t been successful.”  AstraZeneca’s focus on pharmaceuticals adds pressure on the
company, said Andrew Baum, a Morgan Stanley analyst in London.  “There’s a bigger risk here than for every other major EU
pharma company given their leverage to one asset class,” Baum
said in an interview. “When you have an enormous patent cliff,
poor record of returns in R&D, no diversification, what do you
do? It’s not a strategy of choice. It’s a strategy that was
thrust upon them.”  Brennan tells investors to focus on dividends and buybacks
while revenue “fluctuates” until 2014. The company expects
revenue of $28 billion to $34 billion annually through 2014 as
it loses patent protection on its two biggest-selling drugs, the
Nexium heartburn treatment and the Seroquel anti-psychotic.  Share Performance  AstraZeneca fell 13 pence to 2,975 pence in London trading,
giving the company a market value of 42 billion pounds ($64
billion). The stock has returned an average of 5.4 percent
annually including reinvested dividends since Brennan took over
as CEO in 2006, compared with a 3.7 percent return for the
Bloomberg World Pharmaceutical Index.  Brennan has earned time to make his research plan work. A
U.S. judge said June 29 that the patent on AstraZeneca’s Crestor
cholesterol drug is valid until 2016. The decision safeguarded
$2 billion in U.S. sales. The company plans to submit the
diabetes drug dapagliflozin for approval in the U.S. and  Europe 
by early 2011. AstraZeneca may get a decision from the FDA by
Jan. 7 on vandetanib, a treatment for advanced cases of a rare
type of thyroid cancer.  Brennan has persuaded AstraZeneca’s board that the company
should stick to the business of developing pharmaceuticals, said
Jane Henney, one of the directors who chose him as Tom McKillop’s successor in 2005.  “I don’t sense there’s any feeling among the board that we
should move in another direction,” said Henney, a former FDA
commissioner who is in her ninth and final year as a director.
“It’s the path that we’ve chosen. Only history is going to be
able to judge if we were correct.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in  Minneapolis  at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  