-- Tax-Exempts Head for Worst Quarter Since 1994 as Yields Climb: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/tax-exempts-poised-for-worst-quarter-since-1994-muni-credit.html
Tax-exempt municipal bonds are
heading for their worst quarterly performance in more than 16
years as yields soared amid a U.S. Treasury selloff and the
looming expiration of Build America Bonds.  Municipal investments have lost 4.5 percent this quarter
through Dec. 27, the poorest return since a 5.7 percent loss
during the first three months of 1994, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master index, which accounts for
price changes and interest income. As an extension of the Build
America Bond program grew less likely, 30-year tax-free yields
 climbed about 97 basis points  to 4.73 percent from Sept. 30
through yesterday, according to a Bloomberg Valuation Index.  “The primary reason for back-up is because of uncertainty
that has resulted from the BABs scenario,” said  Evan Rourke , a
portfolio manager with Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., which has
almost $10 billion under management. “That’s created temporary
supply-and-demand imbalances, and Treasury yields have risen.”  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempts  were 3.1 percent 
yesterday, up from 2.33 percent on Sept. 30, BVAL indexes show.
The move compares with an increase of 97 basis points in 10-year
U.S. Treasury yields for the same period. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Borrowing Costs Rise  The 78 basis-point jump in AAA yields will mean higher
borrowing costs next year for even the most financially secure
borrowers.  Summit, New Jersey , which had its top ranking reaffirmed by
the three major credit-rating firms, plans to issue $29 million
along with its schools and sewer district to refinance existing
debt, even as Governor Chris Christie slashed aid to
municipalities to close a $10.7 billion budget gap. The city is
located 28 miles (45 kilometers) west of Manhattan.  “The schools are no longer getting any state aid from
Trenton, which has been a real blow,” said Thomas Getzendanner,
a Republican councilman in the city, where 50 percent of ballots
were cast for  Christie  in 2009, according to the New Jersey
Division of Elections.   “We’re having to fend for ourselves and make the necessary
management adjustments for what taxpayers can afford,” he said
in an interview.  The Build America Bond program, part of President Barack
Obama’s stimulus package, is set to end on Dec. 31 after
Congress failed to extend it. Issuers across the U.S. moved up
planned sales to this month to take advantage of the expiring
subsidy, making the last three months of 2010 the biggest
quarter for the securities since their April 2009 inception,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Worst on Record  The debt, which included a 35 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs, has handed investors a 6.4 percent loss for the
quarter, the worst on record, Merrill indexes show. The
securities lost 5.8 percent in the final three months of 2009,
the only other quarterly loss. Build Americas’ popularity
reduced tax-exempt issuance, and that trend is set to reverse
next year, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association said in its annual municipal-issuance report Dec.
15.  “As people anticipated BABs not being extended, the market
priced in some weakness” to longer-dated tax-exempt prices,
said  Chris Mier , chief municipal strategist with Loop Capital
Markets LLC in Chicago, in an interview.  Treasuries lost 3 percent this quarter through Dec. 27, the
worst three-month performance since a 3.1 percent loss in the
second quarter of 2004, according to Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Treasury Master index, which has returned 8.15 percent annually
since its start in 1978.  “When Treasuries decline for three straight months, munis
are going to get whacked as well,” Mier said.  Whitney Comments  Individual investors may also have been influenced by the
adverse publicity munis have received, Mier said. So-called
retail investors hold about 37 percent of the $2.86 trillion
municipal market, according to Federal Reserve  data .  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst and chief executive
officer of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group, spoke Dec. 19 on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” about the possibility of a “spate” of
defaults among local municipalities triggered by states’ fiscal
stress.  For the year, munis are headed for a 2.3 percent return,
the second-worst performance since 2000, according to Merrill’s
Muni Master index, which has averaged a 9 percent yearly return
since 1989.  Many investors are also allocating cash to the stock market
amid signs of an improving economy, Mier said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed more than 10
percent this quarter,  touching a 1,259.90 yesterday , the highest
since Sept. 8, 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT OF GREATER CHICAGO ,
a wastewater utility that serves more than 5 million people,
plans to sell as much as $500 million in taxable and tax-exempt
debt next year. The offering will need to be re-authorized in
January, so a new pricing date hasn’t been set, according to
acting Treasurer  Mary Ann Boyle . The bulk of the issue will be
tax-free bonds, she said. The securities are top-ranked by all
three major credit-rating companies. (Updated Dec. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  