-- Bardem’s Dying Crook Seeks Salvation; Forlorn Singles: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2010-12-29T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/bardem-s-dying-crook-seeks-salvation-forlorn-singles-movies.html
The misspelled title, ‘ Biutiful ,”
is the first obvious clue that  Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu ’s
downbeat urban drama will arrive at beauty in odd ways. The
latest film from the director of “Babel” and “127 Grams” is
as grim as the oncological death sentence handed its main
character, yet it finds pockets of grace even in the squalid
underworld of Barcelona.  Javier Bardem  plays the dying man, Uxbal, a petty criminal
in the final weeks of a losing battle with cancer. As his world
collapses, the good-hearted fixer scrambles to plan the future
for his two school-age children and the alcoholic, bipolar ex-
wife he still loves.  “Biutiful” cuts its tragic hero no slack. Uxbal is
tormented by the guilt he feels for the illegal Chinese and
Senegalese immigrants who make and sell the counterfeit goods
that keep his own struggling family fed. Uxbal’s cramped, dirty
hovel of an apartment seems appalling -- until we see the truly
hellish living conditions of the Chinese men, women and children
crammed into the warehouse basement that Uxbal has never
visited.  Denial hasn’t worked so well for Uxbal, who begrudgingly
accepts the advice of a psychic spiritual adviser to settle the
affairs of his difficult, messy life. As if earthly
responsibilities weren’t enough, Inarritu and his co-
screenwriters Armando Bo and Nicolas Giacobone give Uxbal the
additional burden of seeing dead people. While he shares this
gift with grieving families, he’s not above making a profit from
the misery.  No Cheer  “Biutiful” (the title comes from a misspelling by Uxbal’s
daughter) is less heavy-handed than this all suggests, but
probably won’t charm audiences looking for the feel-good ghetto
tourism of “Slumdog Millionaire.”  Rodrigo Prieto’s tightly framed, monochromatic
cinematography suggests some warmth but mostly details the
blight. A talented, multiethnic cast (chiefly Bardem, but also
Maricel Alvarez as the pathetic ex-wife) cedes little ground to
sentiment or good fortune. In “Biutiful,” the living take
strength in whatever fleeting, tender moments they can find and
salvation comes only for the dead.  “Biutiful,” from Roadside Attractions, opens today in New
York and Los Angeles. Spanish, with English subtitles. Rating: ***  ‘Another Year’  Mike Leigh ’s “ Another Year ” is a date movie like no
other: Viewing this smug, sanctimonious tribute to the joys of
married life could drive singles toward the nearest bridge.  Through the course of the title’s four seasons, this warmly
shot, leisurely paced film follows the perfect marriage (no
irony intended) of a smart, comfortably middle-class British
couple, Tom ( Jim Broadbent ) and Gerri (Ruth Sheen). When not
happily attending their garden or cooking nice meals for one
another, Tom and Gerri (yes, they’re aware of the cartoon)
engage in fulfilling careers and fuss over
their similarly well-adjusted 30-year-old son Joe (Oliver
Maltman).  Their friends aren’t nearly so lucky. Mary (Lesley
Manville, the best in a fine cast) is an attractive, if
weathered, 50-something divorcee whose man-hungry desperation
would embarrass Blanche DuBois. The rotund, lonely Ken (Peter
Wight) breaks into sobs when he bothers to pause from chain-
smoking, beer-chugging and over-eating. Late in the film, we
meet Ronnie ( David Bradley ), Tom’s older brother, a recent
widower reduced to a zombie stare by singlehood.  Younger Girlfriend  The thin plot mostly concerns Mary’s pathetic, unrequited
infatuation with Joe, and her emotional disintegration when the
young man brings home a new, age-appropriate girlfriend. When
Mary is rude (or what passes for rude in this genteel milieu) to
the girl, she’s scolded like a child and all but abandoned by
her happier pals.  If Leigh is suggesting any satire in all this clannish
self-satisfaction, I couldn’t find it. By the time winter rolls
around, “Another Year” has become a straight-faced version of
a Debbie Downer skit on “Saturday Night Live.” With poor,
pitiful Mary destined to ride that rickety old streetcar named
spinsterhood, the good cheer of the gang’s final dinner leaves a
very bitter aftertaste.  “Another Year,” from Sony Pictures Classics, opens today
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 