-- MBIA Shares Rise After JPMorgan Drops Suit Over Split
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-12-29T22:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/mbia-shares-rise-after-jpmorgan-drops-suit-over-insurer-s-split.html
MBIA Inc. shares surged after
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and Barclay’s Bank Plc said they are
withdrawing from a lawsuit over the company’s decision to split
its insurance unit in two.  The bond insurer’s stock rose 8.8 percent to $10.36, the
most in the Russell 1000 Index today and its biggest gain since
Oct. 14.  In February 2009, the Armonk, New York-based debt insurer
separated its municipal bond insurance business from its
structured-finance guarantees, including those on mortgage-
related securities that caused MBIA to lose its AAA credit
ratings in 2008. In May 2009,  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase ,  UBS AG  and 15 of the world’s largest financial companies
sued  MBIA , saying that the split illegally cut their odds of
getting paid on structured-finance policies.  The lawsuit will continue for the remaining plaintiffs,
according to a filing today with the New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  Barclays declined to comment, said Erica Chase, a
spokeswoman for the company in New York.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New York, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment. A call to Kevin Brown, a spokesman for
MBIA, wasn’t immediately returned.  MBIA has said it plans to begin insuring municipal bonds
again once the litigation over the split concludes. The company
hasn’t insured the securities since losing its top rating.  Trading of bullish  MBIA options  soared to a record. Almost
82,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, 30 times the four-
week average and 10 times the number of puts to sell. Investors
who have sold a stock short sometimes protect against losses by
buying call options, which act as a hedge against losing money
in the short sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 