-- BJ’s Wholesale Rises on Report of Possible Hostile Bid
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-12-29T21:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/bj-s-wholesale-advances-on-report-of-possible-hostile-bid-by-leonard-green.html
BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc.  rose 7.1
percent in New York trading after the New York Post reported
that Leonard Green & Partners LP may pursue a hostile bid for
the chain.  The Los Angeles-based buyout firm may make a bid if no
auction occurs in coming weeks, the newspaper said today, citing
an unidentified person close to the situation. BJ’s planned an
auction to sell itself after an earlier bid from Leonard Green,
three people with knowledge of the situation said last month.  BJ’s, led by Chief Executive Officer  Laura Sen , had a
market value of about $2.4 billion as of yesterday and ranked as
the  third-largest U.S. wholesale chain  behind Costco Wholesale
Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Sam’s Club. The Natick,
Massachusetts-based retailer, founded more than 25 years ago,
operates about 190 warehouse clubs across the U.S.  BJ’s hired  Morgan Stanley  to help sell the company, said
two people last month, who declined to be identified because the
matter is private. Leonard Green announced in July it had taken
a 9.5 percent stake in the company.  The shares rose $3.16 to $47.63 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The gain was the largest since Nov.
10.  Cathy Maloney , a spokeswoman for BJ’s, didn’t immediately
return a phone call today seeking comment. Leonard Green’s
 Michael Gennaro  also didn’t immediately return a call.  A bid for BJ’s would add to Leonard Green’s retail spree
since November, which includes offers for fabric seller Jo-Ann
Stores Inc. and J. Crew Group Inc. The firm, which manages about
$9 billion, has holdings in such retailers as  Whole Foods Market
Inc. , the largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, Petco Animal
Supplies Inc. and fitness-club operator Equinox, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  