-- Blackstone Said Among Bidders Interested in Australia's Centro Properties
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-12-30T05:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/blackstone-said-among-bidders-interested-in-australia-s-centro-properties.html
Blackstone Group LP , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, has made a preliminary bid for
assets of Australian shopping-mall owner  Centro Properties Group ,
according to a person briefed on the offer.  Melbourne-based Centro -- which manages A$18.6 billion
($18.9 billion) of shopping malls in Australia, New Zealand and
the U.S. -- put its assets up for sale two years after its
acquisition spree in the U.S. backfired as the world’s largest
economy contracted and debt costs soared. Centro said on Dec. 22
it had received several expressions of interest.  Lend Lease Group, Stockland, AMP Capital Investors Ltd. and
Colonial First State Global Asset Management are among bidders
for the malls, local media reports have said. Apollo Management
International LLP has also joined the bidding, the Financial
Times reported, without saying where it got the information.  “Private equity firms continue to look for opportunities
worldwide and listed assets across all sectors are what they’re
looking at,”  George Boubouras , head of investment strategy at
UBS AG’s Australian wealth-management unit, said by phone from
Melbourne. “Centro has some good quality Australian assets. It
clearly has a lot of debt issues which has been a key headwind
for them since 2008. But debt remains relatively cheap if you
can get access to funding for M&A or private equity activity.”  The person briefed on Blackstone’s plans asked not to be
named because the information is private. Blackstone’s bid was
earlier reported by the Wall Street Journal, which said the New
York-based firm is mainly interested in the U.S. properties.  U.S. Malls  A spokesman for Blackstone declined to comment. Marjan
Doroodkar, Centro’s Melbourne-based spokeswoman, also declined
to comment beyond the company’s official statements.  Centro  shares  rose 13 percent to 17 Australian cents at the
4:10 p.m. closed of Sydney trading. They’ve lost 98 percent of
their value since a May 2007 peak of A$10.02.  The company has 600 properties in the U.S., which it leases
to tenants including TJX Cos., the owner of T.J. Maxx, Marshalls
and HomeGoods stores; and Kroger Co., the largest U.S. grocery
store chain. The U.S. properties were 88.3 percent leased in the
year through June 30, compared with 88.7 percent a year earlier,
according to Centro’s annual report.  Centro  in August reported a narrower fiscal full-year loss
after writedowns on its properties shrank. The shortfall was
A$652.7 million in the 12 months ended June 30, compared with a
loss of A$3.5 billion a year earlier. Centro wrote down A$487.9
million on its properties, declining from A$2.7 billion a year
earlier.  Recent Deals  The company said in July it had extended and refinanced
$2.7 billion U.S. loans and started discussions with creditors
on potential restructuring options. Centro had A$18.4 billion of
debt as of June 30, company filings show.  Blackstone this month took ownership of 14 hotels it sold
to Columbia Sussex Corp. five years ago, according to a person
with direct knowledge of the transaction. The buyout firm was
also part of a group that this year won a bankruptcy auction for
hotel chain Extended Stay Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Marcinek  in New York 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 