-- Blackstone Gets Mezzanine Debt as Funds Fill $70 Billion Void
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-12-29T14:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/blackstone-gets-mezzanine-debt-as-funds-fill-70-billion-void.html
Intermediate Capital Group Plc  is
among leveraged loan funds whose expansion into real estate
financing this year may help hoteliers and main street retailers
fill a $70 billion void left by banks paring risky loans.  Blackstone Group LP ’s Europe hotels owner got 150 million
euros ($197 million) of mezzanine loans Dec. 13 from funds,
reducing the amount it owes to senior bank lenders. Banks cut
new U.K. commercial real estate lending by 69 percent last year
as they repaired balance sheets battered by the financial
crisis, a survey by De Montfort University showed.  “The opportunity is huge,” said  Philip Keller , chief
financial officer at London-based Intermediate Capital, which
made its first move into the market by buying a stake in U.K.
real estate debt this month. “We see similar dynamics in
the commercial property market to buyout financing, in that
banks are sitting on massive property balance sheet which they
have to reduce and that’s creating inefficiency in real estate
financing.”  Apollo Global Management LLC, a New York-based private-
equity firm, agreed to pay $1.2 billion for distressed
commercial property loans held by  Credit Suisse Group AG , a
person with knowledge of the deal said on Dec. 23. The mortgages
are backed by buildings in Europe, the people said.  Real estate mezzanine debt carries less risk than buyout
mezzanine debt because it is backed by assets, and may generate
“low to mid-teen” returns, said Keller, whose firm oversees
11.7 billion euros of assets.  Mezzanine financing is a type of junior debt that often
gives investors access to the equity of the borrowers.  Diversification  “Moving into real estate mezzanine financing helps funds
diversify so that they are less dependent on the activities of
the private equity market and the accompanying leveraged finance
transactions,” said Matthias Unser, Munich-based managing
director with DB Private Equity GmbH. “I expect only larger
asset managers can afford to enter the sector because it takes
quite a bit of resources and expertise to be able to manage real
estate debt well.”  Morgan Stanley’s real estate fund agreed to provide
mezzanine debt to BRE/Hospitality Europe Holding BV, controlled
by New York-based Blackstone, as part of the hotels owner’s debt
restructuring, after banks cut their senior debt by 31 percent
to 330 million euros.  Intermediate Capital bought a 51 percent stake in London-
based Longbow Real Estate Capital LP, a fund manager offering
mezzanine finance and debt to U.K. commercial property owners.
Before the financial crisis, many borrowers could borrow as much
as 90 percent of a property’s value; now loan-to-value ratios
are closer to 65 percent, Keller said.  Bank Deleveraging  “The opportunity with Longbow is to match up the
deleveraging by the banks with the quest of institutional
investors to invest in inflation-protected returns,” Keller
said.  Banks may need to reduce 46 billion pounds ($71 billion) of
commercial property loans while only 500 million pounds of U.K.
real estate-focused mezzanine funds have been raised, Keller
said. Asset values have tumbled 44 percent in the U.K. from
their peak in June 2007.  Values of commercial property in the U.K. remain 35 percent
below their peak in 2007 after rebounding 16 percent during 16
consecutive months of gains, according to London-based
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  Britain’s commercial property market recovered from the
credit crisis faster than those in the U.S. Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., the world’s second-largest commercial real-estate broker,
predicted that investments in Europe will rise as much as 35
percent in 2011 to about 130 billion euros, driven by sovereign
wealth funds and institutional investors.  Commercial real estate may outperform other assets, with
returns of 20 percent over the next three years, Standard Life
Investments predicted in November.  The average return for European buyout mezzanine financing
ranges from as low as 10 percent in 2007 and as high as 21
percent in 1991 and 1996, according to CEPRES Mezzanine
Research, part of Deutsche Bank AG’s DB Private Equity.
Mezzanine fund-raising in Europe has slowed to $150 million this
year from $5.25 billion in 2005, the research shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  