-- Construction Bank Unit to Challenge HSBC in Mutual Fund Sales in Hong Kong
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2010-12-30T05:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ccb-asia-to-challenge-hsbc-in-mutual-fund-sales-in-hong-kong.html
China Construction Bank Corp. ’s
Hong Kong unit targets at least 20 percent annual growth in
revenue from selling investment products in the city, where the
number of millionaires doubled last year.  China Construction Bank (Asia) Corp., the wholly owned
subsidiary of China’s second-largest lender, wants to become
one of Hong Kong’s five biggest sellers of mutual funds and
other financial products, consumer banking head Huang Tao said
in an interview. It currently ranks sixth or seventh, he said.  “Wealth management is the area that we are strong at and
the area that we want to grow,” Huang said.  CCB (Asia) vies with  Citigroup Inc.  and HSBC Holdings Plc
for wealthy clients in Hong Kong, which has the second-highest
proportion of millionaire households after Singapore, according
to the Boston Consulting Group. Huang said he plans to boost
headcount at CCB (Asia)’s consumer banking unit by a third
within the next five years to help gain market share.  Construction Bank bought CCB (Asia), formerly known as
Bank of America (Asia) Ltd., from Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America Corp. in 2006. The unit’s first-half
profit more than tripled from a year earlier to HK$398 million
($51 million).  Shares of Construction Bank gained 0.2 percent to HK$6.85
at the close of morning trading in Hong Kong.  CCB (Asia) offers 600 to 800 types of funds from almost 50
managers. The products are mainly targeted at individuals with
up to HK$10 million of investable assets, Huang said.  Hang Seng
Bank Ltd. , controlled by HSBC, sells about 400 funds and
Standard Chartered Plc offers 645 funds.  Increase Workforce  Huang said he plans to increase the consumer banking
unit’s workforce to 800 in three to five years from 600 now,
and boost the lender’s number of local branches to 60 from 48.  Banks in Hong Kong are trying to generate more fees from
selling mutual funds and insurance to compensate for shrinking
margins in home lending. The city’s number of high net worth
individuals -- those with at least $1 million of assets to
invest -- surged 104 percent in 2009, according to a report by
Capgemini SA and Merrill Lynch & Co.  The top five mortgage lenders in Hong Kong -- HSBC, BOC
Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., Hang Seng Bank, Standard Chartered
and Bank of East Asia Ltd. -- last month raised costs for home
loans tied to the Hong Kong interbank offered rate, after
mortgage competition hurt margins.  “Small and medium-sized banks only yield gross margins of
30 to 40 basis points from the mortgage business,” said Huang.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The cost of mortgage business is very high as home-loan
borrowers usually compare mortgage pricing of a couple of banks
before finalizing their decision,” he said. “We could have
been working on 10 potential cases but end up only getting two
to three deals completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Tong  in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  