-- Chavez Says He's Ready for U.S. to Expel Venezuela Ambassador, Break Ties
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-12-29T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/chavez-says-he-s-ready-for-u-s-to-expel-venezuelan-ambassador-break-ties.html
President  Hugo Chavez  said he’s
ready for the U.S. to expel his ambassador and break off
diplomatic ties in retaliation for Venezuela’s five-month
refusal to welcome the Obama administration’s choice to be its
next envoy to Caracas.  “If the U.S. government is going to expel our ambassador
there, then do it. If the U.S. government is going to break off
diplomatic relations -- do it,” Chavez said in comments carried
on state television yesterday. “It’s not my fault. It’s theirs
for naming an ambassador who immediately goes to the press to
rant against the country where he is going as ambassador.”  U.S. State Department spokesman  Mark Toner  said today he
would “decline to elaborate” on what action the U.S. may take
in response to Chavez’s statements and whether the U.S. may ask
Venezuela’s ambassador to Washington,  Bernardo Alvarez , not to
return to the capital. Alvarez is currently in Caracas, Toner
said. He said he is prohibited from discussing Alvarez’s visa
status.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said Dec. 20
“there will be consequences” to Venezuela’s decision to
protest President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of diplomat  Larry Palmer  as the next U.S. ambassador to Caracas.  Chavez rejected Palmer’s nomination after the career
diplomat and former U.S. ambassador to Honduras told the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee in July that the Venezuelan army has
low morale and that members of the government have “clear
ties” with terrorist organizations in neighboring Colombia.  Strained Relations  While warning that Venezuela’s refusal to welcome Palmer
would hurt already-strained relations, the State Department
didn’t say what steps the administration may take. Palmer hasn’t
yet been confirmed by the Senate.  Chavez said on Dec. 18 that Palmer would be turned back at
the airport if he were to board a plane for Venezuela.  Chavez had expelled the previous U.S. ambassador,  Patrick Duddy , in 2008, in solidarity with Bolivia, which sent home the
American ambassador there and accused the U.S. of backing
opposition movements in both countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  