-- China Says Interest Rate Liberalization May Curb Inflation, Asset Bubbles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T13:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/china-says-interest-rate-liberalization-may-curb-inflation-asset-bubbles.html
China should speed up the
liberalization of interest rates and allow banks to raise
deposit rates “by a certain degree” to help contain inflation,
a senior central bank official said.  Asset prices should become an “important” factor when
China formulates its monetary policy as real estate and stocks
are now a key part of people’s wealth,  Sheng Songcheng , head of
the People’s Bank of China’s statistics and analysis department,
wrote in a statement on the central bank website today.  In October, the central bank increased interest rates for
the first time in three years. It raised borrowing costs again
on Dec. 25 to curb accelerating inflation and limit  asset
bubbles  in the real-estate market, shifting to a “prudent”
monetary policy from an “appropriately loose” stance adopted
during the financial crisis.  Property prices  rose for an 18th month in November after
the government suspended mortgages for third-home purchases and
a pledge to speed up trials of property taxes, according to
government data, while consumer prices climbed 5.1 percent, the
most in 28 months as food costs surged.  China should implement interest-rate liberalization on
long-term and bigger loans and deposits before short-term and
smaller amounts, Sheng wrote. Financial institutions with “hard
financial restraints” should be given the freedom to raise
deposit rates first, he added.  Worst Asian Market  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 16
percent this year, the most in Asia and the fourth-worst
performer among 84 key stock measures globally tracked by
Bloomberg.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend measures to curb
the country’s property market weren’t well implemented and
reiterated his goal for  home prices  to return to a “reasonable
level” during his term that ends in 2012.  The government will also increase the supply of affordable
housing and introduce more measures to curb speculation, he said
on  National Radio  on Dec. 26.  China’s monetary tightening in 2011 may be mainly in the
first half as officials tackle the fastest  inflation  in more
than two years, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley said.  -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Abhay Singh   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  