-- China Suspends Approval for ETFs in Shanghai After Glitches, Oriental Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T01:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/china-suspends-approval-for-etfs-in-shanghai-after-glitches-oriental-says.html
China’s securities regulator has
suspended approval of exchange-traded funds seeking to list on
the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  since technical glitches in November,
the Oriental Morning Post reported, citing unidentified people.  The unidentified technical issues delayed ETF transactions
on the exchange on Nov. 5, the Oriental Morning Post said. The
China Securities Regulatory Commission hadn’t approved any ETFs
in Shanghai from Nov. 5 to Dec. 23, the newspaper said, citing a
statement from the CSRC dated Dec. 27. The nation’s yuan-
denominated A-share market has 21 ETFs as of December, the
newspaper said.  “It’s simply a technical glitch for the exchange and once
That has been fixed, the regulator will let things go back to
normal,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities Co.
in Shanghai. “ETFs are definitely a major area the Shanghai
exchange wants to greatly promote in the future.”  A spokeswoman for the CSRC couldn’t be reached after two
calls were made to her office before regular working hours.  Shanghai is seeking to become an international financial
center by 2020 and is expanding the range of financial products
to investors. This year, the exchange introduced stock-index
futures and plans to start an international board by next year.  ETFs have become popular worldwide since their creation in
1993 as they widened investors’ access to different types of
assets. They are designed to mimic the performance of market
indexes and are traded like stocks on an exchange.  Market Slump  The  Shanghai Composite Index  slid 1.7 percent to 2,732.99
yesterday, capping the benchmark measure’s longest losing streak
since July, after the People’s Bank of China increased key one-
year lending and deposit rates by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, on Christmas Day. The index has fallen 17
percent this year, making it the worst performer among the
world’s 14 biggest stock markets.  The Shanghai exchange will try to introduce ETFs that track
foreign indexes this year, Chairman Geng Liang said at a
briefing in Beijing on March 9, without disclosing the indexes.  “The Shanghai Stock Exchange will develop the cross-border
ETF this year,” Geng said. “The main setback we’re facing now
is on the technical side and we will try to overcome those
difficulties and introduce the product this year.”  The securities regulator is studying allowing U.K. and
Japan index ETFs to trade in the Chinese market, the China
Business News reported last month, citing Tong Daochi, the
CSRC’s director general of international affairs.  Lion Fund Management Co. received regulatory approval to
raise up to $500 million in China to invest in overseas ETFs
backed by gold, the first in the country to be approved to do so,
Yang Zi, an executive at Lion Fund’s marketing department said
Nov. 30.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  