-- China May Need More Affordable Homes Than Targeted, ISI Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T00:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/china-may-need-more-affordable-homes-than-target-of-10-million-isi-says.html
China may need to build more
affordable homes next year than the 10 million units planned as
the target may not be “sufficient” to meet the country’s
demand, according to  International Strategy & Investment Group .  The government plans to almost double the 2011 supply of
affordable housing from 5.8 million units this year as it
introduces more measures to curb property speculation, Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said in a radio broadcast on Dec. 26.  “Over the last decade, a backlog of about 20 million
houses needs to be satisfied,” said  Donald Straszheim , Los
Angeles-based director of China research at ISI, who was ranked
first in the Macro and Economics categories in Institutional
Investor magazine’s survey last year.  Increasing the supply of social housing is among measures
China took this year to curb home prices.  Property values  rose
for an 18th month in November after the government suspended
mortgages for third-home purchases and a pledge to speed up
trials of property taxes. In October, the central bank increased
interest rates for the first time in three years and raised
borrowing costs again on Dec. 25.  China also emphasized building social housing in its annual
central economic meeting earlier this month that set plans for
next year, and ordered local governments to set their own goals
for such homes with a focus for building public rental housing.  Significant Inputs  The country has completed 3.7 million of the 5.8 million
low-cost homes targeted for 2010, Wen said. The government will
probably complete 75 percent of its goal next year because “the
demand for commodities, workers, the ability to plan and execute,
with space, coordination of subcontractors and the inputs will
be significant,” Straszheim said.  The increase in China’s social housing will drive the
nation’s  economic growth  by as much as 0.2 percentage point each
year, according to Straszheim. “This is important, but not
sizable enough to change the overall course of the economy,” he
said in an e-mailed response to questions late yesterday.  Only 6 percent of urban Chinese families live in social
housing, which includes low-rent homes and apartments with
controlled prices, according to a report by  China International
Capital Corp.  in June. The government provides land that costs
less than market values, and developers are required to sell
homes at regulated prices.  China’s social housing is a key investment area in the
government’s five-year economic plan, and that bodes well for
the cement and machinery industries, according to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in November.  $71 Billion Investment  China  invested  470 billion yuan ($71 billion) in the
construction of social housing this year, accounting for 60
percent of the year's budget, the Ministry of Housing and 
Urban-Rural Development said Sept. 20 in a statement. China 
also allocated a 69.2 billion yuan subsidy for the construction 
of such homes this year, the ministry said.  The social housing plan may add 1.5 percentage points to
China’s economic growth in both 2010 and 2011, Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said in a Dec. 15 report. The
brokerage estimated that the 5.8 million units, which include 3
million new homes and 2.8 million refurbished apartments, will
cost 700 billion yuan this year. The 10 million planned next
year will add a further 1.3 trillion yuan, it said.  Shanghai  is planning 15 million square meters of affordable
homes in 2011, a 25 percent increase from this year, the city’s
Housing Support and Building Administration Bureau said on Dec.
24. The port city of Tianjin in northeastern China expects
190,000 units of such homes next year, the state news agency
Xinhua reported on Dec. 27.  China’s property boom continues “unabated” and has even
picked up since the government enacted policies to cool
speculation, Jim Chanos, the hedge-fund manager who predicted
the market may crash as early as 2010, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview earlier this month. A lot of policies in
China are designed to be “skirted,” he said, reiterating his
view that China is on a “treadmill to hell.”  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua , Malcolm Scott.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  