-- Christine O'Donnell's Senate Campaign Spending Draws Federal Investigation
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-12-29T23:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/christine-o-donnell-s-senate-campaign-spending-draws-federal-investigation.html
Federal authorities are reviewing an
advocacy group’s complaint alleging misconduct by  Christine O’Donnell , the losing Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate
in Delaware, a Justice Department representative said.  Kim Reeves, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
Wilmington, Delaware, declined today to specify allegations by
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.
Investigators are reviewing the complaint and will take further
action if necessary, Reeves said in a phone interview.  Richard Wolf, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in Baltimore, said the office wouldn’t confirm or
deny “anything about it.”  The Associated Press reported today that federal
authorities opened a criminal investigation into whether
O’Donnell used campaign money for personal expenses.  “We have heard absolutely nothing other than the same
unsubstantiated allegations and rumors that have been
circulating in the press for months,” Matt Moran, O’Donnell’s
campaign manager, said in a statement issued today. Moran said
there was “no impermissible” usage of funds.  O’Donnell, 41, who lost the November election to Democrat
 Chris Coons , raised more than $7 million during her run for
office, according to the AP.  ‘Establishment’ Tactic  Democratic insiders warned O’Donnell “the establishment”
would use any tactic possible to ensure her political demise,
she said in the statement. “The plan was to crush me with
investigations, lawsuits, and false accusations,” so no one
would support her, she said.  CREW is a nonprofit organization that promotes “ethics and
accountability” by targeting officials “who sacrifice the
common good to special interests,” the  group says  on its
website.  Garrett Russo, a spokesman for the group, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages.  O’Donnell ended the statement saying, “Our supporters and
the general public will see right through these thug tactics.
This is simply an establishment trick to stop the anti-
establishment Tea Party movement in its tracks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 