-- Collahuasi Seeks Permits for Alternative Copper Port
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-12-29T22:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/collahuasi-seeks-permits-to-use-other-ports-for-copper-exports.html
Anglo American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s 
Collahuasi venture, the world’s third-largest copper mine, is
seeking approval to begin shipments from a new site after an
accident shut its port in northern Chile almost two weeks ago.  An investigation into the Dec. 18 accident that caused
three deaths and the collapse of a ship-loader at the Patache
port continues, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Collahuasi invoked force majeure, a legal clause allowing
it to miss deliveries because of circumstances beyond its
control, on Dec. 20, helping send copper prices to record highs.
Force majeure remains in place, it said today.  “The company has analyzed the alternatives of land and
maritime transport found for the commercialization of its copper
concentrate, through diverse ports of the XV, I and II regions
in Chile, and commenced the process to obtain the necessary
permits and authorizations,” it wrote.  Patache may remain closed for “a couple of months,”
 Miguel Angel Duran , Anglo’s head of Chilean operations, told
reporters in Santiago on Dec. 23. Collahuasi processes ore into
concentrate, an intermediary product that’s transported by
pipeline to Patache.  A monthlong strike by unionized workers at the same mine
may affect annual production targets, Duran said Dec. 14. The
strike ended Dec. 7. Anglo and Xstrata each own 44 percent of
the mine. A group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the remainder.  Collahuasi produced 535,000 metric tons last year, or 3.5
percent of global output, according to Standard Bank Plc. Its
production is only surpassed by Escondida and Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  