-- Comcast Should Provide Program Contracts to the FCC, Groups Say
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-29T17:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/comcast-should-provide-program-contracts-to-the-fcc-advocacy-groups-say.html
Advocacy groups asked the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission to demand more documents from
 Comcast Corp.  before voting on the cable company’s proposed
merger with  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal.  Comcast should supply the FCC with contracts to carry other
companies’ programs since 2006,  Andrew Jay Schwartzman , policy
director of Washington-based Media Access Project, said in a
 letter  posted yesterday on the FCC’s website.  The contracts will help the agency determine whether
Comcast restricts program suppliers from selling their shows to
competing online providers, Schwartzman said in the letter filed
on behalf of his group, Free Press, Consumer Federation of
America, Public Knowledge and Consumers Union.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  asked fellow commissioners
on Dec. 23 to vote for the merger so long as it carried
conditions such as letting subscribers view online video from
competitors, agency officials said. It could be several weeks
before the vote takes place,  Rebecca Arbogast  and David Kaut,
both Washington-based analysts for Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
in a Dec. 23 note.  Comcast spokeswoman  Sena Fitzmaurice  didn’t reply today to
requests for comment. FCC spokeswoman Jen Howard declined to
comment.  Philadelphia-based Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company,
would gain control of the NBC television network, broadcast
stations, cable channels such as MSNBC and USA Network, a
library of more than 4,000 movies, and part ownership of the
Hulu online video service.  The deal proposed last year also needs approval from the
Justice Department.  Comcast is acquiring a 51 percent stake in NBC Universal
from GE by paying $6.5 billion in cash and contributing cable
channels valued at $7.25 billion to a joint venture that will
own the entertainment company.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
filed documents opposing the Comcast-NBC Universal combination
as it was proposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 