-- Courtesan in Sexy Red Dress Menaced by Guests, Clock: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/courtesan-in-sexy-red-dress-is-menaced-by-revelers-giant-clock-interview.html
No corkscrew curls and crinolines
for this girl.  In the Metropolitan Opera’s new production of Verdi’s 1853
opera about a doomed courtesan, “La traviata,” Violetta wears
a short, sexy red dress and high heels.  Director  Willy Decker  keeps everyone else, including women,
in formal black suits. The stage features a curved white wall, a
big clock and not much else.  When the curtain rises on New Year’s Eve, you won’t be able
to take your eyes off of  Marina Poplavskaya , the diva in the
dress.  The composer would probably not object. He was furious when
prim censors made him place his story in a previous century.  I spoke with Decker in the press room at the Met during
rehearsals.  Lundborg: You’ve already staged this in Salzburg in 2005
and again in Amsterdam, so have you changed anything for the
Met?  Decker: The essence remains, but the stage dimensions are
different here. We had to redesign the room, and of course that
changes the details, but I think for the better: The action is
even more concentrated than in Salzburg.  That Dress  Lundborg: You’ve updated the opera, so is your Violetta
different from Verdi’s?  Decker: It’s entirely Verdi’s Violetta. The action is meant
to be timeless -- I want her to be seen through the eyes of a
modern human being and to free her from all specific historical
elements.  Lundborg: How did you come up with the sexy red dress?  Decker: You want to create the utmost visual conflict
between her and her surroundings. Because you can always see
where she is, the audience never leaves her, emotionally or
dramatically.  Lundborg: We’re all on her side, a woman alone in “the
desert called Paris.”  Decker: Society blames a woman like Violetta for betraying
the idea of love, but in this society she’s the only one who
really loves. That’s the whole essence of the piece.  Lundborg: If we’re looking at Violetta through modern eyes,
why would any woman now make such a deal with Papa Germont?  Decker: He’s very insulting, brutal and destructive, and
she is about to send him away. But he’s also clever when he
shows her a picture of his daughter.  Violetta is moved because the girl looks like Alfredo, and
it also reminds her of her younger self.  She’s not doing the will of Germont. She makes a conscious
sacrifice for someone else out of deep knowing, compassion and
selflessness.  Urgency of Music  Lundborg: How do you begin?  Decker: I listen to the music. No pencil, no paper, no
score. Suddenly you feel the enormous urgency of the music,
something that is driving Violetta to go faster and faster until
she dies. You also hear the clock all the time.  Lundborg: Instead of making them carefree party-goers,
you’ve given the chorus a sinister edge.  Decker: If you listen to the music carefully, they are
pretty aggressive.  Lundborg: Why are European directors taking such liberties
with opera?  Decker: There’s a lot of bullshit going on. We have many
opera houses and the same repertoire, so it’s very competitive.  Most of the time, directors change things in a superficial
way for the shock value.  ‘Parsifal’ to Tango  Lundborg: What’s on your iPod now?  Decker: Everything from “Parsifal” to the tango -- I
listen to early music, music from other cultures, India, Japan,
fado.  Lundborg: How do you relax when you’re not working?  Decker: I’m a seriously practicing Zen Buddhist, so that
takes a lot of free time, though our distinction between free
time and non-free time is a wrong concept anyway.  “La traviata” runs at the Metropolitan Opera from Dec. 31
through Jan. 29. For information:  http://www.metoperafamily.org .
The Salzburg production with  Anna Netrebko  and  Rolando Villazon 
is available on DVD.  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 