-- Daimler’s Work-Van Sales May Match 2009 U.S. Total
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-12-30T09:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/daimler-s-mercedes-led-u-s-work-van-sales-may-match-2009-total.html
Daimler AG , the maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars, predicts U.S. sales of its commercial vans this year
will match 2009 deliveries after distribution was shifted to
luxury retailers from truck-savvy Dodge dealers.  Sprinter’s U.S. sales through November at Mercedes and
Freightliner dealerships fell a combined 8.1 percent compared
with the same period last year at  Dodge  and Freightliner stores,
according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based
researcher.  “We will get there,” Claus Tritt, Mercedes commercial
vans general manager, said last week about 2010 sales equaling
the previous year’s total. “It’s coming together,” he added in
the telephone interview.  U.S.  Mercedes  dealers sold 3,917 Sprinter vans during the
first 11 months while deliveries by Freightliner outlets more
than tripled to 3,263. A year earlier, more than 300 Dodge
dealers accounted for 87 percent of the 7,817 sold.  A total of 8,353 Sprinter vans were sold last year through
Dodge and Freightliner stores in the U.S., according to
Mercedes, part of Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler.  Tritt oversaw the transition of moving  Sprinter  sales to
Mercedes dealers from the Dodge outlets that had sold the trucks
since 2003. The Dodge, Chrysler and Jeep brands were part of
DaimlerChrysler AG until it sold the Auburn Hills, Michigan-base
Chrysler Group in 2007.  Fiat SpA  took control of the group last
year and split off Ram trucks as a brand separate from Dodge.  Special Staff  Mercedes dealers are required to have a separate display
area for the commercial vehicle and to provide those customers
with dedicated technicians and sales staff, Tritt said.  While Sprinter sales at Mercedes dealerships started
slowly, they have grown to about two-thirds of monthly Sprinter
volume,  Ernst Lieb , head of Mercedes’ U.S. unit, said in an
interview at the Los Angeles Auto Show last month.  Most of the new Sprinter dealers went out and hired a sales
force with experience in commercial-vehicle sales, Lieb said.  “The traditional Mercedes-Benz luxury salesman is not the
right guy,” he said. “We might have the customer, the owner of
the landscaping company or the owner of the hotel who now is
interested, but to sell the actual unit” needs a trained sales
person.  Daimler added 12 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 51.44 euros at
10:01 a.m. on the Frankfurt exchange. The shares have gained 38
percent  this year .  Daimler began selling Sprinter vans in the U.S. in 2001 at
its Freightliner dealerships, which continue to sell the
vehicles. Daimler has 84 Mercedes and 49 Freightliner stores
selling the vans.  Growing Network  Eventually, Daimler wants 180 to 200 Mercedes and
Freightliner dealerships selling and servicing Sprinter vans,
Tritt said. Mercedes has 352 U.S. dealers, according to the
company.  While Daimler has done a good job keeping sales through the
distribution changes, its overall place in the full-sized van
market remains small,  Aaron Bragman , an industry analyst with
IHS Automotive, said in an interview Dec. 20.  More than 170,000 full-size vans were sold in the U.S. so
far this year, he said.  Ford Motor Co. ’s Econoline Van sold
76,051 units this year, according to Autodata.  Bernie Moreno, a Mercedes dealer near Cleveland, said van
sales at his dealership, which sold about 60 Sprinters, met his
expectations for the year and that he is still “playing around
with the right formula for selling them.”  “The sales part of it is definitely a different model,”
he said. “It’s not the customer who comes in with their wife
and looks at an SL-500 and decides this is the car for them and
drives off. We’re not getting a lot of people who are buying
Sprinters for Christmas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  