-- Dodging Repatriation Tax Lets U.S. Companies Bring Home Cash
-- B y   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2010-12-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/dodging-repatriation-tax-lets-u-s-companies-bring-home-cash.html
At the White House on Dec. 15,
business executives asked President Obama for a tax holiday that
would help them tap more than $1 trillion of offshore earnings,
much of it sitting in island tax havens.  The money -- including hundreds of billions in profits that
U.S. companies attribute to overseas subsidiaries to  avoid  taxes
-- is supposed to be taxed at up to 35 percent when it’s brought
home, or “repatriated.” Executives including  John T. Chambers 
of Cisco Systems Inc. say a tax break would return a flood of
cash and boost the economy.  What nobody’s saying publicly is that U.S. multinationals
are already finding legal ways to avoid that tax. Over the
years, they’ve brought cash home, tax-free, employing strategies
with nicknames worthy of 1970s conspiracy thrillers -- including
“the Killer B” and “the Deadly D.”  Merck & Co Inc. , the second-largest drugmaker in the U.S.,
last year brought more than $9 billion from abroad without
paying any U.S. tax to help finance its acquisition of
Schering-Plough Corp., securities filings show. Merck is also
appealing a federal judge’s 2009 finding that Schering-Plough
owed taxes on $690 million it had earlier brought home from
overseas tax-free.  The largest drugmaker,  Pfizer Inc. , imported more than $30
billion from offshore in connection with its acquisition of
Wyeth last year, while taking steps to minimize the tax hit on
its publicly reported  profit .  Disclosures in Switzerland and Delaware by  Eli Lilly & Co. 
show the Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical company carried out
many of the steps for a tax-free importation of foreign cash
after its roughly $6 billion purchase of ImClone Systems Inc. in
2008.  ‘Trivially Small Taxes’  “Sophisticated U.S. companies are routinely repatriating
hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign earnings and paying
trivially small U.S. taxes on those repatriations,” said  Edward D. Kleinbard , a law professor at the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles. “They devote enormous resources
first to moving income to tax havens, and then to bringing those
profits back to the U.S. at the lowest possible tax cost.”  With the exception of the Schering-Plough case, no
authority has accused Merck or Pfizer or Lilly of paying less
tax than they should have. While corporations have no obligation
to pay any more than the legal minimum, “the question is what
should that minimum be?” said Kleinbard, a former corporate tax
attorney at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP and former
chief of staff at the congressional  Joint Committee on Taxation .  U.S. companies overall use various repatriation strategies
to avoid about $25 billion a year in federal income taxes, he
said.  ‘Best of Worlds’  “The current U.S. international tax system is the best of
all worlds for U.S. multinationals,” said  David S. Miller , a
partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in New York. That’s
because the companies can defer federal income taxes by shifting
profits into low-tax jurisdictions abroad, and then use foreign
tax credits to shelter those earnings from U.S. tax when they
repatriate them, he said.  They’re aided by a cadre of attorneys, accountants and
investment bankers in the tax-planning industry -- such as a
panel of KPMG LLP tax advisers who held forth in a chilly hotel
ballroom at a Philadelphia conference last month. There, they
discussed a series of techniques for multinationals to return
cash from overseas while avoiding or deferring the taxes.  KPMG tax advisers Kevin Glenn and Tom Zollo used slides to
describe several methods. One diagram resembled a schematic from
the  Manhattan Project . Another strategy would require certain
“bells and whistles” to convince regulators of an actual
non-tax business purpose, Glenn explained.  Cat and Mouse  Such maneuvers reflect a decades-long cat-and-mouse game.
As regulators and lawmakers tighten the rules, companies seek
new, legal methods for getting around them. One of the
techniques the KPMG advisers discussed was in response to
loophole-closers Congress passed in August to address a
projected $1.4 trillion federal budget  deficit . The changes will
make it harder for companies to manipulate the credits they get
for taxes paid overseas.  “Some of the best minds in the country are spent all day,
every day, wheedling nickels and dimes out of the tax system,”
said H.  David Rosenbloom , an attorney at Caplin & Drysdale in
Washington, D.C., and director of the international tax program
at New York University’s school of law.  Chambers, Cisco’s chief executive officer, brought up a
repatriation break during the White House meeting, according to
a person familiar with the discussion. It could reprise a 2004
tax holiday that allowed multinationals to return profits to the
U.S. at a tax rate of 5.25 percent. U.S. corporations brought
home $362 billion, with $312 billion qualifying for the relief,
according to the Internal Revenue Service.  Short-Term Fix  Such a move “is a short-term fix to a long-term problem,
which is the uncompetitive U.S. tax structure,” said Cisco
spokeswoman Jennifer Greeson Dunn. The San Jose,
California-based company  reported  $31.6 billion of undistributed
foreign earnings, on which it had paid no U.S. taxes, as of
July 31.  President Obama , who campaigned in part against companies’
use of offshore havens to avoid U.S. taxes, asked Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to follow up on the issue with
business leaders, according to a White House official who asked
not to be identified because the discussions were private.  The argument that a new tax break for offshore earnings
would generate a domestic stimulus “holds no water at all,”
said  Joel B. Slemrod , an economics professor at the University
of Michigan’s school of business and former senior tax economist
for President Reagan’s Council of Economic Advisers. U.S.
companies are already sitting on a record pile of cash -- $1.9
trillion in liquid assets, according to Federal Reserve data.  ‘Cash Hoards’  “The fact that they have these cash hoards suggests that
investment is not being constrained by lack of cash,” Slemrod
said.  U.S. multinationals boost earnings by shifting income out
of the country via transfer pricing, a system that allows them
to allocate costs to subsidiaries in high-tax countries and
 profits  to tax havens. Google Inc., for example,  cut  its taxes
by $3.1 billion in the last three years by moving most of the
income it attributed overseas ultimately to Bermuda, Bloomberg
News reported in October.  The tax benefits from such profit shifting can have a
greater impact on share price than boosting sales or cutting
other expenses, since the reduced rate goes straight to the
bottom line, said John P. Kennedy, a partner at Deloitte Tax
LLP, speaking at the conference in Philadelphia Nov. 3.  Boosting Share Prices  For a hypothetical company that has 1,000 shares
outstanding, has pretax income of $5,000 and trades at 20 times
earnings, cutting just 2 percentage points off the rate could
drive the share price up $2, Kennedy said.  “You may think two bucks isn’t much, but when you’re the
CFO and she has 100,000 options, that’s pretty interesting,” he
said. He cited large pharmaceutical and biotech companies,
including Merck,  Amgen Inc.  and Eli Lilly, which have reported
effective income tax rates at least 10 percentage points below
the statutory 35 percent rate.  The bottom line: The effective tax rate “is, and will
continue to be, the metric that is used to judge your
performance,” he told the audience of corporate tax accountants
and attorneys.  U.S. drugmakers shift profits overseas far in excess of
actual sales there. In 2008, large U.S. pharmaceutical companies
reported about four-fifths of their pre-tax income abroad, up
from about a third in 1997, according to a March article in the
journal Tax Notes by  Martin A. Sullivan , a contributing editor
and former U.S. Treasury Department tax economist. Their actual
foreign sales grew more slowly, to 52 percent from 38 percent.  Stranded Cash  Deloitte’s Kennedy warned that booking large portions of
income overseas can mean “you are going to strand so much cash
offshore that your business chokes.” That’s because the foreign
profits cannot be used for such purposes as building domestic
factories without triggering federal tax. Overall, U.S.
companies reported more than $1 trillion in such “indefinitely
reinvested earnings” offshore at the end of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year,  Merck , based in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey,
tapped its offshore cash, tax-free, to pay for just over half
the cash portion of its $51 billion merger with Schering-Plough,
according to company filings.  At the deal’s closing, Merck’s foreign subsidiaries lent
$9.4 billion to a pair of Schering-Plough Dutch units. Then the
Dutch companies used those funds to repay a pre-existing loan
from their U.S. parent, securities filings show. The $9.4
billion ended up with Schering-Plough shareholders as part of
the cash owed under the merger, according to the company’s
disclosure.  No Tax Hit  Bottom line: Merck used its overseas cash to pay the former
Schering-Plough shareholders -- with no U.S. tax hit. In
considering whether companies owe taxes in such cases, the IRS
often asks whether payments from an offshore unit constitute a
dividend, which would be taxable.  In Merck’s case, it arguably could be, said  Robert Willens ,
who runs an independent firm that advises investors on tax
issues.  “Merck was obligated to pay Schering-Plough shareholders
and they tapped into the funds of their overseas subsidiaries to
do it,” he said. “You’d have to be concerned about a
constructive dividend there.”  Merck objected to any characterization of the payment as a
dividend. “We don’t think the characterization is accurate and
we remain confident with our tax position,” said  Steven Campanini , a company spokesman.  On Appeal  In the Schering-Plough case decided last year, the
drugmaker brought home $690 million tax-free as a result of
assigning its rights to income from a complex interest-rate swap
to a foreign subsidiary in the 1990s. A judge found the company
“failed to establish a genuine purpose for the transactions
other than tax avoidance” and said Schering-Plough was not
entitled to $473 million in back taxes in dispute. Merck is
appealing the judgment.  Even when companies pay large tax bills to import their
foreign profits, they find ways to minimize the impact on the
earnings they show investors. Last year, New York-based  Pfizer 
repatriated more than $30 billion from offshore to help pay for
its $64 billion purchase of Wyeth, according to company
disclosures and a person familiar with the transaction.  The acquisition created a so-called deferred tax liability
on Pfizer’s balance sheet of about $25 billion, according to
securities filings, in part to allow for an anticipated tax hit
on the earnings that would be repatriated.  Impact Wiped Out  While bringing home more than $30 billion helped generate a
$10 billion tax obligation, Pfizer was able to draw down $10
billion of its new deferred liability through its  income
statement . Doing so wiped out the tax impact of the repatriation
on its earnings reported to shareholders.  So while the company paid a real tax bill to the U.S.
government stemming from the repatriation, that tax payment had
limited impact on its publicly reported profits.  Pfizer made use of a legal accounting quirk that allowed it
to set up the deferred liability on its  balance sheet , but
reverse part of that liability through its income statement,
said Edmund Outslay, a professor of tax accounting at Michigan
State University.  “Had Pfizer repatriated these earnings independently of
the purchase of Wyeth, it would have incurred a huge tax
charge” on its income statement, Outslay said. “So through the
magic of purchase accounting, you create an opportunity to bring
this money home while mitigating its impact on your effective
tax rate.”  Effective Tax Rate  Pfizer spokeswoman  Joan Campion  said the $10 billion tax
hit was indeed erased on the income statement because of the
accounting treatment, but noted that the company’s effective tax
rate rose in 2009 in part because Wyeth’s overseas profits were
repatriated to help finance the deal.  Other strategies based on acquisitions have achieved
nickname status among corporate tax advisers.  The “Killer B” maneuver is named for section 368(a)(1)(B)
of the  Internal Revenue Code , which deals with tax-free
reorganizations. A U.S. company using the technique would sell
its shares to an offshore subsidiary, bringing cash back to the
U.S. tax-free. The offshore unit could then use the stock to
make an acquisition. In 2006, the IRS issued a notice aimed at
shutting down the maneuver.  Using a Variation  International Business Machines Corp.  used a variation on
the technique in May 2007, with an offshore unit purchasing the
shares from a trio of banks, according to a company securities
filing. That permutation wasn’t covered by the IRS in 2006. Two
days after IBM’s disclosure, the agency announced plans for
additional rule changes addressing stock sales to subsidiaries
from shareholders as well as directly from parent companies.  The “Deadly D,” also named for a section of tax law,
allows a U.S. company to attach the high tax basis in a newly
acquired company to one of its existing foreign units. In some
cases, doing so enables the U.S. parent to pull cash from the
subsidiary up to the amount of the recent purchase price
tax-free. The Obama administration has proposed changing the
provision that enables the maneuver.  Lilly  closed on its purchase of ImClone in November 2008.
The next month, the newly acquired company converted to an LLC
and Lilly transferred the investment to its main Swiss
subsidiary, Eli Lilly SA, according to disclosures in
Switzerland and Delaware. The transfer was in exchange for a
$5.8 billion note payable to the U.S. parent company due at the
end of 2011.  Extracting Earnings  Willens, the independent tax adviser, said the steps
indicated a likely D reorganization, or another method “to
extract earnings from overseas without tax consequences -- of
course.” Lilly had no comment beyond its filings, said David P.
Lewis, the company’s vice president for global taxes.  The KPMG panel discussion in Philadelphia, called “Global
Cash Tax Management Plans and Repatriation Planning,” dissected
other techniques, including one that took six slides to explain.
It works like this:  Soon after a U.S. multinational has purchased another U.S.
company, the new unit promises to pay the parent a large amount
of cash pursuant to a note agreement. Since both parties are
U.S. companies, there is no tax bill for the parent under
current U.S. law.  Then the new acquisition converts to a foreign company. So
when the payment pursuant to the note is made, it comes from
overseas. That means the foreign cash is treated as a nontaxable
payment under the note, instead of a taxable dividend.  Going Offshore  The newly converted foreign subsidiary could access the
multinational’s existing offshore cash by borrowing from a
foreign sister unit, said Glenn, the KPMG tax partner. He and
Zollo were joined by colleague Frank Mattei, as well as Don
Whitt, a Pfizer tax official.  “This basic transaction is something that at least a
couple of taxpayers have done, and I know a number of others
have evaluated,” Glenn said. The strategy’s name follows the
alphabetic tradition of Bs and Ds. It’s called “the Outbound
F.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Drucker  in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 