-- Dollar Declines as Investors Seek Higher-Yielding Assets; Yen Strengthens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-29T22:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/dollar-trades-near-6-week-low-on-signs-u-s-recovery-is-uneven.html
The dollar fell against all of its
major counterparts as signs of U.S. economic recovery spurred
demand for higher-yielding assets, including stocks.  The U.S. currency weakened against the yen for an eighth
consecutive session, the longest streak since 2004, even after
Japan’s Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday the
nation would take “bold” action to prevent an overvalued yen.
The greenback weakened against the New Zealand and Australian
dollars before a U.S. report tomorrow forecast to show initial
jobless claims fell. The Aussie touched the highest level since
1982 just before the nation stopped pegging the currency.  “Today the path of least resistance is for higher
yielders, which is detrimental for the dollar,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “The Asian dollars have been
firming. It’s risk-on, excluding Europe.”  The dollar dropped 0.9 percent against the yen to 81.62 at
5:03 p.m. in New York, touching the weakest since Nov. 10, from
82.38 yesterday. The U.S. currency weakened 0.8 percent to
$1.3225 versus the euro, compared with $1.3115.  The U.S. currency has lost 2.5 percent in 2010, according
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has surged 12.8
percent this year, according to the index, which measures
currency performance of 10 major trading partners, and the euro
has slumped 10.7 percent since Jan. 1.  Yield Decline  U.S. Treasury yields extended declines after a $29 billion
sale of seven year note drew stronger demand than previous
sales. The 10-year note yield declined as much as 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 3.32 percent, after
increasing 15 basis points yesterday.  “Dollar weakness today is from yield spreads; lower U.S.
bond yields and higher yields in other G-10 countries like
Australia,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.  The U.S. currency slid for an eighth day against the
Australian dollar, weakening 0.8 percent to $1.0179, from
$1.0100. The Aussie touched to the highest level against its
U.S. counterpart since July 1982 before the December 1983 move
by the nation to stop pegging it to a trade-weighted basket of
currencies. The U.S. dollar depreciated 1.7 percent to 76.86
cents versus New Zealand’s kiwi, from 75.56 yesterday.  Benchmark interest rates of 4.75 percent in Australia and 3
percent in New Zealand make the South Pacific nations’ assets
attractive to investors seeking higher returns, also boosting
the Aussie and kiwi.  Yen Watch  Japanese Finance Minister Noda, in a news conference in
Tokyo, called the yen’s recent gains “one-sided.” Noda said he
will keep closely watching markets.  “Even though US interest rates have risen and U.S.-
Japanese rate differentials have widened over the last month,
dollar/yen continues to trend lower,” wrote  Osamu Takashima  and
 Issei Suzuki , Tokyo-based currency strategists for Citigroup
Inc. “This downward trend has been exacerbated in recent days
given low liquidity in the market and the presence of Japanese
exporter dollar selling flows.” They didn’t respond to a phone
call seeking further comment.  The yen has risen 2.5 percent against the dollar this
month, while the euro is up 1.9 percent.  Asian currencies climbed to their strongest in six weeks as
foreign investors bought the region’s equities. The Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index , which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.1 to the highest
since Nov. 18.  Equity Buys  Foreign investors bought more equities than they sold this
week in India, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and
Vietnam. The International Monetary Fund forecasts Asia’s
developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010 versus 2.7
percent in advanced countries.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro, yen and pound, dropped 0.8 percent
to 79.746.  The 16-nation euro will add Estonia to its ranks on Jan. 1.  “The decision for Estonia to join was made during the
crisis this summer,”  David Watt , senior currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in Toronto. “Estonia
would have made an impact if they had decided to say ‘thanks,
but no thanks’ to joining the euro, but countries know the
benefits of continuing the process to join the euro zone far
outweigh the negatives.”  Krona Gain  Sweden’s krona appreciated 0.9 percent to 6.8130 per dollar
after a report showed the nation’s trade surplus reached the
highest this year as exports increased.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves  has raised the benchmark
repo rate four times since July even as inflation remains below
the bank’s 2 percent target. The increases have been made as
house prices move above pre-crisis levels and credit growth
hovers near 9 percent.  First-time filings for U.S. jobless insurance decreased to
415,000 in the week ended Dec. 25 from 420,000 in the previous
week, according to the median forecast of 26 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The report from the Labor Department is
due tomorrow.  “The strength of U.S. data is one of the major themes
going in to 2011,” said Brown Brother’s McCormick.  The Federal Reserve reiterated this month its commitment to
keeping borrowing costs low for an “extended period” as data
signals an uneven recovery in the world’s largest economy. The
central bank said last month it will buy $600 billion of
Treasuries through June to boost the economy under the second
round of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  