-- EBay’s Paypal to Set Up Global E-Commerce Hub in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T04:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ebay-s-paypal-to-set-up-international-e-commerce-hub-in-chongqing-china.html
EBay Inc. ’s PayPal business will set
up an international e-commerce hub in Chongqing, China, as the
company aims to boost exports from the nation by helping
merchants conduct faster cross-border trade.  PayPal agreed with Chongqing’s municipal government to set
up the center to offer foreign exchange settlement, telesales,
training, verification and other services, Dickson Seow, a
Singapore-based spokesman, said in an e-mail today. He didn’t
disclose financial terms.  Helping local companies connect with global customers will
boost EBay’s transaction volume from China more than 80 percent
to $4 billion this year, Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe
said in September. EBay is counting on PayPal and local
partnerships to expand  revenue  from China after failing to gain
a foothold to compete against  Alibaba Group .  “This is the first time in the world for PayPal where we
are doing such a wide-ranging, comprehensive partnership with a
government,” Seow wrote in the e-mail. “In this case, we are
looking to develop the local e-commerce industry in inland China
to help Chinese merchants build up their capabilities to conduct
cross-border trade.”  San Jose, California-based EBay first entered China in
2002. Competition from Alibaba’s auction business Taobao.com cut
its market share by half, prompting it to shut down its China
site in 2006.  PayPal will have more than 1 million merchants in Greater
China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, by the end of this
year, Seow said.  The foreign exchange settlement solution that PayPal will
develop with the Chongqing government is needed because China
currently allows individuals to convert to yuan overseas
payments of only up to $50,000 a year, Seow said.  The Chongqing government will work with agencies including
the State Administration of Foreign Exchange to get regulatory
approval for a settlement service that is expected to begin in
the middle of next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  