-- Ecowas Plans Further Talks to Press Gbagbo to Give Up Power in Ivory Coast
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   T u r a n a
-- 2010-12-29T19:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ecowas-plans-further-talks-to-press-gbagbo-to-give-up-power-in-ivory-coast.html
West African leaders plan a second
round of talks next month with Ivory Coast’s  Laurent Gbagbo  to
press him to give up the leadership of the world’s top cocoa-
growing country, the Economic Community of West African States
said.  Presidents  Thomas Boni Yayi  of Benin,  Pedro Pires  of Cape
Verde and  Ernest Koroma  of Sierra Leone today briefed Nigerian
President  Goodluck Jonathan , the current Ecowas chairman, in
Abuja, Nigeria’s capital, after meeting Gbagbo in the commercial
capital, Abidjan, yesterday, Ecowas said in a statement. The
three will resume talks with Gbagbo on Jan. 3, it said.  “The three presidents told Laurent Gbagbo they will come
back soon,” Eric Ane, Gbagbo’s spokesman, said in a phone
interview today. Gbagbo is prepared to hold roundtable talks
with rival  Alassane Ouattara  and Ecowas representatives, he
said.  Gbagbo has refused to relinquish power to Ouattara,
regarded by the United Nations, the African Union, the U.S. and
France as the winner of the Nov. 28 election. Ecowas on Dec. 24
said it would consider the use of “legitimate force” to remove
Gbagbo if he continues to ignore international calls to quit.
The European Union raised to 61 the number of Gbagbo allies
included in a visa ban, Agence France-Presse reported.  The political crisis has driven up the price of cocoa and
pushed the yields of Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds to a record 14.71
percent on Dec. 27. Cocoa has risen 8.3 percent since the
election on London’s Liffe exchange and was trading as high as
2,057 pounds ($3,187) per metric ton today.  Gbagbo Guarantee  Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , the AU’s special envoy
on the political crisis, said Gbagbo should receive immunity
from prosecution if he agrees to give up power.  “Gbagbo should be given the guarantee that by stepping
down nothing will happen to him,” Odinga said in an interview
broadcast today by Citizen TV, based in the Kenyan capital,
Nairobi.  Odinga said on Dec. 17 that he supported military
intervention to remove Gbagbo if he doesn’t relinquish the
presidency.  “Gbagbo should step down and if he refuses, military force
should be used against him,” he told reporters in Nairobi.  Ouattara has so far failed to turn international support
into control of the country and remains holed up in an Abidjan
hotel. His supporters tried to storm the state broadcaster on
Dec. 16, leading to a deadly confrontation with security forces,
which fired on the crowd.  Ouattara Meeting  The three Ecowas leaders met Ouattara yesterday for three
hours, his spokeswoman, Anne Ouloto, said in an interview today.  “I can confirm that all the exchanges focused on
discussing Gbagbo’s departure,” Ouloto said. “What most
Ivorians agree on is that this crisis must be resolved very
fast.”  More than 170 people have been killed in political violence
since the election, and almost 20,000 people have fled the
country’s western region to neighboring Liberia, according to
UN. Liberia is expecting about 100,000 refugees from Ivory Coast
and wants international aid groups to help deal with the inflow,
Harrison Kanwea, Liberia’s internal affairs minister, said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
 Johnstone Ole Turana  in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 