-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain on Commodities; China Banks Advance
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-29T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/emerging-market-stocks-gain-as-commodity-prices-rise-china-banks-advance.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
second day after gains in oil and copper bolstered commodity
stocks and amid speculation Chinese banks will report improved
earnings this year.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.5 percent to
1,131.14 as of 2:24 p.m. Jakarta time. About two stocks gained
for each one that fell. The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.7
percent, rising for the first time in six days. India’s
Sensitive Index, or  Sensex , gained 0.8 percent, set for the
highest close in more than six weeks. Russia’s Micex index added
0.3 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest offshore oil producer, advanced
2.3 percent and  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. , India’s
biggest copper and zinc producer, rose 1.9 percent.  China
Construction Bank Corp. , the nation’s No. 2 bank by market
value, climbed for the first time in five days. KT&G Corp, South
Korea’s biggest tobacco maker, plunged 5 percent after the stock
went ex-dividend today.  “Resources stocks, including producers of oil and other
fuel, are in favor because of the seasonal factor,” said  Steve Tse , a research manager at BEA Union Investment Management in
Hong Kong. “Chinese banks will show earnings growth for this
year.”  Crude oil futures gained 0.5 percent to $91.49 yesterday,
after touching $91.88, the highest price since October 2008, on
Dec. 27 in intraday trading. Futures were little changed today.
Copper jumped to a record on the London Metal Exchange, catching
up with gains in other metals markets. Three-month copper on the
London Metal Exchange rose as much as 1 percent to $9,437.50 a
metric ton, surpassing the previous peak of $9,392 reached on
Dec. 21.  Cnooc, Sterlite  Cnooc was set for its highest close in two weeks.
 PetroChina Co. , the nation’s largest oil and gas producer,
increased 2.3 percent. In Mumbai,  Sterlite Industries  snapped a
two-day drop, while  Hindalco Industries Ltd. , India’s largest
aluminum producer, increased 1.5 percent.  China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s No. 2 bank by
market value, gained 2.1 percent in Hong Kong trading.  Bank of
Communications Co.  rose 1.6 percent.  China’s banking industry may have 800 billion yuan ($121
billion) in profit this year, the China Securities Journal said,
citing Yang Zaiping, vice chairman of the nation’s banking
association. That’s higher than the 668.4 billion yuan of profit
for the nation’s banking industry in 2009, according to data
from the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  South Korean companies went ex-dividend today, meaning
investors who buy the shares don’t get the rights to the year’s
final dividend payments.  KT&G Corp., Kangwon Land Inc., KT Corp., and SK Telecom Co.
dropped more than 4 percent each, posting the biggest percentage
declines among the 802 companies making up the MSCI gauge of
developing nations today. The companies have the highest
 dividend yields  among South Korea’s 50 largest publicly traded
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at   rfrost4@bloomberg.net  