-- England Captain Strauss Aims Higher After Rout of Australia to Keep Ashes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-29T14:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/england-beats-australia-keeps-cricket-s-ashes-for-first-time-in-24-years.html
Andrew Strauss  says he still wants
more after his team became the first England cricket squad in 24
years to retain the Ashes.  “Our objective was to come out here and win the series,”
the captain said at a news conference after the innings and 157-
run win over Australia in Melbourne. “We have not achieved that
yet. It will leave a very sour taste in the mouth if we are not
able to go on and convert our position into a series win.”  England will head to next week’s final Test with an
unbeatable 2-1 lead in the best-of-five contest after inflicting
a second innings defeat over Australia this month. As the
holder, England will retain the trophy even if the host wins the
last Test and ties the series.  It’s the first time England successfully retained the
Ashes since 1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s squad secured a 2-1 win
in Australia. That remains the last series victory on Australian
soil by a touring England team.  Strauss’s team will get the chance to complete a 3-1 win in
Sydney from Jan. 3, when  Ricky Ponting  faces the prospect of
losing his third Ashes series as Australia captain. Ponting led
Australia to 2-1 defeats in the U.K. in 2005 and 2009.  “Hopefully, I’m not only remembered as the guy who lost
three Ashes series,” Ponting said in news conference comments
broadcast on Fox Sports. “There’s lots of other great things
I’ve been lucky to be able to be part of as a player throughout
my career. This result is not one of my proudest.”  Four years ago, Strauss was part of an England squad that
arrived in Australia as Ashes holder, only to cede the trophy in
record time before suffering a 5-0 sweep of defeats. England’s
two wins so far matches its tally from its three previous trips
to Australia.  Turnaround  “The last tour out here was pretty disappointing and we
were pretty distraught at the end,” Strauss said at the
presentation ceremony. “So to turn it round and actually have
some success out here makes you realize what a special thing it
is to tour Australia and do well.”  Three other survivors from the 2006-07 tour --  Alastair Cook ,  Ian Bell  and  James Anderson  -- have been among England’s
best performers this time. Cook has a series-leading 577 runs at
an average of 115.40, while Bell is averaging 53.50 with the
bat. Anderson has a series-best 17 wickets.  After rallying to draw last month’s opener in Brisbane,
England won by an innings and 71 runs in Adelaide before
Australia rebounded with a 267-run victory in Perth. The
visitors then retook the initiative on day one in Melbourne by
bowling Australia out for 98, its lowest first-innings total in
133 years of elite Tests at the MCG.  History  The Ashes started when Australia beat England, its former
colonial ruler, at the Oval in London in 1882. To symbolize the
“death” of English cricket, the Sporting Times printed a mock
obituary. A wooden bail from the match stumps was burnt, its
ashes were taken to Australia and a replica of the 4-inch clay
urn now goes to the victor of the series.  Australia’s defeat at the MCG, where it had won 10 of its
11 previous matches, was its worst home loss in 98 years and the
country’s eighth-worst Test beating.  With Australia still a chance to salvage a 2-2 draw,
Ponting said he wants to stay on as skipper even after scoring
113 runs in eight innings at an average of 16 compared to his
career mark of 53.51.  Ponting Plea  “I want to keep playing and would love to keep leading the
team,” said Ponting, Test cricket’s second-highest run scorer.
“We go to Sydney next week with a chance of leveling the series
and regaining some pride in our team performance. We have to
give the fans around Australia something to be proud of as far
as the Australian cricket team is concerned.”  Injury may prevent Ponting from playing in Sydney. He had
more X-rays on the left little finger he broke in Perth
yesterday and will consult medical staff to assess his mobility
of the joint.  Selectors will name a squad for the final Test today,
Cricket Australia said. The team will feature at least one
change after fast bowler Ryan Harris yesterday was ruled out for
3 to 4 months because he needs surgery on an ankle stress
fracture.  While Australia ponders immediate changes and its direction
going forward, Strauss said retaining the Ashes was another step
on the way to his team achieving its ultimate goal of being the
world’s best.  England is currently in  third place  on the International
Cricket Council’s Test rankings behind India and South Africa.  “The job is a long way off being done,” Strauss said.
“We have to look forward to the future and get our team up
those rankings and to world No. 1 at some stage. I get the
feeling we can still improve as a side and that is very
motivating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  