-- European Stocks Rise for Second Day as 600 Index Approaches Two-Year High
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-12-29T16:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-asian-shares-climb.html
European  stocks climbed, with the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index trading close to the highest
level since September 2008, on speculation that economic growth
is gathering pace.  Skanska AB , the Nordic region’s biggest builder, rallied
2.2 percent after selling a stake in a Chilean venture.
Hochschild Mining Plc jumped 3.4 percent as the London-based
mining company signed a joint venture in Peru.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 0.3 percent to 280.63 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, as more than two companies advanced for
every one that fell. The gauge, which has surged 10 percent this
year, last week capped its longest stretch of  weekly  gains since
April and wiped out losses since the bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. Stocks have rallied
this year as surging corporate profits and actions by central
banks to support growth overcame concern that Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis would derail the recovery.  “Our sense is that the pace of growth in the U.S.
industrial economy is accelerating and that corporate confidence
is rising,” said  Andrew Dalton , who oversees $1.8 billion as
the chief investment officer at Dalton Strategic Partnership in
London. “Equity markets remain relatively cheap.”  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG and Weir Group Plc have posted the
 biggest gains  on the Stoxx 600 this year as profit topped
estimates. National Bank of Greece SA and Bank of Ireland were
the worst performers after the European Union led bailouts for
the two nations.  U.S. Spending  Equities advanced yesterday as a surge in U.S. holiday
spending overshadowed reports showing that consumer confidence
unexpectedly fell and home values dropped. Data tomorrow from
the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. is forecast to
show that businesses in the U.S. expanded in December for a 15th
consecutive month. Additional stimulus measures by the Federal
Reserve, which is preparing to buy notes today, have fueled
speculation the recovery will strengthen into 2011.  Volumes in stocks traded have tumbled this week amid the
Christmas and New Year holidays. About 1.4 billion shares of
companies in the Stoxx 600 changed hands today, compared with a
daily average of 4.1 billion over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 rallied 0.9 percent and
Germany’s DAX rose 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 0.2
percent, reopening after a four-day Christmas holiday period.
      Skanska  gained 2.2 percent to 133.9 kronor after selling
its 50 percent share in PPP highway Autopista Central to Alberta
Investment Management Corporation of Canada. Skanska will book a
gain after tax of about 5 billion kronor ($731 million).  Hochschild Mining jumped 3.4 percent to 645 pence. The
London-based miner said it signed a joint venture agreement with
International Minerals Corp. to develop the Inmaculada gold and
silver project in southern Peru.
      Desire Petroleum Plc  slumped 29 percent to 42.5 pence, the
lowest price since May. The U.K. energy explorer said it found
no hydrocarbons in its Jacinta prospect and will now drill
deeper to evaluate the Dawn prospect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 