-- Facebook Targets Russian Web Users, Aiming to Be More Than Social Network
-- B y   J u l i a   I o f f e
-- 2010-12-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/facebook-targets-russia-with-aim-to-be-more-than-social-network.html
Facebook Inc. is the world’s largest
social network site, with 500 million-plus members at last
count. However, there are plenty of big markets where  Mark Zuckerberg ’s creation isn’t dominant.  In Japan, Facebook doesn’t rank in the top three, and the
site isn’t much of a force in Brazil or China, two populous
countries where Internet usage is off the charts.  The outlook for Facebook in Russia may be more promising,
despite the popularity of homegrown social network sites,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Jan. 3 issue. Facebook
officially launched its site in April and only ranks No. 5 so
far, according to Internet tracker comScore, but its growth has
been impressive. From January until August in 2010, its Russian
operation has racked up a 376 percent increase in users, to
4.5 million, according to comScore data.  The company cut deals with Russian wireless carriers
Beeline and  OAO Mobile TeleSystems , so that their subscribers
could tap the mobile version of Facebook.  To overcome the language barrier, Facebook allowed users to
suggest translations for the name of features not easily
understood in Russian such as “poke” (as in trying to get
another Facebook user’s attention), and then let the site’s
members vote them up or down.  “Russian is a very complex language, so we allowed the
users to translate the interface themselves so that it captures
the complex grammar,” said  Javier Olivan , a London-based
Spaniard who is head of international growth at Facebook.  Google’s Struggle  Its founder has made no secret of his ambitions to thrive
in Russia, a market where other Western players, including
Google Inc., have struggled to get their footing. Speaking at an
Oct. 17 event at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California,
Zuckerberg said that if Facebook succeeded in penetrating the
Russian market, it might have a shot at doing the same in China,
the country with the largest number of Netizens.  Russians’ heavy use of social network sites makes the
country an ideal test case. Russians spend 9.8 hours per visitor
on a monthly basis on such sites -- more than double the world
average, according to comScore.  Why do Russians while away so many hours online? For one
thing, there’s the climate: Staying indoors and socializing via
the Internet is much more attractive when winter lasts a good
six months. Then there’s the physical isolation, compounded by
poor infrastructure, especially in cities like Murmansk, which
lies north of the Arctic Circle.  Network of Friends  Most importantly, though, there is a tradition in Russia of
relying on informal information networks for simple day-to-day
survival.  “In Russia, there is no sense that you can rely on the
public or the system, so you’ve traditionally had to rely on a
network of friends,” says  Esther Dyson , a venture capitalist
who has been investing in Russia’s technology sector for over a
decade. In a country with weak institutions, “it’s very natural
for people to network for what they want.”  Even in these less oppressive, post-Soviet times,
relationships are critical to everything from landing a job to
wriggling out of a problem with authorities.  It’s no coincidence that the Russian love affair with the
Internet has blossomed at a time when citizens are once again
seeing their political and media freedoms dwindle. “[The Web]
has become a place where you have absolute freedom of speech,
where you can say whatever you want, good or bad,” says Ilya
Krasilshchik, editor-in-chief of Afisha, a Russian lifestyle
magazine and website.  ‘Like’ Feature  Afisha  was one of the first Russian sites to incorporate
the Facebook “Like” feature, which allows users to share
content with friends on the site. Krasilshchik points out that
Russia is different from China, where censorship prevails
online. “We have this strange paradox where civil society is
hemmed in, but its freedoms are limitless online.”  Not surprisingly, then, social networks have multiplied in
Russia. Odnoklassniki.ru, a site modeled on Classmates.com with
17 million users, is the preferred destination for older, less
tech-savvy users, along with being a popular dating site for
Russians of all ages. Then there’s Moi Mir, similar to News
Corp.’s MySpace, with 20 million members.  The leader of the social networking pack is VKontakte,
which is majority owned by  Mail.ru Group Ltd. , a Russian
investment fund specializing in Internet companies that also
owns a small stake in Facebook.  VKontakte Inspiration  VKontakte, which has 28 million users, is inspired by
Facebook. VKontakte has been dogged by claims that it has
allowed the unauthorized posting of pirated music, movies, and
other content free on its site. Mail.ru declined to comment on
allegations that VKontakte has engaged in such practices, though
the company did disclose in a prospectus for a recent initial
public offering in London that it is currently defending itself
against several lawsuits. As for Facebook, the company “will
not host any content that violates our terms of agreement,”
Olivan said.  One thing Facebook does have over its Russian competitors
is cachet. Whereas Odnoklassniki.ru has become the domain of the
older generation, and VKontakte the hangout of young middle- and
lower-class Russians, Facebook is the network of choice for the
urban and the urbane.  Facebook’s Russian users are generally of the wealthier,
well-traveled, cosmopolitan variety, have foreign friends and
tend to live in Moscow and St. Petersburg.  Facebook’s status received a boost in September, when the
company hosted its first developers’ conference in Russia. The
event, held in Winzavod, an up-and-coming art complex in Moscow,
drew hundreds, including some prominent Russian Internet
investors. The bulk of the crowd was made up of software
developers hoping to transform their Facebook apps into riches.  Anton Nossik, the Russian Web guru who has a number of
successful Web startups and used to run the company that owned
the popular blogging platform LiveJournal, notes that in Russia
sites such as Facebook and Google attract a particularly
cosmopolitan set. Both are “for the global Russian, for the
circle of people for whom the world doesn’t begin and end with
Russia.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Aley at   jaley@bloomberg.net  