-- N.Y. Rule on `Gruesome' Anti-Smoking Ads Struck Down by Judge
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/federal-judge-snuffs-new-york-city-rule-requiring-smoking-cessation-signs.html
A New York City health regulation
requiring the display of anti-smoking ads featuring “graphic,
even gruesome images” wherever cigarettes and other tobacco
products are sold was struck down by a federal judge.  The regulation, issued in September 2009, is preempted by a
federal law that governs cigarette labeling and advertising,
U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  ruled yesterday.  “Even merchants of morbidity are entitled to the full
protection of the law, for our sake as well as theirs,” Rakoff
said in a written opinion. The regulation “imposes burdens on
the promotion of cigarettes that only the federal government may
prescribe,” the judge said.  The decision stems from a suit filed in June by the three
biggest U.S. cigarette makers and groups representing
convenience stores. At the start of the case, the city agreed to
postpone enforcement of the rule until Jan. 1.  “We are disappointed that this important health initiative
was rejected by the court,” Nicholas Ciappetta, the city lawyer
who handled the case, said in a statement. “We are studying the
decision and considering our legal options.”  The signs were to contain images of a brain damaged by
stroke, a diseased lung and a decaying tooth and gums, with
information about the dangers of smoking, Rakoff said. The signs
were also to have said: “Quit Smoking Today -- For Help, Call
311 or 1-866-NYQUITS.”  The plaintiffs in the suit, including Philip Morris USA
Inc., R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Lorillard Tobacco Co.,
claimed the regulation violates free speech guarantees in the
U.S. and New York State constitutions, exceeds the Board of
Health’s legal authority and is preempted by the Federal
Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.  Rakoff said the measure violates that Labeling Act, which
was originally enacted in 1965. He declined to rule on the other
grounds.  The case is 23-94th St. Grocery Corp. v. New York City
Board of Health, 1:10-cv-04392, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 