-- Fee Squeeze Seen Continuing in 2011 by Top India Stock Arranger Citigroup
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-12-29T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/fee-squeeze-seen-continuing-in-2011-by-top-india-stock-arranger-citigroup.html
Fees for underwriting stock sales in
India may remain near all-time lows as investment banks battle
for market share, according to an executive at  Citigroup Inc. ,
the top-ranked adviser on equity offerings in the country.  Indian companies paid bankers 0.92 percent of the record
$24 billion they raised locally this year in initial public
offerings and additional sales as fees, the lowest ratio since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999. That compares with
3.5 percent in the U.S. and 2.17 percent in Hong Kong, the
largest markets for stock offerings in 2010, the data show.  “On the top end of the deal pyramid, there is serious
competition,”  Ravi Kapoor , head of Citigroup’s global banking
operations in India, said in a Dec. 22 interview in Mumbai. “We
will still see sub-optimal fees being charged just to gain
market share.”  State-run enterprises that paid near-zero fees in 2010 will
continue to dominate India’s equity capital market next year
along with infrastructure, manufacturing and services companies,
Kapoor said. Citigroup, ranked fifth in the world for share
sales, and five rivals accepted fees of less than $6 each to
arrange government-controlled Coal India Ltd.’s record IPO.  India was the world’s eighth-largest market for IPOs and
secondary offerings this year, Bloomberg data show.  Government-led sales accounted for about half the total
amount raised in domestic share offers in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. New York-based  Citigroup  maintained
its share of local equity sales at almost 16 percent for a
second year, the data show.  Halfway to Target  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest
producer of the alloy, and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. , India’s
biggest energy explorer, are among companies in which the
government plans to sell stock, according to the Department of
Disinvestment’s website, as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration seeks to narrow the budget deficit.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , HSBC Holdings Plc and Deutsche Bank
AG are among six banks that agreed to split a fee of less than
0.02 cent for managing a proposed sale of shares in Steel
Authority, two people with knowledge of the matter said in
September.  Banks must match the lowest fees to win work on state
deals, according to government guidelines.  The government has raised 227.6 billion rupees, about half
its target for the 12 months through March 31, according to a
Dec. 22 statement on the disinvestment department’s website.  Splitting Fees  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and JPMorgan, both based in New
York, were among four banks that earned about 2 rupees each last
month for managing a 74 billion rupee sale of shares in state-
run  Power Grid Corp. of India , the nation’s biggest transmission
company.  Citigroup retained its spot at the top of the Indian equity
league table after it agreed to split 1,548 rupees in fees with
five banks including  Bank of America Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG and
 Morgan Stanley  for managing  Coal India ’s 155 billion rupee IPO
in October.  The U.S. bank managed 16 share sales in India including
offers by Reliance Industries Ltd. and Tata Motors Ltd.,
compared with 26 by runner-up  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.  and 27
for third-ranked Enam Securities Pvt., Bloomberg data show. The
figures don’t include rights offers or convertible bonds.  Insurers may sell shares if the government amends rules,
including raising the foreign ownership limit to 49 percent from
26 percent, said Kapoor, 48, declining to name any firms. The
government’s proposal to raise the cap has been stuck in
parliament for three years because of a lack of consensus.  Accelerating Growth  Economic growth of 8 percent to 9 percent would also force
companies to seek funding to sustain expansion plans and prepare
for acquisitions in India and abroad, Kapoor said. Asia’s third-
largest economy may expand 9 percent in the fiscal year that
starts April 1, Planning Commission Deputy Chairman Montek Singh
Ahluwalia said Dec. 24.  “We will see a continued flow of debt and equity funds
into Indian markets next year given the outlook for robust
growth,” Kapoor said. Citigroup ranked first among underwriters
of overseas bonds in India this year, accounting for 18 percent
of the $11.2 billion of deals, according to Bloomberg data.  Stock underwriting and mergers advisory services generate a
larger share of investment banking revenue than debt capital
markets in India, Kapoor said. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank 
ranked second in managing bond sales, and Edinburgh-based  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  was No. 3, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  