-- Fiat Split in Two Set for Volatile Debut on Industrial Spinoff
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-12-30T14:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/fiat-split-in-two-headed-for-volatile-milan-start-after-industrial-spinoff.html
Traders of  Fiat SpA  shares are
bracing for a “crazy” day on Monday, when investors assign
their first  value  to the two stocks formed from the biggest
reorganization in the carmaker’s 111-year history.  Fiat Industrial SpA , the new company whose main assets are
truck and tractor makers Iveco and  CNH Global NV , may reach 9.40
euros on the Milan exchange Jan. 3, according to the average
estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Fiat may trade at
6.65 euros, the estimates show, implying the two stocks  combined 
would be 7.1 percent more than the old Fiat’s close yesterday.  Both Fiat and Fiat Industrial will be prone to  swings  on
the first day because the carmaker hasn’t given an indication of
the stocks’ valuation and Fiat’s profit forecasts don’t take
into account a stake in Chrysler Group LLC. The Italian company,
with a market value of 18.4 billion euros ($24 billion) as of
yesterday and whose first car was the  4 HP  developed in 1899,
had gained 44 percent since announcing the spinoff on April 21.  “I don’t remember an operation of this type in Milan,
especially for a big cap like Fiat,” said  Alessandro Capuano ,
the head of the Italian trading desk for IG Markets in Milan,
who has been tracking equities the past six years. “It’s not a
classical IPO. It could be a highly volatile trading day.”  Investors  are getting one share of Fiat Industrial for
every Fiat share they hold. The Milan exchange doesn’t plan to
take orders in the pre-opening auction phase Jan. 3, said  Nunzio Visciano , head of listings at Borsa Italiana.  ‘Crazy Day’  The exchange conducted a simulation with traders Dec. 16 to
facilitate the debut, which will coincide with the first day of
trading on the bourse in 2011.  “It’s going to be a crazy day with shares dancing up and
down and several suspensions,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund
manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan, who sold Fiat stock earlier this
year. “We’ll wait a few days before deciding if we would buy.”  Turin-based Fiat reached an almost three-year high of 15.80
euros on Dec. 27. Before today, the stock had climbed 44 percent
since April 21, the  second-best performance  on Italy’s benchmark
Index, which lost 12 percent in the period.  Exor SpA , which owns
30 percent of the carmaker, gained 76 percent. CNH, which trades
in New York, added 49 percent.  Fiat gained 23 cents, or 1.5 percent, to 15.22 euros at
3:53 p.m. in Milan. Exor lost 36 cent, or 1.5 percent, to 24.20
euros. CNH  slipped  0.3 percent to $47.77 in New York.  Maserati, Ferrari  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who oversaw
the acquisition of a 20 percent stake in Chrysler in June last
year, pushed through the separation so he can focus on carmaking
and foster more auto alliances. Fiat’s remaining assets after
the spinoff include the Maserati and Ferrari luxury brands.  To concentrate on running Fiat and Chrysler as both
carmakers’ CEO, Marchionne, 58, gave Iveco’s top job to  Alfredo Altavilla , 47, who will jointly run Fiat Industrial with  Harold Boyanovsky , the 66-year-old CEO of CNH. Altavilla is a top
candidate to run Fiat Industrial,  Marco Santino , a consultant at
A.T. Kearney in Rome, said in October.  Of 32 analysts tracked by Bloomberg who have given
 recommendations  on Fiat in the past six months, 19 advise
buying, nine say hold and four recommend selling.  “Fiat Industrial will immediately attract attention due to
a greater visibility,”  Martino De Ambroggi , an Equita Sim
analyst ranked by Bloomberg as the top Fiat analyst, wrote in a
Dec. 22 note to clients.  A Fiat spokesman declined to comment on the stocks’
valuation before they begin trading.  Cash Vs. Debt  In 12 months, Fiat Industrial may trade at 8.92 euros,
according to the average estimate of 13 analysts. Fiat may reach
7.99 euros, the estimates show. That would imply an upside of 13
percent from yesterday’s closing price. The day-one price
projections were based on estimates of four analysts.  “The two Fiat stocks will be more valuable than the
current one from the first day,” said  Wolfram Mrowetz , chairman
of Alisei SIM in Milan who oversees 230 million euros including
Fiat shares. “Fiat Industrial will get a higher value at the
beginning because it has a bigger cash flow. The auto unit has a
great potential in the medium term thanks to the Chrysler
venture.”  Fiat will divide its  net industrial debt  so that Fiat
Industrial will assume as much as 2.4 billion euros, and Fiat up
to 2 billion euros. Fiat Industrial last week arranged a 4.2
billion-euro financing package with banks including Barclays
Plc, Citigroup Inc., Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and UniCredit SpA.  Profit Forecast  Fiat Industrial will probably increase trading profit,
measured by earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains
or costs, by 133 percent to as much as 1.4 billion euros in
2011, while Fiat auto may double its trading profit to as much
as 1.2 billion euros, according to Fiat’s April  business plan .  The  forecasts  don’t include contributions from Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler and haven’t been updated since
Marchionne raised the 2010 trading profit target for the group
to 2 billion euros from 1.2 billion euros in October. Fiat is
scheduled to  report  fourth-quarter earnings Jan. 27.  “Fiat auto has a higher potential than the Industrial
unit, which is a much more stable business,” said  Gianmaria Bergantino , a fund manager at Bank Insinger de Beaufort in Rome.
“I may buy the auto stock because it is more speculative.”  To contact the reporter on for this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 