-- Police Arrest `Militant Islamists' Planning Attack in Denmark
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-29T16:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/five-people-arrested-in-denmark-sweden-under-suspicion-of-terrorist-plot.html
Danish and Swedish police arrested
five “militant Islamists” suspected of preparing a terrorist
attack in Denmark targeting the newspaper which printed cartoons
of the Prophet Muhammad.  Danish police arrested four people near Copenhagen and
confiscated a submachine gun with a silencer and ammunition, the
PET, Denmark’s Security Intelligence Service, said today in an
e-mail. Police also confiscated plastic strips that can be used
as handcuffs.  Newspaper Jyllands-Posten has been the target of several
threats and thwarted attack plans since it published the
drawings in 2005 which also sparked global protest and the
torching of Danish embassies in Muslim countries including
Syria. David Coleman Headley, a Chicago resident who this year
pleaded guilty to planning the 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai,
has also said he prepared an assault on the newspaper.  “With the arrests we have prevented an imminent terrorist
attack involving several suspects, who must be described as
militant Islamists with links to international terrorist
networks,”  Jakob Scharf , head of the PET, said in the
statement. He said the suspects probably planned to break into
the newspaper’s Copenhagen office and “kill as many people as
possible.”  ‘Very Frightening’  Danish police arrested a 44-year-old with Tunisian
citizenship, a 29-year-old Lebanon-born Swedish citizen and a
30-year-old Swedish citizen, whose country of origin PET hadn’t
yet established. All three, whose names weren’t disclosed, had
travelled from Sweden to Denmark late yesterday, PET said. In
addition, Danish police arrested a 26-year-old Iraqi asylum-
seeker living in Denmark.  “The group’s plans to kill as many as possible is very
frightening and this is possibly the most serious terrorism
attempt so far in Denmark,”  Lars Barfoed , the Danish justice
minister, said in an e-mailed statement.  Swedish police arrested a 37-year-old Swedish citizen of
Tunisian origin in Stockholm, PET said.  “A serious terror crime” in Denmark has been avoided
through close cooperation between the Swedish and Danish
security services, Anders Danielsson, head of  Sweden’s Security
Service  said in a statement.  Twelve Cartoonists  Danish police arrested a Somali man in January after he
broke into the home of  Kurt Westergaard , one of the 12
cartoonists, whose drawing depicted the Prophet Muhammad with a
bomb in his turban. The intruder, who police said has ties to
al-Qaeda, had attempted to break down Westergaard’s bathroom
door with an axe.  PET said Nov. 23 it had received “indications” that groups
outside Denmark are attempting to send terrorists into the
country to conduct attacks.  Sweden had its first brush with what police are treating as
a terrorist attack on Dec. 11, when a suspected suicide bomber
injured two people and killed himself in central Stockholm when
his explosives detonated by mistake in a side alley to a busy
shopping street. Police said on Dec. 13 they are almost certain
the man was Taimour Abdulwahab, a 28-year-old Iraqi-born Swede.  Swedish police said today’s arrests had no known
connections with the suicide bombing and did not warrant
changing the terror threat assessment in Sweden from its current
“elevated” status. Both Denmark and Sweden have troops in
Afghanistan, serving as part of the International Security
Assistance Force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  