-- Gasoline Futures Slip in New York on Speculation U.S. Supplies Will Rise
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2010-12-29T21:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/gasoline-falls-on-speculation-u-s-supplies-fell-last-week.html
Gasoline fell a third straight day
on speculation that supplies are rising as refineries finish
repairs and that demand will slip after the Christmas holidays.  Stockpiles gained a sixth consecutive time last week,
adding 1.5 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
14 analysts in a  survey  by Bloomberg News. Hovensa LLC has
restarted a 150,000-barrel-a-day fluid catalytic cracker at its
St. Croix refinery, which serves the U.S. East Coast.  “The refinery restarts are a big deal,” said  Phil Flynn ,
vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “And this
incredible run has been a combination of factors unlikely to be
repeated after the first of the year -- pipeline issues, surging
oil prices, holiday demand.”  Gasoline for January delivery dropped 1.52 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.3904 a gallon on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Prices have fallen 2.3 percent since
touching a 26-month high of $2.4458 on Dec. 23. Futures are up
16 percent this year.  The Energy Department is scheduled to report last week’s
inventories tomorrow, a day later than usual because of last
week’s Christmas holiday.  Gasoline supplies  in the week ended Dec. 17 were at a nine-
week high, according to the department.  ‘Plentiful Supplies’  “We have plentiful supplies of gasoline,” said  Gordon Elliott , a risk management specialist at FC Stone LLC in St.
Louis Park, Minnesota.  Gasoline also slipped on expectation that demand may be
down after New York City was hit with the heaviest December
snowfall in six decades and below-freezing temperatures extended
as far south as Florida.  Demand , measured by what refiners and blenders provide to
wholesalers, fell 1.5 percent in the week ended Dec. 17,
according to the department.  “The perception is that demand numbers are going to be
very weak because of the weather,” said  Tom Knight , vice
president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana, Texas.  The premium of gasoline over crude oil, or crack spread,
based on February contracts, narrowed 2 cents to $9.20 a barrel.  “I expect continued pressure on the crack spread,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“Refineries are operating at high utilization rates going into
a period of declining gasoline demand in January and February so
inventories are going to increase.”  Trading Volume  Gasoline volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
46,414 contracts as of 3:24 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
61,454 contracts yesterday, 48 percent below the average over
the last three months.  Regular gasoline at the pump , averaged nationwide, rose 1.2
cents to $3.061 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  Heating oil for January delivery fell 0.28 cent to settle
at $2.5215 a gallon. Prices have gained 19 percent this year.  Supplies of distillates, including heating oil and diesel,
probably fell 625,000 barrels, according to the survey.  The crack spread, based on February contracts, widened 30
cents to $15.30 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  