-- Generali's Fund Manager Expects to Meet 2010 Profit Forecasts, CEO Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-29T07:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/generali-s-fund-manager-expects-to-meet-2010-profit-forecasts-ceo-says.html
Banca Generali SpA , the fund manager
controlled by  Assicurazioni Generali SpA , Italy’s biggest
insurer, expects to meet analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit
after adding clients and lowering costs.  Banca Generali’s net income will be close to the  average
estimate  of 75 million euros ($99 million) made by 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, Chief Executive Officer  Giorgio Girelli 
said in a phone interview. “We expect to meet analysts’
forecasts, helped by lower costs and higher management fees.”  The company is forecasting that 2010 operating costs may
have dropped 4 percent to 5 percent, with revenue likely in line
with the 252 million euros generated in 2009, Girelli said.  Banca Generali, which said on Nov. 5 that nine-month profit
rose 32 percent to 60 million euros, is focusing on internal
growth and doesn’t plan acquisitions. The Trieste, Italy-based
company is trying to gain market share in Italy by adding
customers from commercial banks.  “Higher net inflows have the same effect as making an
acquisition,” Girelli said. “At the moment we don’t see any
interesting opportunity for external growth, our strategy is
based on pursuing growing recurring revenue,” he said.  Fee Income  Higher fee income will offset lower revenue from lending
and trading, he said. Girelli is aiming to keep a “generous”
dividend policy, though a decision will be taken by shareholders
in March. Banca Generali distributed a cash dividend of 45 cents
on 2009 earnings.  The bank’s new clients doubled in the first nine months of
the year. The company doesn’t disclose the number of its
customers.  The asset gatherer, which hired about 55 employees this
year, aims to add 50 bankers in 2011, Girelli said. He expects
to increase the average investment portfolio of each banker from
the current 15 million euros to about 16.5 million euros next
year.  Banca Generali  rose about 7 percent  this year in Milan, the
best performer among Italian financial companies. That compares
with a 10 percent decline of the FTSE Italia All-Share Index
this year. The stock ended little changed yesterday at 9.12
euros, giving the company a market value of 1 billion euros.  “Banca Generali is a high quality story,”  Elena Perini  an
analyst at Centrobanca with a “hold” rating on the stock,
wrote in a Dec. 22 report. It’s a company “with best-in-class
results in terms of growth in total and managed assets per
financial adviser and in higher net profit,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  