-- German Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens as Prices Jump Most in Eight Years
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-29T13:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/german-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerates-as-prices-advanced-in-december.html
Inflation  in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, unexpectedly accelerated in December as prices
surged in the final month of the year.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
method, increased to 1.9 percent from 1.6 percent in November,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s
the highest since October 2008. Economists expected an unchanged
reading, according to the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . From November, consumer prices jumped 1.2 percent,
the biggest monthly gain since December 2002.  Germany’s economy is growing at a faster pace than its
euro-area peers as countries such as Greece, Ireland, Portugal
and Spain grapple with a sovereign debt crisis. That’s widening
the divergences in the 16-nation currency bloc, making it harder
for the European Central Bank to set policy suitable for all its
members.  “The increased inflation pressure will likely remain a
temporary phenomenon, the outlook remains unproblematic,” said
 Philipp Jaeger , an economist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt.
“Still, the risk is rising that inflation may reach 2 percent
in the euro region in December.”  European Inflation  European inflation held steady at 1.9 percent in November,
in line with the ECB’s price-stability definition of just below
2 percent. The central bank, which has left its  key interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009, this month
forecast euro-region inflation will average about 1.8 percent
next year and 1.5 percent in 2012.  German inflation averaged 1.2 percent in 2010, the
statistics office said today. The Bundesbank predicts an average
rate of 1.7 percent next year. It estimates the economy grew 3.6
percent in 2010, the most in two decades.  German  consumer confidence  will stay close to the highest
level in more than three years as unemployment declines,
boosting households’ willingness to spend, market research
company GfK said last week.  Retail sales  rose the most in almost
three years in October and  business confidence  surged to a
record high in December.  In the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, food prices
rose 1.2 percent in the month and 3.8 percent in the year, a
report from the state’s statistics office showed earlier today.
Heating oil was 5.6 percent more expensive than a month ago and
cost 28.7 percent more than in December last year. The price of
crude oil has gained more than 6 percent in the past month.  The price of package tours soared more than 20 percent in
December due to the Christmas holiday season.  “A bigger monthly increase in the consumer price index is
pretty normal in a December due to seasonal patterns,” said
Thomas Kraemer, a statistician at the Federal Statistics Office.
“We always see a big rise in December as travel costs jump.
We’ll get a normalization in January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  