-- Giants' Playoff Chances Slip to 14% With Eagles' Loss to Minnesota Vikings
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-29T21:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/giants-playoff-chances-slip-to-14-with-eagles-loss-to-minnesota-vikings.html
The New York Giants’ playoff
aspirations were dealt another setback by the Philadelphia
Eagles. This time, the Eagles didn’t even win.  The probability that the Giants will qualify for the
National Football League postseason has dropped to 14 percent
from 18 percent following Philadelphia’s loss to the Minnesota
Vikings last night, said RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  The Giants have one scenario for making the playoffs: They
need a win over the Washington Redskins in their Jan. 2 regular-
season finale and a Green Bay Packers home loss against the
Chicago Bears. The Eagles’ loss clinched a first-round playoff
bye for the Bears.  “The change in odds is caused by a significant increase in
the probability of the Packers beating the Bears,” Bell said by
e-mail. “Philly’s loss clinched the No. 2 seed for the Bears
and their chance at the NFC No. 1 seed is only one-
half of one-percent -- lowering their motivation against Green
Bay.”  Chicago gained the bye and an opportunity to rest key
players against Green Bay thanks to the Eagles’ 24-14 home loss
to Minnesota last night. The Packers are now 10-point favorites
against the Bears, up from 6 1/2 points, according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers.  ‘Hurt Us’  “They find a way to hurt us even when they don’t play
us,” Giants defensive tackle  Barry Cofield  said today of the
Eagles. “I definitely don’t like the Eagles even more so than I
didn’t like them two nights ago.”  The Eagles beat the Giants 38-31 on Dec. 19, scoring four
touchdowns over the final eight minutes to take sole possession
of first place in the National Football Conference East
Division.  The Eagles secured the division title this past week,
leaving the Giants to vie with the Packers and Tampa Bay
Buccaneers for one of the NFC’s two wild-card playoff spots
given to non-division winners.  There’s a 21 percent chance that the Packers lose to the
Bears, Bell said. The Giants have a 66 percent chance to beat
the Redskins as 4-point favorites. Both games are scheduled to
kick off at 4:15 p.m. New York time.  “I’m going to be looking at the scoreboard,” Cofield told
reporters. “It’s not going to affect the way I play, but I’m
definitely interested to know what’s going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  