-- IBM, Oracle May Gain on U.S. Food-Safety Law’s Tracking Mandate
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-12-29T05:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ibm-oracle-may-reap-sales-as-u-s-safe-food-law-pushes-computer-tracking.html
Changes to U.S. food-safety rules
may generate sales for  International Business Machines Corp. ,
 Oracle Corp.  and other companies that can provide systems to
track outbreaks of food-borne illness.  The U.S. House of Representatives on Dec. 21 and the Senate
last month passed a bill instructing the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to establish over the next two years how the
tracking is to be accomplished. The study may lead to FDA
requirements that farms and manufacturers buy computer systems
to monitor and track shipments, according to agriculture trade
groups that have started work on tracking technology.  The bill, which awaits President Barack Obama’s signature,
may lead to hundreds of millions of dollars in annual sales for
companies that produce the labels and scanning devices to enable
tracking systems, said Ray Connelly, general manager of closely
held  Truetrac , a developer of agricultural product-tracking
software in Salinas, California.  “That’s the free market,” said Larry Sanders, a professor
at Oklahoma State University’s Department of Agricultural
Economics in Stillwater, Oklahoma. “The consumer is being heard
because of the problems we have been having because of E. coli
and salmonella.”  An estimated 76 million people contract food-borne
illnesses in the U.S. each year, with 325,000 hospitalizations
and 5,000 deaths, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta. Those illnesses cost the U.S. economy
$152 billion a year in health care and related expenses, a March
 report  by Georgetown University’s  Produce Safety Project  in
Washington concluded.  Using Existing Technology  Under a tracking system, farmers would scan individual
cases of produce, keeping records of where they are shipped and
perhaps feeding the information to a third party that will
manage the data. If a recall is ordered by the FDA, the records
would be quickly disseminated to trace the origin of the
recalled produce and help farms and factories address the cause
of the problem.  Larger farms that ship thousands of crates daily would pay
thousands of dollars a year to ensure their food can be traced,
Truetrac’s Connelly said. With more than a billion cases of food
shipped annually, the penny to 10 cents paid for each label
might add up to more than $100 million, he said.  New technology may not be needed. IBM already offers
similar systems to track pharmaceutical products. In addition,
the food industry has been adopting tracking technology on its
own, said  Kathy Means , vice president of government relations
for the Newark, Delaware-based  Produce Marketing Association ,
which represents 3,000 produce-growing and -distribution
companies.  Pharmaceutical Model  The legislation would require most food producers to
develop hazard prevention plans and would give the FDA access to
those records when requested. Some local food producers with
annual sales under $500,000 would be exempt from that rule under
language written into the bill by Democratic Senator  Jon Tester 
of Montana, an organic farmer.  The tracking system might mirror one being established in
California for pharmaceuticals, said Paul Chang, a food safety
expert for Armonk, New York-based IBM. By 2017, all drugs sold
in California will need to be traceable, said Virginia Harold,
the executive officer of the state’s Board of Pharmacy.  “It is expensive, but so is it for a consumer who walks
into a pharmacy and ends up getting a counterfeit product,”
said Harold. She declined to estimate the technology’s costs.  Those costs would decline as tracing is more widely
adopted, said IBM’s Chang, who has met with FDA representatives
to discuss the food safety bill’s requirements. “Once you
develop a process, it can be copied and pasted,” he said.  California Growers  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, has used
existing technology for pharmaceuticals, though not for food
tracking, according to information on the company’s website.
Oracle spokesman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to comment on the
company’s food safety opportunities.  With individual farms and manufacturers adopting such
technology already, the industry “is almost certain” to be in
compliance with the rules by the time the FDA proposes them in
two years, said Victoria Salin, a professor in Texas A&M
University’s department of agricultural economics in College
Station, Texas. “The only difficulty will be if the federal
standards are different.”  In California, 99 percent of farmers and handlers have
committed to sell products that comply with voluntary food
safety practices, including records of where produce was grown
and where it was shipped. California growers of leafy green
vegetables such as spinach, who also agreed to extensive water
testing and environmental assessments, say the effort more than
doubled their food safety costs to $54.63 an acre, according to
a September 2009  report  from the  Small Farm Program  of the
University of California at Davis. The study doesn’t break out
how much went directly to the tracing technology costs.  Averting Disaster  Under a 2007 agreement, California farmers keep track of
where produce is shipped and can disclose that information
within 24 hours if it’s needed, Salin said.  Farmers view the food safety technology they have so far
deployed as the cost of doing business in an evolving
marketplace, said Salin. The initial investment, she said, pales
compared with the cost of business lost when food-borne
illnesses diminish consumer demand for produce from farms far
removed from the outbreak.  While farmers support the ability to put out a safer
product, there are concerns of excess government control as the
details are sorted out, said Ray Bjorklund, senior vice
president of FedSources, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “The question is where you draw the line in agriculture
production,” Bjorklund said. “How far would this go -- a bar
code on each leaf of spinach?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  