-- India's New Home Sales Drop Up to 25% on Higher Rates, Knight Frank Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-12-29T06:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/india-s-new-home-sales-drop-up-to-25-on-higher-rates-knight-frank-says.html
India’s new home sales fell as much
as 25 percent after prices reached a record earlier this year
and aren’t expected to recover in the next six months following
six interest rate increases,  Knight Frank LLP  said.  “The first half of next year will be damp for home sales
and prices,” Mumbai-based Anand Narayanan, national director of
residential agency at the Indian unit of real-estate brokerage
Knight Frank, said in an interview yesterday. “We could see a
5 percent correction in prices through incentives given by
builders to woo customers.”  Home registrations in Mumbai, India’s most expensive real
estate market, fell to their lowest in 20 months in November,
according to brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. Property prices
have climbed between 30 percent and 70 percent across India,
with some markets having surpassed their 2007 peaks,  Mahesh Nandurkar , a real-estate analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Mumbai, said in November.  Mumbai developers may cut record-high home prices to revive
flagging sales after banks curbed credit to the sector,
according to broker IIFL Ltd. Property companies face rising
borrowing costs and shrinking access to credit after a
corruption probe into loans to developers, according to Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and Ambit Capital Pvt.  Narayanan says borrowing costs for Indian developers have
climbed about 2 percentage points since the nation’s central
bank increased risk weights on lending to the real estate
industry.  As many as 11 of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
expect the central bank to raise interest rates next month after
leaving borrowing costs unchanged in December.  Still, developers have stronger balance sheets with
healthier debt-to-equity ratios compared to two years ago when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse seized credit markets
worldwide.  “I don’t see any major price corrections,” Narayanan
said. “Developers have had a bumper year and have enough of a
war chest now to weather a dry spell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  