-- Indonesia Tightens Rules on Foreign Exchange Holdings, Overseas Borrowing
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2010-12-30T04:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/indonesia-raises-bank-foreign-currency-reserve-ratios-amid-capital-inflows.html
Indonesia said it will tighten rules
on banks’ foreign-exchange holdings and overseas borrowing to
cope with capital inflows that have pushed up inflation and
strengthened the rupiah this year.  Bank Indonesia  will also reintroduce a 30 percent cap on
lenders’ short-term overseas borrowing to minimize the risk of
sudden capital outflows, it said yesterday. Banks must set aside
5 percent of their total foreign-exchange holdings as reserves
as of March 2011, from 1 percent currently, Deputy Governor  Budi Mulya  said at a press briefing in Jakarta yesterday. The reserve
requirement will rise to 8 percent effective June.  “These rules will ease pressure on the rupiah,” said
 Anton Gunawan , chief economist at Jakarta-based PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia. “The central bank wants to absorb excess liquidity
in the banking system.”  Indonesia and its peers are grappling with increasing
capital inflows as borrowing costs and growth rates that are
higher than those of developed economies boost the appeal of
emerging-market assets. Taiwan tightened curbs on exchange-rate
derivatives this week and South Korea plans similar measures,
according to an official at the country’s financial regulator.  The rupiah rose to a one-month high today, helped by demand
for higher-yielding assets. The currency climbed 0.3 percent to
8,973 per dollar as of 11:12 a.m. in Jakarta, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the strongest level since Nov. 29.  Delayed Impact  The steps by the central bank “will be implemented in
March; that is why it is not having an impact on the currency,”
said  Lindawati Susanto , head of foreign-exchange trading at PT
Bank Resona Perdania in Jakarta. “The liquidity will be drying
up next year.”  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index  of stocks has surged
47 percent in the past year and was up 0.4 percent at 11:24 a.m.
today. It is among the top 10 performing equity indices in the
world this year, together with those in Sri Lanka, Peru,
Thailand and the Philippines.  Bank Indonesia has resisted imposing capital controls or
raising its benchmark interest rate from a record-low 6.5
percent, choosing instead to increase bank reserve requirements
and encourage investors to keep their money in the country for
longer periods.  The current benchmark rate is consistent with Indonesia’s
goal of achieving inflation of 4 percent to 6 percent in 2011
and 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012, Mulya said yesterday.  Absorb Liquidity  The higher foreign-exchange reserve ratios may absorb as
much as $3 billion in excess liquidity, and are “prudent
banking” measures aimed at helping Southeast Asia’s largest
economy cope with capital inflows, Mulya said.  “If money is pulled into the reserve requirement then it
cannot circulate within the system,” said  Purbaya Yudhi Sadewa ,
an economist at PT Danareksa Research Institute in Jakarta.
“That’s a disincentive to avoid banks attracting too much
dollar since they must pay interest on that dollar whereas the
money is put away at Bank Indonesia, which may not even earn
interest.”  Lenders will be required to limit their short-term overseas
borrowing to no more than 30 percent of their capital starting
in January, the central bank said. The rule aims to encourage a
shift to long-term foreign borrowing and reduce the risk of
sudden reversals in capital flows, it said. The requirement was
scrapped in 2008 because of the global financial crisis.  Korea, Taiwan  South Korea plans to tighten curbs on banks’ holdings of
foreign-exchange derivatives, lowering existing limits by a
fifth, according to an official at the Financial Supervisory
Service, who declined to be identified because the plan isn’t
public yet. The finance ministry will announce the changes in
January, he said.  Taiwan’s curbs on derivatives will help to combat currency
speculation by foreigners, the central bank said this week. The
island last month also restricted offshore funds to investing no
more than 30 percent of their portfolios in local government
debt and money-market products.  Five state-owned Indonesian financial institutions,
including PT Bank Mandiri, have given their commitment to buy
back bonds to ease the impact of sudden capital outflows during
a crisis,  Agus Suprijanto , acting head of fiscal policy at the
Finance Ministry, said this week. The government is still in
talks over the use of their funds and will prioritize funding
from the state budget for any buybacks, he added.  Indonesia will also require lenders with assets of at least
10 trillion rupiah ($1 billion) to announce their prime lending
rates, effective in March 2011. This rule will push banks to
decrease their net interest margin and become more efficient,
the central bank said. Lending growth may reach 22 percent this
year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  