-- Tiny Germ-Fighting Molecules Mean Survival From Rare Immunity Deficiency
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-12-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/tiny-germ-fighting-molecules-mean-survival-from-rare-immunity-deficiency.html
A U.S. study of a rare illness that
wipes out the  immune system  may help doctors assess which
patients should receive bone-marrow transplants.  The severity of  chronic granulomatous disease , a genetic
malady affecting about 1 of every 200,000 people, reflects the
number of germ-fighting molecules called superoxide rather than
the way the condition is inherited, researchers said today in
the  New England Journal of Medicine . Gene tests can predict
superoxide production, helping determine whether a patient needs
a transplant, the most aggressive treatment, the authors said.  The study “gives the physicians a tool, a marker, of who
is going to do well and who is not going to do well,” said  John
Gallin , the senior study author, in a telephone interview on
Dec. 27. Gallin is the director of the National Institutes of
Health’s Clinical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. The NIH funded
the research.  The estimated 1,200 people in the U.S. with the immune
deficiency have an increased risk of bacterial and fungal
infections, according to the NIH. Treatments include lifelong
antibiotics and antifungal medicines, injections of  InterMune
Inc. ’s Actimmune, and bone-marrow transplants for those with the
disease’s most-severe forms. Even trace amounts of superoxide
can help patients survive the disease, the researchers said.  Chronic granulomatous disease affects about 25,000 people
worldwide, according to the NIH. Patients’ white blood cells
don’t make enough hydrogen peroxide and bleach to fight off
infections, Gallin said. The patients are at risk of long-term
and repeated infections that may lead to tissue masses’
obstructing the bowel or urinary tract.  Blood Samples  The researchers measured superoxide in blood samples taken
from 287 people with the disease and compared the amounts with
those in people without the deficiency. Patients ranged in age
from 1 year to 64 years.  Those with the highest levels of superoxide had the best
survival and were less sick, the researchers said. Patients with
the lowest levels were about 5.5 times more likely to die from
the disease than those with the highest levels,  Douglas Kuhns ,
the lead study author and a scientist at SAIC-Frederick Inc., an
NIH contractor in Frederick, Maryland, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. The company is a unit of McLean, Virginia-
based SAIC Inc.  Before the study, the severity of the illness had been
thought to depend on how patients inherited the genetic mutation
that triggers the condition, the researchers wrote. Patients who
got it from their mothers on the X chromosome tended to have a
more-severe form than those who got it from both parents, Gallin
said.  Now the researchers have shown that the severity of the
disease depends on the production of the germ-killing molecules,
he said.  ‘Tiny Bit’  “If they make just a tiny, tiny bit, they will do better
than those who make none,” Gallin said.  Intermune’s  drug , which helps stimulate the immune system,
is expensive, he said, so researchers are trying to determine
which patients are most helped by the Brisbane, California-based
company’s treatment. Actimmune generated $25.4 million in 2009
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We basically have now provided a new tool to clinicians
that allows them to assess the severity of the disease and what
the survival is in patients and identifies those patients we
need to be more aggressive with in therapy,” Kuhns said.  The findings may help doctors who treat patients with other
immune system illnesses better understand those conditions, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  