-- Ivory Coast Hovers on `Brink of Genocide,' Nation's Ambassador to UN Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-29T20:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ivory-coast-hovers-on-brink-of-genocide-nation-s-ambassador-to-un-says.html
Ivory Coast is “on the brink of
genocide,” according to the country’s new United Nations
ambassador appointed by  Alassane Ouattara , who is regarded by
the UN, the African Union and the U.S. as the winner over
incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  in the Nov. 28 presidential election.  Youssoufou Bamba, the Ouattara government’s first
officially recognized envoy, said after presenting his
credentials today in New York that he appealed to Secretary-
General  Ban Ki-moon  for action by UN peacekeepers to stop what
he called “massive violations of human rights.” He said 172
people have been killed because they support Ouattara.  “The situation is very serious,” Bamba, 60, told
reporters after meeting with Ban in New York. “Houses have been
marked according to your tribe. What will be next? Something
should be done.”  Bamba, while not explicitly calling for military action
against Gbagbo and his supporters, said the mandate of UN
peacekeepers to protect civilians in Ivory Coast should be
fulfilled by the 9,000 soldiers and civilian police there. The
Economic Community of West African States said on Dec. 24 it
would consider the use of “legitimate force” to remove Gbagbo
if he continues to ignore international calls to quit.  The election was meant to stabilize Ivory Coast, the
world’s largest cocoa producer, after a 2002 civil war split the
nation between a government-controlled south and rebel-held
north and slowed economic growth.  Record Eurobond Yield  The political crisis has driven up the price of cocoa and
pushed the yields of Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds to a record 14.71
percent on Dec. 27. Cocoa for March delivery has risen 9.6
percent since the election on London’s Liffe exchange and traded
today for as much as 2,057 pounds ($3,189) per metric ton.  Ouattara has so far failed to turn international support
into control of the country and remains cloistered in an Abidjan
hotel. His supporters tried to storm the state broadcaster on
Dec. 16, leading to a deadly confrontation with security forces,
which fired on the crowd.  Ban, in receiving a letter from Ouattara naming Bamba as
his UN envoy, said he accepted the “legitimacy and validity”
of the new government and promised it “full cooperation.”  Bamba, a 25-year career diplomat who was most recently
Ivory Coast’s ambassador to UN offices in Vienna and the
International Atomic Energy Agency, said he would meet with all
15 members of the Security Council to seek their support for
action to oust Gbagbo and end human rights violations.  His remarks came as presidents  Thomas Boni Yayi  of Benin,
 Pedro Pires  of Cape Verde and  Ernest Koroma  of Sierra Leone said
they planned a second round of talks on Jan. 3 with Gbagbo. The
three leaders met this week with Ouattara and Gbagbo, and
discussed terms for his departure from office and the country.
Bamba declined to comment on proposals for Gbagbo’s safe
departure, saying talks were “very sensitive” and at the
“highest level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  