-- Japan Buyouts Go Native as Locals Lead Private-Equity Revival
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-12-29T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/japan-buyouts-go-native-as-locals-small-bets-lead-private-equity-revival.html
A decade ago, global private-equity
firms like J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC brought buyouts to Japan,
challenging longstanding relationships between corporate
executives and their bankers with billion-dollar takeovers.  Today, the Western funds are more focused on chasing deals
in faster-growing Asian countries, leaving the Japanese market
dominated by local firms targeting investments in small and mid-
sized companies. There have been 26 buyouts worth $1.4 billion
in Japan this year, compared with 12 deals worth $3.5 billion in
2009, according to London-based research firm  Preqin Ltd.   The success of local firms is paving the way to grow the
private-equity market in Japan, where it took KKR & Co. four
years to do its first buyout this year since entering the nation.
Local funds including  Ant Capital Partners Co.  and Tokio Marine
Capital Co. are raising money for fresh funds targeting small
and mid-sized companies.  “The sweet spot for Japan’s private-equity market lies in
the mid-to-small sectors,” said Joji Takeuchi, chief executive
officer of  Brightrust PE Japan Co. , a Tokyo-based private-equity
investment advisory firm. “The mega deals that took place
around 2000 gave the wrong perception to overseas funds that
Japan is a place for large-scale deals. Such investment
opportunities are very rare.”  Buyout deals in Japan had gross internal rate of return of
46 percent on a weighted-average basis in the past decade,
according to analysis of 95 out of 192 exits done by Brightrust.
That compares with an estimated global average of 20 percent to
30 percent, according to Preqin.  ‘Taking the Lead’  “Japan’s PE market may not look too attractive on the
surface, but if you look at the middle market and smaller funds,
they are making good investments,” said Kazushige Kobayashi,
managing director in Tokyo of Capital Dynamics, a Swiss private
equity firm with about $20 billion in assets. “Japanese funds
are taking the lead, incorporating what’s been developed
overseas.”  There’s been just nine $1 billion-plus buyouts out of 233
deals involving Japanese targets that were announced since 1998,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While private equity has been an established source of
capital in  Europe  and the U.S. for over 30 years, the industry
is only about a decade old in Japan, where companies have
preferred financing from banks over investment funds.  The J.C. Flowers and Ripplewood Holdings LLC led buyout of
now Tokyo-based Shinsei Bank Ltd. for 121 billion yen ($1.5
billion) in 2000 marked one of the earliest private-equity deals
in the nation. Washington-based  Carlyle Group  and New York-based  Blackstone Group LP  followed by opening offices in the nation.  KKR Deal  New York-based KKR, which opened its office in Japan in
April 2006, agreed in June to buy  Usen Corp .’s human resource
unit, Intelligence Ltd., for 32.5 billion yen. That was the
biggest private-equity transaction in the country this year.  Shusaku Minoda, chief executive officer of KKR’s Japan unit,
said global funds such as his have been busy with smaller deals
elsewhere in Asia, where economic growth is quicker.  “If you want to do small investments, just compare the
opportunities in India, China,  Southeast Asia , U.S., Europe and
Japan -- betting small in  China  and  India  makes more sense,”
Minoda said.  Japan’s economic growth will slow to 1.5 percent in 2011,
the International Monetary Fund forecasts. China will expand 9.6
percent next year and India will grow 8.4 percent, the
Washington-based IMF said.  ‘Committed to Japan’  Private-equity managers in  Asia  have been able to flip
companies and profit from exits without the kind of extensive
restructuring more common in developed countries. The average
premium for private-equity deals announced in 2010 in the Asia-
Pacific region rose to 30 percent from 13 percent in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To increase KKR’s activity in Japan, Minoda is looking
beyond the traditional buyout strategy -- taking over a company
by pooling money from investors and financing purchases with
debt with the intention of selling the firm later for a profit -
- to help fund companies’ overseas expansions. KKR’s Japan unit
aims to invest in at least one to two deals a year, including
partnerships investments, he said.  “The biggest obstacle in this country is that people have
a huge skepticism about the funds,” Minoda said. “I want to
establish a good franchise and brand of KKR in Japan -- we
continue committing to Japan as KKR.”  Ant Capital  Ant Capital, backed by Norinchukin Bank and  Mitsubishi
Corp ., plans to raise about 15 billion yen by the end of March
for its Ant Catalyzer No. 4 fund, which will invest in about 10
companies and targets an internal rate of return of about 30
percent, according to Chief Executive Officer Kazunori Ozaki.
The firm is targeting smaller companies that have growth
potential yet face difficulties with costs or finding successors
as managers reach retirement, Ozaki said.  The firm’s recent investments include  Honma Golf Co. , a
Japanese golf product maker, which Ant Capital sold to Marlion
Holdings Ltd., a company jointly financed by Chinese investors.
Another investment was in Tri-Wall K.K., which makes packaging
materials for industrial exports.  Tokio Marine Capital, the private-equity arm of  Tokio
Marine Holdings Inc ., plans to raise as much as 50 billion yen
for a new buyout fund focused on Japan’s mid-sized companies.
Its first and second funds produced internal rates of returns of
about 25 percent, according to the firm.  The new fund will target “niche, top players” in their
respective markets because it makes it easier to find buyers
when the time comes to exit the investments, according to
President Hideaki Fukazawa.  Pitching Globally  Next Capital Partners Co. , a turnaround specialist led by 
Hisao Tateishi, a former managing director at Industrial 
Revitalization Corp. of Japan, is also focusing on Japan’s 
mid-sized firms. The fund, which began in 2005, made its first 
exit selling  Kasco Co. , a Japanese golf goods maker, to 
Mamiya-OP Co., a fishing tackle and gold equipment maker, in 
November, achieving an internal rate of return of about 40 
percent.  Ant Capital’s Ozaki, a former banker at  GE Capital  in Japan,
said it is easier for local firms to pursue smaller deals that
may not make sense for a global fund.  “It’s difficult for the global funds to pitch their smaller
investment ideas at their global investment committee meetings,
because then you have to argue what makes the Japan deals more
attractive than those you can find in places like China or
India,” he said. “I can understand their struggle.”  In Japan, plagued by two decades of sluggish growth and
deflation, the government is keen to help private-equity funds
provide capital to the country’s small-to-midsized firms.  Government Support  The  Organization for Small & Medium Enterprises and
Regional Innovation, JAPAN , a government agency under Japan’s
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, has invested 126.9
billion yen since 1998 into the nation’s private-equity funds,
according to the agency. The ministry this year relaxed
requirements for the agency to invest in the funds, including
the minimum amount that the funds would have to have invested in
small-to-midsized firms, to expand its capacity for providing
funds to buyout firms.  The agency has been investing about 11 billion yen in
Japanese private-equity firms each year for the past decade and
plans to invest about the same amount in coming years, said Toru
Ochiai, manager at the fund planning division of the agency.  Smaller, more nimble deals are able to succeed in Japan
where larger rivals, which seek billion-dollar deals, have
struggled, said Mark Chiba, former chief executive officer of
UBS AG’s Japanese brokerage unit and co-founder of  The Longreach
Group Ltd. , a Hong Kong- and Tokyo-based buyout firm.  ‘World-Class Opportunity’  Longreach this year offered to pay as much as 17.9 billion
yen in July for Sanyo Electric Logistics Co., an Osaka
prefecture-based logistics solution provider, marking the
second-biggest deal in 2010 in Japan after KKR’s. It has raised
$750 million for its first fund that started in 2004 and
finished investing this year.  The firm aims to raise another $750 million for its second
fund in the first half of next year to make about eight
investments focused in Japan, Chiba said. Longreach aims to
close two investments in 2011 as it starts deploying capital
from the second fund. It aims to triple invested capital
consistently through a traditional buyout strategy, Chiba said.  “You had some foreign players coming in to Japan, in the
context of deploying huge global funds, and so needing billion
dollar-deals, and being unable to find them and getting
frustrated,” Chiba said. “You have to be sized and configured
for the actual opportunity, and if you are, Japan offers a
world-class, traditional alpha-driven private equity
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 