-- Korean Bonds Fall as Higher U.S. Treasury Yields Cool Demand; Won Advances
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-29T08:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/korean-won-near-2-week-high-as-manufacturers-confidence-rises-bonds-fall.html
South Korea’s five-year bonds
dropped for a fifth day, the longest losing streak in seven
weeks, as rising returns on U.S. Treasuries eroded the
attraction of higher-yielding assets.  The decline and gains by the won also came after
manufacturers’ confidence in South Korea improved for the first
time in four months, damping concern economic growth will slow.
Fifteen minutes before trading in the currency and bonds closed,
a South Korean official said the government plans to tighten a
cap on overseas banks’ holdings of foreign-exchange derivatives
to 200 percent of equity capital from 250 percent currently.  “Korean bonds are reflecting the weakness in U.S. bonds we
saw overnight,” said  Peter Park , a fixed-income analyst at
Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “We’re also seeing
an impact on Korean yields from investor expectations of a
continuing economic recovery.”  U.S. Treasuries tumbled yesterday after a $35 billion sale
of five-year notes attracted the weakest demand in six months.  The yield South Korea’s 4 percent notes due September 2015
advanced three basis points to 4.09 percent in Seoul, the
highest level in more than a week, according to the Korea Stock
Exchange. The rate on similar-maturity U.S. government bonds
climbed one basis point to a seven-month high of 2.16 percent,
following a 12 basis-point jump yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  U.S. Debt  U.S. debt due in more than a year is headed for the biggest
monthly loss in global government bond markets amid signs a
recovery in the world’s biggest economy will be sustained. U.S.
retailers’ 2010 sales jumped 5.5 percent to $584 billion from
Nov. 5 through Dec. 24, MasterCard Advisors’ SpendingPulse said
yesterday.  An  index  tracking expectations of South Korean
manufacturers for the month ahead rose to 92 from 91, the Bank
of Korea said today. A measure of non-manufacturing companies’
expectations fell to 87 from 92. A reading below 100 indicates
respondents are more pessimistic than optimistic.  The government plans to tighten the cap on domestic banks’
holdings of foreign-exchange derivatives to 40 percent from 50
percent, said the official, who declined to be identified
because the plan isn’t public yet. The finance ministry will
announce the changes in January, he said.  “It didn’t seem like the derivatives report had any real
affect on trade,” said  Charles Han , Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange trading at Newedge Financial HK Ltd. “It could
be a stepping stone for something larger down the line.”  Security Tension  The currency has gained 1.1 percent this month, after
sliding 2.9 percent in November, when North Korea fired
artillery at an island in the South causing four deaths.
The South’s defense ministry today labeled the North’s regime
and military an enemy, stopping short of using the term “main
enemy.”  The won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,146.35 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earlier touched 1,143.45, the strongest level
since Dec. 15. The currency gained 1.5 percent this year and is
forecast to appreciate 9.2 percent by the end of 2011.  “The won has been on a stronger path amid signs of a
recovery,” said  Kim Jin Ju , a currency dealer at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “But geopolitical risk still lingers, and
Europe’s debt crisis is not a done deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 