-- Nakheel Reaches Accord With 91% Creditors as It Restructures $10.5 Billion
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-12-29T10:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/nakheel-reaches-accord-with-91-creditors-as-it-restructures-10-5-billion.html
Nakheel PJSC, the developer building
palm tree-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, reached an agreement
with 91 percent of its trade creditors as the company seeks to
delay payments on at least $10.5 billion of loans and bills.  “Ninety-one percent by value of trade creditor accounts
payable has been finalized in signed restructuring
undertakings,” the Dubai government-owned company said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We continue to work to achieve the
required 95 percent restructuring threshold.”  Nakheel is renegotiating debt terms after the deepest
financial crisis since the 1930s roiled Dubai’s real-estate
market and left companies unable to raise money. The company had
aimed to get approval from 95 percent of its creditors before
year-end. Dubai World, the parent of Nakheel and one of Dubai’s
three main holding companies, in October gained approval from
all its creditors to change terms on $24.9 billion of loans.  Nakheel’s suppliers and contractors are being paid 100
percent of their claims -- 40 percent in cash and 60 percent
through a publicly traded Islamic bond paying a 10 percent
annual return. The company’s secured bank creditors will receive
100 percent of their principal and accrued interest under an
agreement to extend loan maturities.  Property prices dropped by more than half in Dubai from
their peak in 2008 and by 30 percent in Abu Dhabi as banks
tightened mortgage lending and speculators fled the market
during the global financial crisis. Dubai’s government said in
March it will provide $8 billion in cash to Nakheel to repay
contractors and complete real-estate projects as well as convert
$1.2 billion of loans to the company into equity.  Property Oversupply  Nakheel, which along with  Emaar Properties PJSC  spearheaded
a building boom in Dubai, said Sept. 30 it paid trade creditors
3.4 billion dirhams ($930 million) and planned to restart work
on stalled projects in Dubai. It began work on the Al Furjan and
Jumeirah Park residential projects in Dubai Nov. 12.  Dubai’s oversupply of homes and offices will take about 20
months to clear, Emaar’s Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said at the
Bloomberg Link Real Estate Briefing in New York on Nov. 5.
Residential values may fall as much as 20 percent more by the
end of 2012 if new homes are built as planned, according to
broker Landmark Advisory in Dubai. Cluttons LLP, a London-based
property consultant, and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. also forecast
further declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  