-- NCAA Says Sports Revenue Growth Won't Exceed 3% at Biggest Schools in U.S.
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-29T14:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/ncaa-says-sports-revenue-growth-won-t-exceed-3-at-biggest-schools-in-u-s-.html
Revenue growth in college sports’
top tier will be held to 3 percent next year as states slash
subsidies nationwide, said  Mark Emmert , president of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association.  The median growth rate was 5.8 percent for the fiscal year
ending 2009 and 17 percent a year earlier, according to a  report 
by the Indianapolis-based agency that oversees most college
athletic programs.  Schools with the strongest growth will be those in
conferences that recently negotiated television contracts, like
the Southeastern Conference’s 15-year, $3.1 billion agreement
with  Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN and  CBS Corp. , Emmert said. Such
schools play in the Football Bowl Subdivision, or FBS.  “FBS schools are being clipped badly to terribly by state
revenue cuts,” Emmert, 58, said in a telephone interview on
Dec. 20. “Even if the economy improves in 2011, the tax revenue
isn’t going to go zooming up, so most every public university is
going through some level of budget cuts from modest to extreme.
That’s the huge challenge.”  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, will expand 2.6
percent next year, according to the median projection in a
Bloomberg News survey of 65 economists from Dec. 2 to Dec. 8.  About 20 percent of athletic department budgets in the
highest division were subsidized by their universities between
the fiscal years 2004 and 2009, according to the governing body.  Donations are better than expected given the state of the
economy, but “are lagging where they need to be,” said Emmert,
who took over as the NCAA’s fifth president on Oct. 5. He
succeeded  Myles Brand , who died in September 2009 after almost
seven years in the job.  Alumni, Tickets  Alumni contributions were down about 8 percent for the
fiscal year ending 2009, according to the NCAA report.  Ticket sales account for about 30 percent of generated
revenue followed by donations (25 percent) and NCAA and
conference contributions (20 percent), the report said.  Emmert said the economy and state cutbacks will put
pressure on athletic departments trying to be self-sustaining.  The NCAA  report  issued in August showed that only 14 of the
120 FBS schools posted an operating profit in the fiscal year
ending in 2009, down from 25 schools the two previous years.
Emmert said he expects the number to remain at 14 or fewer for
the fiscal year ending 2011.  State cutbacks have caused some schools to drop programs.
In September, the University of California Berkeley cut
baseball, men’s rugby, men’s and women’s gymnastics and women’s
lacrosse to save $4 million annually.  Staff Cuts  The belt-tightening hasn’t been limited to individual
schools.  The NCAA cut $10 million from its budget for staffing,
travel and operations this year, after negotiating a 14-year,
$10.8 billion contract with CBS Corp. and  Time Warner Inc. ’s
Turner Broadcasting to televise the men’s college basketball
tournament.  The association will also consider legislation to limit the
number of non-coaching positions in football and men’s and
women’s basketball as a cost-cutting measure at its annual
convention in San Antonio from Jan. 12 through 15.  Emmert said he is concerned about the financial well-being
of athletic departments, but not because his goal is to see them
generate big profits or eliminate university subsidies.  “The money we generate buys services that support those
students,” he said. “If we can keep the athletic programs
financially healthy, they can create more opportunities for
students to participate in athletics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  