-- BP Investor Suit to Be Led by New York, Ohio Funds
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-29T16:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/new-york-ohio-pensions-to-lead-plaintiffs-in-bp-investor-case-over-spill.html
The New York and Ohio state pension
funds will be the lead plaintiffs in shareholder litigation
against BP Plc and company directors and managers over
investment losses suffered in the wake of the Gulf oil spill.  U.S. District Judge  Keith P. Ellison  in Houston named New
York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  and Ohio State Attorney
General  Richard Cordray , who head their states’ public employee
pension funds, as lead plaintiffs for investors who bought
either BP common stock or American depositary receipts from June
2005 to June 2010.  Ellison also named four individual investors as lead
plaintiffs for a smaller class of investors who bought common
shares of London-based BP or ADRs from March 2009 to April 20 of
this year, the date the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded, sparking
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  While the sub-class of investors claim that BP’s leadership
made misleading statements about drilling safety in the Gulf of
Mexico in the months before the rig explosion, the state pension
funds “argue more generally that BP made fraudulent statements
between 2005 and 2010 about its safety precautions in the Gulf
of Mexico and elsewhere,” Ellison said in yesterday’s order.  April 20 Explosion  The New York and Ohio funds also claim substantial losses
from BP ADRs purchased several weeks after the Deepwater Horizon
explosion, a timeframe not covered by the complaint of the
smaller group of investors, Ellison said. For six weeks after
the blast, the funds claim “BP intentionally understated the
oil flow rate in an attempt” to diminish harm to the company,
lawyers for one of the institutional funds said in court papers.  “BP does not comment on pending litigation,”  Tom Mueller ,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  BP fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig exploded while drilling a BP well off the
Louisiana coast on April 20, investors said in an Oct. 13 court
filing. The drop eliminated billions of dollars in the company’s
total market capitalization, shareholders’ lawyers claimed.  BP ADRs, each of which equals 6 ordinary shares, fell 36
cents to $43.75 at 11:26 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
trading. The ADRs are up from a low of $27.02 on June 25.  Ellison named  Cohen Milstein Sellers & Toll PLLC  of New
York, Berman DeValerio of Boston, and Yetter Coleman LLP of
Houston as co-lead counsel for the larger investor securities
fraud class.  The judge named Cotchett, Pitre & McCarthy of Burlingame,
California, and the  Mithoff Law Firm  of Houston as co-lead
counsel for the smaller sub-class of investors who bought
shortly before the spill.  ‘Securities Fraud’  “Ohio public employees and retirees are among the
thousands of investors harmed by the alleged misconduct of BP,”
Ohio Attorney General Cordray said in a statement today. “As
lead plaintiff, we will vigorously represent all shareholders,
and will seek compensation for the losses suffered as a result
of what we believe was securities fraud.”  The Ohio and New York funds lost more than $200 million
from their transactions in BP common stock and American
depositary shares during the proposed class period, beginning on
June 30, 2005, and ending on June 1, 2010, according to the
statement. Cordray, who was defeated in November, will be
replaced by  Mike DeWine , who takes office in January.  Three Categories  Securities fraud actions by BP shareholders are one of
three categories of BP investor claims that have been
consolidated for joint pretrial handling in Ellison’s court.  Ellison also presides over lawsuits filed by BP employees
claiming losses from mismanagement of their company pension
funds, as well as lawsuits brought by investors who are suing
BP’s board and management on behalf of the company.  Shareholders in all three categories filed suits in
multiple states before the federal panel on multidistrict
litigation transferred the cases to Ellison in August. So-called
MDL proceedings are designed to save time and money, and to
prevent conflicting rulings by different judges presiding over
similar cases.  The case is In re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 