-- NHL Winter Classic in Pittsburgh May Face Delay With Jan. 1 Rain Forecast
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-29T18:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/nhl-s-winter-classic-in-pittsburgh-may-face-new-year-s-rainout.html
The National Hockey League’s annual
outdoor game on New Year’s Day may be moved to that night or
Jan. 2 if a forecast for rain and warm weather in the host city
of Pittsburgh holds up.  The game between the Atlantic Division-leading Pittsburgh
Penguins (25-11-2), with top scorer  Sidney Crosby , and the
Southeast Division-leading Washington Capitals (22-12-5), with
two-time Most Valuable Player  Alex Ovechkin , is scheduled for 1
p.m. local time at Heinz Field, where the Pittsburgh Steelers
usually play football.  If rain makes the ice unplayable, the game -- which has
become the showpiece in the U.S. for the NHL -- may be delayed
until the evening or moved to the next day, John Dellapina, the
NHL’s director of media relations, said in a telephone
interview.  “There is a broadcast window on Saturday (Jan. 1) that
lasts until 11 p.m., so we could drop the puck up until around 8
p.m.,” Dellapina said. “We also have the opportunity to play
the next day as well.”  There is no deadline for the league to make a decision,
Dellapina said.  Pittsburgh’s New Year’s forecast calls for a high of 52
degrees Fahrenheit (11 degrees Celsius) under cloudy skies with
occasional rain, Kevin Benson, meteorologist at the city’s WPXI
television station, said in a telephone interview.  From one-quarter to one-half inch of rain may fall in the
afternoon, according to Benson. Weather reports become more
accurate the closer they are to the event, and there is a 30
percent chance that the current forecast may change to more or
less rain, Benson said.  Rain’s Impact  Rain’s effect on an outdoor ice surface depends on
temperature, heaviness and other factors, Dellapina said.  “We’ve never tested the upper limits of temperature or
rain accumulation, so we really don’t have a number for what a
rink can handle,” he said.  This is the fourth annual Winter Classic, and not the first
to deal with inclement weather. The 2008 game, held in the
Buffalo Bills’ Ralph Wilson Stadium, was played in snow. Last
year’s game at Boston’s Fenway Park was also threatened by
precipitation.  The first three Winter Classic games were the three most-
watched regular-season NHL games since 1996, according to the
 Sports Business Journal . The 2009 game between the Detroit Red
Wings and Chicago Blackhawks drew a 2.9 overnight rating, while
both the 2008 and 2010 events had ratings of 2.6, meaning they
were watched in 2.6 percent of households in the top 56 U.S. TV
markets. The sixth and final game of this year’s Stanley Cup
finals, the most-watched NHL game in 36 years, drew a 5.8
rating, according to  NBC .  ‘NHL Standards’  “We’ve said all along that we wouldn’t play the game, even
in perfect weather, unless the ice was up to NHL standards,”
Dellapina said. “From the inception of this event, the weather
has been a part of the discussion and it probably always will
be.”  If the game is moved to night, it will compete for viewers
with ESPN’s 8:30 p.m. telecast of college football’s Fiesta Bowl
between the University of Oklahoma and the University of
Connecticut. A noon start on Jan. 2 would be an hour before a
number of National Football League games, including the
Steelers’ road game against the Cleveland Browns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 