-- Noble Says Tests Show Leviathan Is Significant Gas Discovery Off Israel
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-12-29T21:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/noble-says-tests-show-leviathan-is-significant-gas-discovery-off-israel.html
Noble Energy Inc.  said drilling test
results in its Leviathan field off Israel’s coast confirm a
“significant” find of at least 16 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas.  Leviathan is “easily the largest exploration discovery in
our history,” said  Charles Davidson , chief executive officer of
the Houston-based explorer with a controlling interest in the
field, in an e-mailed statement today. The other principle
Leviathan partners are Israeli companies  Delek Drilling LP ,
 Avner Oil & Gas Ltd.  and  Ratio Oil Exploration 1992 LP.   Leviathan is almost double the size of the Tamar field off
Israel’s Mediterranean coast discovered in 2009 by Noble and its
partners. “The Leviathan discovery has further confirmed our
geologic models and interpretation of this basin, and validates
that it contains significant natural gas resources,” the
statement said.  The Leviathan field is estimated to cover about 125 square
miles (325 square kilometers), and will require two or more
appraisal wells to better estimate its total gas reserves, Noble
said.  Israeli Infrastructure Minister  Uzi Landau  called the
Leviathan gas findings “important to the Israeli economy,”
according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  Exports Considered  The Leviathan find is “the largest gas discovery in deep
water in the past decade,” Delek Drilling Chairman  Gideon Tadmor  said in an e-mailed statement. The Leviathan and Tamar
partners will examine options for exporting the gas from Israel
via a pipeline or by turning it into liquefied natural gas, the
Delek statement said.  Noble, which holds about 40 percent in Leviathan, rose 2.6
percent to $87.15 at 4:15 p.m. in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange. The Leviathan discovery prompted Howard
Weil Inc. analyst  Peter Kissel  to raise his price target on
Noble to $86 from $76 based on the value of the find. He
reiterated a rating of “market perform.”  Delek, which holds about 23 percent in the project, rose
5.1 percent to 14.36 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.
Avner, also holding about 23 percent in the field, gained 4.4
percent to 2.59 shekels, while Ratio, with a 15 percent stake in
the field, rose 10 percent to 0.58 shekel.  “Today’s news corresponded with previous estimates and
should come as no shock to the capital markets,” Guil Bashan,
an analyst at IBI in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “While stocks may
gain on positive sentiment, much of the information released is
already priced in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net 
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ; 