-- Norilsk Reaches Two-Year High in Moscow as Buyback Offer Tops Market Price
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-29T16:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/norilsk-reaches-two-year-high-in-moscow-as-buyback-offer-tops-market-price.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s
biggest mining company, jumped to the highest in almost 2 1/2
years in Moscow trading after offering to buy back shares at
$252 apiece, more than the market price.  Norilsk  rose 6.4 percent to $233.50 on the RTS index by the
6:45 p.m. close of trading, the highest price since July 17,
2008. The  shares  climbed 6 percent to 7,205.78 rubles on
Moscow’s Micex exchange, the highest level since May 2008.  The company’s decision to repurchase stock follows its
failed bid to buy back a 25 percent stake held by  United Co.
Rusal  for $12 billion. Rusal’s billionaire founder,  Oleg Deripaska , has been locked in a dispute with fellow Norilsk
shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  since 2008, and has rebuffed two
proposals since October for him to sell out of the company.  “The failure of the talks is a clear negative for Rusal;
we believe that disposal of the stake could have been strongly
advantageous for the company,”  Mikhail Stiskin , a Moscow-based
analyst at Troika Dialog, wrote in an e-mailed note. “A
potential buyback could support Norilsk Nickel’s share price in
the short term.”  From 5 p.m. in Moscow today, Norilsk was due to buy back as
many as 11.9 million shares at $252 apiece, according to an e-
mailed statement. The buyback includes American depositary
shares at $25.20 each.  The Moscow-based company offered to purchase $3 billion of
stock in a public tender by Jan. 21 and a further $1.5 billion
from the market over the next year, President  Andrei Klishas 
told reporters today in the Russian capital.  Rusal Stake  Rusal had sought $16 billion for its stake in Norilsk,
while the nickel producer was ready to pay no more than $14
billion, Interfax reported late yesterday, citing people it
didn’t identify. Klishas said Norilsk discussed $13 billion
yesterday.  Maria Uvarova , a spokeswoman for the company in
Moscow, declined to comment.  In October, Rusal rejected a $9 billion offer for its stake
from Potanin, who holds about 30 percent of Norilsk, as the
shareholders bickered over company strategy.  Rusal reiterated its intention to retain its holding
today, calling it “strategic,” according to an e-mailed
statement. At Rusal’s request, Norilsk will hold a shareholders’
meeting on March 11 to elect a new board, Klishas said.  Deripaska will seek to reinstate ousted Norilsk Chairman
 Alexander Voloshin  at the meeting, the Rusal billionaire told
reporters today in Moscow. Voloshin, chief of staff to former
Russian Presidents  Boris Yeltsin  and Vladimir Putin, left the
board following a disputed election in June.  Rejected Bid  Rusal’s  Russian depositary shares  were little changed at
476.99 rubles on the Micex exchange, after earlier dropping as
much as 1.1 percent.  Norilsk yesterday rejected a $2.1 billion cash bid from
Deripaska’s EuroSibEnergo Plc to buy its 79 percent stake in
power utility OAO OGK-3. Instead, Norilsk agreed to swap its
holding in OGK-3 for a minority stake in state-controlled
utility  OAO Inter RAO UES , Klishas said. The transaction will
probably be completed in May or June, he said, adding that
Norilsk plans to sell shares in Inter RAO within two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  