-- Nunavut Boosts Baffinland Bid Ahead of Rival Deadline
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-12-29T21:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/nunavut-iron-boosts-offer-for-baffinland-in-attempt-to-trump-arcelormittal.html
Nunavut Iron Ore Acquisition Inc.,
the venture formed to buy  Baffinland Iron Mines Corp. , raised
its offer for the Toronto-based company ahead of a deadline for
shareholders to tender to a friendly offer from ArcelorMittal.  The bid was increased to C$1.40 ($1.40) a share for 60
percent of the outstanding shares, Nunavut said today in a
statement. Nunavut, backed by private-equity firm Energy &
Minerals Group, had increased its hostile offer from 80 cents
for the whole company to C$1.35 a share on Dec. 15 for 50.1
percent of Baffinland.  Nunavut and  ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest steelmaker,
are vying to gain control of Baffinland’s Mary River project,
with reserves of 365 million tons of iron ore. ArcelorMittal,
based in Luxembourg, increased its offer for Baffinland to
C$1.25 a share, or about C$492 million, on Dec. 18 and has said
it won’t extend its offer beyond midnight New York time tonight.
Nunavut’s bid expires at 11:59 p.m. on Jan. 10.  “We certainly have every intention of prevailing,”
Nunavut Chairman  Bruce Walter  said today in a telephone
interview. “Arcelor will have a decision to make by midnight.”  “We haven’t changed our position,”  Giles Read , an
ArcelorMittal spokesman in London, said in an e-mail. The
company’s most recent statement, which said its offer will
expire tonight, is still accurate, he said.  Baffinland is reviewing Nunavut’s new offer and will
respond “in due course,” the company said in a statement. It
will end a shareholder-rights plan designed to block Nunavut’s
bid today at 4:59 p.m., as it had planned.  Daniella Dimitrov , a Baffinland spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return two telephone messages seeking comment.  Shares Little Changed  Baffinland was unchanged at C$1.34 as of 4:15 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading.  The shares  have more than
doubled this year.  Nunavut, established in August, acquired about 6.03 million
shares of Baffinland on Dec. 16, increasing its holding to about
40.7 million shares, or about 11 percent of the company, Nunavut
said in a statement.  The Mary River deposit is located about 620 miles (1,000
kilometers) northwest of Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut, the
largest of Canada’s three northern territories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at   sfrank@bloomberg.net . 