-- Obama Appoints Deputy Attorney General, Bypassing Republican Opposition
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-12-29T23:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/obama-appoints-james-cole-deputy-attorney-general-bypassing-republicans.html
President  Barack Obama  installed
 James Cole  as deputy U.S. attorney general, the nation’s second-
ranking law enforcement post, by appointing him during the
congressional recess to overcome Republican opposition.  Obama nominated Cole to the position in May. Two months
later, the Senate Judiciary Committee sent his nomination to the
full Senate, where Republicans blocked its consideration. The
nomination was returned to the White House when the Senate
adjourned last week.  Cole can serve without Senate confirmation until the
expiration of the next session of Congress, or about a year. The
first session of the 112th Congress begins Jan. 5.  Cole, 58, spent 13 years at the  Justice Department ,
including four years as deputy chief of the  public integrity
section , which handles corruption prosecutions of public
officials. He entered private practice in 1992 and joined the
Washington office of  Bryan Cave LLP  as a partner in 1995. He was
special counsel to the  House ethics committee  during its 1997
investigation of then-Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia
Republican.  At Cole’s Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing in June,
Republicans criticized him for describing suspected terrorists
as criminals, suggesting that he favored trying them in U.S.
courts rather than holding them as enemy combatants.  Senate Republicans also were critical of Cole’s performance
at  American International Group Inc. , where he was hired as an
independent monitor as part of a 2004 agreement with the
government. At the time, AIG was accused of violating accounting
standards and paid a $126 million fine without admitting any
wrongdoing. AIG ceded majority control to the U.S. government in
2008 in exchange for $85 billion in loans.  David W. Ogden  left the deputy attorney general’s job in
February to return to private practice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 