-- Togo Tourism Revenue May Increase by 56% This Year on Political Stability
-- B y   E t o n a m   D i g o
-- 2010-12-29T11:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/togo-tourism-revenue-may-increase-by-56-this-year-on-political-stability.html
Togo expects tourism revenue to
increase 56 percent this year as political stability attracts
more foreign visitors to the West African nation, Tourism
Minister Batienne Kpabre-Silly said.  Receipts may increase to 25 billion CFA francs ($49.9
million) from 16 billion francs in 2009, Kpabre-Silly said on
Dec. 27 in an e-mailed response to questions. The number of
visitors is expected to total 300,000, compared with 183,000
last year, he said.  Togo’s “socio-political environment has become stable and
the country has started to attract tourists and businessmen,”
Kpabre-Silly said.  Togo, a country of about 6 million people, has been
reforming its economy to boost growth following 38 years of rule
by one leader,  Gnassingbe Eyadema . His son,  Faure Gnassingbe ,
was elected to a second term in office in March, pledging to
continue with policies that include the sale of state-owned
assets and curbing public spending. Togo’s economy will expand
3.4 percent this year and 3.7 percent in 2011, the International
Monetary Fund said Sept. 22.  Earlier this month, the IMF said the country had become
eligible for as much as $1.8 billion in debt relief, or 82
percent of total external money owed, after completing an
economic- and governance-reform program.  Tourism was a “real contributor” to Togo’s economic growth
before 1990, when political instability began to affect the
industry, Kpabre-Silly said.  ‘Privileged’  “After successful parliamentary elections in 2007 that were
deemed fair by the international community, Togo has restarted
to find its place again among the privileged tourism
destinations in West Africa,” he said.  Evidence of the resurgence of the industry is that  Grupo
Prefaco , a gaming company based in Barcelona, Spain, plans to
invest 20 billion CFA francs in Togo to build a five-star hotel,
Kpabre-Silly said.  Next year, a program will be unveiled that will involve the
listing of places of interest for tourists, the refurbishment of
hotels and a marketing campaign, Kpabre-Silly said.  “Our ambition is to optimize the potential of the tourism
sector in order to make it contribute to the welfare of our
population and promote economic growth,” he said.  Togo is one of the world’s poorest countries, with gross
domestic product per capita of $240, compared with the sub-
Saharan African average of $580, according to the World Bank.
The United Nations Development Programme’s  Human Development
Index , which measures life expectancy, literacy and standards of
living, ranks the West African nation 159th out of 182
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Etonam Digo  in Geneva via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 