-- Mortgage Modifications in U.S. Decline as Fewer People Qualify for Program
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-29T17:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/mortgage-modifications-in-u-s-decline-as-fewer-people-qualify-for-program.html
The number of  delinquent borrowers 
who started U.S. home loan modifications declined in the third
quarter as fewer people qualified for easier payment terms,
according to the Treasury Department.  Loan servicers started 470,321 modification or payment
plans in the three months ended Sept. 30, down 17 percent from
the previous quarter and 32 percent from a year earlier, the
Treasury Department’s  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
and  Office of Thrift Supervision  said in a report today.  “You’ll probably see some more stabilization now,” Bruce
Krueger, lead mortgage expert for the Office of the Comptroller,
said during a conference call today. “I really can’t forecast
whether there’s going to be a continuing decline, but I think
we’re going to see more stability.”  The Obama administration is struggling to meet goals in its
foreclosure-reduction plan after the worst housing market
collapse since the Great Depression. The number of homeowners
who qualified for permanent loan modifications through the
government’s main program totaled 504,648 as of November, short
of the 3 million target, the Treasury Department said Dec. 22.  Another 1.9 million homeowners started modifications under
private lenders’ programs, the Treasury and the Department of
Housing and Urban Development  reported  Dec. 22.  Rising Foreclosures  Loan modifications declined as more delinquent homeowners
lost their properties. The number of foreclosures and short
sales, in which a bank accepts less than a mortgage balance,
rose to 244,840 in the third quarter, up 63 percent from a year
earlier and 11 percent from the previous three months, according
to today’s report.  “Completed foreclosures, which have risen for six
consecutive quarters, are expected to continue rising as
servicers and borrowers exhaust home retention options to assist
borrowers with seriously delinquent mortgages,” the Treasury
said in the report.  The report data ends before many lenders and loan servicers
suspended foreclosures to review practices under legal scrutiny.
U.S.  foreclosure filings  plunged 14 percent in November from a
year earlier, reaching a two-year low, according to a Dec. 16
report from RealtyTrac Inc. in Irvine, California.  Owners of 6.92 million U.S. properties were delinquent or
in foreclosure as of Nov. 30, Lender Processing Services Inc.
said in a report this week. That compared with a peak of 8.12
million in January, according to the Jacksonville, Florida-based
mortgage servicing and information company.  The Treasury Department’s Mortgage Metrics Report examines
data on 33.3 million home loans valued at about $6 trillion,
representing 64 percent of all first-lien mortgages in the
country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 