-- Petrobras's Tupi, Iracema Hold 8.3 Billion Oil Barrels, Beating Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-12-29T21:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/petrobras-s-tupi-iracema-hold-8-3-billion-oil-barrels-beating-estimates.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, said that two deepwater oil
fields hold 8.3 billion barrels of recoverable crude, exceeding
previous estimates.  The Lula field in the Tupi area has 6.5 billion barrels of
recoverable oil and equivalents and the Cernambi field at
Iracema holds 1.8 billion barrels, Rio de Janeiro-based
 Petrobras  said in a regulatory filing today. That compares with
a previous estimate of a combined 5 billion to 8 billion
barrels. Petrobras declared the two areas off Brazil’s
southeastern coast commercial after drilling 11 wells.  Petrobras, which currently has proven reserves of 14.9
billion barrels, aims to double that volume to as much as 35
billion barrels by 2014 as it develops discoveries in the deep
waters of the Atlantic Ocean, where Tupi and Iracema lie. Tupi
is the second-biggest find in the Americas since Mexico
discovered Cantarell in 1976, trailing the Brazilian
government’s estimated deposits of as much as 15 billion barrels
at nearby Libra.  “In terms of potential Petrobras can’t be matched,”  Auro Rozenbaum , an analyst with Bradesco SA in Sao Paulo, said today
in a telephone interview. “The potential is huge, I don’t see
other majors with anything similar to Petrobras.”  Petrobras  rose  for a fourth day, climbing 1.2 percent to
26.97 reais in Sao Paulo. American depositary receipts, each
representing two ordinary Brazilian shares, rose 2.9 percent to
$36.68 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:08 p.m.
Rozenbaum rates the stock “neutral,” and doesn’t own any.  Deepwater Holdings  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  said Dec. 9 that
Brazil’s deepwater fields hold more oil than Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  says they contain.  BG
Group Plc , the U.K.’s third largest energy company and a partner
with Petrobras at Tupi, said last month that the Tupi and
Iracema area holds 9 billion barrels of oil.  Gabrielli, who has been chief executive officer since July
2005 and has overseen development of Tupi, will remain at the
helm of the company under President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , Lula
said at an event.  Petrobras names all its exploration areas after sea life
once it declares them commercial oil fields. Lula, the nickname
that Brazil’s president adopted as part of his name, means squid
and Cernambi means mollusk. The fields correspond to all the
reserves in the Tupi and Iracema areas, an official at
Petrobras’s press office said.  “I am very happy” about the field’s new name, “but it’s
not my name, it’s the name of a crustacean,” Lula told
reporters in televised comments.  Proved Reserves  The company had 14.9 billion barrels of proven reserves at
the end of 2009, according data on Petrobras’s website, using
standards set by the Society of Petroleum Engineers.  It will take several years for Petrobras to add the entire
8.3 billion barrels to its proven reserves,  Monica Araujo , an
analyst at Ativa Corretora, said in a note to clients. Petrobras
will only certify part of the 8.3 billion barrels when it
releases 2010 reserve figures on Jan. 15, said an official at
Petrobras’s press office who declined to be named due to company
policy.  Brazil’s oil regulator, known as the  ANP , said yesterday it
found more evidence of oil at Libra, the first field the
government plans to auction next year. Petrobras will operate
all new concessions in the so-called pre-salt area where Libra
and Tupi were discovered.  Exploration at deepwater oil fields in Brazil will
“intensify” next year as Petrobras and other oil companies add
drilling rigs, Credit Suisse said in a research note Dec. 27.  Rising Production  Brazil’s  production  of oil rose to a record 2.089 million
barrels a day last month. Petrobras’ total November oil and gas
production was 2.6 million barrels a day, with 2.03 million
barrels in Brazil.  Still, Petrobras is below its production target for 2010
and it will take years for deepwater oil discoveries to boost
profit, said Rozenbaum. The company needs to resolve technical
problems such as transporting natural gas to the mainland from
Tupi, which is more than 250 kilometers (155 miles) off the
coast of Rio de Janeiro, he said.  “We don’t see much earnings growth in the short term,”
Rozenbaum said. “They have an enormous challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  