-- Pittsburgh Council Passes Tax Plan to Fund Pension, Avoid State Takeover
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-29T20:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/pittsburgh-city-council-mayor-clash-on-pension-armageddon-.html
Pittsburgh’s City Council voted 7-2
for a plan to dedicate $13 million a year in parking taxes to
its pension fund to avoid a state takeover that threatens to
double the city’s payments into the system by 2015.  Mayor  Luke Ravenstahl  said he opposes the council’s plan
because he believes it won’t head off a takeover and will open a
$13 million hole in future city budgets.  Ravenstahl, 30, told the council’s finance committee he
will veto the plan today, to give the legislative body time to
override him before a Dec. 31 state deadline for raising at
least $200 million in assets needed to cover a minimum of half
the fund’s needs and avoid a takeover. The council plans to meet
again tomorrow.  “I think we’re creating a bigger problem in the future,”
Ravenstahl said. “I will not be an active supporter to
participate in something I think doesn’t work and doesn’t solve
the problem.”  Officials in  Pennsylvania ’s second-largest city have been
trying to devise a plan to shore up a pension fund for two
years. The plan has about $325 million in assets to cover $1
billion in promised benefits, according to a consultant’s
report. Under Pennsylvania law, the state must begin taking
control of the retirement system if the city’s obligations are
less than 50 percent funded by year-end.  ‘Financial Armageddon’  The municipality of 334,563, whose pension problem was
called a “financial Armageddon” by two councilors yesterday,
joins cities such as Chicago and states such as  Illinois  and New
Jersey that may cut services or raise taxes to meet ballooning
retirement costs. Those states and 18 others skipped payments or
underfunded their pension systems from 2007 to 2009, according
to an October report from Loop Capital Markets in Chicago.  If assets haven’t been added to Pittsburgh’s pension fund
by Dec. 31, the state’s Municipal Retirement System will begin
the process of taking it over. The procedure won’t conclude
until September at the earliest, according to James McAneny, the
Pennsylvania official charged with determining whether the city
has met the minimum funding threshold.  Pennsylvania may order the city to double its $46 million
annual contribution by 2015 and to raise it to as much as $160
million by 2030, according to a report prepared for the state.  Earlier Plan Dropped  The council dropped a proposal passed in committee 90
minutes earlier to use proceeds of a $52-a-year tax on
Pittsburgh workers for pensions after McAneny said restrictions
on the use of the commuter tax made it ineligible as a source of
pension funds. The parking-tax plan was passed as a substitute.  “We have to stop making things up on the fly with no
research,” said  Ricky Burgess , a council member who voted
against the plan.  The city parking tax assesses a 37.5 percent levy on
charges for using garages or paid parking lots. The parking tax
is projected to raise $47 million in 2011, according to
Ravenstahl’s budget.  Pittsburgh’s pension system includes three retirement plans
for about 7,000 active and retired firefighters and government
workers. The accounts have only enough funds to pay benefits for
three to four years, Ravenstahl said.  “I don’t think anyone knows what the impact of this will
be,” the mayor said. “All we know is it’s going to be bad.”  Cooperation Required  Two months earlier, the council rejected Ravenstahl’s plan
to raise $452 million through a long-term lease of parking
facilities to a group led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  in New York.  The council demanded Ravenstahl’s appearance today after
Scott Kunka, his finance director, opposed another plan based on
parking revenue. That proposal, from Council President  Darlene Harris , was designed to put $880 million from fees paid to
public parking garages into the pension fund over 30 years.  Harris’s proposal wasn’t feasible because municipal parking
authority revenue is dedicated to repaying debt under covenants
with bondholders, Kunka said yesterday.  “This plan does not work unless there’s cooperation,”
 Doug Shields , a council member, said yesterday. “What is really
very clear to me is these people got their marching orders to
sabotage this plan.”  Moody’s Investors Service changed its outlook for the
city’s A1 rated general-obligation bonds to negative on Nov. 23,
citing a potential rise in pension costs under state control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 