-- Plunge of For-Profit College Shares Makes Patriarch Sperling Rail at Obama
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2010-12-29T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/plunge-of-for-profit-college-stock-makes-sperling-rail-at-obama.html
As a humanities professor at San
Jose State University from 1961 to 1973,  John Sperling  pioneered
remedial reading classes for Mexican Americans and courses in
social problems for police officers.  Defying the education establishment, he expanded such
programs into the for-profit University of Phoenix, now largely
online and the biggest U.S. university, with almost 500,000
students. Sperling and his proteges transformed a backwater of
mom-and-pop trade schools into a $30 billion industry attracting
 Washington Post Co.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  as investors.
For-profit colleges enroll 12 percent of U.S. undergraduates and
consume 24 percent of U.S. Pell grants for low-income students.  Now those colleges, after flourishing under loosened
regulations during  George W. Bush ’s presidency, are under attack
from President  Barack Obama ’s administration, which wants to
tighten the rules. Stock prices for the parent companies of for-
profit colleges have plunged.  The colleges use deceptive practices to lure homeless
people, veterans and individuals who aren’t prepared for college
into unsuitable courses in order to obtain tuition funded by
grants and also by federal loans that students have trouble
repaying, according to advocates for the homeless, veterans’
groups and current and former students. Almost 90 percent of
Phoenix’s students use federal grants or loans to pay tuition.  Defending Apollo  The 89-year-old Sperling, whose fortune peaked at $1.9
billion in 2005, and who had until recently been tending to non-
educational interests ranging from cloning to longevity, has
plunged back into the fight to defend his creation. As the value
of his Apollo common stock plummeted by about $300 million this
year, he traveled at least twice to Washington, drawing on his
history of donations to Democrats to see  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid  and other legislative leaders.  In one meeting with Congressional staff members, Sperling,
leaning on a cane, railed against the Obama administration,
saying it was manipulated by investors betting against higher-
education stocks, according to an aide who attended. This person
requested anonymity because the meeting was private.  Anticipating that Apollo’s growth would decelerate,
investors stepped up  short sales of Apollo stock  early in 2008,
to a level that was almost reached again in 2009 as the Obama
administration embarked on tighter regulation,  Trace Urdan , a
Signal Hill analyst, said in an e-mail.  Apollo  peaked at $97.93  in Nasdaq Stock Market composite
trading in June 2004 as the company reaped more federal
financial aid from the Bush administration’s easing of
restrictions on the industry’s growth.  Share Decline  The shares traded as high as $89.22 in January 2009, days
before Obama’s inauguration. Apollo has since  declined 57
percent  before today, compared with a 48 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 index, because of Obama administration
proposals to limit recruiting and access to federal financial
aid -- linchpins of the company’s strategy in the past decade.  In September, Sperling sent every member of Congress a  74-
page PowerPoint presentation  making the case that, while four-
year public and private nonprofit colleges cost taxpayers $9,709
and $6,379 a student respectively, for-profit colleges pay taxes
and save the government money.  He personally made almost $100,000 in campaign donations
for the 2010 elections, while Apollo Group’s political-action
committee gave $92,100 to federal candidates, including $15,000
to  George Miller , the outgoing chair of the House education
committee, and $14,000 to  John Boehner , the incoming House
speaker. Starting with the 2002 campaign, Apollo Group’s PAC has
given Boehner $36,600, more than any other member of Congress.  ‘Legacy at Stake’  “This is his legacy at stake,” Suzanne Helburn, an
economist who is a longtime friend of Sperling, said in a
telephone interview. “The thought of it being dismantled by
some arbitrary government policy infuriates him.”  Sperling’s defense of his industry is based largely on the
argument that for-profit colleges expand poor people’s
opportunities to get degrees and jobs.  The administration’s “onerous” initiatives “would make
it impossible for the sector to offer many programs” that
prepare students to be teachers, nurses and police officers, and
“would have a devastating impact on institutions that enroll
low-income students,” Sperling wrote members of Congress on
Sept. 1. “It would seem wiser to restore the status quo ante.”  Sperling himself says this lobbying has galvanized
opposition to the proposed regulations and set the stage for a
battle in the next Congress between the Obama administration and
ascendant Republicans.  “Our hard work is paying off,” Sperling said in an e-mail
relayed through Helburn.  ‘Political Influence’  “John Sperling carries more political influence than I
think a lot of people realize,” said  Raul Grijalva , an Arizona
Democrat and member of the House education committee. “When he
comes to Congress, people listen. His word carries a lot of
weight, and it’s been that way for a long time.”  Sperling sought to sway Grijalva in a meeting on Capitol
Hill around the beginning of September.  “His pitch to me was that, by overregulating for-profit
colleges, we are constricting the access of people of color to
higher education,” Grijalva, who has received campaign
donations from Sperling, said in a telephone interview.  “My response is, to have someone saddled with a debt they
can’t pay back, and they don’t finish school, and put their
financial lives in jeopardy, that’s a double-edged sword. The
community colleges are there, that’s accessible and
inexpensive.”  Union Organizer  An unlikely mogul, Sperling is a mix of pragmatist and
populist, entrepreneur and social reformer, whose corporate
interests don’t mesh neatly with his political views. He’s a
former union organizer who runs a nonunion university, and a
self-described ex-socialist whose company became a Wall Street
darling. While he coauthored a book calling for an end to
corporate welfare, his for-profit university depends on federal
aid for 88 percent of its revenue.  A Democrat who has given almost $300,000 since 1994 to the
party’s senatorial and congressional campaign committees, he
owns a publishing house that attacks Republican politicians, and
he supports the repeal of laws that criminalize marijuana. His
restless brain generates a stream of unorthodox ideas, some of
which fizzled, such as cultivating crops in salt water.  Sperling, who turns 90 next month, works out daily and
keeps tabs on Apollo from his home office, former University of
Phoenix president Jorge Klor de Alva said in a telephone
interview. Sperling takes 30 pills a day, following a regimen
set by a now-defunct longevity clinic that he established. After
stepping down as chief executive officer in 2001 and chairman in
2004, Sperling returned as Apollo’s acting executive chairman in
2006 and now is executive chairman. He and his son control 100
percent of the voting stock.  ‘Customer First’  Sperling was an early champion of online classes, shortened
courses, electronic textbooks and marketing to adults --
innovations that traditional universities now are embracing.  “Sperling was probably the first university president to
develop a model that was predicated on customer first,” Richard
Chait, a professor of higher education at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said in an interview.  Armed with his blueprint, former Apollo and Phoenix
executives converted religious schools into for-profit colleges
such as  Bridgepoint Education Inc. ’s Clinton, Iowa-based Ashford
University and  Grand Canyon Education Inc. ’s Phoenix-based Grand
Canyon University. Under  Sally Stroup , a former Phoenix lobbyist
who headed federal higher-education policy, the Bush
administration eased controls over for-profit colleges, spurring
the past decade’s expansion.  Choosing Growth  “At critical junctures, John chose growth over academic
integrity, which ultimately diminished a powerful educational
model,” Robert W. Tucker, a former Phoenix senior vice
president and coauthor with Sperling of “For-Profit Higher
Education: Developing a World-Class Adult Workforce”
(Transaction Publishers, 1999), said in a telephone interview.  Sperling’s industry has grown through misleading sales
pitches from recruiters who are paid on the basis of how many
people they sign up, according to Senate education committee
reports and testimony and an Aug. 4 Government Accountability
Office report.  For-profit colleges in 2008 graduated just 22 percent of
their first-time, fulltime students seeking bachelor’s degrees,
compared with 55 percent at public institutions and 65 percent
at nonprofit private universities, according to the Washington-
based National Center for Education Statistics. Only 36 percent
of their students repay the loans, compared with at least 54
percent at traditional colleges, according to an analysis of
government data by the Institute for College Access & Success, a
nonprofit group in Oakland, California.  Stock Transactions  Alarmed by such disparities, the Education Department wants
to cut off aid to for-profit colleges if their graduates don’t
earn enough to pay off student loans.  Sperling and his son, Apollo Vice Chairman  Peter Sperling ,
have collected almost $840 million in stock sales since 2003.
The company disclosed in October that the Securities and
Exchange Commission is looking at the company’s insider-trading
policies.  Apollo gained 75 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $39.17 at 10:47
a.m. in New York. An  index  of 13 publicly traded for-profit
education stocks declined 26 percent this year through
yesterday.  For his part, Sperling, who declined to be interviewed and
answered questions through Helburn, says  Phoenix  is investing
hundreds of millions of dollars to improve graduation rates
among low-income students.  ‘New Legacy’  If Phoenix succeeds, it “will have a new legacy of solving
a problem no one else has solved, significantly increasing the
education level of the U.S. workforce, making it possible for a
significantly larger percent of people to achieve post-secondary
degrees,” Sperling said in an e-mail from Helburn.  Sperling divides his time between a Phoenix mansion with
Andy Warhol paintings lining its entryway, and an Italianate
home in San Francisco overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge. He
keeps a 10-year-old Jaguar automobile at each place, Klor de
Alva said in a telephone interview.  Twice divorced, Sperling has had an on-and-off relationship
for 45 years with Joan Hawthorne, a memoirist who uses the pen
name  Candida Lawrence . He enjoys plays and operas, and reciting
Emily Dickinson’s poetry. He dresses in khaki pants, a
fisherman’s hat, and “the kind of shirts you don’t have to
iron,” Klor de Alva said.  Birthday Revelry  Sperling was celebrating a personal milestone when he set
the for-profit college industry on its track to accelerate
growth. At his 80th birthday party, in 2001, a comic opera was
performed to praise his accomplishments, and 125 guests were
given mock money with his face on it. Amid the revelry, he
proclaimed a new goal: increasing Phoenix’s enrollment fivefold
to 500,000.  “It was intended as an inspirational message” rather than
a formal plan, Sara Jones, an Apollo spokeswoman, who has since
left the company, said in a 2009 e-mail.  Sperling faced an obstacle: The university’s market was too
small to fulfill his vision. Nor could it satisfy what he called
“the unrelenting pressure to grow” from Wall Street after
Apollo went public in 1994.  Since Sperling founded the university in 1976, it had
catered to middle managers whose employers paid for them to
finish their degrees. Students had to be at least 23 years old
and have two years of work experience as well as prior college
credits. After his 2001 party, Phoenix discarded these
requirements.  ‘New Sectors’  “It couldn’t grow any faster in the sector it was in,”
said Tucker, CEO of  InterEd Inc. , a higher-education consulting
company in McCall, Idaho. “The only solution was to identify
new sectors.”  Sperling did just that. Reflecting his commitment to expand
college access for disadvantaged students, he conceived of a
two-year program for high-school graduates from low-income and
non-English-speaking families, who would take classes at inner-
city campuses along with an online component, he said in an e-
mail from Helburn.  Enrollment was projected to grow to about 15,000 in 10
years, said  Lawrence M. Gudis , a former Apollo Group senior vice
president who helped design the program, known as Axia College.  “John talked very passionately about having classes in
malls in very, very poor neighborhoods in Los Angeles and
Phoenix, where students wouldn’t normally have access to higher
education,” and about recruiting faculty fluent in Spanish,
Vietnamese and Cambodian, Gudis said in a telephone interview.  Online Unit  Plans changed when Apollo shares, after peaking in June
2004, slumped in the next two months. Apollo at the time was
repurchasing Phoenix’s online unit, which had a separate
tracking stock, and investors worried that the company was
masking weakness in its ground-campus business, Signal Hill’s
Urdan said.  Todd Nelson , Apollo CEO from 2001 to 2006, then
converted Axia into an online program in hope of boosting
enrollment and revenue, said Gudis, now a consultant to for-
profit colleges.  Axia’s student body soared to more than 200,000, increasing
Phoenix’s enrollment to  470,800 students , more than the total at
all for-profit colleges in 2000. While Phoenix has campuses in
39 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, most of
its students attend online.  Dropout Rate  Axia also boosted Phoenix’s dropout rate. The newcomers had
“clearly different educational needs” that weren’t suited to
Phoenix courses, which were designed to draw on students’
academic and work experience, Tucker said.  In 1998, 65 percent of Phoenix’s 53,200 students attained
degrees, Klor de Alva said. By contrast, two-thirds of the
associate’s degree students and half of the bachelor’s degree
candidates who entered Phoenix from July 2008 to June 2009
withdrew by August 2010, according to a Senate education
committee report. The median length of enrollment at Phoenix is
about four months.  “I certainly would never recommend them to a young student
over a community college,” David Breneman, a professor at the 
University of Virginia  in Charlottesville and former dean of its
school of education, who has studied the University of Phoenix,
said in an e-mail. “For older adults with jobs, I think they
provide a valuable option. For younger students without prior
college experience or a job, I think they provide little value
added.”  Nelson declined to comment. Axia’s conversion to an online
program was driven by student demand, said Mark Brenner, an
Apollo spokesman.  Biggest Funder  Because most of its students were low-income and qualified
for federal grants and loans, Axia fostered Phoenix’s dependence
on its biggest source of funds, the Education Department.
Phoenix derived 88 percent of its revenue from federal student
aid in the year ended Aug. 31, up from 48 percent in fiscal
2001.  Reliance on federal funds is “a bad business model,” Iowa
Senator  Tom Harkin , the chairman of the Senate education
committee, said in a telephone interview. “You get the maximum
return by recruiting the lowest-income students, and getting rid
of them as soon as possible.”  Fanning Out  “I’ve been accused of being against private enterprise,”
Harkin said. “This is not private enterprise. Ninety percent of
their money is coming from the taxpayer.”  Phoenix executives trained under Sperling fanned out across
the country, implementing Axia-like online programs for
taxpayer-funded low-income students.  Founded in 2004 by a former Phoenix vice president named
 Andrew S. Clark ,  Bridgepoint Education Inc.  had 77,179 students
on Sept. 30, up from 1,063 at the end of 2005. Almost all took
classes exclusively online. Bridgepoint, based in San Diego, had
$521 million in revenue in the first nine months of this year,
up 62 percent from the comparable period a year earlier,
according to the company’s filings. Its flagship Ashford
University derived 86 percent of revenue from federal aid in
2009.  Former Apollo Group president  Brian Mueller  is CEO of
Phoenix-based  Grand Canyon Education Inc. , which had 42,300
students on Sept. 30, of whom 91 percent were enrolled online.
Grand Canyon had 8,422 students at the end of 2005.  Goldman Stake  Todd Nelson, the former CEO for Apollo, now holds the same
title at Pittsburgh-based  Education Management Corp. , the No. 2
higher-education company by enrollment, with 158,300 students in
October. New York-based Goldman Sachs, Wall Street’s most
profitable bank, owns a 39 percent stake in the company.  The sector also attracted Washington Post Co. Once known
primarily for preparing high-school students for the SAT
college-entrance examination, the company’s Kaplan unit derived
63 percent of its revenue in the quarter ended Oct. 3 from its
higher-education division. Kaplan has 112,000 students, of whom
about 70,000 attend online.  Jack Welch , former chairman and CEO of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based General Electric Co., is an investor in
 Chancellor University  in Cleveland, which named its online
master’s degree program in business administration after him.  Sperling and his industry got a boost from the election in
2000 of George W. Bush, who in 2002 named the former Apollo
lobbyist  Stroup  to oversee higher education.  Recruitment Curb  Congress had passed a law in 1992 that cracked down on
trade schools in such fields as hairdressing and truck driving,
which garnered federal aid by siphoning off students from
welfare and unemployment lines.  The law banned colleges from paying recruiters on the basis
of how many students were enrolled and capped the percentage of
revenue that the institutions could receive from the government.  To deter fraud by correspondence schools, for-profit
colleges that provided more than 50 percent of their courses or
enrolled more than 50 percent of their students for distance
education -- meaning that professors and their students are in
different locations -- were prohibited from receiving federal
aid.  The Bush administration diluted these restrictions,
starting with the incentive-compensation ban. In 2002, officials
put into place 12 exemptions, or “safe harbors,” allowing for-
profit colleges to pay recruiters on the basis of enrollment as
long as it wasn’t the sole criterion. The government also
reduced the penalty for colleges’ violations of the incentive-
compensation law to fines, from suspension or loss of
eligibility for student aid, according to an Oct. 20, 2002, memo
issued by  William Hansen , then deputy secretary of education.  Lobbying for Apollo  Hansen, who left the administration in 2003, then lobbied
for Apollo from 2006 to 2009, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington research group. Now president
of Eagan, Minnesota-based  Scantron Corp. , a collector of
student-performance data, Hansen declined to comment, as did
Stroup, senior vice president at Scantron.  Apollo’s use of Hansen as a lobbyist was unrelated to his
lowering of penalties for recruitment violations, said Brenner,
the company spokesman.  Led by  John Boehner , then chairman of the House education
committee, Congressional Republicans scrapped the 50 percent
limit for online courses in 2006.  “We are dealing with antiquated regulations that may have
been well-intentioned when put in place but today are simply a
burden,” Boehner said at a 2004 hearing on the issue.  Underdog Sympathizer  Sperling’s childhood ingrained sympathy for the underdog.
He grew up in rural Missouri, the sickly child of a drifter who
beat him often. His father’s death, when Sperling was 15, “was
the happiest day of my life,” he wrote in  “Rebel With a
Cause ” (John Wiley & Sons, 2000), his autobiography. “It still
is.”  After graduating from high school, Sperling joined the
merchant marine, where he read widely in his spare time. He
earned a bachelor’s degree from  Reed College  in Portland,
Oregon, followed by graduate study at the University of
California at Berkeley. There he met Virginia Sperling, his
second wife.  “We were beatniks and we loved it,” Virginia Sperling,
84, said in a telephone interview. “We lived in a co-op. We
were all sort of outcasts.”  Sperling earned a doctorate in economic history from
Cambridge University in Cambridge, England. He now funds
scholarships for Reed graduates to study at Cambridge, according
to Reed’s website. Reed and Cambridge will receive donations
through Sperling’s will, Helburn said. “He has great affection
for his alma maters,” she said.  ‘So Driven’  Raising a family held little appeal for her ex-husband,
said Virginia Sperling, a dancer and art dealer, who is Peter
Sperling’s mother.  “He was so driven,” she said. “He always felt that a
family would be a distraction. His theory is, you can’t be a
genius and have a family.”  Nor did the academic career on which he embarked after
Cambridge fulfill him.  “When we were at a party, he would often grab me by the
arm and say, ‘My boy, there’s not a group on the face of the
earth more boring than the professoriat,’” said Tucker, the
former Phoenix executive.  Sperling led a faculty strike at  San Jose State University 
in San Jose, California, in 1968, and the action’s failure cost
him the presidency of a union at California public universities.
The following year, he and his students celebrated Earth Day
with a protest against air pollution. They bought a new Ford
Maverick automobile and buried it in a grave they dug on campus.  ‘Actively Engaged’  “John was unlike any other professor,” said John Murphy,
who was a San Jose State student and later worked as a Phoenix
executive from 1977 to 1997. “He was actively engaged in
bringing the university to the community. He didn’t mind getting
his hands dirty.”  Training that Sperling ran for police officers and teachers
about juvenile delinquency proved so popular that he turned it
into the Institute for Professional Development, which offered
adult education under a contract with the  University of San
Francisco .  Sperling made the institute a for-profit corporation
because, after his ouster from the union presidency, he was
“quite wary of creating another nonprofit organization some
board could yank away from me,” he wrote.  Arizona Bound  The  Western Association of Schools & Colleges , the
accrediting body for California, complained that San Francisco’s
faculty hadn’t been consulted about the program. Faced with the
threat of losing accreditation, the university cut ties with the
institute in 1977. Sperling decamped to Arizona, with different
accreditors, and established his own university.  There, Sperling barely staved off legislation giving
control of private higher education to the state’s public
universities.  Phoenix’s quest for acceptance was “was one nasty, brutal,
bare-knuckled fight,” said Murphy, 64, a screenwriter and
producer who is writing a history of the University of Phoenix
during his time there. “Everything we did drove traditional
education into absolute apoplexy. We didn’t know on Friday if
we’d be open for business on Monday.”  At the urging of Phoenix’s vice president for product
development, Sperling started an online campus in 1989 and stuck
with it through unprofitable years.  “He persisted when virtually all of the institution was
opposed to the idea,” Tucker said.  Ballot Measures  Once his gamble on for-profit higher education paid off,
Sperling bet much of his newfound wealth on other interests. He
invested more than $10 million on 20 state-ballot questions from
1996 to 2008, seeking to treat rather than incarcerate marijuana
offenders and legalize the substance for medical purposes, said
Ethan Nadelmann, executive director of the  Drug Policy Alliance 
in New York, who worked with Sperling on the proposals. Fifteen
of the measures passed.  Sperling had less luck achieving a “second green
revolution” that he envisioned for deserts in poor countries.
In 2001, after a disagreement with the government of Eritrea, he
pulled out of a joint venture to raise shrimp in Red Sea water
and use the runoff to grow a crop tolerant of salt water,  Eric Rey , a consultant on the project, said in a telephone interview.
Sperling now is majority owner of  Arcadia Biosciences Inc. , a
Davis, California-based developer of technologies to reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions, said Rey, the company’s CEO.  Anti-Aging Clinic  Sperling also shuttered an anti-aging clinic that he had
opened in Phoenix and hoped would beget a for-profit growth
industry. The Kronos center, which sought to slow degeneration
associated with old age, charged patients thousands of dollars
for comprehensive assessments that insurance rarely covered.  The Apollo founder owns Polipoint Press, a Sausalito,
California-based publisher that put out books this year
advocating a public option for health-insurance buyers and
likening the Republican right to the Taliban. The press also
published “The Great Divide: Retro vs. Metro America,” a 2004
manifesto -- coauthored by Sperling -- advising the Democrats to
reduce defense spending and end corporate welfare.  “I’m one of the few surviving liberal economists, and he’s
more liberal than I am,” Carl Hunt, one of Sperling’s
coauthors, said in a telephone interview.  Reluctant to lose his beloved dog, Missy, Sperling funded
pet-cloning research by Texas A&M University in College Station,
Texas, and now-defunct Genetic Savings & Clone Inc. While GS&C’s
successor,  BioArts International  in Mill Valley, California,
succeeded in cloning the late Missy in 2007, it stopped
replicating dogs in 2009 because of black-market competition
from South Korea and unpredictable results, such as a clone born
greenish-yellow instead of the expected white, according to the
company’s website.  ‘Not as Lovable’  The duplicate Missy lacks its predecessor’s personality,
Sperling’s ex-wife said.  “The dog he paid millions to clone, he takes her to the
park at the Presidio, she seems like a disappointment,”
Virginia Sperling said. “She’s not as lovable as the
original.”  As pressure from Washington on for-profit colleges mounts,
Sperling has cut back other enterprises to fight for his main
business.  “A disproportionate amount of his time in the last 9-12
months has really been back on Apollo,” said Josh Rosen,
president and chief financial officer of  Southwest Solar
Technologies Inc. , a Phoenix-based startup in which Sperling,
its chairman and sole funder, invested $40 million. “As the
political environment has gotten more challenging, that has
taken up more of his bandwidth.”  He’s “not the least retired,” Joan Hawthorne wrote under
her Candida Lawrence pseudonym in “Vanishing” (Unbridled
Books, 2009). “He’ll run his company until he drops.”  For Related News and Information:
Bloomberg’s top stories: {TOP GO}
Menu of U.S. colleges: {USUV GO}
Menu of education organizations: {EDOR GO}
Stories about the Department of Education: {NI EDN GO}  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Golden  in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  