-- Polish Cabinet May Approve Pension Changes to Curb Widening Budget Deficit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-29T10:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/polish-cabinet-may-approve-pension-changes-tomorrow-fedak-says.html
The Polish government may decide as
early as tomorrow on a method for limiting transfers to private
pension accounts as it seeks to curb a widening budget deficit,
Labor Minister  Jolanta Fedak  said.  “As all the ministers and most of the economists agree
that the biggest problem right now is the excessive deficit, and
the pension funds generate that deficit, we should simply limit
transfers,” Fedak told  TVN24 news channel  in an interview.  Poland may permanently cut contributions to private pension
funds to 2 percent or 3 percent of salaries, from 7.3 percent
now, with the rest going to the state social-insurance fund,
Dziennik Gazeta Prawna reported on Dec. 22, citing a document
from Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s Economic Council.  Eastern European Union members including Poland have
diverted pension contributions from the pay-as-you go state
system to private accounts, setting up a model that the 27-
nation bloc says will be more sustainable. The overhaul sapped
their budgets of funds to pay current retirees.  Hungary decided to direct the contributions back to the
state to meet EU-imposed deficit targets after the European
Commission rejected a request to change the accounting rules for
the transfers.  Poland and the commission agreed this month that the burden
of payments to private funds will be “taken into account” when
the bloc evaluates deficits and debt, Deputy Finance Minister
 Ludwik Kotecki  said. The new rules would apply during the EU’s
excessive-deficit procedure, which puts sanctions on countries
with budget shortfalls wider than 3 percent of gross domestic
product, the ministry said in a  statement  on Dec. 12.  Deficit Swells  Poland’s  general government deficit  has more than
quadrupled since 2007 even as the country became the only EU
economy to avoid recession during the credit crisis. The gap
will swell this year to 7.9 percent of GDP, according to EU
forecasts. It stood at 1.9 percent in 2007.  Since 1999 Poland has transferred 211 billion zloty ($69.6
billion) of employee contributions to the private funds, the
equivalent of a third of the country’s public debt. Total
borrowing would be about 40 percent of GDP if government bonds
held by the pension funds were excluded, according to Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski .  Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  proposed suspending budget
transfers to the private funds to keep public debt from
exceeding 55 percent of gross domestic product, which would
trigger austerity measures. The government expects the ratio to
rise to 53.2 percent this year, or 55.4 percent under EU
accounting standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  