-- Polish State-Owned Bank BGK Sells Euros, Driving Zloty Higher, Traders Say
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-29T14:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/polish-state-owned-bank-bgk-sells-euros-driving-zloty-higher-traders-say.html
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego , a
Polish state-owned lender, sold euros today, helping push the
zloty to its biggest gain in a week, three traders said.  The lender known as BGK started selling at a rate of about
3.99 zloty per euro, said Warsaw-based traders, who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public. It came into
the market again at around 3.9770 against the common currency,
one of them said. The zloty strengthened 0.6 percent to 3.9689
per euro as of 3 p.m. in Warsaw, the most since Dec. 23.  Countries from Brazil to Thailand and Japan to Switzerland
have sought to affect the value of their currencies through
taxes, dollar sales and other measures. Analysts at banks
including BNP Paribas SA and ING Bank Slaski SA have said Poland
may try to shore up the zloty before the end of the year, to
keep foreign borrowing from pushing total debt in local-currency
terms above levels that would trigger austerity measures.  “The Finance Ministry is definitely behind these
transactions,”  Rafal Benecki , a senior economist at ING, said
by phone from Warsaw. “They are trying to stabilize the public
debt and taking an opportunity to convert some of their large
pile of hard currency.”  Piotr Stalega , a spokesman for Warsaw-based BGK, didn’t
answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking comment. The
Finance Ministry doesn’t comment on “market transactions or the
lack of them,” its press office said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  Weaker Zloty  The ministry was continuing to “take advantage” of a
weaker zloty to exchange part of its 5.6 billion-euro ($7.4
billion) holdings,  Piotr Marczak , head of the ministry’s public
debt department, said on Nov. 29.  BGK, which sometimes exchanges foreign currencies for the
Finance Ministry, sold 5 million euros directly to each of the
three banks today, according to the traders. The bank has become
more active on the market in the past week, and may have sold
about 150 million euros on Dec. 27, three traders said on that
day. The bank also exchanged currency at about 4.04 zloty per
euro on Dec. 10, two traders said at the time.  Poland’s public debt will reach 53.2 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of the 2010, with an average zloty
rate of 3.9 per euro in this period, according to the Finance
Ministry debt management strategy  published  in September. If
debt exceeds 55 percent of GDP it would prompt mandatory
spending cuts and tax increases under the public finance law.
Poland holds general elections next year.  Public Debt  The public debt stood at 746.1 billion zloty at the end of
the third quarter, including the equivalent of 202.1 billion
zloty denominated in foreign currencies, the ministry said on
Dec. 10. The ministry uses the exchange rate from the last
working day of the year to determine the 2010 public debt level.  The last time Poland said it exchanged foreign currency on
the market through BGK was on Feb. 18, 2009, converting European
Union funds the day after the zloty dropped to 4.9307 per euro,
the lowest level in almost five years. The Finance Ministry
called the transaction a “standard operation” to take
advantage of “a very attractive exchange rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  