-- Facebook, Twitter Trading in Private Spurs Questions About Financial Data
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-12-29T21:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/private-trades-of-facebook-spur-questions-about-transparency.html
Private trading that helped spur
paper gains of 50 percent or more in companies such as Facebook
Inc. and Twitter Inc. is raising questions about how much
investors know about their financial condition.  Facebook, Twitter and other venture-backed Internet
companies have seen their combined value rise 54 percent since
June, according to a report this month by Nyppex LLC that
focused on so-called secondary transactions that involve buying
stock from existing shareholders. The Wall Street Journal and
New York Times reported that the Securities and Exchange
Commission is seeking information about transactions in
Facebook, Twitter, Zynga Game Network Inc. and LinkedIn Corp.  While backers of venues such as New York-based  SecondMarket
Inc.  that match buyers and sellers in private companies say they
meet a demand where no public market exists, Frank Mazzola of
Felix Investments says it makes sense regulators would want a
clearer picture of trading.  Dixon Doll , co-founder of the
venture-capital firm DCM, says regulators may be studying how
the venues affect rules related to how many people own companies
that aren’t registered for trading.  “Any time when you have something that’s growing and
dealing with private investors, scrutiny is a good thing,” said
Mazzola, a partner at New York-based Felix Investments LLC,
which arranges pools to invest in nonpublic companies. His
firm’s rivals in that business include EB Exchange Funds LLC and
GreenCrest Capital LLC.  Letters  The SEC sent letters to several participants in the buying
and selling of the stock and the focus of the inquiry is
unclear, according to the New York Times, which cited two people
with direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be named
because they weren’t authorized to speak about it. The probe is
at a preliminary stage, according to the Wall Street Journal,
which cited people familiar with the matter.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said that the agency
routinely makes information requests to search for trading that
might push the boundaries of securities law, but that any such
correspondence would not be released publicly.  “We have not received any inquiry, formally or informally,
from the SEC,” said  Mark D. Murphy , a spokesman for
SecondMarket. Allison Bedard wrote in an e-mail that SharesPost
Inc., a SecondMarket rival, “does not comment on any specific
confidential discussion with any third parties.” Bedard
represents the company at Schwartz Communications Inc.  Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Facebook,  Jenna Sampson  of
Twitter,  Dani Dudeck  of Zynga and Julie Inouye of LinkedIn
declined to comment when reached by telephone.  ‘Extremely Sophisticated’  Broker dealer SecondMarket and  SharesPost  in Santa Monica,
California, help owners of stock in closely held firms look
online for buyers and negotiate the value of shares in private
transactions. Buyers on SecondMarket must meet regulatory
requirements on financial backing before signing up for an
online auction, monitored by exchange managers, where registered
sellers have posted shares. On SharesPost, users connect with
counterparties on a bulletin board.  “Most of the leaders from the buying side I’m aware of fall
into the category of extremely sophisticated institutional
investors,” said Doll, co-founder of the venture-capital firm
DCM, which he says doesn’t own shares of Facebook, Twitter,
Zynga or LinkedIn. “Obviously these companies are not public
from the standpoint of having a daily freely traded market, but
if you ask, are they public? Can people get liquid? It’d be hard
for any smart investor to say no.”  500 Shareholders  By creating pools through which investors can buy the
stock, companies such as Felix, EB and GreenCrest have helped
Facebook keep its shareholder count at 499 or less, the maximum
number a company can have before it has to disclose results to
the public. The SEC requires companies with more than 500
shareholders to increase disclosures about their finances.  Facebook requires employees to hold shares until it
declares an open-trading period, a person familiar with the
matter said earlier this year. Facebook instituted the policy to
better comply with insider-trading laws and to protect the
interests of the company and its employees and shareholders,
Thaw said.  “As far as I see, everyone is doing things in ways that
are fully compliant with current SEC regulations,” Doll said.
“I hope that the SEC will eventually recognize that the
initiatives like this are good for everybody in the industry.”  SecondMarket is regulated by the SEC and Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, an industry group,  Adam Oliveri , a
SecondMarket managing director, said in April. The company
doesn’t target employees for its trades, and would rather work
with startups to help them better manage share trades, including
addressing worries about insider trading.  “Based on what I read in the New York Times article, it
wasn’t an investigation, it was an inquiry,” said Mazzola. “In
a situation like this where there’s a market that’s evolving,
they need to get their hands around it and make sure they’re
comfortable with the way this market is transacting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 