-- Putin Bans Vacations After Power Failures Create Travel Chaos at Airports
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-29T14:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/putin-bans-vacations-over-power-outages-travel-chaos.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  forbade some government officials from taking vacation
amid power outages and travel chaos caused by icy weather.  Putin, speaking at a government meeting today, ordered the
Transportation Ministry to review the work of airlines and
airports after delays stranded thousands of travelers at
Moscow’s two main airports. He also instructed the Emergency and
Defense Ministries to monitor power cuts in the Moscow region
and other areas of the country.  “No holidays at all until further orders,” Putin said,
adding that he was referring to top officials in affected
regions and in government agencies working to resolve the power
and travel problems. “Everyone must be at their post.” Russia
starts 10 days of public holidays on Jan. 1.  OAO  Aeroflot , Russia’s largest airline, only has enough de-
icing liquid to last until Dec. 31 and is waiting for more,
Chief Executive Officer  Vitaly Savelyev  told the meeting.  The situation with supplies is “critical,” he said.
Aeroflot canceled 200 flights in the past several days and is
trying to fly out stranded travelers. The airline hopes to
return to a normal flight schedule by Dec. 31, he said.  The main problem for Aeroflot has been insufficient de-
icing liquid, Transportation Minister  Igor Levitin  said
yesterday.  Several hundred people tried to storm their way into the
departures area at Moscow’s second-biggest airport,
 Sheremetyevo , on Dec. 27, state television channel  Rossiya 24 
reported. Aeroflot reported assaults on its staff and fights
between passengers.  Freezing rain on Dec. 26 interrupted operations at
Sheremetyevo and the biggest airport, Domodedovo, which also
suffered a power outage that left passengers in the dark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net ; 