-- Coal Shipments May Resume From Queensland Ports After Floods, Derailment
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-31T04:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/qr-says-queensland-rain-derailment-hurt-coal-exports-update1-.html
Coal exports from Dalrymple Bay,
part of the world’s largest export harbor for the fuel, may
resume tomorrow as supplies arrive at the Australian port after
train tracks are cleared following a derailment and flooding.  The Goonyella rail system, which brings coal from 22 mines
in the north-eastern state of Queensland, may reopen today, Mark Hairsine, a spokesman for  QR National Ltd ., said by phone from
Brisbane. Dalrymple Bay, which stopped loading vessels on Dec.
28 after depleting stockpiles, expects to be able to resume
operations “sometime tomorrow,” Andrew Garratt, a spokesman
for Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty., said in a phone interview.  “There are a number of trains banked up with coal behind
the derailment so we expect to get going fairly quickly once the
derailment has been cleared,” Garratt said. “Just how smoothly
the supply chain is running isn’t clear and only time will tell
about how quickly the miners are loading up at their end. There
will be some wet weather impacts, so it will be some time before
we see a regular supply back through the terminals.”  Flooding has destroyed cotton crops, halted coal deliveries,
shut mines and prompted  BHP Billiton Ltd .,  Xstrata Plc , Rio
Tinto Group and Peabody Enery Corp. to declare force majeure,
allowing them to miss contracted deliveries. Australia has
recorded its wettest September-to-November and more rain is
forecast in the first week of January, forcing evacuations of
flood-stricken towns across Queensland’s hinterland.  Forty-four ships are waiting off Dalrymple Bay to load coal,
Garratt said. Vessel-tracking data on Bloomberg showed 68 bulk
carriers off the Hay Point port area, which includes Dalrymple
Bay, as of 2:19 p.m. in Sydney. Among those anchored is the
Sakaide Maru, a 106,000 ton vessel that arrived unladen at Hay
Point on Dec. 17 from Japan, the ship-tracking data show.  Rail Closures  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for BHP Billiton Ltd., declined
to comment. Melbourne-based BHP controls the Hay Point Terminal,
which is about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) north of Brisbane
and has the capacity to export 129 million metric tons of coal a
year, mostly of the coking type used in steelmaking.  QR shut the Goonyella rail network on Dec. 24 after the
derailment of a Pacific National train. Flooding also shut the
Blackwater rail network that transports coal from mines for
export from the Port of Gladstone, about 450 kilometers north of
the state capital, Brisbane, QR’s Hairsine said yesterday.  BHP and Anglo American Plc declared force majeure yesterday
for mines in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, according to e-mailed
statements. Wesfarmers Ltd. has also suspended mining at its
Curragh North operation.  Cockatoo Halt  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. halted production at its Baralaba mine
in the Bowen Basin after water breached the pit wall, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement. The flooding is
equivalent to the 1-in-100 year flood design levels of the mine,
Cockatoo said. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining
company, declaration force majeure on Dec. 29.  “The severe monsoonal rain, on top of the significant
rainfalls in November and December, has had an adverse impact on
mining operations and has cut access roads and rail networks,”
London-based Rio said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange. It couldn’t provide a forecast for how much coal sales
may be cut, it said.  Australia accounts for almost two-thirds of the global
coking coal trade. The forecast for more rain threatens further
gridlock in an industry estimated to earn A$33 billion ($33
billion) in exports in fiscal 2011.  As floods ravage Queensland, a tropical cyclone is forming
off the nation’s western coast. Apache Corp. suspended two oil
fields and evacuated non-essential staff from the Varanus Island
gas processing plant.  A low system is expected to become a cyclone tomorrow
morning after moving off the Kimberley coast, the Bureau of
Meteorology said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  