-- Rubber Advances to Near Record as Buyers Lured by Yesterday's Price Tumble
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-29T08:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/rubber-advances-to-near-record-as-buyers-lured-by-yesterday-s-price-tumble.html
Rubber climbed to near a record on
speculation that a price slump yesterday may lure buyers amid
lingering worries over tight supply. The cash price remained at
an all-time high.  The June-delivery contract advanced as much as 1.1 percent
to 412.2 yen per kilogram ($5,010 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange and settled at 411.1 yen. The price tumbled
2.4 percent yesterday, the biggest drop since Nov. 24. The most-
active contract climbed to a record 419.3 yen on Dec. 27.  “It’s a rebound after yesterday’s sharp decline,” said
 Hiroyuki Kikukawa , the general manager of research at IDO
Securities Co. in Tokyo. Gains may be limited as the yen
strengthened against the dollar, reducing the value of the
Japanese currency-based futures, he said.  The dollar traded near a six-week low against the yen as
U.S. data signaled an uneven recovery in the world’s largest
economy. The yen gained as much as 0.2 percent to 82.18 per
dollar.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will say
tomorrow its business barometer fell to 61 this month from 62.5
in November, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  U.S. consumer  confidence  fell in December to 52.5, lower
than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Confidence Board showed
yesterday.  Supply Concerns  The rubber market has been supported by expectations that a
supply shortage may worsen early next year as top exporter
Thailand enters a low-production period known as wintering,
Kikukawa said.  Latex production in Thailand is set to shrink as growers
reduce tapping of rubber trees from February to April. The
seasonal drop in output may worsen a supply shortage as global
demand will keep rising, led by car sales in China and India.  “Rubber prices are on the upward trend early next year as
buyers will build up stocks ahead of wintering season,” Navarat
Kaewpratarn, senior marketing official at Future Agri Trade Co.,
said by phone from Bangkok.  Supply of natural rubber from nine producers representing
92 percent of global output is expected to fall 6.3 percent in
the fourth quarter, cutting this year’s production growth to 5.7
percent, from 6.6 percent forecast in November, the  Association
of Natural Rubber Producing Countries  said in its monthly
bulletin.  Output from the association’s members is estimated at 9.42
million tons this year and may climb to 9.92 million next year,
the group said.  ‘Speculative Flows’  The tight supply situation continues in Thailand, Indonesia
and Malaysia,  Ker Chung Yang , an analyst with Phillip Futures
Pte, said by phone from Singapore. “Supply concerns will keep
speculative flows in the market,” he said.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai climbed 0.6 percent to
close at 36,255 yuan ($5,475) a ton. The price retreated from a
record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11 amid concern that China may take
steps to cool inflation and economic expansion.  The cash rubber  price  in Thailand remained at a record
149.55 baht ($4.96) per kilogram today as persistent rains in
the country’s southern provinces limit supplies, the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand said on its website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net 
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  