-- Trump Evokes Doubts of Fading Apprentice With Newest Link to Golf as Brand
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-12-29T17:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/trump-evokes-doubts-of-fading-apprentice-with-golf-as-brand.html
Donald Trump , the real estate
developer turned TV personality, is betting his name will boost
the value of his golf courses even as the premium for the brand
declines on condo properties and ratings slide on his show,
“The Apprentice.”  Trump has acquired nine golf properties in the U.S.,
including four since 2008, after mostly steering clear of using
his own money to buy real estate since 2005. In July, he started
building a 750 million-pound ($1.15 billion) luxury golf course
and resort in Scotland. Trump says that putting his name on the
courses increases membership sales and the fees he can charge.  The Trump name hasn’t prevented the failure of real estate
developments in Florida and Mexico, nor has it helped his New
York condos sell for more than other apartments in the city.
Trump buildings in Manhattan, whether he owns them or licenses
his name for the properties, command prices similar to or lower
than comparable towers, said Sofia Song, vice president of
research at  StreetEasy.com , which compiles real estate listings.  “There’s no obvious premium for the Trump name,” she said
in an interview.  With the Trump name appearing on  vodka , health products,
mattresses, furniture, cuff links, shirts, ties and a seminar
company once known as Trump University, the brand has been
devalued, said  Josh Feldmeth , chief executive officer of the New
York division of consulting company  Interbrand .  Brand Dilution  “Once that branding decision has been diluted, it becomes
difficult to charge a premium,” Feldmeth said. “He has cashed
out. He’s become kind of a circus sideshow. He’s not making
smart luxury decisions.”  Trump, 64, says the popularity of his brand continues to
grow and helped him navigate the recession better than most real
estate developers.  “The name is hotter than ever,” he said during an
interview at his 26th floor office in Manhattan’s  Trump Tower ,
where he has a view of Fifth Avenue, the Plaza Hotel and Central
Park. “It’s been hot as a pistol.”  Four units at New York’s Trump Plaza, at 167 E. 61 St.,
sold for an average of $791 a square foot in the third quarter
while three units at the nearby Savoy, at 200 E. 61 St., sold
for $1,203 a square foot, according to StreetEasy. The Savoy is
so similar to the Trump Plaza that Trump sued the Savoy’s
developer for copying his design.  Lower Prices  At the  Trump International Hotel & Tower  at 1 Central Park
West, four units sold in the third quarter for an average of
$1,577 a square foot, according to StreetEasy. That compares
with $4,089 a square foot for three condos at Time Warner
Center, a Related Cos. development across Columbus Circle.  Such comparisons are unfair, Trump said, because smaller
apartments without views command less per square foot. A condo
at Trump International sold in March for $33.2 million, or
$5,988 a square foot, one of six units in the building that each
sold for more than $13 million since 2007, he said.  “Those are all very, very successful buildings,” Trump
said.  At Manhattan’s Trump Soho, 32 of the 391 units had sold by
Dec. 9, when the 46-story hotel-condominium received financing
from CIM Group to repay debt owed to  iStar Financial Inc.   On Nov. 17, investors bought the 41-story Trump Hollywood,
in Hollywood, Florida, out of foreclosure. At the time, 22 of
the tower’s 200 condos had sold. The Trump Soho and Trump
Hollywood are both keeping the Trump name.  ‘Powerful’ Brand  “The Trump brand is powerful for a luxury product,”
Daniel Lebensohn, a partner in BH III LLC, the Miami investment
firm that paid $160 million for the $223 million note on the
Florida tower, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
internationally known.”  The failure of projects bearing Trump’s name has hurt his
reputation among institutional investors, said  John Arabia ,
managing director at  Green Street Advisors , a Newport Beach,
California-based provider of real estate research and advice to
investment banks, pension funds and private equity firms.  “In conversations with institutional investors, I don’t
know anybody who would give him money,” Arabia said. “He has a
worse reputation with institutional investors than he does with
mainstream America.”  Trump said he doesn’t need institutional money.  “I don’t have any problem financing because I self-
finance,” he said. “Everything I buy, I buy out of cash. We
have a tremendous amount of cash.”  Turnaround Deals  Trump declined to disclose how much money he has on hand.
He said he’s in the process of negotiating “11 turnaround
deals” with banks and other institutional investors who asked
him to take over troubled projects.  “The reason they want me is because I have the brand,”
Trump said. He declined to name any of the investors.  Condo buyers attracted by the brand last year joined
lawsuits against Trump-licensed condominiums in Tijuana, Mexico,
and Tampa and Fort Lauderdale, Florida. At least 300 people have
joined the lawsuits against Trump, seeking refunds of their
deposits on projects that weren’t completed.  Trump has denied responsibility and sought to be dismissed
from the suits because he wasn’t the developer. On Dec. 22, U.S.
District Court Judge  Adalberto Jordan  in Miami dismissed 11 of
13 counts filed against the Trump Organization, including ones
that named Trump as a developer of the Trump International Hotel
& Tower in Fort Lauderdale. In a separate case, a Broward
County, Florida, judge in October rejected Trump’s dismissal
motion in a lawsuit against the hotel.  ‘Celebrity Advertiser’  Donald Isbell, 64, a retired psychiatric nurse from
Oceanside, California, said he deposited $147,000 for a
$459,000, one-bedroom unit at the Trump Ocean Resort Baja
development in Mexico, where he was planning to live with his
wife. He applied for Mexican residency and bought a bottle of
Trump vodka to drink on the balcony of the ocean-view condo on
the day he hoped to move in.  “With a name like Trump, I thought I’m buying something as
safe as a T-bill,” said Isbell, who lost his deposit. “He’s
become nothing more than a celebrity advertiser. I couldn’t do
business with him again. Now I wish I could take back the
vodka.”  New York, Chicago  While condo projects struggle, Trump’s hotel properties in
New York and Chicago are outperforming their competition. The
Trump Soho hotel in New York, which opened in April, had an 86
percent occupancy rate, without all the rooms being available,
and an average nightly rate of more than $500 last month,
according to  Jim Petrus , chief operating officer at the Trump
Hotel Collection. The Trump International Hotel & Tower on
Columbus Circle had 89 percent occupancy and a room rate of
about $900, he said.  That’s higher than the 82 percent occupancy and $462.41
average room rate at New York luxury chain hotels, according to
Hendersonville, Tennessee-based Smith Travel Research Inc.  Trump is expanding his  golf  holdings as the number of
private clubs in the U.S. fell to 4,256 this year, down 3.4
percent from 2008, according to the  National Golf Foundation . In
addition to owning courses, he also stars in “ Donald J. Trump ’s
Fabulous World of Golf” on the  Golf Channel , which starts its
second season Jan 31.  “Golf clubs, I think, are some of the few cases where
we’re able to get great, great distressed deals,”  Ivanka Trump ,
the Trump Organization’s executive vice president of development
and acquisitions, said during the interview in her father’s
office. “You’re not seeing that here in the city in terms of
commercial office.”  Drop in Fees  The Trump name hasn’t prevented a decline in initiation
fees at Trump clubs as the recession weighs on consumers’
discretionary spending. At the Trump National Golf Club
Bedminster in New Jersey, for example, initiation fees have
dropped as low as $150,000 today from as high as $300,000 before
the recession, Donald Trump said.  “Demand for new golf courses in the USA has slowed to a
crawl,” said  Tom Doak , a Michigan-based golf course designer.
“It is a challenging time to maintain business at existing
courses. The economic downturn has to be having an effect on the
number of golf rounds played and the price people are willing or
able to pay.”  Richest People  Trump’s personal fortune is an estimated $2.4 billion,
 Forbes  said in September, ranking him 153rd on its annual list
of richest Americans. That’s up from $2 billion in the
magazine’s March estimate and excludes the value of his brand,
Trump said.  The brand was worth $3 billion in 2008, according to
Jonathan Low, a partner of West Palm Beach, Florida-based
 Predictiv LLC  who was hired by Trump to conduct an analysis for
the bankruptcy proceedings of Trump Entertainment Resorts Inc.,
the operator of three Trump-branded casinos in Atlantic City,
New Jersey.  “Based on data we’ve received subsequently, I don’t
believe it’s diminished significantly,” Low said in an
interview. “It’s a powerful brand, particularly given its
global impact. There doesn’t seem to be any dilution yet.”  Trump Entertainment exited bankruptcy in July after a judge
awarded control to Trump and his partners in a dispute with
investor  Carl Icahn . U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Judith H. Wizmur  said
in a ruling that “the Trump brand is worth millions of dollars
to debtors,” a factor that weighed in the Trump group’s favor.
Trump’s casinos have gone in and out of bankruptcy two other
times since the 1990s.  ‘Apprentice’ Ratings  Trump’s  “The Apprentice”  television series, which airs on
NBC, ended its 10th season on Dec. 9 in 82nd place. It drew 45
percent fewer viewers than the previous season, when the show
had celebrity contestants including singer  Cyndi Lauper  and
former New York Mets baseball player  Darryl Strawberry ,  NBC  said
in an e-mailed statement. The audience has shrunk 40 percent
from 2007, when the program last relied on unknown contestants,
who vie for a job with Trump.  “He basically peaked during the first two seasons in terms
of brand proposition,” said Feldmeth of Interbrand. “Any TV
show is ephemeral. He pressed it beyond its limit.”  Trump broke briefly from his office interview to welcome
 Kate Gosselin , the star of the reality show “Kate Plus 8.”
After she left, Trump said, “If Trump wasn’t doing well, the
stars don’t come up and kiss my ass.”  Trump Seminar  Other Trump-brand products have had mixed success. The
 Trump Entrepreneur Initiative , a seminar company formerly known
as Trump University, is on hiatus until next year because its
managers are “re-forming the company,” said Michael Cohen,
executive vice president and special counsel to Trump. The name
was changed in 2009 because the program had no academic
accreditation, Cohen said.  Sit ‘n Sleep  stopped selling the Trump Home mattress line
in mid-December due to lack of demand, said Larry Miller, chief
executive officer of the Gardena, California-based mattress-
store chain. The company, which has 22 stores in Southern
California, replaced Trump with the similarly priced Perfect Day
line. Perfect Day and Trump are both  Serta Mattress  products.  “Trump was just not highly successful here,” Miller said
in a telephone interview.  November was the best month for Trump mattresses in the
line’s history, said Cathy Hoffman Glosser, executive vice
president of global licensing for the Trump Organization. Sales
were up fourfold from a year earlier, she said.  Macy’s Sales  Sales of Trump-brand neckties and shirts also are up 30 to
50 percent this holiday season from 2009 at  Macy’s Inc.  stores,
which have exclusive rights to the lines, said  Allen Sirkin ,
president and chief operating officer of  Phillips-Van Heusen
Corp ., which licenses the Trump name.  Instead of licensing his name, Trump paid $3.7 million of
his own funds last Christmas for a lease with an option to buy
the Pine Hill Golf Club in New Jersey out of foreclosure. Trump
changed the name to  Trump National Golf Club Philadelphia  after
the nearby city. He repainted the brown clubhouse white and
increased membership by 200 to 330.  “I fixed it,” he said. “I re-branded it and the people
are through the roof.”  In June, Trump won preliminary planning approval to develop
a 1,400-acre (567-hectare) estate north of Aberdeen, Scotland,
where construction has begun on a course in his mother’s
homeland and birthplace of the game he said he now plays with
“a good 2” handicap.  “I got it built because they wanted Trump,” he said. “If
my name was anything else than Donald Trump, zero chance --
zero.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  