-- South Korea's Factory Output, Current-Account Surplus Signal Higher Rates
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-12-30T03:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/s-korea-current-account-surplus-was-1-93-billion-in-november.html
South Korea’s industrial production
increased for the 17th straight month and the current account
may post a $29 billion surplus this year, supporting the case
for the central bank to increase borrowing costs again.  Factory output  rose 10.4 percent in November from a year
earlier, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today. The current-
account  surplus  is expected to widen “a lot” in December after
narrowing to a seven-month low of $1.93 billion last month on
rising imports, the Bank of Korea said separately.  The data signal exports are weathering a 35 percent
appreciation in the nation’s currency against the dollar since
March last year, the biggest in Asia. Moves to pare the gain by
reviving taxes on overseas investment in government debt and
discouraging foreign-currency speculation contributed to the
won’s steepest decline in six months in November.  “The won’s recent weakness due to capital controls is
apparently helping exports hold up,” said  Kong Dong Rak , a
fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul. “Given solid economic growth and growing inflation
pressures, the central bank will likely discuss a rate increase
next month and act in February.”  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,139.75 as of 12:03 p.m. in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
fell 2.9 percent in November, the steepest drop since May. The
benchmark  Kospi  stock index was little changed.  ‘Robust’ Exports  The current-account surplus “is expected to widen a lot
next month as exports remain robust,” Lee Young Bog, an
official at the Bank of Korea, said in Seoul today. “This
year’s total surplus won’t be much different from the $29
billion forecast earlier this month.”  The central bank left the nation’s  benchmark interest rate 
at 2.5 percent on Dec. 9 after raising borrowing costs by 0.25
percentage point in each of July and November from a record-low
2 percent. The benchmark lags behind last month’s 3.3 percent
pace of inflation.  Officials from Brazil to Taiwan and Thailand are trying to
curb currency gains driven by capital inflows. They have faulted
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to inject $600 billion into the
world’s biggest economy for threatening to depress the dollar
and intensifying capital flight to their higher-yielding markets.  South Korea said earlier this month that it aims to apply a
levy on banks’ foreign-exchange borrowings, will strengthen
punishment for inappropriate reporting of currency trades and
may tighten rules on derivatives in a bid to control incoming
foreign funds and prevent sudden capital flight.  Imports Climb  November’s current-account surplus compared with a revised
$4.89 billion in October, the Bank of Korea said in a statement
in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest measure of
international trade, tracking goods, services and investment
income.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, rose 23.6 percent last month from a year earlier, while
imports climbed 32.7 percent, according to the statement.  The increase in industrial production followed a 13.5
percent rise in October, Statistics Korea said. Output advanced
1.4 percent in November from October.  Exports  account for about half of South Korea’s economy and
have boosted earnings this year at companies including  Samsung
Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones.  Gross domestic product  increased 4.4 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier. It is set to rise 4.5 percent in
2011, while consumer prices may increase 3.5 percent next year,
from 2.9 percent in 2010, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  