-- Oracle Owed Interest by SAP in Infringement Case, Judge Rules
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-12-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/sap-must-pay-interest-in-oracle-infringement-case-judge-rules.html
Oracle Corp.  must be paid interest
on the $1.3 billion copyright-infringement jury verdict it won
against  SAP AG  last month, a federal judge said.  SAP, based in Walldorf, Germany, said the interest amounts
to about $16.5 million based on the calculation method ordered
yesterday by U.S. District Judge  Phyllis J. Hamilton  in Oakland,
California, who presided over the trial of the 2007 lawsuit.  Oracle , based in Redwood City, California, and the second-
largest maker of business application software behind  SAP ,
claimed it is owed $211.7 million in interest on the verdict, an
amount dating back to 2005 and 2006 when, Oracle claims, SAP
should have negotiated a license for the software copyrights
that were infringed. SAP argued it shouldn’t have to pay the
interest.  Hamilton didn’t specify an amount in her order. Instead,
she outlined a method of calculating the prejudgment interest
award based on a weekly average yield determined by the U.S.
Treasury.  “The court does not find that the rate should be
calculated separately for each year back to the date of the
hypothetical license negotiation,” Hamilton wrote. She ruled
the interest should accrue from the date of a “hypothetical”
date of a license negotiation with Siebel Systems Inc.  The $1.3 billion in damages awarded Nov. 23 for copyright
infringement by a now defunct SAP software maintenance unit
called TomorrowNow is the largest U.S. jury award of 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Proper Calculation’  “While we believe that Oracle should only be awarded
damages, we appreciate that the Court agreed with SAP on the
proper calculation of interest in this case which dramatically
lowered the amount,” Saswato Das, a spokesman for SAP, said in
an e-mail. “The interest the Court ordered, based on the
statutorily-set interest rate of .3 percent and the accrual
period of September 29, 2006, through December 23, 2010, is
approximately 16.5 million, rather than the over 200 million
Oracle was seeking.”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
a request for comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The case is Oracle Corp. v. SAP AG, 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 