-- Shanghai Pushing Gold to $1,600 Thwarts Fight to Shut Mines
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/shanghai-traders-pushing-1-600-gold-thwart-china-closing-silicosis-mines.html
Yu Zudong rides an orange truck
rattling down Xiaoqinling mountain in central China, past a
landscape pockmarked with gold caves and the garbage-strewn tent
homes of workers.  “Everybody here wants to earn a fortune,” says Yu, a
migrant miner who is taking a 24-ton load of gray rocks to a
grinder in the foothill town of Yuling.  Nearby, sitting in one of the shanties, miner Li Shanchi
waits for his next payday. He hasn’t worked for two months since
officials closed some mines after a fire killed nine workers on
the mountain, 800 kilometers (500 miles) southwest of Beijing.
His lungs are filled with dust he inhaled during a decade of
mining, he says, leaving him with silicosis, an incurable lung
disease.  The opposite fates of Li and Yu, both 31, show how China’s
hunger for gold will both help drive the price of the metal
higher, and at the same time undermine the country’s goal of
gaining control of its Wild West mining industry, interviews
with more than two dozen miners, analysts and labor activists
show.  China displaced South Africa as the world’s biggest gold
producer in 2007, the same year Li was diagnosed. Its imports
through October also rose almost fivefold from the total shipped
in last year, surprising analysts including  Yuichi Ikemizu , the
head of commodity trading at Standard Bank Plc in Tokyo.  “China is the biggest bullish factor in the gold market,”
says Ikemizu, who forecasts gold may hit $1,600 an ounce next
year. The price hit a record $1,431.25 an ounce on Dec. 7.
“Gold doesn’t have much room to go down.”  Trading Surge  Trade volume on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, set up in 2002
to end the People’s Bank of China’s monopoly on gold trading,
surged 43 percent in the year to Oct. 31 from the same period in
2009,  Shen Xiangrong , chairman of the bourse, said Dec. 2. The
country’s gold consumption may double in the next decade, the
 World Gold Council  forecasts.  Higher gold prices put at risk China’s efforts to clean up
an industry that relies on cheap labor working without adequate
protection, according to  Zhao Qingming , a Beijing-based senior
analyst at  China Construction Bank Corp.  Migrant workers move
from mine to mine without contracts, and are often unable to get
insurance or even compensation, the miners say.  China cut the number of licensed gold mines from 1,200 in
2002 to fewer than 800 last year. Yet miners are still flocking
to the mountain to feed Chinese gold demand that is growing
faster than the mines can satisfy it.  Victims Take Action  “The state has repeatedly issued orders to ban illegal
mining, but it hasn’t been totally stopped,” says  Gao Rukun , an
independent gold researcher based in Beijing. “With gold at
such a price it means huge interest for local governments,
companies and individuals.”  In the past two months, representatives of silicosis-
stricken gold miners from Yunnan in the south to Gansu in the
north, where more than 130 workers say they got sick in one
mine, traveled to Beijing to highlight their plight and seek
help. The disease is caused by inhaling too much silica dust,
which scars the lungs. It is irreversible, disabling and
eventually fatal, according to the  World Health Organization .  “Unless the Chinese government takes urgent action, it is
going to see more demonstrations by increasingly angry and
desperate citizens,” says Geoff Crothall, a spokesman for China
Labor Bulletin, a Hong Kong-based workers’ rights  group  that has
helped hundreds of occupational disease victims fight for
compensation. “And that is the last thing the government
wants.”  At stake is maintaining the balance between China’s
economic growth and social stability.  Social Harmony Risk  “Increased protection of worker health is part of the
economic development process that China is navigating,” says
economist  David Cohen , of Singapore-based Action Economics. “In
order to maintain its desired social harmony, China will need to
safeguard the health of the gold miners.”  The number of workers across all industries that got lung
disease from inhaling dust rose by 14,495 in 2009, up from
10,829 new cases the previous year, according to China’s
 Ministry of Health . About half of the 650,000 victims recorded
since the 1950s are coal miners who powered the country’s
industrialization. No figure for gold miners is released.  “This is just the tip of an iceberg,” says  Chang Kai , a
professor of labor law at  Renmin University of China  in Beijing.
“Our problem is a market economy with no proper labor rules and
laws.”  Villages of Death  A gold miner typically contracts lung disease faster than a
coal worker -- as early as three months into the job -- and can
die faster, says  Li Yuhuan , the former secretary general of the
China Coal Miner Pneumoconiosis Treatment Foundation, set up by
the state’s work safety authorities.  Until July, Li Yuhuan ran a medical facility in Beidaihe,
on the east coast. It treated victims by administering a lung
lavage, an operation to remove dust from the lungs that doctors
say can ease pain and prolong life. Tu Mingli, a doctor at Taihe
Hospital in Shiyan City where Li Shanchi was diagnosed, says a
fifth of the lung disease cases it now sees are gold miners.  On the border of Hubei and Shaanxi provinces, a region
which has fed workers including Yu and Li to the mountain 400
kilometers to the north for two decades, local leaders and
villagers make their own count of cases. Their unofficial toll
in one cluster of eight villages is 64 dead and more than 400
diagnosed or suspected, according to interviews with them.  Gold Earrings  Clinging to steep mountain slopes, the area has no
industry, forcing workers to seek jobs elsewhere. In miner Li’s
hometown of Hongjun, his next-door neighbor He Quangui says
profits from mining in 2000 enabled him to buy his wife Mi
Shixiu a pair of gold plum flower-shaped earrings. After he was
diagnosed with silicosis a few years later, the couple sold them
to help pay for lung treatment.  “We haven’t been able to afford gold since,” He said. The
piercings in Mi’s ears are empty, a framed photo on the ledge of
their bedroom window the only remaining sign of gold.  Tales of death and sickness are told in villages in every
direction. In Fengji, 20 minutes south of Hongjun by road, the
noise of car engines couldn’t drown out the wheezing of Zhang
Jianbin, sitting on a red wooden chair outside his house on a
sunny November afternoon. Hardly able to talk, he was wrapped in
four layers of clothing, the bags under his eyes swollen. He
spent his nights hooked up to an oxygen tank. Two days later, he
died.  Coffin at Home  In Xiaoxinchuan village, 70 kilometers north, Qi Zeming’s
living room is dominated by a mahogany coffin his family built
with timber from nearby trees.  “They made that for me,” says Qi, 33, squatting in the
corner of the porch, his eyes lifeless, trying to warm himself
in the sun. “I’ve not been well recently.”  Pleas for help to the township government of Hubeikou, fall
on deaf ears, says Yuan Meng, the chief of Xiaoxinchuan. He
tallies 19 dead and 24 more diagnosed with silicosis.  “We report the issue each year,” he says. “They simply
said we should tell villagers not to go to the gold mines.”  Ha Rongxia, head of Hubeikou township, says there isn’t a
policy or budget to help occupational lung disease victims.  “There isn’t much we can do other than show our
sympathy,” she says.  China’s State Council announced a plan last year to  limit 
the growth of occupational lung diseases. The sicknesses are
caused by irresponsible employers, weak supervision, and poor
prevention measures, it said.  Fragmented Industry  The Chinese government has implemented measures to
strengthen production safety,  Jiang Yu , a spokeswoman for the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said Dec. 23.  China’s supervision focuses on fatal accidents and doesn’t
pay enough attention to chronic disease, says  Yang Shaoshan , who
retired as director of the Gold Administration in China’s
northeastern Jilin province last year.  The fragmented industry on Xiaoqinling mountain, straddling
Henan and Shaanxi provinces, illustrates the size of the
challenge. All production sites in one 6.3 square kilometer
upper stretch of valley on Xiaoqinling are licensed to  Wenyu
Gold Mines , says Liu Jinlu, an administrator at the company’s
headquarters in Yuling.  Wenyu, part of state-owned  China National Gold Group Corp. ,
outsources mining to labor companies, which are responsible for
workers’ welfare, Liu says. Any private miners who sell ore from
the company’s territory are acting illegally, he says.  ‘Stealing From Mines’  “On the surface they offer labor, and we pay for that,”
Liu says. “But Chinese are flexible on anything. If we know
they’re stealing from the mines, we’ll punish them.”  Yu, the migrant miner, secured his spot inside a 1,000
meter-high cave in the area last year from subcontractors of
Wenyu, he says. Middlemen get 30 percent of his rocks, he says.  Yu says he hopes his latest load of ore will yield 150
grams of gold, earning him 15,000 yuan profit that he will share
with his three co-workers.  “There’s a lot of subcontracting,” Yu says. “It’s the
way it is on the mountain. I don’t know the deal between Wenyu
and the bosses.”  The practice of parceling out mines to small-scale
operators, though illegal, is a countrywide phenomenon that
leads to poor safety conditions and damages the mines, says  Shen Lei , a researcher at the Beijing-based  Chinese Academy of
Sciences .  “It will exhaust the resources and breed corruption,”
says Shen, who has studied consolidation efforts in Henan,
China’s second-biggest gold producing province.  Recycling Waste Rocks  Song Quanli , deputy party secretary of Beijing-based China
Gold, Wenyu’s parent, says he isn’t aware of the practice on
Xiaoqinling. The group plans to build its own workforce to
improve safety and ensure better environmental protection, he
says. He didn’t give a timetable for the plan.  As the price of gold rises, the state-owned company is
starting to mine low-grade sites and recycle waste rocks, Song
says. Its gold mine production this year will be about 32 tons,
up from 18 tons in 2006, Song says.  With 4 percent of the world’s known gold reserves, China’s
mines may be exhausted within six years, the World Gold Council
says.  Wang Jianhua , chairman of Jinan-based  Shandong Gold Group ,
is more sanguine. The group may increase mined output this year
by 18 percent to 25 metric tons, he said in a Dec. 2 interview
at a gold conference in Shanghai.  “I think there’s much potential if we negotiate with
nature,” Wang says.  Raising Output  Gold production increased 8.8 percent through October from
the same period a year earlier. In recent years, a number of
small-scale, low-grade and high-cost mines were rapidly brought
into production to feed the boom, GFMS Ltd., a London-based
research firm, said in an April report.  In Yuling, in the shadow of Xiaoqinling, more than 100
makeshift storefronts display signs offering to buy gold. Family
businesses inside rely on private operators for raw gold, which
they heat in ceramic bowls to purify. The shops’ gold ends up
with buyers including  Lingbao Jinyuan Tonghui Refinery Co. , a
 supplier  to the Shanghai exchange.  Business has been slow since the fatal mine fire in
October, says shop owner Zhang Xiaokang, 38.  “When there’s an explosion up on the mountain or water
gets polluted, the government cracks down hard on the mining,”
says Zhang, inside the Switzerland Gold Shop where he keeps
track of prices on the exchange by computer. “Everything gets
shut down and nobody sells to us.”  No Safety Checks  Yu Yigui, 38, is one of six survivors of the blaze. He kept
his face close to a dirty water pool and covered it with a
soaked sock as heavy smoke engulfed the cave until rescuers
arrived a few hours later, he says.  The miner says he worked for one of several private
operators in the cave and earned a profit share from gold sold
to collector shops. He says he can’t recall any safety checks on
the mine, where colleagues smoked, during the two months he
worked there.  The mine’s operator, state-owned  Tongguan Tonggold Mine
Industry Co. , had no valid mining license and safety permits,
according to a report on the website of the  Shaanxi Work Safety
Administration .  Che Xusheng, the company’s chairman, said in a phone
interview that labor outsourcing is a standard business practice
and the mine was subject to safety inspections.  Defying Doctors’ Orders  In the mountainside shanty, miner Li says he continues to
seek work in the mines, even though his clogged lungs frequently
leave him gasping for breath.  “Doctors warned me not to drill again,” says Li, whose
wife Wang Zhongmei earns 1,000 yuan ($150) a month cooking for
miners. Their two-year-old son Xinxin -- whose name includes six
Chinese characters for gold -- plays nearby. “Occasionally I
still do it. I need the money.”  As he waits for the mines to open, Li says he hasn’t sought
compensation, deterred by the difficulty.  “I’ve been out there for too long and in too many
places,” says Li. “Who would admit that I got sick in their
mine?”  To qualify for compensation, workers need a diagnosis from
a hospital and proof of employment. The process can prove
bewildering for migrant workers, says Crothall, with the Hong
Kong worker rights group.  ‘It’s Depressing’  “None of them have work contracts,” says Taihe Hospital’s
Tu. “We cannot help but shake our heads. It’s depressing.”  Even as awareness of occupational disease spreads, a new
generation of miners from the villages around Hongjun still
feels the lure of Xiaoqinling. Among them is 20-year-old Zhu
Rongxing.  Zhu first went into the caves in May, earning 3,000 yuan a
month, triple what he made in a factory in southern China.  “You don’t earn money without taking risks,” says the
long-haired Zhu.  His mother, She Fazhen, doesn’t want him to go. She has
reason to worry. Her first husband was swallowed by a mud pool
at the mines. Her second spouse has silicosis.  “On the front line, other soldiers go up when their
buddies die,” she says. “That’s how the mountain looks to me.
The dead are carried back, and the living continue to go.”  -- Fan Wenxin  in Shanghai. With assistance by Feiwen Rong, John
Liu and Yidi Zhao in Beijing, Margaret Conley in Shanghai and
Chanyaporn Chanjaroe in Singapore. Editors:  Neil Western ,  Robert L. Simison .  To contact the Bloomberg News Staff on this story:
Fan Wenxin in Shanghai at 
 Wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 