-- South Korea Limits Banks' Access to Currency Derivatives After Won Gains
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-29T07:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/south-korea-limits-banks-access-to-currency-derivatives-after-won-gains.html
South Korea plans to tighten curbs
on banks’ holdings of foreign-exchange derivatives, lowering
existing limits by a fifth, according to an official at the
country’s financial regulator.  Local branches of overseas banks will be allowed to hold
contracts equivalent to no more than 200 percent of their equity
capital, down from 250 percent currently, and the cap for
domestic banks will be cut to 40 percent from 50 percent, said
the  Financial Supervisory Service  official, who declined to be
identified because the plan isn’t public yet. The finance
ministry will announce the changes in January, he said.  Nations from China to South Africa are striving to limit
currency volatility as near-zero borrowing costs in the U.S. and
Japan spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging-markets.
South Korea’s existing limits on banks’ use of currency
derivatives took effect in October and are subject to review
every three months.  “They’re obviously concerned about trying to control
capital inflows and limit the impact this could have on the
currency,” said  Brian Jackson , Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. “But I’m a little bit
skeptical that this is a really big deal. I think it’s already
been pretty well-flagged in advance and the market has sort of
accepted that there are going to be a few limited measures.”  The Korea Economic Daily newspaper reported the planned
tightening two days ago, citing unidentified officials at the
finance ministry and the Bank of Korea, and said the new limits
on derivatives holdings will probably take effect in March.  Limited Impact  The planned changes aren’t expected to have much impact as
foreign banks’ local branches currently have contracts totaling
no more than 150 percent of their equity capital and domestic
banks’ holdings are 10 percent or less, the  Financial
Supervisory Service  official said. Exporter demand for currency-
hedging products is also unlikely to be affected, he said.  The government earlier this month said it will impose a
levy on banks’ foreign-exchange borrowings to help curb capital
flows. The National Assembly on Dec. 8 passed a bill that will
from Jan. 1 restore taxes on foreign investors’ holdings of the
nation’s bonds.  The Korean won rose 0.1 percent today to close at 1,146.35
per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has gained 1.5 percent so far this year and,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, will gain 9.2
percent by the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net 
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 