-- South Korea Better BRIC Candidate Than South Africa, Goldman Sachs Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-29T10:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/south-korea-beats-south-africa-as-bric-candidate-goldman-says.html
South Korea’s economy and growth
forecast make it a stronger candidate than South Africa to join
the BRIC group of major emerging markets, said Goldman Sachs
Asset Management’s chairman,  Jim O’Neill , who first coined the
term BRIC.  South Africa was formally asked on Dec. 23 to become a
member of the BRIC group that comprises Brazil, Russia, India
and China. President  Jacob Zuma  was invited to attend the third
BRIC heads of state meeting in Beijing in April.  South Korea, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey are “growth
economies” because they each account for about 1 percent of
global gross domestic product, O’Neill said in an e-mailed
report today from London. South Africa’s economy of $285 billion
compares with South Korea’s $833 billion, Turkey’s $615 billion
and Mexico’s $875 billion, according to World Bank  data.   “It is tough to see how South Africa matches up to these
four countries, never mind the BRIC countries,” O’Neill said.  Africa’s biggest  economy  is less than a quarter the size of
Russia, the smallest of the BRIC nations, while its population
of 49 million is dwarfed by China’s 1.36 billion, India’s 1.2
billion and Brazil’s 191 million.  Based on Goldman Sachs Growth Environment Scores, which
give countries a weighting to indicate their level of
sustainable growth and productivity, South Africa is ranked
108th out of 181 economies, with a score of 4.88. South Korea
has a score of 7.48, which is above the U.S. and Germany,
O’Neill said.  ‘Gateway’  South Africa has lobbied for stronger political and trade
ties with the BRIC nations, with Zuma making state visits to all
of the members since coming to power in May last year.  Maite Nkoana-Mashabane , minister of international relations and
cooperation, said on Dec. 24 that South Africa will act as a
“gateway” for the BRIC nations to increase investment and
trade in Africa.  “While this is clearly good news for South Africa, it is
not entirely obvious to me as to why the BRIC countries should
have agreed” to ask South Africa to join, O’Neill said.  O’Neill coined the BRIC term in 2001 to describe the four
nations that he estimates will collectively equal the U.S. in
economic size by 2020.  “When I created the acronym, I had not expected that a
political club of the leaders of the BRIC countries would be
formed as a result,” O’Neill said. “In that regard, the
purposes of the two might be regarded differently.”  Goldman Sachs identifies 11 emerging markets -- Bangladesh,
Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Korea, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Philippines, Turkey and Vietnam -- that have fast-growing
populations and the economic potential of the BRIC countries.  “If South Africa is going to be invited to be a permanent
member of the BRIC political club, it suggests others might then
decide to apply,” O’Neill said. “Certainly, their economic
circumstances and prospects would warrant it if South Africa’s
do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 