-- Coal Advances to Highest Price Since 2008 as South African Rail Lines Shut
-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 2010-12-29T14:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/south-african-coal-line-closed-for-next-two-days-after-train-derailment.html
Coal rose to the highest price since
2008 as two rail lines to Africa’s biggest export terminal for
the fuel closed after a derailment, adding to interruptions
elsewhere.  The lines will return to normal activity on Dec. 31,
Sandile Simelane, a spokesman for Johannesburg-based Transnet
Ltd., said by e-mail today. Export prices at the Richards Bay
Coal Terminal gained 14 percent to an average $128.10 a metric
ton in the week to Dec. 24, according to IHS McCloskey. That’s
the highest level since the week ended Oct. 3, 2008.  Coal deliveries will be hurt for at least a month because
of rains, QR National Ltd., Australia’s largest shipper of the
fuel by rail, said today. Disruption to Asian supplies has
boosted demand for coal from South Africa, traditionally a
provider to Europe.  “You have problems in Colombia, Indonesia, Australia
because of rain and Russia with rail-wagon shortages,”  Amrita Sen , an analyst with Barclays Capital in London, said by phone
today. The derailment in South Africa compounds the situation,
she said.  Purchases of South African coal by Asian countries came to
about 39.3 million tons in this year’s first 11 months, four
times the amount sent to Europe, according to data from
mjunction Services Ltd., a web-based trader.  Disaster Declaration  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia this year, including
Indonesia, the largest exporter of coal for power stations,
according to data compiled on the World Coal Association’s
website. Rain and floods in Queensland, Australia’s largest
sugar- and coal-producing region, forced the state government to
declare disaster zones and evacuate residents.  The South African derailment occurred at Commondale in the
KwaZulu-Natal province and involved 57 freight cars, according
to Simelane. The lines are run by Transnet, the country’s state-
owned rail, port and pipeline operator.  Benchmark European coal derivatives advanced and headed for
this year’s highest close. Coal for delivery to Amsterdam,
Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next year rose $1.50, or
1.3 percent, to $121 a ton at 12:58 p.m. in London. A close at
that level would be the highest for 2010.  The data are drawn from information supplied by ICAP Plc,
 GFI Group Inc ., Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Bloomberg and Tradition Financial Services.
McCloskey’s coal data are an average based on daily price
assessments and a market survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at   vwessels@bloomberg.net . 