-- Sumitomo Mitsui Targets $7 Billion in Wealth Assets Via Barclays Tie-up
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-12-30T04:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/sumitomo-mitsui-targets-7-billion-in-wealth-assets-via-tie-up.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
is targeting about 600 billion yen ($7.3 billion) in wealth
management assets through its tie-up with Barclays Plc, betting
Japanese will move away from traditional retirement savings.  “Several hundred billion yen in several years is the
picture I have now, meaning probably the range of 500 billion
yen to 600 billion yen of assets,”  Teisuke Kitayama , president
of Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value,
said in an interview in Tokyo this month.  The joint venture, set up by Sumitomo Mitsui’s Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. unit in April, is targeting the rising
number of Japanese households with more than 500 million yen in
investable assets. Kitayama aims to meet demand for wealth
management stemming from concern among retirement savers between
30 and 40 years old that an aging and declining  population  could
stretch the government pension system.  As Japanese reduce reliance on traditional forms of  savings 
and diversify retirement portfolios, demand for asset management
services will rise, Kitayama said in the interview on Dec. 10.  The Tokyo-based bank hasn’t disclosed the current size of
its wealth assets under management. Sumitomo Mitsui and  Barclays 
are wooing individuals in and around Tokyo and Osaka, the
country’s biggest metropolitan areas.  Richer Households  The number of households with net financial assets of more
than 500 million yen increased to 61,000 in 2007 from 52,000 in
2005, according to the latest data compiled by  Nomura Research
Institute Ltd . Total assets among the class grew to  65 trillion
yen  from 46 trillion yen over the three years.  Assets among households with more than 100 million yen and
less than 500 million yen rose 13 percent to 189 trillion yen in
the same period.  Sumitomo Mitsui outperformed its largest rivals on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange this year, climbing 9.5 percent.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest bank, lost 3.1 percent
in 2010 and Mizuho Financial Group Inc., the third largest by
market value, dropped 7.2 percent. Sumitomo Mitsui slid 1.8
percent to 2,895 yen at 1:45 p.m. in Tokyo.  Kitayama, 64, said he plans to tap the Barclays venture to
finance infrastructure projects in Africa, as he expects the
continent’s growing economy to spur loan demand as lending in
Japan slows.  Eye to Africa  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. this year agreed to ally with
Absa Bank Ltd., the South African unit of Barclays, the Japanese
bank said on March 31. Africa’s biggest economy will grow 3.5
percent next year, accelerating from an expected 3 percent in
2010, the International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6.  Sumitomo Mitsui isn’t the only Japanese lender expanding in
Africa. Mitsubishi UFJ agreed to buy about 3.9 billion pounds
($6 billion) of project finance assets from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc this month. The assets include loans for
electricity, natural-resource and infrastructure projects in
Africa, Europe and the Middle East.  Japan’s government is helping companies including
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd . and  Marubeni Corp . search for
resource, power and transportation projects in South Africa,
Namibia and Angola, all of which hold energy and commodity
reserves such as crude oil and uranium.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 