-- U.S. State Third-Quarter Tax Revenue Increased 4.8%, Census Bureau Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-29T15:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/u-s-state-third-quarter-tax-revenue-increased-4-8-census-bureau-says.html
U.S. state tax revenue increased 4.8
percent in the three months through September, rising for a
third-straight quarter as gains in consumer spending boosted
retail-sales levies, the Census Bureau said.  Revenue climbed $7.6 billion from the same quarter last
year, to $168.1 billion, according to Census  figures  released
today. The combined tax collections of state and local
governments rose $14.1 billion, or 5.2 percent, to $284.3
billion, a fourth straight gain, the bureau said in Washington.  The Census figures echoed a Nov. 30 report from the Nelson
A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, which said receipts from
July 1 through Sept. 30 increased in 42 states, including
California and New Jersey. Economists boosted their projections
for fourth-quarter consumer spending this month and U.S.
retailers had their best holiday-sales performance in five
years, according to MasterCard Advisors LLC.  “We’re continuing to see revenues recovering a little bit,
but the big issue remains what states do about the expiration of
federal assistance next year,” said Joseph Henchman, director
of state projects at the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit research
group in Washington. “While collections may be growing at a
pretty good annual rate, too many state budgets remain premised
on what they were getting during the boom times.”  Sales Taxes  The third-quarter state revenue gain was faster than the
rise in the previous three months, when receipts increased $3.8
billion, or 1.9 percent from a year earlier, to $204.3 billion.
State tax revenue totaled $700.3 billion for the year through
September, up from $691.6 billion in the previous federal fiscal
year.  It marked the first annual increase since fiscal 2008, as
the effects of the longest recession since World War II began to
ease. Sales taxes provide more than 40 percent of all state
receipts, according to Census Bureau figures. Five states -- New
Hampshire, Oregon, Alaska, Delaware and Montana -- don’t collect
a levy from retail transactions.  Two-thirds of states forecast revenue to fall short of
needs to maintain current services in the next fiscal year,
according to a July report from the National Conference of State
Legislatures. In November, the Denver-based group said 31 states
projected an $82.1 billion collective deficit for the year that
begins in July for most. In 15, no 2012 budget gap was expected.  GDP Growth  State tax collections reflect the accelerating pace of the
national recovery. U.S. gross domestic product, the broadest
measure of economic activity, increased at a 2.6 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, Commerce Department data show. The
pace may reach 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said on Dec. 16.  Property-tax receipts, which mainly benefit local
governments, increased 7.8 percent to $90.5 billion in the third
quarter, the Census Bureau said.  Individual income-tax collections gained $2.8 billion, or
4.8 percent, to $60.5 billion, while state corporate income
taxes declined $19 million, or less than 1 percent, to $7.9
billion. General sales taxes rose $2.8 billion, or 4 percent, to
$72.1 billion, while collections tied to alcoholic beverages,
cigarettes and motor vehicles also gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 