-- U.S. Dispatches Defense Team to Study Ivory Coast Evacuation Amid Violence
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-29T19:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/u-s-dispatches-defense-team-to-study-ivory-coast-evacuation-amid-violence.html
The U.S. dispatched a Defense
Department team to the Ivory Coast to review contingency
measures should escalating violence in the world’s leading cocoa
grower require the evacuation of diplomats.  It’s “part of prudent planning on the part of an embassy
in a situation such as Embassy Abidjan,” State Department
spokesman  Mark Toner  told reporters today on a conference call.
“There are no plans to do anything more than that at this
time.”  The precautionary steps follow a  Dec. 19 order  by the State
Department for the departure of all non-emergency personnel and
family members from the Ivory Coast until further notice. On
Dec. 16, the State Department issued a warning to U.S. citizens
that violence against them “cannot be ruled out.”  A grenade struck the outer perimeter of the U.S. Embassy in
Abidjan on that day. The attack caused only slight damage and no
injuries, the State Department said. The Pentagon team from
Washington arrived yesterday in Abidjan, Toner said.  Ivory Coast has been roiled by violent unrest since
President  Laurent Gbagbo  has refused to accept defeat in the
Nov. 28 run-off election that the United Nations, the U.S. and
other countries say was won by his challenger,  Alassane Ouattara . Gbagbo has rejected international calls to step down.  The political crisis has driven up the price of cocoa and
pushed the yields of Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds to a record 14.71
percent on Dec. 27. Cocoa has risen 8.3 percent since the
election on London’s Liffe exchange and was trading as high as
2,057 pounds ($3,187) per metric ton today.  West African Leaders  West African leaders met with Gbagbo to press him to give
up the leadership and plan a second round of talks next month.
Presidents  Thomas Boni Yayi  of Benin,  Pedro Pires  of Cape Verde
and  Ernest Koroma  of Sierra Leone today briefed Nigerian
President  Goodluck Jonathan , the current chairman of the
Economic Community of West African States, in Abuja, Nigeria’s
capital, after meeting Gbagbo in Abidjan.  Grain distributor Cargill Inc., the largest closely held
U.S. company, said on Dec. 20 it removed its “small number” of
expatriate employees. The company, which has operated in Ivory
Coast since 1998, declined to say exactly how many expatriate
employees it had working in the country.  Ivory Coast has been split between a rebel-held north and a
government-controlled south since a 2003 cease-fire ended
fighting that killed hundreds and displaced 1 million people.
The UN sent peacekeepers into the country in 2004 to monitor the
cease-fire, and currently has about 9,000 soldiers and civilian
police there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  