-- Three Hedge Funds Got Inside Data From Consultant Charged in U.S. Inquiry
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-30T12:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/u-s-prosecutors-in-new-york-charge-winifred-jiau-with-insider-trading.html
A former  Primary Global Research LLC 
expert-networking consultant was charged by U.S. prosecutors in
Manhattan with selling inside information to portfolio managers
at three unidentified hedge funds.  Winifred Jiau, arrested in Fremont, California, as part of
a national probe of insider trading, was accused of selling data
on  Nvidia Corp.  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. , makers of
computer components, through Primary Global, according to a
filing yesterday in Manhattan federal court. The hedge funds
paid her $200,000 through the firm, prosecutors said.  Jiau, 43, is the seventh person connected to Primary Global
to be charged in a U.S. insider trading investigation that has
ensnared company employees and consultants. The Jiau complaint 
shows prosecutors are gathering evidence of alleged insider 
trading against hedge fund employees.   The probe became public last year with the arrest of 
Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam . The FBI 
recorded thousands of conversations during their investigation of 
the firm, lawyers said at an October hearing. Rajaratnam, who 
denies the charges, is scheduled to go on trial in Manhattan 
next year.  Jiau is charged with one count each of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and securities fraud. She appeared yesterday in
San Francisco federal court and was ordered held in custody by
U.S. Magistrate Judge  Nandor Vadas , who set a hearing for Jan.
12 on whether to transfer her to New York. She is scheduled to
appear today to seek release on bail.  ‘Strong’ Evidence  The evidence against Jiau is “strong,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Wilson Leung told the judge, adding that there is a
“cooperating witness and audio recordings.” When asked by
Vadas if she understood the charges, Jiau said “I not have a
chance to know until now.” Barry Portman, her assigned public
defender, said the complaint is a “lengthy document.” The
first count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  Prosecutors claim Jiau began getting paid for insider
information in September 2006. In May 2008, Jiau separately 
gave two hedge fund portfolio managers, one of whom worked 
for two hedge funds, “on point and accurate” data about the 
quarterly financial results at Marvell before it was released 
to the public, prosecutors said. One of the funds netted more 
than $820,000 in profits based on that inside information, 
the FBI said.  Jiau also gave quarterly financial data in August 2008
about Marvell to the same two managers, referred to as 
unidentified co-conspirators CC-1 and CC-2 in the complaint.  Inside Data  CC-1 founded a New York entity referred to as Hedge Fund A
and CC-2 worked at two separate hedge funds, according to the
complaint. A cooperating witness who pleaded guilty, CW-1, began
working as a research analyst at Hedge Fund A in March 2008, the
FBI said in court papers.  CC-1 told the cooperating witness to get inside data from
various co-conspirators, including Jiau, the FBI said. She gave
inside information to CC-1 and CC-2, and the cooperating witness
listened to their conversations about Marvell, the FBI said.  CC-1 also recorded conversations with Jiau, and the
complaint quoted Jiau in conversations about Marvell’s second-
quarter earnings that the company announced on Aug. 28, 2008.  When CC-2 asked if she had data yet on the next quarter, she
said: “As soon as I get it, I give you guys a buzz,” according
to court papers.  CW-1 “understood that Jiau obtained the information about
Marvell and Nvidia from a source who was not authorized to
disseminate” it, according to the complaint.  ‘Expert Consultant’  Marilyn Gerber , a spokeswoman for Primary Global, said in
an e-mailed statement that Jiau served as an “expert
consultant” with the company from September 2006 to December
2008, declining further comment.  Jiau was the fifth Primary Global consultant arrested in an
insider-trading crackdown that also has led to criminal charges
against two other employees of the networking firm. One of the
consultants, former Dell Inc. supply chain manager Daniel
DeVore, pleaded guilty Dec. 10.  On Dec. 16, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents arrested
three others, technology company workers who allegedly sold 
secrets about  Apple Inc.,  Dell and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 
The men, who worked at  AMD , Flextronics International Ltd. and  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , were arrested on securities
fraud and conspiracy charges for a scheme that Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara  said operated from 2008 to early 2010.  James Fleishman , a sales manager at Primary Global, also
was arrested the same day as the three men. If convicted, all
four face as long as 20 years in prison.  Leaked Information  DeVore pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and wire fraud. He said he worked as a paid consultant for
Primary Global and, through the firm, accepted money from hedge
funds for inside information. At his plea hearing, he said he
leaked inside information to clients of Primary Global and New
York-based consulting firm Guidepoint Global LLC, according to a
transcript.  James Fingeroth , a spokesman for Guidepoint Global in New
York, declined to comment yesterday.  The expert-network arm of the Galleon probe was revealed
last month with the execution of search warrants at hedge funds
on Nov. 22, and the Nov. 24 arrest of  Don Ching Trang Chu ,
another Primary Global employee.  FBI Agents  FBI agents from New York and Boston executed warrants at
the offices of Level Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital
Management LLC, hedge funds founded by alumni of SAC Capital
Advisors. Agents that day also executed a search warrant at the
offices of Loch Capital Management. None of the firms or their
employees has been accused of any wrongdoing.  Expert-networking companies such as Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global match investors with specialists
who provide insight into specific markets. Prosecutors in the
case have described in criminal complaints the links among
Primary Global, the technology experts it employed and
unidentified hedge funds willing to pay for inside information.  Santa Clara, California-based Marvell, which makes chips
for the BlackBerry phone, declined to comment on Jiau’s arrest.
 Bob Sherbin , a spokesman for Nvidia, also based in Santa Clara,
said Jiau was a contractor who left the company a year ago,
declining further comment.  Lawsuit  A  Winifred Jiau  filed a sexual-harassment lawsuit against
her former employer, San Francisco-based Adteractive Inc., in
2007. The complaint said she has an undergraduate degree from
National Taiwan University and a Master’s degree in statistics
from Stanford University. The plaintiff in the lawsuit matches
the age and northern California residence of the Winifred Jiau
charged by prosecutors.  Jiau founded a company that got funding from Intel Corp.,
according to the lawsuit. In the suit, filed in California
Superior Court in San Francisco, the plaintiff claimed she
worked as a senior statistician for Adteractive from April to
July of 2006, when she was fired after refusing the alleged
sexual advances of a supervisor.  According to the civil suit, the plaintiff had “over ten
years of work experience building financial and economic
models” and she “started her own company that was funded by
Intel.”  The case was dismissed on Dec. 29, 2008, after the filing
of a notice of a confidential settlement, according to court
records. An Adteractive attorney, Aryn Pedowitz, declined to
immediately comment on the case.  Theo Emison III, a lawyer who filed the civil suit, said he
was unable to say whether his former client is the woman charged
yesterday.  Wiretap Recordings  Recorded and wiretapped conversations have been at the
center of the Galleon probe and its various branches. Investigators
said they made consensual and surreptitious recordings of an 
unidentified expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of an 
unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the 
consultants arrested Dec. 16 --  Mark Anthony Longoria , who 
worked at chipmaker AMD, and  Walter Shimoon , formerly of 
 Flextronics , a Singapore-based maker of electronic components.  At least two hedge funds are described in the complaint
against the men. Neither is identified by name.  The U.S. also made consensual recordings using five
cooperating witnesses, had a tap on mobile phones used by
Shimoon and Longoria, and recorded conversations at Primary
Global in November 2009, a month after Rajaratnam’s arrest,
according to court papers.  One Witness  At least five people have been working with the government 
in the insider-trading probe, according to court filings. Only 
one witness was identified by name:  Richard Choo-Beng Lee , a
former partner at San Jose, California-based hedge fund Spherix
Capital LLC. He began cooperating with the U.S. in April 2009,
according to the records, providing information to Bharara’s
office in the government’s case against Galleon. He pleaded
guilty in November 2009.  His partner at Spherix,  Ali Far , who also worked as an
analyst and portfolio manager at Galleon, pleaded guilty and is
aiding the U.S. in the Galleon probe.  The U.S. said Chu established a relationship with Lee and
that Spherix paid Chu’s firm, Primary Global, for tips
concerning Atheros Communications Inc., Broadcom Corp. and
Sierra Wireless Inc., according to the government’s complaint.  Luggage Packed  At yesterday’s court hearing in San Francisco, Jiau's defense
attorney Barry Portman told the judge that his client is a U.S. 
citizen and has known about the insider-trading investigation since 
mid-December. She didn’t attempt to flee, the lawyer said in his 
argument that she be released.  Leung, the assistant U.S. attorney, countered that Jiau is a 
“flight risk,” saying that when FBI agents went to her house, they 
found her car running and luggage packed.  The prosecutor told the judge that Jiau claimed she had just 
returned from a trip to Asia, though her trip, to Beijing, 
took place in October.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 10-Mag.-2900, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Pamela MacLean  in U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California in San Francisco;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 