-- U.S. Revokes Venezuelan Ambassador's Visa Amid Diplomatic Feud With Chavez
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-12-30T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/u-s-revokes-venezuela-ambassador-visa-official-says-correct-.html
The U.S. revoked the visa of
President  Hugo Chavez ’s ambassador to Washington as part of a
five-month diplomatic feud between the two countries.  Bernardo Alvarez , who has overseen Venezuela’s stormy
relations with the U.S. since 2003, was expelled after Chavez on
Dec. 28 said he was ready for the U.S. to break off diplomatic
ties, Venezuela’s communications ministry said. Chavez has been
refusing since July to welcome the Obama administration’s choice
of  Larry Palmer  as its next envoy to Caracas and on Dec. 20
delivered an official letter of protest rejecting the nominee.  “We said there would be consequences when the Venezuelan
government” refused to accept Palmer’s appointment, Mark Toner,
deputy State Department spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have taken appropriate, proportional and
reciprocal action.”  Palmer angered Chavez after the former U.S. ambassador to
Honduras told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that the
Venezuelan army has low morale and that members of the
government have “clear ties” with terrorist organizations in
neighboring Colombia.  Alvarez is currently in Caracas, Toner said.  Relations Rupture  Chavez blamed the rupture of relations on the U.S. for
sticking with a choice for ambassador who had “violated the
most elemental international laws and conventions” by openly
criticizing Venezuela.  “If the U.S. government is going to expel our ambassador
there, then do it. If the U.S. government is going to break off
diplomatic relations -- do it,” Chavez said in comments carried
on state television Dec. 28. “It’s not my fault. It’s theirs
for naming an ambassador who immediately goes to the press to
rant against the country where he is going as ambassador.”  Chavez said on Dec. 18 that Palmer would be turned back at
the airport if he were to board a plane for Venezuela.  In 2008, Chavez threatened to cut off oil sales to the
U.S., only to back down after a week. Venezuela sells more than
half of its oil output to the U.S., which got about 10 percent
of its crude oil imports from Venezuela in September.  Chavez had expelled the previous U.S. ambassador,  Patrick Duddy , in 2008, in solidarity with Bolivia, which sent home the
American ambassador there and accused the U.S. of backing
opposition movements in both countries.  Alvarez was expelled from his post in retaliation during
the earlier standoff. He was reinstated in June 2009 with
relations normalized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  