-- U.S. Bond Funds See Third Week of Withdrawals as Money Moves Into Stocks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-29T23:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/u-s-bond-funds-see-third-week-of-withdrawals-as-money-moves-into-stocks.html
Investors pulled money from taxable
and municipal bond mutual funds for the third straight week,
extending a flight from fixed-income that began in November.  U.S. bond funds had withdrawals of $4.4 billion in the week
ended Dec. 21, down from $8.6 billion the previous week,
according to a release today from the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based trade group. Taxable bond funds
experienced net redemptions of $837 million compared with $3.5
billion for municipal funds.  Equity mutual funds had deposits of $3.9 billion last week,
following two weeks of withdrawals. U.S. stock funds posted
their first weekly net deposits since April.  Investors are retreating from bond funds after signs of an
economic recovery and a stock market rally increased speculation
that interest rates will continue to rise. The selloff in
Treasuries accelerated after the Federal Reserve last month
pledged to buy $600 billion in assets to revive the economy. The
10-year note yields 3.35 percent, up from 2.39 percent on Oct.
7, the low for the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tax-exempt municipal bonds are heading for their worst
quarterly performance in more than 16 years, driven by rising
yields and the looming expiration of Build America Bonds.  Municipal investments have lost 4.5 percent this quarter
through Dec. 29, the poorest return since a 5.7 percent loss
during the first three months of 1994, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index, which accounts for
price changes and interest income.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has returned 15 percent in
2010 including reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertelt . 