-- Vick, Brady Are Pro Bowl Starters; Atlanta Leads NFL With Seven Selections
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-12-29T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/vick-brady-are-pro-bowl-starters-atlanta-leads-nfl-with-seven-selections.html
Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
 Michael Vick  was chosen to lead the National Football Conference
in the Pro Bowl in his first year back in the National Football
League after missing two seasons on a dog-fighting conviction.  New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  was selected to
start for the American Football Conference during the Jan. 30
game in Honolulu.  The Atlanta Falcons’  Matt Ryan  and New Orleans Saints’  Drew Brees  are backups to Vick, while  Philip Rivers  of the San Diego
Chargers and  Peyton Manning  of the Indianapolis Colts will back
up Brady.  Vick, whose team lost 24-14 last night to the Minnesota
Vikings, missed two seasons while serving prison time for his
involvement in a dog-fighting ring. Before his legal troubles,
he was in three Pro Bowls with the Falcons.  Joining Vick were teammates  DeSean Jackson ,  Jason Peters ,
 Asante Samuel  and  David Akers .  The Falcons, atop the NFC with a 12-3 record, had seven
players selected, and the Patriots had six players picked to
play in the Pro Bowl.  The New York Jets placed three players on the Pro Bowl
roster -- center  Nick Mangold , offensive tackle  D’Brickashaw Ferguson  and cornerback  Darrelle Revis . The New York Giants had
four players selected -- center  Shaun O’Hara , guard  Chris Snee ,
defensive end  Justin Tuck  and free safety  Antrel Rolle .  Baltimore, Green Bay and Dallas had five players voted in
yesterday. Buffalo, Cincinnati, Seattle and Tampa Bay had no
players chosen.  Five first-time Pro Bowl selections were voted onto the NFC
team, while 14 new names made the AFC. Ravens linebacker  Ray Lewis  was named to his 12th Pro Bowl team.  “Wow, No. 12 feels like No. 1,” Lewis said. “That never
gets old.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  