-- Vodafone Ready to Start Talks on Selling 44% SFR Stake, Daily Mail Reports
-- B y   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y
-- 2010-12-30T01:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/vodafone-ready-to-start-talks-on-sfr-stake-sale-daily-mail-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc , the world’s
largest mobile-phone company, is ready to start talks to sell
its 7 billion-pound ($11 billion) stake in SFR to  Vivendi SA ,
the Daily Mail reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Discussions will begin over the next few weeks on the sale
of Newbury, England-based Vodafone’s 44 percent holding in the
French mobile-phone company, the newspaper reported. An
agreement could be reached “quite quickly,” it said.  Paris-based Vivendi is unlikely to enter into talks to buy
the British company’s stake in the mobile operator until next
year, the French company’s Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  said last month. Vodafone CEO  Vittorio Colao  has said he is
reviewing the SFR stake’s future. Growth at the venture is
slowing and France is preparing for the entry of a fourth mobile
operator, discount broadband provider  Iliad SA , in 2012.  Vodafone and Vivendi have both been interested in buying
each other out of SFR since the French company paid 4 billion
euros ($5.3 billion) in January 2003 to gain control of the
company that owned SFR, trumping an offer from Vodafone. Arun
Sarin, Colao’s predecessor, sought to buy the rest of SFR during
his tenure between 2003 and 2008, with Vivendi refusing to sell.  Bobby Leach and Ben Padovan, spokesmen for Vodafone, did
not respond to e-mails sent outside office hours, and Padovan
could not be reached on his mobile-phone. An e-mail sent to
Antoine Lefort, a spokesman for Vivendi, seeking comment on the
report wasn’t answered.  Vodafone fell 1.9 percent, the most in a month, to 168.85
pounds in London trading yesterday. Vivendi rose 1.2 percent,
the most in almost three weeks, to 20.77 euros in Paris trading.  Minority Interest Review  Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner, has said he’s
reviewing all minority interests amid pressure from shareholders
to squeeze more out of the investments. The company said last
month is plans to sell securities in Japanese wireless operator
Softbank Corp. for 3.1 billion pounds as part of its plans to
hasten the disposal of minority assets to focus on data services
and other growth areas.  In September, the company sold a stake in China Mobile Ltd.
for $6.5 billion in the biggest divestment since Colao took
charge. The CEO is also reviewing its stake in U.S. operator
Verizon Wireless.  The British company hasn’t yet signaled that it’s ready to
initiate a sale, Vivendi Chief Financial Officer  Philippe Capron 
said on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  