-- Wheat Rises to Three-Week High on Bets Demand Will Increase for U.S Supply
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-29T20:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-29/wheat-prices-fall-as-snow-in-kansas-this-week-may-boost-dry-winter-crops.html
Wheat futures rose to a three-week
high as the dollar’s decline boosted prospects for exports from
the U.S., the world’s largest shipper.  The greenback dropped as much as 0.9 percent against a
basket of major currencies. Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat
importer, bought 60,000 metric tons from the U.S. yesterday.
Futures have jumped 48 percent this year as demand increased for
U.S. supplies after drought cut Russian output and floods
threatened crops in Australia.  “The price of U.S. wheat becomes cheaper and a lot more
competitive as the dollar breaks,” said  Mike Zuzolo , the
president of Global Commodity Analytics & Consulting in
Lafayette, Indiana. “For Egypt and the Middle East, sourcing
wheat from the U.S. gets better-looking than France or
Argentina.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 1 cent, or 0.1
percent, to settle at $7.9925 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The commodity earlier reached $8.0625,
the highest since Dec. 7.  Earlier, prices fell as much as 2 percent as forecasts for
 snow  in the Great Plains raised speculation that winter crops
will improve, Zuzolo said. Parts of Kansas, the biggest winter-
wheat producing state, may get 2 inches (5 centimeters) by Dec.
31, according to the National Weather Service.  Snow may accumulate mostly in northeast Colorado, western
Nebraska and northwest Kansas, while growing areas further south
may “miss the brunt of the storm,”  Allen Motew , the director
of QT Weather in Chicago, said in a report.  “The next strong storm looked as if it would offer some
hope of widespread protective snow cover for the region, but is
now expected to come up short,” Motew said.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  