-- WRAPUP 1-U.S. Oct producer prices, retail sales down
-- By  Glenn Somerville
-- Tue Nov 14, 2006 9:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/14/economy-idUSN0928443120061114

 

 WASHINGTON  Nov 14 (Reuters) -  Cheaper energy helped push
U.S. producer prices down steeply during October but also
contributed to a decline in retail sales, according to
government reports on Tuesday showing a modest softening in
economic activity last month. 

  The Labor Department's Producer Price Index (PPI) that
measures prices at the factory and farm level dropped 1.6
percent, matching a record fall in October 2001 and was three
times the decline Wall Street analysts had predicted.  Core producer prices that exclude food and energy fell 0.9
percent, the biggest decline since a 1.2 percent fall in August
1993.   "These numbers are the latest indication that the U.S.
economy is slowing and that inflation is in fact,
decelerating," said Mark Meadows, a currency strategist with
Tempus Consulting in Washington.  Bond prices rose on the signs of reduced inflationary
pressures in the PPI report while stocks opened higher as some
key retailers reported higher earnings that bolstered hopes for
the holiday spending outlook.  Prices in futures markets showed investors still believe
U.S. Federal Reserve policy-makers will keep rates steady at
their final policy session for this year in December. But
chances for a cut in January rose to 6 percent from zero and
prospects for a March cut rose to 30 percent from 22 percent
late on Monday.  Falling new-car and truck prices also were a significant
factor pushing down producer prices. Light-truck prices dropped
a record 9.7 percent in October after rising 3.5 percent in
September while passenger car prices fell 2.3 percent after a
2.8 percent gain in September.  Department officials said that excluding car and truck
prices, October core producer prices were up a slight 0.1
percent.  RETAIL SALES  The Commerce Department said overall retail sales fell 0.2
percent in October on top of a 0.8 percent drop in September.  Last month's drop was not as steep as the 0.4 percent
decline analysts had predicted, primarily because new-car sales
that account for a significant part of monthly sales climbed
0.6 percent following a revised 0.7 percent gain in September.  The Commerce Department said that if sales of new cars and
parts were stripped out, October retail sales fell 0.4 percent
-- somewhat steeper than the 0.2 percent analysts had
forecast.  But analysts said it did not appear that consumers were
throwing in the towel on spending and said that was an
encouraging sign.  "In general, when we're looking at the macro picture, you
want to know how is the consumer doing, and excluding gasoline
purchases, it's a fairly good number," said Richard Sichel,
chief investment officer with Philadelphia Trust.  A separate and more current survey of U.S. chain-store
sales, the Johnson Redbook Index, showed sales in the week
ended Nov. 11 rose 3.3 percent on a year-over-year basis. That
was just slightly below the prior week's 3.4 percent rise.  A similar survey by the International Council of Shopping
Centers and UBS Securities found chain store sales rose 2.1
percent in the Nov. 11 week year-on-year.  The Labor department said energy prices fell 5 percent in
October on top of September's 8.4 percent decline. Natural gas
prices for home heating were down a record 9.3 percent last
month.  The department said prices for light trucks plunged a
record 9.7 percent in October after rising 3.5 percent in
September. It was the largest fall since records were started
in 1964. Passenger car prices were down 2.3 percent last month
following a 2.8 percent gain in September.



