-- Delta's Comair, pilots' union try to buy more time
-- 
-- Thu Dec 28, 2006 3:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/28/businesspro-comair-pilots-dc-idUSN2817598120061228

 

 WHITE PLAINS, New York  (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines 
DALRQ.PK unit Comair and its pilots' union have reached a 
deal that, if approved, would give the two sides more time to 
negotiate a new contract, the airline said on Thursday. 

  The union's master executive council is expected to vote on 
the deal as early as Thursday, Comair's lawyer John Gallagher 
said during a hearing in White Plains, New York.  The deal, if approved by the union leadership, would take 
away a measure of urgency from the process and give the two 
sides another 45 days to work toward a consensual agreement on 
a new contract.  The airline was planning to impose court-approved terms on 
the pilots on December 30, ahead of an increase in costs it 
would have had to incur under the existing contract on January 
1.  Under the terms of the deal, Comair would not cut pilots' 
pay or change work rules as it had initially planned to do on 
December 30. In return, the airline will be able to avoid $11.5 
million annually in costs from increased pilot pay rates and 
contributions to pilots' defined benefit pension plan.  A deal would also avoid the immediate need for a court 
ruling on whether the pilots can strike if Comair imposed its 
terms on them.  Comair, which has been operating under bankruptcy 
protection, won court approval earlier this month to reject its 
pilots' contract. But it asked the court to clarify what terms 
it could impose on pilots and to grant an injunction preventing 
a strike or other disruptions by workers.  The pilots' union, the Air Line Pilots Association, had 
asked the bankruptcy court to delay imposition of any changes 
until it could appeal the ruling rejecting its contract.  If the union's leadership does not approve the deal, the 
two sides plan to ask the judge to rule on these issues on 
Friday, Gallagher said.