-- Federal Reserve to delay FOMC minutes to January 3
-- 
-- Thu Dec 28, 2006 6:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/28/businesspro-usa-fed-minutes-dc-idUSN2821182020061228

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve Board said on 
Thursday it will delay the release of minutes for the Federal 
Open Market Committee's December 12 meeting until 2 p.m. EST 
(1900 GMT) on Wednesday, January 3, due to memorial 
arrangements for former President Gerald Ford. 

  The Fed had originally scheduled release of the minutes on 
Tuesday, January 2, but the Fed offices in Washington will be 
closed for a national day of mourning for Ford.  However, the Fed said its 12 regional banks will be open 
and operating during normal business hours on January 2 and 
will provide all financial services as usual.  At its last meeting on December 12, the Fed's 
policy-setting committee kept the benchmark federal funds rate 
target steady at 5.25 percent for a fourth straight meeting 
while renewing a warning on inflation risks and acknowledging a 
"substantial" cooling of the U.S. housing market.  The declaration of a national day of mourning by President 
Bush means that federal offices are expected to close on 
Tuesday.  The closures also could affect a U.S. Treasury auction of 
$31 billion in 3- and 6-month bills, currently scheduled for 
January 2. A Treasury spokeswoman said the no decisions 
regarding the auction had been announced.  The Treasury also had said earlier that it would announce 
the disposition of $18 billion of maturing four-week Treasury 
bills on January 2.  The Nasdaq stock market ( NDAQ.O ) also said it would be 
closed on January 2 in remembrance of Ford.  Ford, whose brief presidency in the 1970s was defined by 
his controversial pardon of Richard Nixon, died on Tuesday at 
the age of 93.  His body will be flown to Washington on Saturday and he 
will lie in state at the U.S. Capitol building. A memorial 
service is scheduled for Tuesday at the National Cathedral in 
Washington.