-- Goldman raises $6.5 billion infrastructure fund
-- 
-- Thu Dec 28, 2006 9:51am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/28/businesspro-goldman-infrastructure-dc-idUSN2817401020061228

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is stepping 
up its pursuit of ports, airports and regulated utilities 
around the world after the investment bank raised more than 
$6.5 billion for its first infrastructure investment fund. 

  The fund, GS Infrastructure Partners, is one of the largest 
investment pools dedicated to acquiring infrastructure assets. 
In September, Reuters reported the bank was raising money for 
an infrastructure fund and expected to complete the process 
this year.  Goldman's fund is two times the size expected earlier this 
year, demonstrating the demand for infrastructure investments.  "We have the capital to create and pursue large-scale 
investment opportunities while achieving portfolio 
diversification," said Steven Feldman and William Young, who 
co-head infrastructure investing in Goldman's merchant banking 
unit.  Fund-raising was completed on Wednesday,  Banks and investors in recent years have accelerated their 
purchases of infrastructure assets owned by governments as well 
as private-sector highway, airport, seaport and utility 
companies. Pioneer Macquarie Bank has generated strong returns 
from buying these low-risk cash-generating assets and inspired 
many firms to create their own funds.  At the same time, cash-strapped cities and states are 
considering sales of taxpayer-funded infrastructure to generate 
cash and plug budget gaps.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Merrill Lynch, among 
others, have raised or set plans to create infrastructure 
funds. Bankers estimate that as much as $100 billion in capital 
is targeting investment in public assets.  Initially, Goldman said, the fund will focus on Europe and 
North America where developed markets have the necessary legal 
and regulatory rules in place.  Goldman Sachs committed $750 million of its own capital to 
the fund, which already participated in the leveraged buyouts 
of Associated British Ports and U.S. energy pipelines company 
Kinder Morgan Inc.