-- End looms for fund manager Miller's record run
-- By Muralikumar Anantharaman
-- Thu Dec 28, 2006 4:38pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/28/businesspro-leggmason-miller-dc-idUSN2227853820061228

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Fund manager Bill Miller's unprecedented 
15-year winning streak will almost certainly end on Friday but 
big investors say it will likely still pay to stick with the 
man known as America's best stock picker. 

  The $21 billion Legg Mason Value Trust Fund, which under 
Miller has outperformed the S&P 500 Index  .SPX  every year 
since 1991, had returned 6.71 percent in 2006 up to Wednesday 
but trailed benchmark returns by nearly 10 percentage points.  "You can't judge it on one year, especially after 15 years 
have been tremendous," said Massachusetts Treasurer Timothy 
Cahill, who oversees the state's pension fund.  "It has always been a ride with Bill Miller. But he's 
always up at the end and he's pulled the rabbit out of the hat 
so many times that we are definitely staying in," Cahill said.  By mid-August, Miller's Value Trust Fund LMVTX was down 
more than 10 percent since the start of the year as bets soured 
on Internet retailers and services firms such as EBay Inc. 
( EBAY.O ), Yahoo Inc. ( YHOO.O ) and Amazon.com ( AMZN.O ) as well 
as on home builders and health insurers.  The performance has since recovered and the fund, which 
owned 43 stocks as of September 30, has actually outperformed 
the S&P 500 in the fourth quarter so far.  Yet for the year-to-date it is the third worst performer in 
Morningstar's "large-cap blend" category.  "I don't think it's a black mark against him at all," said 
Don Hays, chairman at Hays Advisory, a Legg Mason shareholder.  "This year has been a very segmented year that has not 
rewarded growth investors and has rewarded things like 
commodity plays. That's not Bill Miller's style and never will 
be," Hays said.  Christine Benz, director of analysis at Morningstar, said 
Miller's style of buying when stocks were falling and holding 
for a long time had exacerbated underperformance in the short 
term but could lead to a stronger showing in 2007 and beyond.  "The fact that the fund has underperformed the market for 
the year could indicate that he's sitting on a basket of pretty 
attractively valued stocks relative to the index. We think the 
long-term case for this fund is as strong as ever," she said.
  SIZE A WORRY  At the Legg Mason ( LM.N ) annual investment symposium 
earlier this month, Miller himself expressed confidence that 
his picks would do well in 2007 and he said he expected stocks 
such as UnitedHealth Group Inc. ( UNH.N ), Aetna Inc. ( AET.N ), KB 
Home ( KBH.N ) and Pulte Homes Inc. ( PHM.N ) to bounce back.  But there are concerns that 56-year-old Miller, who manages 
about $40 billion of assets at Legg Mason, will have less room 
to maneuver as the fund's assets keep growing.  "It's just that he's been so popular that quite possibly 
the size of the fund is going to limit his flexibility," said 
Hays of Hays Advisory.  Benz of Morningstar also said the fund's growing asset base 
should be watched but added that this factor was mitigated to 
some extent by Miller's investment style.  "The fact that he's in there scooping up shares that others 
are casting off should make it relatively easier for him to 
cope with asset size, than other funds that are buying what 
everybody else is buying," she said.  (Additional reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss)