-- SEC's Cox defends compensation disclosure change
-- 
-- Wed Dec 27, 2006 7:27pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/28/businesspro-sec-disclosure-dc-idUSN2746075220061228

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The top U.S. securities regulator 
defended his agency's relaxing the rules governing disclosure 
of stock options on Wednesday. 

  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman 
Christopher Cox said in a statement that the rule adopted in 
July departed from accounting standards and would have been 
seriously misleading to investors. "The object is to report 
accurate numbers," he said.  Some investor advocates, including a senior lawmaker, 
criticized the changes announced last Friday as a Christmas 
gift to companies at the expense of investors.  As adopted July 26, the SEC rule would have required 
companies to include the value of unvested stock options - 
options that cannot be exercised until subsequent years - in 
new executive pay disclosures beginning in 2007.  But the SEC, in a unanimous vote by all 5 commissioners, 
changed the disclosure rule to match accounting rules which 
only require the cost of vested options -- those an executive 
can currently exercise -- to be counted as an expense.  The incoming chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives 
Finance Services Committee said in a statement on Wednesday he 
was disappointed with the SEC's "backtracking" and said it 
reinforced his determination that Congress needed to deal with 
excessive executive pay.  "I am very disappointed with both the substance and the 
procedure used to reach the SEC's Christmas Eve decision to 
loosen reporting requirements for the pay of the top executives 
of public corporations," said Massachusetts Democratic Rep. 
Barney Frank, who will chair the committee come January.  "It was a holiday present to corporate America," The New 
York Times quoted Ann Yerger, executive director of the Council 
of Institutional Investors, as saying. "It will certainly make 
the numbers look smaller in 2007 than they would otherwise have 
looked."  How companies disclose stock option awards will now conform 
more closely to U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) rule "FAS 123R," the SEC said.  That rule requires recognition of the costs of equity 
awards over the period in which an employee works for the 
award, the SEC said.  In defense of the SEC's change, Cox offered an example of 
two executives who both receive $5 million option packages that 
vest in four years.  If one executive leaves the company five years later, Cox 
said, she receives the full $5 million, while the other, who 
leaves in three years, would receive no compensation from the 
options. Under the old rule, the reported compensation would 
have been identical.  "The rule as adopted in July could have created confusion 
because it would have treated executives with vastly different 
compensation as if they were paid identical amounts," Cox said.  The SEC said it would be soliciting comment on the 
amendments for 30 days after publication of the rules in the 
Federal Register.  Frank said it was ironic the SEC would relax rules 
regarding stock options at precisely the time that widespread 
abuses of the practice were coming to light.  The SEC, the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. 
Internal Revenue Service are investigating possible 
manipulation of stock options grants. More than 160 companies 
have been investigated or are conducting internal inquiries.  "The problem of executive pay that is both greatly 
excessive and deliberately obscured is a grave one," Frank 
said.