-- Norilsk Slashes Borrowing Costs as Nickel Price Soars
-- Todd Prince
-- 2007-02-22T14:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-22/norilsk-slashes-borrowing-costs-as-nickel-price-soars-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO GMKN  Norilsk Nickel , the world's
largest producer of nickel, slashed its borrowing costs by a
third as surging prices for the metal boost the company's profit.  
 Norilsk today signed a $450 million five-year revolving
credit with a group of banks led by  Barclays Capital ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and ING Groep NV, the Moscow-based company said in a
press release. The loan was increased from $300 million amid
demand by banks.  
 Russia's largest mining company will pay interest of 42.5
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate on the
money it uses from the loan. The rate increases to 50 basis
points in the last two years, the company said in a statement.
That compares with an interest margin of 150 basis points it paid
for a similar size one-year loan in 2004.  
 ``Norilsk is a crown jewel of the Russian commodity
sector,'' said Mikhail Galkin, head of fixed-income analysis at
MDM Bank in Moscow. ``Norilsk has the best rating among private
companies, so the pricing is fair.''  
 Borrowing costs for  Russia 's largest corporations are
tumbling as the economy expands for a ninth year and commodity
prices surge. OAO Transneft, the national pipeline operator, is
selling at least $1 billion in bonds at the cheapest-ever rate by
a Russian company.  
 Nickel Soars  
 Dollar-denominated debt sold by Russian companies returned
7.5 percent over the past year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes. European investment-grade securities averaged returns of
1.1 percent in the same period, Merrill Lynch & Co. data show.  
 Norilsk's loan is the first five-year, unsecured revolving
credit for a Russian company, Norilsk said in the statement. It's
getting the cheapest rate for a Russian company at that maturity,
according to the statement. The loan will be used for general
corporate purposes.  
 Norilsk, which is controlled by billionaires  Vladimir Potanin  and  Mikhail Prokhorov , was raised to investment grade by
 Standard & Poor's  and Moody's Investor's Service last year. The
company is rated BBB-, the lowest investment grade, by S&P.
Moody's rates the company Baa2, a step higher.  
 Nickel prices have nearly tripled over the past year,
breaking $40,000 a metric ton this month. Nickel accounts for
about 40 percent of Norilsk's revenue.  
 The company's first-half profit more than doubled on rising
metals prices and the sale of gold assets. Net income was $2.37
billion, or $12.56 a share, from $979 million, or $4.80, a year
earlier.  
 Three-month Libor, an average of rates set daily by banks
and used as a borrowing benchmark, is 5.36 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Prince in Moscow at 
 Tprince2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin in London at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        