-- U.S. and Canada to hold softwood lumber talks
-- 
-- Mon Apr 16, 2007 3:34pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/16/businesspro-usa-canada-lumber-dc-idUSN1630893720070416

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. and Canadian officials will 
meet this week in a bid to salvage a deal on softwood lumber 
trade that is showing signs of fraying just six months after it 
was signed, a U.S. official said on Monday. 

  The meeting in Ottawa comes almost three weeks after 
Washington requested consultations over what it considers 
violations of the deal, which was hailed last fall as an end to 
decades of lawsuits over bilateral softwood lumber trade.  Gretchen Hamel, a spokeswoman for U.S. Trade Representative 
Susan Schwab, said the meeting would take place on Thursday, 
April 19.  Behind Washington's complaints are programs in several 
Canadian provinces to assist the lumber sector, including loans 
and tax credits. Other issues include procedures to control 
surges of Canadian lumber shipments to the United States.  The move feeds worries among many trade-watchers that the 
vaunted agreement might not last its full seven years and could 
collapse, leading to renewed litigation.  If the two countries cannot settle the issues through 
consultations, the United States could take its concerns to the 
London Court of International Arbitration.  Zoltan van Heyningen, director of the Coalition for Fair 
Lumber Imports, a group of U.S. lumber companies that received 
a $500 million payment in the deal, said he did not think the 
agreement was doomed, but called on Canada to act soon.  "What's important, frankly, is just for Canada to honor its 
commitments under the agreement ... We're hopeful that 
consultations will yield a result quickly," he said.  Canada has said the provincial lumber payments are not 
subsidies, and it denies that its management of the export 
volumes run afoul of the deal.  The lumber agreement, which was implemented last October, 
refunds $4.3 billion to Canada in U.S. lumber duties. It 
requires the United States to halt import duties imposed for 
years to offset what it saw as Canada's unfair state support of 
its lumber industry.  Members of Congress have also prodded the Bush 
administration to take action.