-- ImClone cancer drug trials mixed but encouraging
-- By Deena Beasley
-- Mon Apr 16, 2007 4:44pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/16/businesspro-imclone-erbitux-dc-idUSN1634242420070416

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Two trials of ImClone Systems 
Inc.'s IMCL.O Erbitux, early results of which were announced 
in November, show encouraging results for the colon cancer drug 
in patients who stopped responding to other therapies, 
researchers said on Monday. 

  The full results of the trials were presented at a meeting 
of the American Association for Cancer Research.  "This class of agents is the key to a new kingdom for us in 
terms of another approach that we can use in treating this 
disease," said Dr. Richard Goldberg, chief of hematology, 
oncology at the University of North Carolina. He was not 
involved in the trials.  Erbitux, like Amgen Inc.'s ( AMGN.O ) Vectibix, is a biologic 
drug designed to block a protein called epidermal growth factor 
that cancer cells need to grow.  Shares of ImClone rose $1.05, or 2.6 percent, to close at 
$41.60 on Nasdaq.  An international trial involving 1,300 patients found that 
a combination of Erbitux, also known as cetuximab, and 
chemotherapy drug irinotecan significantly improved the amount 
of time patients survived without tumors growing compared to 
chemotherapy alone.  The trial did not, however, show a difference in its main 
goal of overall survival between the two groups.  The researchers said patients who were first treated with 
irinotecan alone were given Erbitux when the cancer progressed. 
As a result, many patients in both arms of the study actually 
received the same treatment, which is the main reason for the 
lack of difference in overall survival, they said.  "Our trial conveys the message that if you use it (Erbitux) 
earlier on, say in second line, you live longer without the 
tumor going into progression and the tumor has a much higher 
chance of shrinking," said Dr. Alberto Sobrero, of the oncology 
department at San Martino Hospital in Genoa, Italy, and a study 
investigator.  He said 16 percent of patients who received both drugs 
responded to the treatment compared with 4 percent of patients 
who received only irinotecan.  If patients who crossed over from the chemo-only arm of the 
study are excluded, the study showed a median survival of 
around six months for patients treated with chemo alone, 
compared with 11 months for the Erbitux group, Sobrero said.  A second 572-patient study conducted by Canadian 
researchers met its goal of showing Erbitux alone improved 
survival time and slowed tumor growth in colon cancer patients 
who had failed to respond to other drugs.  "This is the first time a single-agent, biologically 
targeted therapy has demonstrated a survival advantage in 
patients with colorectal cancer ...," said Dr. Derek Jonker, 
assistant professor at the University of Ottawa and co-chair of 
the study.  He said the study showed a 23 percent increase in overall 
survival, as well as a 32 percent reduction in the risk of 
disease progression.  Patients treated with Erbitux lived an average of six 
months, compared with 4.5 months for patients who received 
supportive care alone, the researchers said.  "A minority of patients respond to these drugs, but those 
that do have a very meaningful response ... What we sorely need 
is a biomarker to tell which patients with colon cancer are 
destined to benefit," North Carolina's Dr. Goldberg said.  Erbitux is already approved to treat colon cancer, but only 
in patients who have failed other therapies.  The drug, which is ImClone's only product, is sold in the 
United States in partnership with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. 
( BMY.N ). Erbitux is also approved to treat head and neck 
cancer.  ImClone announced in January preliminary results from 
another trial showing Erbitux helped stave off colon cancer in 
patients who had not received other treatments.