-- Stocks Analysts Hated Beat the Ones They Loved: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-01-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-10/stocks-analysts-hated-beat-the-ones-they-loved-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             As 2010 gets under way, the stock
that Wall Street’s security analysts love most is CMS Energy
Corp. It garners 14 “buy” recommendations, with no dissenting
votes. One might think that this stock can’t miss.  
 History suggests otherwise.  
 Accenture Plc, which recently saw its Tiger Woods-centered
advertising campaign turn to dust overnight, was analysts’
favorite stock in 2002. Sixteen analysts urged investors to buy
the stock; not one said to hold or sell. How did Accenture do?
Shares fell 33 percent that year.  
 That result was not a fluke. For 11 of the past 12 years, I
have studied the performance of analysts’ four favorite stocks,
and the fate of the four they most scorned. My analysis covers
1998 through 2009, except for 2008, when I was temporarily
retired as a columnist.  
 Their favorites, on average, were flat during those years
while the four stocks they hated most gained about 6 percent
annually. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had an average gain of
about 9 percent.  
 Last year was particularly good for the despised stocks.
Led by Sears Holdings Corp., they rose 47 percent compared with
23 percent for the analysts’ favorites.  
 Pariahs Triumph  
 How could the Wall Street experts have known that the
raging recession and bear market, still in full force in January
2009, would give way to a stock-market recovery, and then an
economic recovery?  They couldn’t.  
 And that is just the point. Analysts are not all-knowing.
For the most part, they are intelligent, well informed and
highly paid. But like most human beings, they extrapolate the
recent past as a guide to what comes next.  
 Of course, the stocks with the highest number of “sell”
ratings don’t always beat the ones with the most “buy”
ratings. In fact, they managed to do that only half the time in
the 11 years, with one year (1998) a tie.  
 All figures in my study are total returns including
dividends. Most years the study included any stock covered by
four analysts or more. In 2007 it was restricted to stocks in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  
 Let’s see which stocks currently have the highest -- and
lowest -- ratings.  
 CMS Energy, the analysts’ top favorite, is an electric and
gas utility with headquarters in Jackson, Michigan. At 13 times
earnings, it is fairly priced, in my opinion. The dividend
yield, at 3.2 percent, is skimpy for a utility.  
 In Favor  
 5N Plus Inc., which has the unanimous approval of a dozen
analysts, is based in Saint-Laurent, Canada. The company sells
extremely pure metals and alloys to the electronics industry. It
earned a healthy return on stockholders’ equity of 21 percent in
fiscal 2009, and sells for 14 times earnings. I like 5N, but I’m
slightly puzzled by analysts’ extreme enthusiasm, since they
predict that fiscal 2010 earnings will be down about 22 percent.  
 Reinsurance Group of America Inc., whose headquarters are
in Chesterfield, Missouri, is rated “buy” by 10 brokerage-
house experts, again with no dissent. The stock appears cheap at
nine times earnings. However, profitability in 2008 was skimpy,
with a 6 percent return on equity.  
 Fuel Systems Solutions Inc., based in Santa Ana,
California, also has 10 “buys.” It designs systems to help
internal combustion engines run on clean fuels such as natural
gas or propane. Shares are zig-zagging around $50, up from about
$10 at the end of 2002. Perhaps it will prove a durable growth
stock, but at 27 times earnings it is too expensive for a value
investor like me.  
 The Despised  
 This year, I don’t much like the despised stocks either.
General Motors, alias Motors Liquidation Co., which was second
on the most-hated list last year, heads the list this year. All
four experts covering the stock say “sell.” Although GM last
week boldly predicted a profit for 2010, I doubt the stock will
do much this year. Its book value (corporate net worth per
share) is negative $149 a share.  
 Gabriel Resources Ltd. is a mining company based in Toronto
that wants to mine gold in Romania. It has had no revenue in
recent years. Four analysts say “sell,” one says “hold.”  
 Rochester, New York-based Eastman Kodak Co. has been trying
to reinvent itself as a digital photography company. Things are
not going well: Revenue fell to $9.4 billion in 2008 from more
than $19 billion in 1991. Four analysts say “sell,” two say
“hold.”  
 I have higher hopes for Post Properties Inc. of Atlanta,
which develops upscale apartment communities in the Southeast
and Southwest. I think Post may show some pep this year. Yet 11
of the 14 experts covering the stock say “sell” while three
say “hold.” They estimate that it lost money in 2009, and
expect it to post another loss in 2010.  
 Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this week’s column, personally or for
clients.  
 (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  


        