-- Hewlett-Packard Challenges Cisco With 3Com Popgun: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2009-11-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-15/hewlett-packard-challenges-cisco-with-3com-popgun-david-pauly.html

          
          
             Hewlett-Packard Co.’s  history  has
been marked by hefty -- and so far successful -- acquisitions.  
 Backed by the cash flow from its printer business, the
company bought Compaq Computer Corp. in 2002 for $17.6 billion
and now is the top maker of personal computers. Last year, it
paid $13 billion for Electronic Data Systems, becoming a bigger
rival to International Business Machines Corp. in the computer
services industry.  
 Now Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard is trying
to take on  Cisco  Systems Inc., the leading manufacturer of
computer network equipment, with a takeover that’s not only
small but problematic.  
 Hewlett-Packard plans to buy 3Com Corp. of Marlborough,
Massachusetts, which also makes routers and switches that
control network traffic, for $2.7 billion in cash.  3Com 
shareholders get a 39 percent premium.  
 While 3Com has done well very recently the company has been
a long-term laggard. It earned $115 million in the year ended
last May, but this was after eight straight years of losses that
totaled $2.81 billion.  
 What might have been: 3Com started in 1979, five years
before Cisco. Cisco’s annual sales are now $36 billion compared
with 3Com’s $1.32 billion.  
 Sad Story  
 Mark Hurd , Hewlett-Packard’s chief executive officer, is
betting on a fallen brand. 3Com’s sales have plummeted since the
dot-com craze, when they peaked at $5 billion or more in each of
the three fiscal years ending in 1999. Its most recent annual
sales are less than those of fiscal 1995.  
 Not that we shouldn’t wish Hewlett-Packard and 3Com well.
Competition is what keeps the economy percolating. Customers who
buy network gear have to be happy with the prospect of stiffer
competition for Cisco with Hewlett-Packard in the game.  
 Watching financially strong companies battle each other for
market share is certainly more fun than worrying about whether
more banks will fail or reading about how executives earning a
mere $250,000 can’t possibly manage until they get their
bonuses.  
 Hewlett-Packard may simply be countering Cisco’s recent
invasion of a big H-P business: corporate data centers, which
store and transmit information and run applications. Cisco
estimates it is a $20 billion-a-year market. Hewlett-Packard is
facing increased competition elsewhere.  Dell  Inc. duplicated its
rival’s move in computer services by acquiring Perot Systems
Corp. this month.  
 Even Keel  
 After years of lackluster performance or worse, 3Com has
been giving Cisco Chief Executive  John Chambers  a bit more to
worry about. In China, 3Com matches Cisco’s market share of
about 35 percent for routers and switches, according to  Adam Jura , an analyst with Ovum, a consulting company in Sydney.  
 Hewlett-Packard is doing well in China too. Hurd, Hewlett’s
CEO, says his company’s profit in the just-completed fourth
quarter was helped significantly by sales in that country.  
 Bankrolled by Hewlett-Packard, 3Com -- the company that
might have been Cisco -- finally may become a more formidable
rival to the industry’s giant. Hurd may have other related
acquisitions in mind.  
 In any event, Hurd is risking just $2.7 billion of the
$13.5 billion in cash Hewlett-Packard had at the end of July. If
3Com continues to be a dud, he won’t have lost much.  
 ( David Pauly  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in Fort
Myers, Florida   dpauly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        