-- Avoiding home foreclosure starts with picking up phone
-- By  Jim Christie
-- Sun Mar 18, 2007 2:39pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/18/businesspro-usa-subprime-foreclosure-dc-idUSN1619894620070318

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - U.S. lenders trying to get people 
to pay overdue bills on risky subprime mortgages expect half of 
those borrowers to avoid telephone calls and letters that could 
help bail them out. 


  That reaction ensures the mortgage default rates that 
rattled financial markets last week will rise well into next 
year, said Duke Olrich, president of DRI Management Systems 
Inc., a Newport Beach, California, developer of software for 
managing mortgage and automobile loan defaults.  "If you can't get a hold of them you can't make a deal," 
Olrich said.  Based on past experience, mortgage professionals anticipate 
half of subprime borrowers, or people with no or spotty credit 
histories who took on risky mortgages in recent years, will 
avoid attempts to contact them regarding overdue payments, the 
first step in salvaging the loans, Olrich said.  "2007 and a good part of 2008 is still going to be a 
difficult time," Olrich said in an interview.  During the housing boom, adjustable-rate mortgages allowed 
subprime borrowers to buy homes out of their reach with 
conventional mortgages. As low initial interest rates expired 
and significantly higher rates kicked in, mortgage payments 
jumped to levels many borrowers could not afford.  After 60 days without a payment, lenders fear a default. 
"Sixty-plus you're well on your way out," Olrich said.  Most lenders try to contact borrowers quickly to see if a 
failing mortgage can be restructured to avoid an average loss 
of $50,000 when a bad loan forces foreclosure, Olrich said.  "The objective of the servicer is to keep that borrower in 
the property," he said. "There is this myth out there that 
they're making money hand over fist on taking a property to 
foreclosure. It's exactly that, a myth. They're losing their 
shirts."  The jump in defaults of subprime mortgages over the past 
year, however, has triggered significant turmoil among many 
lenders, foremost among them, New Century Financial Corp. 
( NEWC.PK ), the largest independent U.S. subprime lender.
  TAPPED OUT, NO HOPE  Amid the confusion, homeowners like Lupe Perez say they 
went neglected. Perez said she faces an imminent foreclosure on 
her Sacramento, California, home after falling behind on 
mortgage payments.  "I feel conned," Perez said, noting she agreed to the 
loan's adjustable rate only after her loan officer assured her 
she would be able refinance later. But with her neighborhood's 
home prices down, lenders will not refinance, she said.  The 28-year-old state worker said she cannot afford her 
mortgage because its interest rate is at 11 percent, up from a 
5 percent rate that expired late last year. She said losing the 
three-bedroom house will mark a personal defeat as she put 
$40,000 from the sale of an inherited house as a down payment.  "I'm tapped out," Perez said. "There's no hope."  Her case does not surprise Patrick McGilvray, president of 
TheHomeBuyingCenter.com, a Sacramento company matching 
distressed homeowners with individual investors and prospective 
home buyers. Some lenders were sloppy during the housing boom 
because of the volume of business they received, he said.  "There was a record number of originations of loans," he 
said. "Facing explosive growth, balls get dropped."  Little thought was given in recent years to the future 
costs of easy money, Olrich added: "A lot of loan brokers were 
out there and I'm not sure they told the whole story," he said. 
"Maybe, they (borrowers) didn't know all the questions to ask."  For more stories on the subprime sector, please click on 
<ID:nN14246848>