-- ‘Trusted Traveler’ Would Cut U.S. Airport Hassles, Group Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-12-21T17:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/-trusted-traveler-program-would-reduce-u-s-airport-hassles-group-says.html
The U.S. government can reduce
consumer frustration with airport security and encourage more
people to fly by adopting changes such as a “trusted traveler”
program, an industry group said.  The  U.S. Travel Association , whose members include  American
Express Co. ,  Marriott International Inc.  and  Loews Corp. ,
released a survey today showing consumers would take two to
three more trips annually if security hassles could be reduced.
Participants in the proposed program would undergo a background
check in advance in return for less intrusive airport screening.  “Travelers are frustrated,”  Roger Dow , president of the
association, said on a conference call with reporters. “Our
current system cannot be the best that the United States can
create.”  The association, which last year persuaded Congress to
adopt a fee to promote travel from overseas, is preparing
recommendations for lawmakers and the Obama administration at
the end of January to cut airport security hassles.  About 43.6 million passengers will travel on U.S. airlines
during the holiday period that runs from Dec. 16 and Jan. 5, a 3
percent increase from last year, the Air Transport Association,
an airline trade group in Washington, said this month. Travelers
during the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday in November complained of
more intrusive security pat-downs at airports across the
country.  American Airlines, FedEx  The Washington-based U.S. Travel Association in March
created the “Blue Ribbon Panel for Frictionless Security” to
help develop recommendations. The panel includes  Bob Crandall ,
former chief executive officer of AMR Corp.’s American Airlines,
 David Bronczek , president of FedEx Corp.’s Express unit,  Sam Gilliland , chief executive officer of Sabre Holdings, and  Tom Ridge , former Homeland Security secretary.  Dow, when releasing the survey data, declined to discuss
specifics of upcoming recommendations. The association focuses
on improvements such as assessing risk before passengers reach
airports, shrinking the pool of people who undergo scrutiny at
airports, lessening checkpoint crowding and making some security
efforts optional for people with privacy concerns.  “We know there’s a better way” to screen, said Dow, whose
group members also include  Walt Disney Co. ,  InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc  and  Choice Hotels International Inc.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 