-- `Young Bloods' Rush to Join South Korean Marines Amid Anger Over Shelling
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-22T22:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/-young-bloods-rush-to-join-south-korean-marines-amid-anger-over-shelling.html
(Corrects budget figure in 10th paragraph of story published
yesterday.)  Anger at North Korea’s killing of
civilians in an artillery barrage last month has spurred
applications to join South Korea’s Marine Corps.  Almost 3,500 men are competing for 977 openings in the
elite  corps  this month, a 37 percent increase on December last
year, according to figures from the Military Manpower
Administration. There were about 2,800 applicants for November’s
monthly intake.  Two civilians and two marines were killed on Nov. 23 when
North Korea fired on the Yeonpyeong fishing community and
military outpost in the first shelling of South Korean soil
since the 1950-1953 war. Recruiters feared the attack and the
sinking of the warship Cheonan might discourage young men.  “If there’s war, I’ll fight. And I’d feel more proud as a
marine,” Ko Chang Ho, an athletic 20-year-old college student
with a spiky haircut, said on Dec. 17 as he waited to take a
physical test of sit-ups and push-ups at a Military Manpower
office in Seoul. “I realized our first enemy is North Korea,
and it made me reflect on how lazy and weak we’ve been.”  South Korean men are required to complete 21 months’
military service before they turn 35. The nation’s Marine Corps,
which only takes volunteers, took part in General  Douglas MacArthur ’s Incheon landing during the Korea War and fought in
Vietnam, sometimes alongside U.S. marines and Navy SEALS,
according to its website and Park Kyung Up from the Central
Marine Memorial Hall in Seoul.  Acting on Passion  “The older generation tends to think of the young as weak,
but the number of applications this month shows that this is
wrong,” said Kwak Yu Suk, a Seoul-based spokesman for Military
Manpower. “The way we see it, young bloods are acting on their
passion after seeing two marines die.”  South Koreans are in a “bellicose mood” after the attack
on Yeonpyeong Island, said  Andrei Lankov , an associate professor
at Kookmin University in Seoul, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television Dec. 20.  Eighty percent of 1,000 South Koreans surveyed by the Asan
Institute for Policy Studies said the nation’s response to the
Nov. 23 attack should have been stronger, with 40 percent
calling for military retaliation in case of further provocation.  The Cabinet yesterday canceled a plan to cut the length of
compulsory military service from 21 to 18 months, said an
official at the Ministry of Defense who declined to be named,
citing government policy.  ‘Puppet Warmongers’  South Korea sent jet fighters and warships to patrol its
disputed western sea border this week when marines repeated the
same live-fire artillery practice on Yeonpyeong that sparked the
North’s Nov. 23 shelling. While North Korea held its fire this
time, it warned that further provocation could prompt it to
“blow up the bases of the U.S. and South Korean puppet
warmongers.”  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration, which came to
power in 2008 and reversed the decade-old “Sunshine Policy” of
engaging with the regime of  Kim Jong Il , this month approved an
increase of about 6 percent in the defense budget for next year.
The government has cited the Nov. 23 shelling and the sinking of
the Cheonan, which claimed the lives of 46 sailors, among the
reasons for bolstering its defenses.  While one in four South Koreans polled by the Hankook Ilbo
newspaper in May said they didn’t trust the findings of a
multinational panel that concluded a torpedo fired from a North
Korean mini-submarine sank the ship, the shelling of Yeonpyeong
struck a chord with Ko and other marine applicants.  ‘More Hostility’  “Killing civilians is wrong, even during times of war, so
I feel more hostility toward North Korea now,” said Kim Su Bin,
a soft spoken first-year college student who will defer his
plans to become a preschool teacher if he makes it into the
marines. “It’s scary, but I’ve decided to join and I’ll do my
best.”  Kim, 19, who talked as he watched a Marine Corp.’s
promotional video on Dec. 17, said even the risk of being
deployed to Yeonpyeong wouldn’t deter him.  “It’s a very positive change, showing how young people
love their country,” President Lee said today during a briefing
with the Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs, according to
a statement on his website.  ‘Human Shield’  The North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency said in a
Nov. 24 dispatch the island is located “deep inside our
territorial waters.”  Any civilian casualties on Yeonpyeong
were “very regrettable,” KCNA said on Nov. 27, while accusing
South Korea of deploying its citizens as a “human shield.”  Kim and Ko weren’t born in 1987 when North Korean agents
were accused of bombing a South Korean airliner that killed all
155 people. In July 2008 a South Korean woman was shot dead by
North Korean troops at the Mount Geumgang resort after she
allegedly strayed into a military zone during a beach stroll.  The reaction of the nation’s youth to the recent attacks by
North Korea is “straightforward and emotional,” said Paik Hak
Soon, director of inter-Korean relations at the Sejong Institute,
based in Seongnam, South Korea.  “They feel a sense of military provocation more directly
than ever,” Paik said in a telephone interview yesterday.  South Korea’s Marine Corps, which recruits about 12,000 men
annually, was created in 1949 to specialize in amphibious
landings, according to its website and Kwak. Successful
candidates must be between 159 centimeters (63 inches) and 195
centimeters tall, and 50 push-ups and 58 sit-ups in a minute
will earn a high physical rating, according to the website.  Kim Jin Won, a 19-year-old high school graduate who had
planned to join the army, said he changed his mind after the
shelling of Yeonpyeong.  “Previously, I just wanted to get military service over
with as quickly as possible, and I thought about ways to get out
of it,” Kim said. After watching the shelling of Yeonpyeong,
“I wanted to contribute something to my country no matter how
minor it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 