-- Adobe Gains After Beating Estimates on Software Sales
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-12-21T22:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/adobe-gains-after-exceeding-estimates-on-creative-suite-sales.html
Adobe Systems Inc. , the top maker of
graphic-design programs, rose in Nasdaq trading after saying
first-quarter profit will exceeded  analysts’ estimates , lifted
by resurgent sales of publishing software.  Excluding some costs, profit will be 54 cents to 59 cents a
share in the period ending in February, San Jose, California-
based Adobe said yesterday after the close of regular trading.
Analysts had  estimated  51 cents on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales  of Creative Suite 5, released in April, are
rebounding from a lull earlier in the year. Adobe had cited
lackluster back-to-school demand in September when it issued a
forecast that trailed analysts’ predictions. Creative Suite,
which includes the Photoshop and Illustrator programs, is used
by graphic designers, advertising agencies and schools.  “We definitely saw demand improve,” Chief Financial
Officer  Mark Garrett  said in an interview. “We certainly expect
that to continue.”  Adobe rose $1.75, or 6 percent, to $30.93 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has lost 16
percent this year.  The company targeted first-quarter  revenue  of $1 billion to
$1.05 billion.  Analysts  had predicted $991.9 million.  Sales Boost  Creative Suite, which accounts for most of Adobe’s sales,
provides a surge of growth whenever a new version comes out. The
company is counting on the latest iteration to perform better
than CS4, which debuted in September 2008. At the time, the
financial crisis was deepening and corporations reined in
technology spending.  Adobe’s digital enterprise services also are helping spur
growth and lessen its reliance on Creative Suite, said  Patrick Walravens , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco.
That business helps manage correspondence with customers and
offers technology for reviewing and sharing documents.  “We’re definitely seeing this fast-growing trend for both
enterprises and governments to invest,” Chief Executive Officer
 Shantanu Narayen  said on a conference call.  In the fourth quarter, which ended Dec. 3, Adobe earned 56
cents a share, topping the 52-cent estimate. Sales rose 33
percent to $1.01 billion, the first time the company topped $1
billion in quarterly revenue. Analysts projected $988.3 million.  Net income  was $268.9 million, or 53 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $32 million, or 6 cents, a year earlier.  Apple Criticism  Earlier this month, Citigroup Inc.’s  Walter Pritchard 
estimated that 30 percent to 40 percent of Creative Suite
customers had bought version 5. Larger companies may have been
waiting to upgrade, the San Francisco-based analyst said in a
report at the time.  Adobe’s rosy forecast caps a tumultuous year for the
company, which clashed with Apple Inc.’s  Steve Jobs  and later
spurred speculation that it may be acquired by Microsoft Corp.  Jobs, Apple’s CEO, banned Adobe’s Flash video software from
his company’s iPhone and iPad, saying it wasn’t well suited to
mobile devices.  Adobe  then won a partial victory on Sept. 9,
when Apple eased restrictions on creating applications for its
products.  Adobe is releasing a product called Flex Mobile that will
work around the restrictions imposed by Apple, said Walravens,
who has a “market outperform” rating on Adobe’s stock. It lets
developers make software for Apple’s mobile devices, as well as
those using  Google Inc. ’s Android operating system.  Fresh Challenge  Apple’s ban hasn’t affected Adobe’s sales, Narayen said
yesterday.  The company faces a fresh challenge on Jan. 6, when Apple
plans to open an online storefront for Mac software. That would
give Apple a direct channel to customers -- unlike Adobe and
Microsoft, which rely more on consultants, retailers and
Internet merchants to sell their software.  Adobe’s stock surged in October after a report that
Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer  had met with Narayen to discuss
closer collaboration between the companies. The stock gave up
much of the gains the next day, after the meeting was described
as routine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  