-- Allied Irish, ARM Holdings, BSkyB: U.K., Irish Equity Preview
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-22T07:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/aer-lingus-allied-irish-bskyb-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  climbed 60.19, or 1 percent,
to 5,951.8. The  FTSE All-Share Index  also rose 1 percent, while
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  advanced 1.4 percent.  Aer Lingus Group Plc  (AERL ID): The Dublin-based carrier
said that it has made a one-off cash payment of 25.3 million
euros ($33.2 million) to the Aer Lingus Employee Share Ownership
Trust. The shares fell 1.7 percent to 1.13 euros.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  (ALBK ID): Ireland’s second-largest
bank was fined 2 million euros for failing to have “adequate
internal control mechanisms to prevent and rectify frequent and
many instances of overcharging,” the Irish central bank said in
an e-mailed statement. The stock rose 2.7 percent to 42.1 euro
cents.  ARM Holdings Plc  (ARM LN): Microsoft Corp., the world’s
largest software maker, will announce a version of its Windows
computer operating system that runs on ARM’s technology for the
first time, said two people familiar with Microsoft’s plans. The
stock rallied 2.9 percent to 403.5 pence.  BAE Systems Plc  (BA/ LN): Europe’s biggest defense company
must pay a 500,000-pound ($774,400) fine after pleading guilty
to not keeping proper payment records, ending a six-year bribery
investigation. Judge David Bean in London sentenced the company
yesterday after it pleaded guilty. The shares advanced 2.3
percent to 335.1 pence.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  (BSY LN): News Corp.
doubts it will get a fair hearing from the U.K. government over
its planned acquisition of BSkyB after Business Secretary  Vince Cable  reportedly “declared war” on Chairman  Rupert Murdoch .  Cable, the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in David Cameron’s
Conservative-led Cabinet, was stripped of responsibility for
media, broadcasting and telecommunications, according to a
statement issued by the prime minister’s office in London late
yesterday. Cameron called Cable’s remarks, which were published
in the Daily Telegraph newspaper, “totally unacceptable and
inappropriate.” The shares fell 0.7 percent to 728.5 pence.  Costain Group Plc  (COST LN): The engineering company said
 Mouchel Group Plc  (MCHL LN) rejected its takeover approach.
Costain’s shares fell 0.8 percent to 206 pence and Mouchel’s
shares were little changed at 73 pence.  Northern Foods Plc  (NFDS LN): U.K. tycoon Ranjit Boparan is
planning a hostile 300 million-pound bid for the company,
disrupting an all-stock merger that Northern Foods had agreed
with  Greencore Group Plc  (GNC ID), the Daily Telegraph reported,
without attribution. Northern Foods’ shares fell 1.6 percent to
60.5 pence, while Greencore’s stock gained 0.9 percent to 1.33
euros in Dublin.  Rio Tinto Group  (RIO LN): The world’s third-largest mining
company plans to buy 50 percent of Russian diamond producer ZAO
Alrosa’s Severalmaz project for $400 million, Vedomosti
reported, citing Alrosa documents. Alrosa spokesman Andrei
Polyakov declined to comment on the report when Bloomberg called
today. The shares rallied 2.6 percent to 4,537 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  