-- Activision, Carnival, EBay, Walgreen: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-22T13:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/aeropostale-humana-nike-red-hat-tibco-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 7:45 a.m. in New York.  Activision Blizzard Inc.  (ATVI US) rose 6 percent to
$12.96. The video-game maker yesterday named  Electronic Arts
Inc.  (ERTS US) as a defendant in a lawsuit the company filed in
April against two game developers previously employed by the
company, the Los Angeles Times reported, citing the suit. The
suit, which seeks $400 million in damages, accused Electronic
Arts of plotting to destabilize and destroy Activision’s
Infinity War unit, the newspaper said.  Aeropostale Inc.  (ARO US): The clothing retailer appointed
Marc D. Miller as chief financial officer.  American Apparel Inc.  (APP US) lost 8.5 percent to $1.51.
The operator of more than 280 clothing stores said its audit
committee is investigating assertions by Deloitte & Touche LLP
that management withheld financial statements.  American Eagle Outfitters Inc.  (AEO US) declined 1.9
percent to $14.49. The young-adult clothing retailer was cut to
“neutral” from “buy” at SunTrust Banks Inc.  Carnival Corp.  (CCL US) gained 1.3 percent to $45.75. The
world’s biggest cruise-line operator was raised to “buy” from
“hold” at Standard & Poor’s.  EBay Inc.  (EBAY US): The largest e-commerce marketplace
will rise over the next 45 days because concerns over a proposal
to cut debit-card transaction fees are “overblown” and the
stock’s short term valuation is “much more compelling” after a
decline, Scott Devitt, analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a
note to clients.  Elan Corp.  (ELN US) added 0.8 percent to $5.99. The Irish
drugmaker and  Biogen Idec Inc.  (BIIB US) asked U.S. and EU
regulators for permission to change the label of the multiple
sclerosis medicine Tysabri to tell doctors and patients about a
test that can predict the odds of getting a deadly brain illness
from the drug.  Jacobs Engineering Group Inc . (JEC US): The third-largest
listed U.S. engineering company agreed to buy some Aker
Solutions ASA units for an estimated $675 million to expand its
metals and mining business.  Humana Inc.  (HUM US) rose 0.9 percent to $55.32. The health
plan with the best-performing stock this year said 2011
consolidated earnings will be at least $5.45 a share and revenue
should increase $800 million from an agreement to buy Concentra
Inc.  Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc.  (KKD US) slumped 4 percent to
$7.70. The doughnut chain was cut to “sell” from “hold” at
BGB Research.  Nike Inc.  (NKE US) fell 5.2 percent to $87.50. The world’s
largest maker of athletic shoes reported second-quarter revenue
of $4.84 billion, compared with the average estimate for $4.82
billion. Future orders for December to April also rose 11
percent for a total of $7.7 billion, excluding currency
fluctuations, from a year ago. That missed the 12.4 percent gain
anticipated by some analysts.  Oxford Industries Inc.  (OXM US) added 3.9 percent to
$23.03. The maker of Tommy Bahama clothing said it bought
Sugartown Worldwide Inc. for $60 million.  Priceline.com Inc.  (PCLN US) gained 1.9 percent to $414.69.
The online travel agency was raised to “buy” from “hold” at
ThinkEquity LLC. The 12-month share-price estimate is $530.  Progress Software Corp.  (PRGS US) rallied 2.4 percent to
$42.15. The maker of business programs raised its 2011 earnings
forecast higher than the average analyst estimate and boosted
its estimate for revenue next year.  Qualcomm Inc.  (QCOM US): The world’s largest maker of
mobile-phone chips is Bank of Montreal’s top pick in the
communications equipment industry.  Red Hat Inc.  (RHT US) dropped 2.7 percent to $46.60. The
largest seller of the Linux operating system had third-quarter
profit of 20 cents a share, matching the average analyst
forecast.  Scientific Games Corp.  (SGMS US): The New York-based gaming
company was awarded a contract to supply tickets and services to
De Lotto, in the Netherlands. The contract begins in April.  Tibco Software Inc.  (TIBX US) jumped 6.5 percent to $22.55.
The software company said fourth-quarter earnings exceeded
analyst estimates by 3 cents and announced a $300 million stock
repurchase plan.  Verizon Communications Inc.  (VZ US): The company’s Verizon
Wireless unit, the largest U.S. wireless operator, will release
a smartphone from  Motorola Inc.  (MOT US) for its new, high-speed
wireless network next year.  Walter Energy Inc.  (WLT US): The southern Appalachia
producer of steelmaking coal said it acquired the assets of
Mobile River Terminal Co., based in Mobile, Alabama. Financial
terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Xilinx Inc.  (XLNX US) slid 4.2 percent to $27.20. The
semiconductor maker cut its forecast, saying the December
quarter sales will be down 7 percent to 9 percent from the
previous quarter. That compares with a previous estimate for
revenue flat to down 4 percent.  Altera Corp.  (ALTR US), the maker of programmable
semiconductors, slumped 2.5 percent to $34.91.       United Continental Holdings Inc.  (UAL US): The world’s
largest airline said it expects passenger revenue per available
seat-mile will be up 9.75 percent to 10.75 percent over the
comparable period a year earlier.  Walgreen Co.  (WAG US) gained 3.9 percent to $38.25. The
largest U.S. drug-store chain had fiscal first-quarter profit of
62 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated
profit of 54 cents on average.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 