-- Thai Beach Resort Teaches Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Racing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   O a k l e y
-- 2010-12-21T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/thai-beach-resort-of-pattaya-teaches-zen-and-the-art-of-motorcycle-racing.html
Cresting a hill out of a fast triple
right-hander into a chicane on a Kawasaki motorcycle, I commit a
classic mistake, the kind that tends to create a mess of broken
machinery and bone.  I downshift too early, my back wheel locks and fishtails. I
freeze, arms locked, eyes like dinner plates fixated on the
gravel trap racing toward me. Somehow I manage to coast through
the piles of stone chips, slide across the grass and get back
onto the track unscathed.  “Nice save,” says instructor Graham Knight, giving me the
thumbs up once we’re back in the pit lane. “Basically, you did
everything wrong on the track, and everything right off it.
Generally it’s preferable if you stay on the track.”  The stomach-churning moment taught me several rules of
motorcycle racing all at once. Which is why I’ve paid $1,850 to
take part in Knight’s three-day  Highside Tours  event in the Thai
resort town of Pattaya.  While budding bike racers can head to academies like the
 California Superbike School  in Los Angeles, or the  Ron Haslam
Race School  at Silverstone, England, the  Bira International
Circuit  mixes the high-octane buzz with beach relaxation and
Thailand’s most frantic nightlife. Half an hour after hanging up
the leathers, you can have a cocktail in hand and your toes in
the Gulf of Thailand.  As travelers increasingly seek out new experiences on
holiday -- like leaping off bridges, scaling rock walls and
swimming with sharks -- bike racing as a pastime still tends to
prompt uncomplimentary adjectives that suggest varying degrees
of stupidity or mental imbalance.  High-Speed Yoga  The desire to climb relatively unprotected onto a fast
machine and lean it over to the point where parts of your body
are skimming the road is, admittedly, a little suspect. But, as
Knight makes repeatedly clear, the people who do it best are not
hot-blooded, cackling lunatics intent on making the world unsafe
for the elderly.  They are those who have mastered a level of calmness,
mental discipline and physical coordination akin to some sort of
high-speed yoga. Only sometimes do they cackle.  “Slow it down, and the speed will come later,” Knight
tells me and the other seven riders in my group.  Slow is a word I hear a lot from the experienced racers
sharing the track with us -- men on 1,000cc superbikes who fly
past me on the straight as if I’m driving a golf buggy.  Off the bikes, they are not whooping, high-fiving and
butting chests. They are soft-spoken, modest and self-effacing
fellows who give measured answers to each awestruck question,
usually containing the word slow.  Booby Traps  The second day, with the track now familiar and the correct
body position learned, I try to put their advice into practice
on the  Kawasaki ER6-NR , a light, powerful and nimble 650cc
streetbike that’s ideal for the less-experienced trackster. Bira
is a short, technical circuit, sprinkled with booby traps for
the novice.  “A racetrack designer’s job is to fool you into driving it
like it’s road,” Knight says to one of the riders. “In your
case, they’ve succeeded admirably.”  The first task is to build a mental map of the circuit with
visual triggers to guide you through each lap. Start braking
next to that oil stain, turn in at the end of that curb, aim for
that paint splash, fix eyes on that tree.  Without it, the track become a series of challenges that
are rushing by too fast. You get confused. You get scared. You
panic. You crash.  Death Grip  In the rising tropical warmth of the second morning, I’m
trying to do many counter-intuitive things all at once. Like not
holding the handlebars in a death grip, or accelerating instead
of slowing down when the bike starts to run wide.  After another half-day trying to piece it all together, it
finally starts to work. I’m getting into a rhythm. The corners
are flowing, the bike is leaning over further, I’m hanging off
the machine with a modicum of grace. I even indulge in the
occasional cackle.  Then, approaching a hairpin bend I surrender to a flicker
of doubt. For a second, my eyes wander to the edge of the track.
Next thing, I’m up against a wall of tires as Knight rides past,
shaking his head.  ( Matthew Oakley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Oakley  in Singapore at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 