-- AIG Names Boeing's Meyerhoff to Run Aerospace as Unit Regains Market Share
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-12-21T18:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/aig-names-boeing-s-meyerhoff-as-aerospace-head-replacing-hupp.html
American International Group Inc. 
named  Boeing Co. ’s  Mark Meyerhoff  to run an aerospace-insurance
unit as the company recovers from lost sales in the year it was
bailed out by taxpayers.  Meyerhoff, who was most recently senior director of risk
management and insurance at Boeing, replaces  David Hupp  at AIG’s
Chartis unit, the New York-based insurer said in a statement
today. Meyerhoff oversaw the planemaker’s business insurance
programs and has been in the aviation and aerospace industry for
about 30 years, Chartis said.  AIG is rebuilding an aviation-insurance unit that faltered
in 2008 when the company was bailed out after losses tied to
subprime mortgages. The insurer, which topped the aircraft
market in 2007 with a 41 percent share, fell to third place in
2008, behind  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and
Allianz SE, according to the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners. AIG regained the lead in 2009 with 19 percent.  “Mark is an accomplished senior aerospace executive with
extensive expertise in a number of areas within the insurance
industry,”  Nicholas C. Walsh , Chartis vice chairman, said in
the statement. Chris McHugh, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based
Boeing, didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  AIG has lost more than 70 managers since the 2008 bailout
as executives retired or left for competitors after the
government limited compensation. Hupp had worked for the company
for 40 years, AIG said.  Hancock, Russo  The insurer in February hired  Peter Hancock  as executive
vice president to oversee finance and risk, and  Thomas Russo  as
general counsel. Hancock spent about 20 years at a predecessor
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Russo was Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s top lawyer.  AIG will focus on global property-casualty coverage through
Chartis and U.S. life insurance with its SunAmerica business
after selling more than $50 billion in assets to help repay its
$182.3 billion rescue. Chartis posted third-quarter operating
income of $1.07 billion, compared with $719 million a year
earlier, the company said Nov. 5.  AIG rose $1.18, or 2.2 percent, at 12:43 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 Dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  