-- Alleged Gambino Boss Marino Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy in Nephew's Murder
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-12-21T23:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/alleged-gambino-boss-marino-pleads-guilty-to-conspiracy-in-nephew-s-murder.html
An alleged Gambino family organized-
crime boss who was arrested in April with 13 other people
pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit murder as part of an
agreement with U.S. prosecutors.  Daniel Marino, 70, of Brooklyn, New York, entered the plea
today before U.S. District Judge  Lewis A. Kaplan  in Manhattan.
He was one of 14 reputed Gambino associates arrested by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation on charges including
racketeering, murder, sex trafficking, jury tampering,
extortion, assault, narcotics trafficking and illegal gambling,
authorities said.  Marino admitted to conspiring to kill his nephew Frank
Hydell, who was shot to death in the parking lot of a Staten
Island, New York, strip club. Marino said he was approached
while in federal  prison  by others in the organization who told
him Hydell was cooperating with authorities.  “I gave them the equivalent of a green light to go
forward” with the killing, Marino, dressed in dark blue prison
clothing, told the judge.  Marino faces as long as five years in prison and a fine of
$250,000. Sentencing is scheduled for Jan. 25. He also must
forfeit at least $1.25 million in property, Kaplan said.  Marino was a longtime member and boss of the Gambinos with
more than 200 “made” members of the Mafia under his command
and hundreds of other criminal associates, the government said.
He was “a soldier, a captain and a boss” in the organization,
according to the indictment.  ‘Huck’ Carbonaro  Thomas “Huck” Carbonaro, a Gambino associate, was convicted
of Hydell’s murder in 2004 and is serving 70 years in prison.
Another associate, Edmund Boyle, whom Carbonaro accused of being
the triggerman, was found not guilty of murder in February.  Boyle was sentenced in November to 20 years on unrelated
racketeering counts of which he was convicted at the same trial.  Marino was also charged with the murder of Thomas Spinelli,
a member of the family who the FBI said was killed to keep him
from testifying to a federal grand jury. His body was never
found, the bureau said.  The FBI said Marino arranged the murder with  John J. Gotti ,
the former Gambino boss who died in prison in 2002 while serving
a life sentence, and Salvatore “Sammy the Bull” Gravano, a one-
time Gambino underboss whose testimony helped convict Gotti in
1992.  Accused of Extortion  Marino was also accused of extorting millions of dollars a
year from contractors, developers, suppliers and unions involved
with the New York construction industry since the 1980s, and
running loan-sharking and gambling operations.  One of the other 13 defendants, Steve Maiurro, pleaded
guilty to two counts of sex trafficking of a minor in October.  Marino, who has been held in the  Metropolitan Correctional
Center  in Lower Manhattan since his arrest, suffers from a heart
condition, said his attorney,  Gerald Shargel . Marino told the
judge he is taking beta blockers and the blood thinner Plavix.  The judge initially declined to accept the plea, saying
that the fact that Marino didn’t stop the killing didn’t mean
that he approved the crime. Kaplan later accepted the agreement
after Marino admitted that his approval was necessary for
Hydell’s murder to proceed.  The case is U.S. v. Marino, 1:09-cr-01243, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 