-- Halliburton Settles Nigerian Suit for $35 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2010-12-21T21:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/halliburton-confirms-agreement-to-settle-with-nigeria.html
Halliburton Co.,  the world’s second-
largest oilfield services provider, agreed to pay $35 million to
Nigeria to settle charges related to alleged bribery in
connection with a natural-gas liquefaction project.  The company will pay $32.5 million to the federal
government of Nigeria and another $2.5 million to its attorneys,
Houston-based Halliburton said today in a statement. In return,
the government will not bring any further criminal charges or
civil claims against the company, a former subsidiary and
executives including former Chief Executive Officer  Dick Cheney ,
the company said.  The Halliburton agreement is part of a broader settlement
of alleged bribery charges,  Godwin Obla , the prosecuting
attorney for the country’s anti-graft agency, said by phone
today in Abuja.  Technip SA , Snamprogetti SpA,  KBR  and  JGC Corp .
each agreed to pay $30 million, he said.  Nigerian prosecutors filed charges on Dec. 8 against
Halliburton and Cheney as well as current  Halliburton CEO  David Lesar , KBR Inc. CEO  William Utt  and  Albert “Jack” Stanley , ex-
chairman of KBR, according to court documents. KBR is a former
Halliburton subsidiary and had a 25 percent interest in the
natural-gas liquefaction project on Bonny Island, Nigeria.  Femi Babafemi , a spokesman for the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission, said Dec. 17 that Halliburton offered to pay
$120 million in fines and repatriate an additional $130 million
to Nigeria. In a telephone interview today, Teresa Wong, a
spokeswoman for Halliburton, declined to comment on the figures.  Halliburton  rose  14 cents to $40.29 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares, which have 32
buy and three hold ratings from analysts, have climbed 34
percent this year.  Schlumberger Ltd ., based in Houston and Paris, is the
world’s largest oilfield services provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wethe  in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at   tinadavis@bloomberg.net . 