-- AIB Junior Bondholders Must Share Restructuring Costs to Get Aid, EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-21T13:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/allied-irish-anglo-irish-secure-european-union-approval-for-state-support.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc’s junior bond
holders must pay a “significant” share of the lender’s
restructuring costs as one of the European Union’s conditions
for approving state help.  Regulators signalled the requirement as they granted
temporary approvals to Allied Irish, Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and
Irish Nationwide Building Society for recapitalizations. Today’s
announcement from the Brussels-based European Commission
encompasses two capital injections for Allied Irish totalling
about 9.8 billion euros ($12.9 billion).  Allied Irish will have to revise a restructuring plan that
proposes measures to satisfy the EU’s requirement for a
“significant contribution by the bank’s shareholders and
subordinated debt holders to the restructuring costs,” the
commission  said  in an e-mailed statement today.  The Irish government said in September it expected to take
a majority stake in Allied Irish, the country’s second-
biggest lender, as bad debts surged amid the country’s worst
recession on record. Ireland is pumping money into its banks to
meet capital requirements after the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund approved an 85 billion-euro bailout
for the country.  Regulators also temporarily approved Anglo Irish Bank’s
recapitalization of 4.9 billion euros and a state guarantee for
off-balance sheet transactions and Irish Nationwide’s 2.7
billion-euro recapitalization.  ‘Profound Difficulties’  “The Irish banking sector is experiencing profound
difficulties at the moment,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. He said the state aid was
“necessary to ensure that these institutions meet their
respective obligations and will help to preserve financial
stability in Ireland.”  Ireland’s president will today chair a meeting of advisers
to consider whether new banking rules need to be referred to
the Supreme Court to ensure it is constitutional. The rules
allow the government to force junior bondholders to share
losses.  Government data on Nov. 28 showed that Ireland may spend
as much as 83 billion euros, more than half of its gross
domestic product, to support banks including Allied Irish. The
company has lost 98 percent of its value since February 2007.  Anglo Irish will absorb some 34 billion euros of government
help for banks, the government said in September.  Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide must also submit new plans
to EU regulators early next year to show how they plan to wind
down their activities, the EU statement said.  Off Balance Sheet  The Irish government won EU authorization to guarantee some
of Anglo Irish’s off-balance sheets liabilities, including
derivatives, clearing transactions and transactional
arrangements, to ensure it could continue “as a going
concern,” the EU said. It gave no figure for the extent of the
guarantee.  Anglo Irish said today that holders of more than 90 percent
of its subordinated bonds due 2014 and 2016 agreed to swap the
notes at a discount of 80 percent to par value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 