-- Amazon.com Kindle Sales Are Said to Exceed Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-12-22T01:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/amazon-com-is-said-to-exceed-kindle-sales-estimates-by-60-shares-advance.html
Amazon.com Inc.  is likely to sell
more than 8 million Kindle electronic-book readers this year, at
least 60 percent more than analysts have predicted, according to
two people who are aware of the company’s sales projections.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated, on average, that
the company would sell 5 million Kindles in 2010. Last year,
Amazon sold about 2.4 million Kindles, said one of the people,
who asked to remain anonymous because the company doesn’t
disclose Kindle sales figures.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is using the Kindle,
unveiled in 2007, to expand into hardware and fuel digital book
demand. The projections show Amazon is adding share in the e-
reader market, where it vies with  Sony Corp . and Barnes & Noble
Inc., faster than predicted by analysts at Citigroup Inc. and at
least five other securities or research firms.  “Kindle is gaining an unstoppable traction,” Sandeep
Aggarwal, a San Francisco-based analyst at Caris & Co., wrote in
a research note today. He has a “buy” rating on Amazon and
doesn’t own the shares.  Drew Herdener , a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment.  Analysts at Citigroup, Barclays Capital, BGC Partners LP
and ThinkEquity LLC have estimated that Amazon will sell about 5
million Kindles this year. Caris & Co. predicted 4.8 million,
while  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . projected 4 million to 5 million.  Kindle Versus IPad  Amazon’s sales demonstrate that the market for stand-alone
e-readers is growing even as  Apple Inc . builds demand for the
iPad tablet, which lets users read books, watch videos and carry
out computing tasks. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, sold
 7.46 million  iPads from their April debut through September.  Shares of Amazon rose $1.46 to $184.75 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. They have gained 37 percent
this year.  Amazon sells three versions of the Kindle. The $139 model
downloads books, magazines and newspapers via Wi-Fi only.
 Another  costs $189 and works over both Wi-Fi and 3G wireless
networks. The larger  Kindle DX  costs $379.  Amazon has disclosed few details on Kindle sales. In
October, the company said that sales of the lighter, faster
Kindles, which were introduced in July, had surpassed total
Kindle sales in the fourth quarter of 2009, the company’s
busiest time of year. Sony and Barnes & Noble don’t disclose
sales of their e-readers either.  E-Books Everywhere  Even as Kindle sales accelerate, Amazon is lessening its
reliance on a single family of devices to sell its e-books, said
 Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis.  Amazon said in October that it’s developing software that
will let users read its e-books on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
Phone 7 mobile operating system. Consumers can also get Kindle
books on the iPad, iPod Touch and iPhone, as well as on  Research
In Motion Ltd . BlackBerrys and phones running  Google Inc .’s
Android.  Amazon got its start more than a decade ago as an online
book retailer. CEO  Bezos  said in an interview in July that the
company began designing the Kindle in 2004 to ramp up sales of
e-books.  U.S. sales of e-books are set to almost triple to $2.8
billion by 2015, according to  Forrester Research Inc . in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 