-- Ambac Discussing Allocation of Loss With Creditors, Regulators
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/ambac-in-talks-over-7-3-billion-net-operating-losses-update1-.html
An  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ)  lawyer
told a bankruptcy judge that the holding company for a failed
bond insurer is discussing with creditors and regulators how to
allocate $7.3 billion in net operating losses.  Separately, Daniel Filor, a lawyer for the U.S. attorney’s
office, told the judge that the government believes a dispute
over New York-based Ambac Financial’s tax refund should be 
moved from bankruptcy court in New York to federal district 
court.  Ambac’s principal insurance unit, Ambac Assurance Corp.,
was taken over by regulators, where the office of  Wisconsin ’s
insurance commissioner, known as OCI, is overseeing a
rehabilitation of its $50 billion portfolio of policies that
insure residential mortgage-backed securities.  “We’re in trilateral negotiations with the committee and
OCI with respect to a global solution,” Ambac attorney Todd
Padnos told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in New York
yesterday. He said an accord would resolve “the amount to be
paid by Ambac Assurance to the holding company for items
including tax refunds.  Ambac’s holding company separately is seeking an injunction
to temporarily bar the Internal Revenue Service from seizing a
$700 million refund, received from carrying back losses on
credit-default swap contracts. It also asked for a declaratory
judgment that it has no tax liability for 2003 to 2008 and is
entitled to keep the full refund.  At yesterday’s hearing, Filor said the U.S. plans to ask to
move jurisdiction to a district court, which Ambac may oppose.  ‘Novel and Complex’  “Novel and complex issues of federal tax law are
appropriate to go before a federal district court,” Filor said.  Ambac filed for bankruptcy Nov. 8, with  liabilities  of
$1.68 billion as of June 30 on an unconsolidated basis.  Ambac said in its Chapter 11 bankruptcy that it needed to
preserve about $7 billion in net operating losses. The IRS has
challenged claims by both companies to tax deductions that they
say were generated by those losses.  The IRS has agreed not to take enforcement action against
Ambac or its subsidiaries without giving five days’ notice. The
agreement will remain in place until a hearing to decide whether
Ambac can get a judgment.  The agreement calls for the IRS to submit a reply to
Ambac’s motion by Dec. 31, and for Ambac to reply again by
Jan. 18.  Separately, Chapman approved the hiring of Blackstone
Advisory Partners LP as a financial adviser, Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
as bankruptcy counsel, and Togut, Segal & Segal LLLP as
conflicts counsel. Morrison & Foerster LLP was also approved as
counsel for the official committee of unsecured creditors, and
Lazard Freres & Co. as financial adviser to the committee.  The holding company case is In re Ambac Financial Group
Inc., 10-15973, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 