-- American Apparel Probing Deloitte's Claims That Statements Were Withheld
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-12-21T23:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/american-apparel-directors-investigate-deloitte-accusation-over-statements.html
American Apparel Inc.’s  audit
committee is investigating assertions by Deloitte & Touche LLP
that management withheld financial statements.  Deloitte notified the audit committee Dec. 15 that its
report on the company’s financial statements for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2009, shouldn’t be relied upon, according to a
regulatory filing today. The audit committee is investigating
Deloitte’s assertion that management withheld financial
statements for February 2010 and made related
misrepresentations, American Apparel said in the filing.  The operator of more than 280 clothing stores received
inquiries from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission after
auditor Deloitte quit July 22 and was replaced by Marcum LLP,
the company said in an August regulatory filing. The retailer
also received subpoenas from the U.S. attorney’s office for the
Southern District of New York, it said earlier.  American Apparel, led by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Dov Charney , has since provided documents to Deloitte
and met with auditors there, the Los Angeles-based company said.  “Management disagrees with Deloitte’s assertions and does
not believe that the February 2010 monthly financial statements
were withheld,” American Apparel said in the filing today.
“The Company does not currently believe, including after
discussions with Marcum, that the reaudit will result in any
changes to the 2009 financials.”  The cause of the deterioration in the relationship with
Deloitte may have been a miscommunication, Peter Schey, a
lawyer and spokesman for American Apparel, said in an interview.  ``Up to this point, we have no reason to believe any members
of management who dealt with Deloitte did anything remotely
close to wrong,'' said Schey, who is based in Los Angeles. ``At
the same time, the audit committee and the company’s management
will continue to investigate the matter surrounding Deloitte’s
resignation.''  Deloitte was unable to be reached immediately after regular
business hours.  American Apparel rose 2 cents today to $1.65 in NYSE Amex
trading. The shares have fallen 47 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
rajello@bloomberg. 