-- American Airlines Plans to Stop Displaying, Selling Tickets on Orbitz.com
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/american-airlines-wins-court-order-allowing-it-to-pull-flights-from-orbitz.html
AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines won a
court ruling allowing it to pull listings from  Orbitz Worldwide
Inc.  and said it will immediately stop displaying and selling
tickets on the online travel site.  Yesterday’s decision by an Illinois state court in Chicago
lifted a temporary restraining order granted last month that
prevented American from dropping Orbitz, according to the Fort
Worth, Texas-based airline.  American has developed a system of its own called Direct
Connect that provides fare pricing and options directly to
larger online travel agencies. The carrier also is trying to
drive more bookings through its own website at AA.com.  “In today’s competitive marketplace, it is important for
American to be free to customize its product offerings to
improve the customer experience, as well as distribute its
products in a way that does not result in unnecessary costs,”
 Ryan Mikolasik , a spokesman for American Airlines, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Allowing American Airlines to drop Orbitz marks the “first
shot in a long battle that’s going to be engaged” by all
airlines in 2011, said  Kevin Mitchell , chairman of the Business
Travel Coalition, a group that represents corporate travel
managers and is critical of American’s plans.  “When American pulls inventory from Orbitz, consumers will
not have the ability to compare all apples to apples” on fare
pricing, Mitchell said in a phone interview.  Sabre Holdings Corp. , the parent of Travelocity.com, said
in a statement that American’s actions will “make it much
harder and more costly for agents and consumers to easily
comparison shop among airlines, which will result in increased
prices for consumers.”  Injunction Denied  The Circuit Court of Cook County denied a request for a
preliminary injunction by Travelport LP, the travel-reservation
systems provider whose affiliates partly own Orbitz, said  Brian Hoyt , a spokesman for Orbitz, in an e-mail yesterday.  Revenue earned on American Airlines tickets and associated
products such as rental cars accounted for about 5 percent of
Orbitz’s revenue for the nine months ended in September, Hoyt
said. Most of the affected ticket volume will be replaced by
other suppliers, he said.  American  is pushing online travel agencies to obtain flight
and fare information directly from it instead of through global
distribution systems such as Travelport’s Galileo and Worldspan,
Orbitz Chief Executive Officer  Barney Harford  said in November
in a conference call with analysts.  Travelport said in a separate statement that it’s
“disappointed” with the court’s ruling on the restraining
order and that the case will continue until a final judgment is
made.  ‘Detrimental’ Plans  “Travelport believes American Airlines’ plans to force a
more restrictive distribution model will result in
inefficiencies and added costs and will be detrimental to
airline customers, travel agencies and consumers,”  Jill Brenner , a spokeswoman for Travelport, said in the statement.  Two lawyers for Travelport, Paul Chronis and John Schriver,
didn’t immediately return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Separately yesterday,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  said it notified
three online travel sites, CheapOAir.com, OneTravel.com and
BookIt.com, that it terminated them as authorized travel agents
as of Dec. 17. Tickets purchased from those websites through
Dec. 17 will be honored, Delta spokesman Trebor Banstetter said.  Delta is trying to increase bookings through its own
website at Delta.com,  Glen Hauenstein , executive vice president
of network planning and revenue management, said on a Dec. 15
webcast of an investor presentation.  Travelport is owned by Blackstone Group LP.  The case is Travelport v. American Airlines, 10CH48028,
Circuit Court of Cook County, Chancery Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 