-- Lanco Infratech Plans Coal Mine Acquisitions to Boost India Power Capacity
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2010-12-21T11:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/lanco-infratech-plans-coal-mine-acquisitions-to-boost-india-power-capacity.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. , an Indian
energy and infrastructure firm that agreed to buy Australia’s
Griffin Coal Mining Co., aims to purchase more overseas assets
as it seeks to boost power capacity sevenfold by 2015.  Mines in Indonesia, Africa and Australia may be targeted,
Nagaprasad Kandimalla, chief executive officer of the Hyderabad,
Andhra Pradesh-based company, said in an interview yesterday.  Lanco plans to spend about 900 billion rupees ($20 billion)
by 2015 to increase generating capacity to 15,000 megawatts, of
which 85 percent would be fueled by coal, he said. India, Asia’s
fastest-growing major economy behind China, is burning more of
coal as economic expansion raises demand.  “We are also looking at a portfolio of coal assets, which
began with Griffin,” Kandimalla said. “We are not going to
stop here.”  The government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012. The country needs to increase installed
capacity to 200,000 megawatts to sustain economic growth,
according to the power ministry. More than half of the current
capacity of 167,278 megawatts is fueled by coal.  Lanco also plans to bid for so-called ultra mega power
projects, each with a capacity of 4,000 megawatts, that India
plans to build as economic growth drives electricity demand,
Kandimalla said. Bids for two such plants in the Orissa and
Chhattisgarh states are scheduled to close on Jan. 31 and Jan. 7,
respectively.  Capacity ‘Credibility’  “There is strong visibility on projects getting
commissioned in the near future,”  Vijaykumar Bupathy , an
analyst at Spark Capital Advisors, said in an telephone
interview from Chennai. “A lot of projects are in the advanced
stage, so there is credibility to what he is saying in terms of
additional capacities coming through.”  Lanco  climbed as much as 3.1 percent to 64 rupees in Mumbai,
and ended at 62.50 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading.  The company had 5.26 million shares, or 0.2 percent of its
equity, changing hands in three block deals on the National
Stock Exchange, according to Bloomberg data.  Out of 25  analysts  tracking the stock, 22 rate it a “buy”
or the equivalent, according to Bloomberg data.  Coal Imports  Lanco’s coal imports may exceed 20 million metric tons a
year by 2015, and the company would target matching that by
buying assets overseas, Kandimalla said.  The  company , which currently has power-generating capacity
of about 2,100 megawatts, plans to raise that to 3,400 megawatts
by the end of the March, he said.  The company expects to import about 6.5 million tons a year
of coal starting April, Kandimalla said. It currently imports
about 2.5 million tons a year of the fuel from Indonesia through
a long-term supply contract.  Lanco agreed to buy Griffin for an undisclosed sum on Dec.
15, almost a year after the Western Australia producer filed for
bankruptcy and sought to sell its assets.  Griffin will give Lanco access to about 4 million tons of
thermal coal a year, which can be increased to more than 15
million tons, Lanco said in a statement Dec. 15.  “Griffin will partially fulfill our coal requirements,”
Kandimalla said.  Udupi Tender  Udupi Power Corp., which is part of Lanco, sought to import
1.25 million tons of thermal coal a year on a long-term basis
for a  power plant  in the southern state of Karnataka, according
to a tender document on the company’s website.  The 12-year contract on a cost, insurance and freight basis
opened Dec. 1. The response to the tender hasn’t been “great,”
Kandimalla said.  “The market is volatile, and our requirement is for high-
grade coal, which is running short of supply,” he said. “The
coal price is also zooming high, so nobody wants to get into a
long-term supply agreement.”  Still, Kandimalla said Lanco was confident it would be able
to get the coal and raise the Udupi power plant’s capacity to
1,200 megawatts from the existing 600 megawatts in “a couple of
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell@bloomberg.net . 