-- Manoukian Foundation Helps Finance U.K. Royal Opera Facility
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/manoukian-foundation-helps-finance-u-k-royal-opera-facility.html
With its huge curved roof, 40,000
square-foot white floor and dizzying viewing galleries, a new
building outside London looks fit for a James Bond villain.  It actually has been designed for a different type of
nasty character. The building is the home of baddies such as
the evil Scarpia (from Puccini’s “Tosca”) and Iago (Verdi’s
“Otello”). The Bob and Tamar Manoukian Production Workshop
is where the sets and scenery are created for the  Royal Opera
House . It has carpentry, metalwork and fiberglass workshops
under one roof as well as an ecologically efficient planted
sedum roof and a 100-meter borehole providing the heating.  Based in Purfleet, an impoverished riverside suburb about
20 miles from central London, the facility, designed by
 Nicholas Hare Associates LLP , cost 8.4 million pounds ($13
million) to build. Although the Royal Opera declined to
disclose the exact amount of the gift from the Manoukian
Charitable Foundation, the donation is part of a total of 1.77
million pounds raised from private funding.  This latter figure also includes 500,000 pounds from the
 Foyle Foundation , a charity established by the former owner of
Foyle’s bookstore in London. The rest of the construction was
funded by the government via  Arts Council England .  Boosting Jobs  Bob and Tamar Manoukian, longstanding supporters of the
Royal Opera, explained in a statement prepared for Bloomberg
News why they gave the money. “We wanted to support a scheme
which would bring employment to an area of London undergoing
regeneration,” they said. “Projects involving children and
local communities are close to our hearts too.”  Armenian-born philanthropist  Bob Manoukian , 65, has
interests in finance and property, and has been living in the
U.K. since the 1970s.  David Hall, chief executive of the Foyle Foundation, made
the first pledge of 500,000 pounds to the project in the hope
that it would encourage other donors to come forward.  “It’s our largest single grant,” Hall, 53, said. “I
realized it would be difficult for the Royal Opera to
fundraise for this project because it’s about backstage skills
and so less sexy than some other projects. We’re a flexible
charity, though, and we’re attracted to difficult things. The
fact that the project was always going to involve local people
and offer educational opportunities was exciting.”  Olympics Order  Generously, he didn’t take up the naming rights. “We
wanted to be flexible about it, and deliberately deferred that
decision,” Hall said. “If the naming rights would help
encourage other later donors, we didn’t want to be rigid.”  The Royal Opera’s cramped former workshop was in Bow, in
east London. A compulsory purchase order for the  2012 Olympics 
made it necessary to relocate. In 2008, the company set about
fundraising for a new and better workshop, built specifically
to accommodate the large sets required for opera and ballet.  Now, for the first time, sets can be built and checked in
their entirety. They are then packed into containers and
driven (at night, so as to cause minimal traffic disturbance)
to Covent Garden.  The workshop also contains viewing galleries for the
public to see the work that goes on. People can visit by
arrangement. Much can be seen at anytime from outside through
large picture windows deliberately designed to encourage
passers-by to look through.  Creative Hub  The building is part of a larger 60 million pound urban-
regeneration project called High House Production Park. The
14-acre complex is a creative hub for the learning and
practicing of backstage skills in all the performing arts, not
just opera, and includes space for small-business units and
artists’ studios. The Royal Opera is a major partner.  The complex stands on the site of a once-beautiful 16th-
century farmhouse that had fallen prey to squatters and been
derelict for years. During the course of the restoration, two
Roman skeletons and Ice Age hand axes were found.  The house, barns and gardens have retained their former
glory, and been joined by the Manoukian Production Workshop.
The baddies, and the goodies too, have a striking new home.  Information: High House,
 http://blog.roh.org.uk/?tag=production-park , Royal Opera
 http://www.roh.org.uk , Foyle Foundation
 http://www.foylefoundation.org.uk , Manoukian Charitable
Foundation  http://opencharities.org/charities/1084065 .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 