-- Argentina Economy Minister Boudou to Run for Buenos Aires Mayor Next Year
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-12-21T17:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/argentina-economy-minister-boudou-to-run-for-buenos-aires-mayor-next-year.html
Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said that he intends to run for mayor of Buenos Aires and
said the current city government has been a “failure.”  “The city’s mayor didn’t how to manage the economic growth
the country has had,” Boudou told union leaders, politicians
and government officials at a rally in the capital to announce
his interest in running in next year’s elections. “Today’s
there’s a true failure of management.”  Boudou, when asked by reporters whether he will resign in
order to run, said that “the electoral timetable hasn’t even
been set, so we need to wait and see.”  The city government has yet to set a date for the elections
next year. Current Mayor  Mauricio Macri , who belongs to the
opposition PRO party, hasn’t said whether he intends to seek re-
election as head of the capital’s government.  Boudou, 48, who took office in July 2009, led the
restructuring last June of $12.2 billion of bonds left over from
the country’s 2001 debt default. Earlier this month, he traveled
to France to start negotiations to restructure about $6.7
billion in defaulted debt owed to the Paris Club group of
creditors.  “All these issues have helped to rehabilitate Argentina in
the financial world,” said  Walter Molano , head of research at
Greenwich, Connecticut-based BCP Securities, in a telephone
interview. “His performance was much better than initially
expected when he was appointed because he wasn’t a big name.”  Yields Fall  The yield on benchmark 7 percent bonds due in 2015 fell 16
basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8.88 percent,
according to Bloomberg market average pricing. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Argentine dollar bonds instead of U.S.
Treasuries narrowed 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point,
to 501 at 12:21 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI+ index.  The government, which has refused to let the International
Monetary Fund review its finances since 2006, last month asked
the Washington-based lender to help design a national consumer
price index after four years of doubts about the accuracy of its
reports.  If Boudou steps down, the next economy minister will have
to gain access to international credit markets, complete changes
at the national statistics institute, reach an accord with the
Paris Club as well as restore normal relations with the IMF,
Molano said.  “Boudou is the best candidate we have,” said union leader
Hugo Moyano, who heads the ruling Peronist party in Buenos Aires
province, the country’s biggest electoral district.  Argentina’s economy grew 8.6 percent in the third quarter
from a year ago, down from the 11.8 percent rate in the second
quarter.  Buenos Aires-based Ecolatina research company estimates
consumer prices rose 27 percent in November from a year earlier,
more than double the 11 percent reported by the national
statistics institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Silvia Martinez  in Buenos Aires at 
 smartinez19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  