-- Arsenal Investor Usmanov Seeks to Increase Stake in Soccer Club to 29.9%
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-21T12:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/arsenal-investor-usmanov-seeks-to-increase-stake-in-soccer-club-to-29-9-.html
Metalloinvest owner  Alisher Usmanov 
wants to raise his stake in Arsenal Holdings Plc to 29.9
percent, which would help him to block any takeover attempts of
the English Premier League soccer club.  The Russian billionaire, who now holds 27 percent of the
team, made the pledge today on state television. He and U.S.
billionaire  Stan Kroenke  have built up their holdings in the
north London club in recent years, prompting takeover
speculation.  “I chose to invest significant money in Arsenal because I
consider it to be one the world’s most well-structured football
clubs, with one of the best stadiums and led by a genius coach,
 Arsene Wenger ,” Usmanov said in the Russian broadcast. “I
don’t regret this investment. It’s not dropping in value, it’s
rising only.”  Usmanov and his partners in Moscow-based OAO Metalloinvest
plan to raise as much as $4 billion selling 20 percent of the
country’s largest iron-ore producer in the first half of 2011,
according to two people familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified last month because talks are private.  Kroenke owns the National Basketball Association’s Denver
Nuggets, hockey’s Colorado Avalanche and in August won approval
to take over the National Football League’s St. Louis Rams.  Shareholders  The American owns a 29.98 percent stake in Arsenal, with
 Danny Fiszman  holding 16.11 percent and  Nina Bracewell Smith  has
a 15.90 percent holding, according to the  Arsenal website .
Bracewell Smith put her stake up for sale in April.  “The goal is to increase the holding up to a blocking
stake, 29.9 percent,” Usmanov said. “Afterwards, we’ll see
what to do further. If all the shareholders are united by then
like they are now, we’ll keep it as that level.”  If either investor were to buy Bracewell Smith’s stake it
would breach the 30 percent threshold to trigger a mandatory
takeover bid. At the current price,  Arsenal  has a market value
of 692 million pounds ($1.1 billion).  In September, Arsenal Holdings said its fiscal-year profit
increased 73 percent to a record 61 million pounds as the club
sold apartments on the site of its former stadium.  Sales rose 21 percent to 379.9 million pounds in the year
ending May 31, the London team said Sept. 24. That’s the highest
recorded by an English soccer team, allowing Gunners to reduce
their net debt by more than half to 135.6 million pounds.  Arsenal fans in August introduced a new plan allowing them
to buy small stakes in the club which they hope may help
preserve the team’s ownership model in which no single investor
has a controlling stake.  The Arsenal Fan share initiative, drawn up by Arsenal
Supporters’ Trust and endorsed by the 13-time English champion
and its four largest shareholders, allows fans to buy one-
hundredth of a share for about 100 pounds each. They currently
trade at 11,125 pounds each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;  Danielle Rossingh  in London at +44-
   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net . 