-- Maserati Boosts Sales With $136,000 GranTurismo Convertible in the U.S.
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-12-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/maserati-u-s-sales-rise-with-136-000-granturismo-convertible.html
Maserati, a  Fiat SpA  luxury brand,
has found new life with the  GranTurismo Convertible  that drove
sales up 48 percent in the U.S. this year through November.  Maserati sold a total of 1,717 vehicles in the U.S.,
including 558 of the four-seat convertibles since its
introduction in March, according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff
Lake, New Jersey-based researcher. The GranTurismo Convertible
starts at $136,000, according to Edmunds.com, a website that
tracks new car sales.  New models can “dramatically improve” exotic car sales,
hurt last year by the economic downturn and the stigma of
driving vehicles with six-figure price tags, said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS Automotive. U.S. Maserati sales
plunged 49 percent to 1,275 in 2009, according to Autodata.  “Last year it was so socially incorrect to buy a vehicle
like this,” Lindland, who is based in Lexington, Massachusetts,
said in an interview last week. “Now you’ve got people saying
it’s OK to buy something like a Maserati.”  Maserati, whose parent Fiat is based in Turin, Italy, said
the GranTurismo Convertible has sold out in the U.S., resulting
in waiting lists, according to the automaker’s  website .  “We are pleased with the results this year,” Jeffrey
Ehoodin, a Maserati spokesman, said in an e-mail last week.  U.S. sales of Maserati’s GranTurismo coupe and Quattroporte
sedan haven’t rebounded to 2008 levels, when the brand’s sales
totaled 2,510, according to Autodata. Sales of  Volkswagen AG’s 
Bentley brand rose 2.6 percent this year through November to
1,233, while its Lamborghini brand fell 20 percent to 264. Sales
of Fiat’s Ferrari increased 12 percent to 1,396.  U.S. Maserati Production  Maserati’s premium luxury segment is smaller than the
broader high-end auto market. Fiat Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne , who also heads Chrysler Group LLC, has said a
Maserati vehicle will begin production in 2012 at a plant in
Detroit, where the Jeep Grand Cherokee is assembled.  Customers of the new Maserati convertible like the styling
and handling, said Ken Gorin, chief executive officer and
president of  The Collection , a luxury car dealership that sells
Maserati cars in Coral Gables, Florida.  “They love it because it’s special,” Gorin said in a
telephone interview last week. “They love it because they can
customize it.”  The dealership’s Maserati sales are up 60 percent this
year, he said.  “When I saw it online, I just knew I had to have this
car,” said Tony Casazza, an entrepreneur who lives in Clark,
New Jersey, who owns a website called  LANshack.com  that sells
cabling for computer networks. “Everything that I saw on the
car was just so damn attractive that I just had to have it.”  He purchased the convertible in July.  “When I bought the car, I never realized what a life-
changing experience it was going to be,” Casazza, 53, said in
an interview last week. “Since I got the car, I’ve done so many
social things, like for example, I joined the Maserati club and
I was invited to the Columbus Day Parade” in New York City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  