-- Stocks, Euro, Commodities Gain as Korea Tensions Ease
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2010-12-21T08:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/asian-stocks-euro-gain-as-korea-military-tensions-ease-rubber-oil-rise.html
Stocks advanced in Europe and Asia
as a Chinese official said his nation was supporting efforts to 
stem Europe’s debt crisis and tensions eased on the Korean 
peninsula. The euro strengthened and commodity prices rose.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 1 percent to 134.69
as of 5:37 p.m. in Tokyo. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 0.6
percent to 280.16 in London, while futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent. The euro pared gains after
Moody’s Investors Service put Portugal’s credit rankings on
review for a possible downgrade.  “Consensus is forming that the global economy is gradually
getting better,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. “Growth in the world
economy is boosting commodity prices, and surplus money is going
into commodities and stocks.”  A U.S. negotiator said North Korea agreed to let inspectors
visit its uranium enrichment facilities after the communist
nation refrained from retaliating to South Korean military
exercises in disputed waters yesterday. Data tomorrow may show
the U.S. economy expanded more in the third quarter than
previously estimated.  More than three stocks gained for each that fell on MSCI’s
Asian stock index, which reached a 2 1/2-year intraday high on
Dec. 14. South Korea’s Kospi index climbed 0.8 percent and
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 1.5 percent.  China Rally  Sony Corp., a Japanese electronics maker that gets about 22
percent of sales from the U.S., rose 2.7 percent. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company and Australia’s top oil
producer, climbed 1.3 percent in Sydney.  Hyundai Engineering &
Construction Co.  advanced 2.1 percent in Seoul after parent
Hyundai Group’s bid to buy South Korea’s largest builder
collapsed.  Posco , the world’s second-biggest producer of stainless
steel, climbed 5.1 percent in Seoul, the most since June 21,
after MoneyToday said the company is considering buying a stake
in logistics company Korea Express Co. Chung Jae Woong, a Posco
spokesman, declined to comment when reached by phone.  Korea
Express  declined to comment in an e-mailed response to questions.
Its stock rose 3.6 percent.  China’s stocks  rebounded from the biggest loss in three
weeks as property developers rallied on higher sales volumes and
energy producers jumped because of increasing demand for heating.  China Vanke Co. , the biggest developer, jumped 10 percent
after a survey showed property sales rose in the past week.
 China Shenhua Energy Co.  soared 6 percent, leading gains among
coal producers after the company said acquisitions will boost
its reserves by 21 percent.  Artillery Drill  South Korea’s live-fire artillery drill, which drew threats
of retaliation from North Korea, was completed yesterday without
incident. New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson said he reached
agreement with unspecified North Korean leaders on measures to
defuse military tensions, including a military hotline and plans
for a commission of North Korean, South Korean and U.S.
representatives to avoid further conflict in the Yellow Sea,
where the exercises took place.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, quicker than the 2.5 percent
estimate published last month, the Commerce Department will say
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in November after a 0.4
percent increase in October, a separate survey showed before
another Commerce Department report due on Dec. 23.  Taiwan Exports  The euro lost most of its gains on the day after Moody’s
said today it placed Portugal’s A1 long-term rating and Prime-1
short-term rating on review. The shared currency climbed earlier
after Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said his nation has acted
to help the European Union nations bolster their finances.  The euro was at $1.3151 from $1.3131 in New York yesterday,
when it weakened to $1.3095, the lowest since Dec. 2. The common
currency traded at 110.02 yen from 110 yen. The yen advanced to
83.69 per dollar from 83.77.  China supports the International Monetary Fund’s measures
and “has taken concrete action help to some EU members counter
the sovereign debt crisis,” Wang said at the start of the Third
EU-China High-Level Economic & Trade Dialogue.  Copper climbed to a record in London and advanced to a 31-
month high in New York on optimism that the economic recovery in
the U.S. remains on track, amid supply disruptions at the
world’s third-largest copper mine.  Three-month-delivery copper on the London Metal Exchange
rose as much as 1.2 percent to $9,313 a metric ton, surpassing
the previous peak of $9,267.50 reached on Dec. 14.  Oil Demand  Oil traded near the highest in two weeks on speculation
that economic growth in the U.S. will accelerate next year,
bolstering demand in the world’s biggest crude-consuming country.  “We’re seeing U.S. economic optimism creep into the price
of oil,” said  Phil Flynn , a Chicago-based analyst and trader at
PFGBest, an investment adviser. “The economic data has been
good and we’re getting evidence that the overall economy is
taking off a little bit.”  Crude for February delivery was at $89.64 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It rose
as much as 40 cents to $89.77. Yesterday, the January contract
expired after gaining 0.9 percent to $88.81. Futures reached
$90.76 on Dec. 7, the highest since October 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rocky Swift  in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 