-- Asian Stocks Rise as Commodity Firms Gain; Korea Climbs as Tension Eases
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-21T08:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/asian-stocks-rise-as-commodity-firms-gain-korea-climbs-as-tension-eases.html
Asian stocks  rose by the most in two
weeks as commodity prices climbed amid easing tensions on the
Korean peninsula even after a military drill by the South
yesterday, and as China reported “concrete action” to help
stabilize Europe’s economy.  Sony Corp. , the Japanese electronics maker that gets about
22 percent of sales from the U.S., gained 2.7 percent after a
Federal Reserve official said growth in the world’s biggest
economy next year may be stronger than some economists forecast.
BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, rose 1.3
percent in Sydney. Posco, the world’s No. 2 producer of
stainless steel, climbed 5.1 percent in Seoul after MoneyToday
said the company is considering an acquisition.  “All in all, stability -- both economic and political --
will always be well received by investors,” said  Prasad Patkar ,
who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney. “Markets are in a seasonally strong period but
volumes are thin, which is also typical for this time of the
year.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1 percent, the biggest
increase since Dec. 3, to 134.73 as of 5:10 p.m. in Tokyo, with
almost four stocks advancing for each that fell. The gauge
climbed to a 2 1/2-year intraday high on Dec. 14 as U.S.
economic reports boosted confidence in a global recovery, easing
concerns that Europe’s debt crisis and China’s measures to slow
inflation will hurt growth.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 1.5 percent after
the central bank kept its interest rates unchanged and said it
maintained the size of its asset-buying fund at 5 trillion yen
($59.8 billion).  Nuclear Inspections  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  jumped 1.8 percent, while
Hong Kong Hang Seng Index increased 1.6 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose at least
0.5 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.8 percent as tensions
on the Korean peninsula eased after the North did not retaliate
to military drills on Yeonpyeong Island, which is near a
disputed sea border. Stocks also rose after North Korea agreed
to let inspectors visit its uranium enrichment facilities,
according to New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson , who is on an
unofficial visit to the Communist country.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 0.4
percent today. The index climbed 0.3 percent yesterday in New
York as Barclays Plc raised its share-price estimate on
Amazon.com Inc. and energy shares rallied. The index is near its
closing level on Sept. 12, 2008, the last trading day before the
bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  ‘Getting Better’  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said provision of stimulus is “reviewable and changeable”
depending on economic growth, which may be stronger next year
than some economists forecast. Bullard said in an interview with
CNBC yesterday that while Europe’s fiscal crisis is “very
serious” and may continue for “quite a while,” recent U.S.
economic data “bodes well” for 2011.  “Consensus is forming that the global economy is gradually
getting better,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. “Growth in the world
economy is boosting commodity prices, and surplus money is going
into commodities and stocks.”  Sony, maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation gaming
consoles, climbed 2.7 percent to 3,010 yen in Tokyo. Canon Inc.,
the world’s biggest maker of cameras, rose 1.6 percent to 4,185
yen.  Nintendo Co. , the maker of the Wii video-game consoles,
advanced 2.7 percent to 24,300 yen.  BHP, Cnooc  Gauges  of energy and raw material producers advanced the
most among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
All the gauges increased today.  BHP Billiton gained 1.3 percent to A$45.42. Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s No. 3 mining company, climbed 1.5 percent to A$86.70.
 Aluminum Corp. of China , the nation’s biggest producer of the
metal, increased 1.2 percent to HK$7.02 in Hong Kong. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, advanced 3.1 percent to
HK$18.26.  Crude oil for January delivery increased 79 cents to settle
at $88.81 a barrel in New York yesterday on speculation U.S.
economic growth will accelerate next year, bolstering demand in
the world’s biggest oil-consuming country. The  London Metal
Exchange Index  of six metals including copper and aluminum
climbed 1.1 percent yesterday, rising for second day.  China Shenhua Energy Co. , a unit of the nation’s biggest
coal producer, advanced 3.7 percent to HK$32.30 in Hong Kong.
The company said it will pay 8.7 billion yuan ($1.31 billion) in
cash to buy mining assets and companies from its parent and some
units.  ‘Concrete action’  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 12 percent by the S&P
500 and 9.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 14.7 times estimated earnings on
average at yesterday’s close, versus 14.6 times for the S&P 500
and 12.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  China supports the International Monetary Fund’s measures
and “has taken concrete action to help some European Union
members counter the sovereign-debt crisis,” Chinese Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan  said at a forum on economic and trade
relations in Beijing.  China’s statement “should support risk appetite generally
because Europe has been occupying the minds of investors for
most of the year,” said Platypus Asset’s Patkar.  Posco, Korea Express  Plus Expressways Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest toll-road
operator, jumped 6.4 percent to 4.64 ringgit, heading for a
record close, after Jelas Ulung Sdn. made a 26 billion-ringgit
($8.3 billion) takeover offer, topping a rival bid. Jelas
offered 5.20 ringgit a share, higher than the 4.60 ringgit a
share by jointly offered by state-controlled UEM Group Bhd. and
the Employees Provident Fund.  In Seoul, Posco advanced 5.1 percent to 493,000 won, the
second-biggest contributor to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s gain
today. The company is considering buying a stake in  Korea
Express Co. , an operator of ships, terminals and express-
delivery trucks, MoneyToday reported, without citing anyone.
Korea Express gained 3.6 percent to 95,400 won.  Chung Jae Woong, a spokesman for Pohang-based Posco,
declined to comment. Korea Exchange Inc., the nation’s bourse
operator, ordered Posco to comment by 6 p.m. “It’s good for
Posco to add a logistics company as it tries to diversify its
businesses,” said  Shin Yoon Shik , an analyst at Meritz
Securities Co.  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. , South Korea’s
largest builder, advanced 2.1 percent to 71,600 won after some
of its shareholders voted to end talks with preferred bidder
Hyundai Group, allowing the company to start discussions with
rival bidder Hyundai Motor Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 