-- Atlas Iron Agrees to Buy Giralia for $825 Million to Expand Pilbara Mining
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-12-21T05:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/atlas-iron-agrees-to-buy-australia-s-giralia-resources-for-822-million.html
Atlas Iron Ltd.  agreed to buy
 Giralia Resources NL  in a deal that it said values the iron ore
company at about A$828 million ($825 million) to almost triple
its potential supplies of the steelmaking raw material.  Atlas is offering 1.5 of its shares for each of Giralia’s,
or 1.33 Atlas shares and 50 cents a share, the Perth-based
companies said in a joint statement to the Australian stock
exchange. The all-share offer values the company at A$4.57 a
share, 53 percent more than Giralia’s last closing price, the
statement said. Giralia’s directors recommended the deal.  Buying Giralia, which explores for iron ore close to
Atlas’s deposits in Australia’s Pilbara region, will boost
output and reduce operating costs, according to Managing
Director  David Flanagan . Global mining deals have more than
doubled this year to A$137 billion, the highest since 2007.  “There’s some solid strategic rationale for Atlas getting
hold of the McPhee Creek deposit and the Daltons deposit from
Giralia,”  Chris Drew , an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada, said
by phone from Sydney. The projects should help Atlas’s plans to
develop its Turner River operation, he said.  The acquisition would boost Atlas’ measured, indicated and
inferred resource to 602 million metric tons, up from 205
million tons now.  Giralia rose 40 percent to A$4.18 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
close.  Atlas  was 1.4 percent lower at A$2.92, trimming gains
this year to 55 percent.  Deal Premium  “Atlas has got infrastructure that matches its existing
production profile but it’s going to need more with this Giralia
addition,”  Peter Arden , senior mining analyst at Ord Minnett
Ltd., said by phone from Melbourne. “It sort of prolongs Atlas’
life in the long-term rather than adds to it in the short-
term.”  Atlas is paying 8.9 times the total assets of Giralia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with the
median multiple of 2.5 times for 10 industry deals since 2003.
Atlas ships iron ore from its Pardoo and Wodgina iron ore
operations in the Pilbara region at an annualized rate of 6
million tons.  “The two companies have deposits that either join or are
very close to each other at Mt. Webber, McPhee Creek, Beebyn
Range and Western Creek,” Flanagan said in the statement.  Mining Takeovers  The deal comes after a surge in mining takeovers --
particularly in iron ore this year with deals worth $8.8 billion
in the sector to date, compared with $1.8 billion last year.
 Riversdale Mining Ltd.  halted its shares today after the
Telegraph said Rio Tinto Group had raised an earlier A$3.5
billion offer. Sojitz Corp., a Japanese trading company, paid 17
billion yen ($203 million) to raise its stake in Australia’s
Minerva coal mine to 96 percent from 45 percent.  Hartleys Ltd., based in Perth, is advising Atlas, with
Credit Suisse Group AG acting as financial advisers for Giralia.
The takeover deal carries a 90 percent acceptance condition and
will close on Feb. 11 next year, unless extended.  UBS AG is forecasting seaborne iron ore demand to increase
by 6 percent next year, with a further 2 percent to 3 percent
annually to 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  