-- Australia Luxury Home Prices Fall, Listings Increase as Rates Dent Demand
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-22T03:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/australia-luxury-home-prices-fall-listings-increase-as-rates-dent-demand.html
Australian luxury home prices may
fall in 2011 after listings of properties worth more than A$1
million rose about 40 percent more than average for this time of
year, according to the  Real Estate Institute of Australia .  “There’s about a 5 percent gap in what sellers expect and
what buyers are willing to pay,” said Perth-based David Airey,
president of the institute. “In the first and second quarters
of 2011, there will be a rise in activity as sellers adjust
prices down.”  Australia’s house prices may be overvalued by 5 percent to
10 percent, the International Monetary Fund said last week. An
11 percent advance in the Australian dollar this year, the
second biggest among Group of 10 nations, is deterring foreign
and expatriate buyers, while the most aggressive tightening of
monetary policy in the developed world raised borrowing costs.  Prices of the most expensive 10 percent of Sydney
properties dropped 7.5 percent in the six months to September,
compared with an average 1.1 percent increase in the rest of the
market, according to real estate researcher RP Data. Melbourne’s
top end property prices fell 10.8 percent in the period,
compared with an average 2.5 percent price climb for the
remaining homes.  Australia’s luxury properties “were once considered to be
safe havens during a downturn,” RP Data economist  Tim Lawless 
said. “More recently, however, the premium housing sector has
displayed a higher level of volatility.”  Auction Flop  An auction of homes ranging from A$2 million to A$10
million last month, held at the Sydney Opera House by real
estate broker  Ray White Group , sold only two of the 11 homes on
offer.  “The luxury market is certainly softer than what it was,”
Dan White, a director at Brisbane-based Ray White, said in an
interview. “There’s a lot of speculation about house prices,
comments that they’re overvalued. And that happened at the same
time that rates started to increase. Buyers are now feeling that
they can search for value.”  While the number of properties listed for sale is unlikely
to rise further next year, volatility will remain until
confidence in global markets returns, said White.  John McGrath , chief executive officer of Sydney-based
realtor  McGrath , said his company has seen a 50 percent increase
in listings from the same time last year.  ‘Buyers’ Market’  “The market above A$1 million is a buyers’ market now,”
McGrath, whose company now has 37 offices in New South Wales,
Queensland and Canberra, said. “There is underlying strength,
but people are cautious. And if in doubt, these buyers will stay
put till there’s more certainty.”  There will be a recovery of between 5 percent and 10
percent in the top end of the market next year, primarily in the
second half, as economic confidence returns, said McGrath.  Demand for homes between A$2 million and A$5 million in
particular has been slow, said Chris Curtis, managing director
of Sydney-based buyers’ agent  Curtis Associates . Professionals
including investment bankers, accountants and lawyers -- the
most likely buyers in that range -- are waiting out the
uncertainty surrounding the U.S. and European economies, he said.  More properties are selling before auction, “a sign of
vendor nervousness,” Curtis said, with some sellers willing to
cut prices by as much as 15 percent.  U.S., Europe  The U.S. is struggling to maintain a sustained recovery as
mortgage foreclosures mount and the nation’s unemployment rate
hovers near 10 percent, prompting fears of a double-dip
recession. Uncertainty over Europe’s economic health lingers
after Ireland last month followed Greece in seeking a European
Union bailout.  Overseas buyers’ demand has dried up after the Australian
dollar reached parity with the U.S. currency in October for the
first time since 1982, said L. Janusz Hooker, chief executive
officer of Sydney-based real estate broker LJ Hooker.  The Australian dollar, which peaked at $1.0183 last month,
was traded at 99.64 U.S. cents at 2:34 p.m. Sydney time today
and has climbed 11 percent this year versus the U.S. dollar.  LJ Hooker, which has 695 offices across the Asia-Pacific
region, had about 23 percent more listings in November compared
with a year earlier, according to data from the company.  “We had a robust first half and have seen a slowdown in
the second half,” he said. “Investors typically look at the
bigger trends, the U.S., Europe, and these have been one element
contributing to that. There’s also a big portion of properties
that have unrealistic pricing and this needs to come off.”  Record Sales  The market is “patchy,” with some strong sales still
taking place, according Ken Jacobs, managing director of Sydney-
based real estate agent Ken Jacobs, an affiliate of Christie’s
Great Estates, which has the world’s biggest network of luxury
property brokers.  An eight-bedroom mansion in Portsea, a resort town some 120
kilometers (75 miles) south of Melbourne, sold for more than
A$25 million on Dec. 13, a record for Victoria state, according
to Gerald Delany, executive chairman at Melbourne-based real
estate broker Kay & Burton Pty, which handled the sale. The A$52
million September sale of Villa Veneto in Point Piper, an
eastern suburb of Sydney, by LJ Hooker agent Bill Malouf, set a
record for the country.  “I don’t think things will decline further, but I don’t
think they’ll suddenly get better,” Jacobs said. “The market
will become more firm, but the change will be gradual.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens raised
interest rates seven times since October last year, citing a
surge in home prices among reasons for the increases. Economists
expect the central bank to raise rates by another three quarters
of a percentage point by the end of next year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  