-- Ken Henry, Author of Australian Mining Tax, to Leave Treasury Next Year
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-12-21T06:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/australian-mining-tax-author-ken-henry-to-leave-treasury-position-in-march.html
Ken Henry , the author of a planned
Australian mining tax that helped bring down a prime minister,
will leave his job as Secretary to the  Treasury  in March, the
government said.  Henry, who in May proposed a profit levy on companies such
as  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group , will leave after 10
years in the position, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said,
without giving a reason. As the nation’s top economic official,
Henry also served on the Reserve Bank of Australia’s board.  “He has become one of the greatest of all Treasury
Secretaries,” Gillard said today. “He has been instrumental to
the development of taxation policy over a long period of time.”  Martin Parkinson , head of the  Department of Climate Change
and Energy Efficiency , will succeed Henry, Gillard said. He has
more than 20 years of experience at the Treasury and previously
worked at the International Monetary Fund, she said.  Henry, 53, chaired a  review  into the nation’s tax system,
proposing a 40 percent profit levy on commodity producers that
have led Australia’s economic expansion. The policy drew
criticism from companies and the opposition, prompting the
ruling Labor party to oust former leader  Kevin Rudd  in favor of
Gillard.  Gillard watered down the original plan and announced a 30
percent tax on iron ore and coal earnings. Draft laws on that
proposal are set to be released in May.  Henry helped develop policies that steered Australia
through the global financial crisis. The economy is in its 19th
consecutive  year  of economic expansion, stoked by a mining boom
and  exports  to China and India.  “Dr Henry has made a major contribution to the well-being
of Australians and the prosperity of the nation,” Gillard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  