-- Australia, England May Set Crowd Record in Fourth Ashes Test at Melbourne
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-21T05:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/australia-england-may-set-crowd-record-in-fourth-ashes-test-at-melbourne.html
Australia and England may start the
fourth Ashes Test in front of a world-record crowd of 91,000 at
the Melbourne Cricket Ground with the teams tied at 1-1,
officials said.  Australia’s 267-run win in Perth two days ago has boosted
interest in the best-of-five contest and organizers expect a
near-capacity attendance when the series resumes Dec. 26, said
Cricket Australia Chief Executive Officer  James Sutherland .  “The cricket gods are smiling on us all,” Sutherland told
reporters in Melbourne. “We’ve got a fantastic setup for the
Boxing Day Test match, one-all with two matches to play.”  The record verified attendance for a Test was the 90,800
that watched Australia play West Indies at the same venue in
February, 1961. Four years ago, 89,155 attended on Boxing Day
when former Australia spinner  Shane Warne  took his 700th Test
wicket with the Australians already 3-0 up in the Ashes series.  The Melbourne Cricket Ground seats 100,000 after it was
upgraded for the 2006 Commonwealth Games, making it the world’s
largest cricket ground. More than 300,000 may attend over five
days should the match go the distance, Sutherland added.  “We’re on target to make history with the Boxing Day Test
match looking like a close to capacity crowd at the MCG on day
one, hopefully breaking the world record for the highest-ever
attendance at a single day of Test cricket,” Sutherland said.  Australia fought back in Perth, dismissing England for 187
and 123 after the touring batsmen racked up 1,137 runs for the
loss of six wickets across two innings in the first two Tests.  Australia Rebounds  The victory in Perth with almost two days to spare followed
an innings and 71-run defeat in Adelaide and a first-day batting
collapse at the WACA Ground that had prompted one local
bookmaker to pay out on England retaining the Ashes.  As Ashes holder, England would keep the trophy by tying the
series. The English last successfully retained the Ashes in
1986-87, when  Mike Gatting ’s team secured a 2-1 win in
Australia.  “When we start in Melbourne whatever happens, it’s a clean
slate,” England vice-captain  Alastair Cook  said today in
televised press conference comments. “Whoever adapts to the
conditions we get in Melbourne the next few days and plays the
best cricket will win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  