-- Australia's Central Bank Judged Policy `Mildly Restrictive,' Minutes Show
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2010-12-21T01:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/australia-s-central-bank-judged-policy-mildly-restrictive-minutes-show.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia left
interest rates unchanged two weeks ago because policy was judged
to be “mildly restrictive” given signs of consumer caution and
few inflation pressures, minutes of its Dec. 7 meeting showed.  Household “restraint, if it continued, would provide some
scope for investment to rise without causing aggregate demand to
grow too quickly and inflationary pressures to build,”
according to the minutes, released today in Sydney. After the
November rate rise and an increase in the nation’s currency,
“monetary policy was judged to be mildly restrictive.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  left the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent after seven increases since October 2009.
Higher borrowing costs helped slow third-quarter growth and
savings have risen, even as energy and mining investments keep
unemployment at about half the near-10 percent U.S. jobless rate.  “Members observed that the restraint being shown by
households, and the pick-up in the saving rate, would help
reduce the medium-term risk from household balance sheets after
a long period when debt ratios had risen, and would help to make
room for the expected increase in investment,” the minutes said.  Australia’s economy slowed in the third quarter, with gross
domestic product increasing at a 0.2 percent quarterly rate, the
weakest pace since a contraction at the end of 2008. Savings as
a share of disposable income climbed to 10.2 percent from July
through September from 8.9 percent three months earlier.  ‘No Rush’  “There seems to be no rush at all from the RBA to shift
the stance of monetary policy for now,”  David de Garis , a
senior economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne,
said in a research note. “The RBA, we expect, will now sit and
wait for some months to monitor how inflationary pressures
evolve.”  Investors are betting there is a 14 percent chance the
central bank will raise rates before April, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures on the Sydney
Futures Exchange today. The RBA’s next policy-setting meeting is
scheduled Feb. 1.  In the minutes, the RBA called household credit growth
“modest” for the past several months and said labor market
conditions “remained firm.” “Employment intentions generally
remained solid,” the minutes said.  Australia’s unemployment rate fell last month to 5.2
percent as employers added 54,600 jobs, the most since January.
A gain of 366,000 jobs during the first 11 months of the year
puts Australia on course for its biggest annual increase on
record.  Job Growth  Job growth is strongest in areas such as Western Australia,
where resources companies are expanding to meet demand for coal
and iron ore from China and India. BG Group Plc, Chevron Corp.,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among companies
investing about A$200 billion in proposed liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia.  At the Dec. 7 meeting, the RBA considered “the expected
pick-up in private investment looked to be broadly on track,”
according to the minutes.  The hiring boom is boosting wages, and the RBA is trying to
keep consumer-price index gains -- at 2.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier -- within its target range of 2
percent to 3 percent.  An index of Australian wages rose 3.5 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, the most in a year, as salaries in
private industry outpaced government pay gains for the first
time since the start of the global financial crisis.  Price Pressures  “Members noted that some pick-up in wage growth was likely
in the period ahead,” the minutes said. “Nonetheless, overall
price pressures remained relatively modest at present,
reflecting discounting activity and exchange rate effects, and
measures of inflation expectations remained consistent with the
medium-term inflation target.”  The local dollar was little changed at 99.41 U.S. cents at
12:05 p.m. Sydney, from 99.35 cents late yesterday. The currency
is up 10.8 percent this year, the second-biggest gainer after
the yen among the Group of 10 currencies.  Today’s minutes showed RBA members considered to be
“surprisingly large” a 1.1 percent decline in Australian
retail sales in October, the steepest drop since July 2009. The
housing market had “cooled,” with prices “tracking broadly
sideways” since June, the minutes said.  Still, Australia’s trade surplus widened in October to the
most in four months as exports of gold rose and imports of fuel
declined. The central bank has said the economy is facing “a
large expansionary shock” from terms of trade among the most
favorable in a century.  “Given the very high level of the terms of trade and the
positive outlook for business investment, this policy setting
was regarded as appropriate,” the minutes said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Brendan Murray  in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  