-- BAE Sentenced to $775,000 Fine to End Six-Year U.K. Bribery Investigation
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2010-12-21T16:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bae-systems-sentenced-to-pay-775-000-by-u-k-judge-to-end-bribery-probe.html
BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s biggest
defense company, was sentenced to pay a 500,000-pound ($775,000)
fine after pleading guilty to not keeping proper payment
records, ending a six-year bribery investigation.  Judge  David Bean  in London sentenced the company today
after it pleaded guilty in a deal with the U.K.  Serious Fraud
Office . It had agreed in February to pay 30 million pounds as
part of the plea deal. BAE will send the remainder of the money
to Tanzania, where the illegal conduct took place.  The defense company has been under investigation in the
U.K. since November 2004 for allegedly paying bribes to win
deals in six countries including Tanzania and the Czech
Republic. BAE agreed in February to pay $400 million to resolve
the case with U.S. prosecutors.  Bean today called the plea agreement “loosely and hastily
drafted” and said the fine he levied reflected that he couldn’t
“sentence for an offense which the prosecution failed to
charge,” such as conspiracy to corrupt or false accounting.  ‘Got Off Lightly’  “It is clear that BAE Systems has got off lightly,” said
Chandrashekhar Krishnan, the U.K. executive director of anti-
corruption group Transparency International. “Perhaps most
seriously, the individuals who allegedly broke the law and
enabled large sums of money to be misappropriated in an
extremely poor country have gone unpunished.”  BAE pleaded guilty to making false statements in connection
with regulatory filings in the U.S. on March 1. The SFO
postponed seeking court approval for its part of the deal to
avoid running afoul of the U.K. courts, which don’t allow the
SFO to strike a plea bargain.  “My job is to bring cases to court and it is entirely up
to the judge to set the appropriate penalty,” SFO director
 Richard Alderman  said after the ruling.  He said he expected BAE to honor the portion of the
agreement to pay the remainder of the 30 million pounds to
Tanzania, a move the judge said “places moral pressure on the
court to keep the fine to a minimum.” BAE will also pay the SFO
225,000 pounds for their legal fees.  BAE said in an e-mailed statement that the ruling drew “a
line under this historical matter.”  Lindsay Walls , a
spokeswoman for the company, said BAE would pay 29.5 million
pounds to Tanzania.  “In the decade since the conduct referred to in this
settlement occurred, the company has systematically enhanced its
compliance policies and processes,” BAE said in the statement.  BAE Shares  Shares  of the London-based company rose 2.3 percent to
335.1 pence on the London Stock Exchange. The shares have fallen
6.8 percent this year.  Nick Benwell , a lawyer at Simmons & Simmons in London, who
isn’t involved in the case, said the sentence was “a very
substantial fine” for the charge.  “Imposing a very large fine on BAE would have deprived the
people of Tanzania of significant sums of money,” Benwell said.
“It does lead to a difficult issue which has not been addressed
by the court in this case, which is how the court or the company
can ensure that the funds go to the right place.”  BAE made payments to a marketing adviser through two
offshore shell companies in connection with the radar system,
according to the settlement. The investigation surrounding the
Tanzania case stretches back to a 1997 contract.  ‘Extreme’ Naivety  BAE admitted in the plea bargain that there was a good
chance that part of the $12.4 million it paid to Shailesh
Vithlani was used in the negotiation process for the $40 million
radar system “to favor BAE.”  “It seems naive in the extreme to think Vithlani was
simply a well-paid lobbyist,” Bean said in his judgment.  “The defendants were concealing from the auditors and
ultimately the public the fact that they were making payments to
Mr. Vithlani, 97 percent of them via two offshore companies,
with the intention that he should have free rein to make such
payments to such people as he thought fit in order to secure the
radar contract for the defendants,” Bean said.  The judge also said he was “surprised” that the SFO
agreed as part of the deal to grant an indemnity to BAE
guaranteeing that they would not prosecute the company or its
employees for any offense before February of this year.  The SFO was forced to scrap an investigation into BAE in
2006 over bribes allegedly paid to win deals in Saudi Arabia,
after then-prime minister  Tony Blair  said charges might harm
relations between the countries.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 