-- Banks Dumping JGBs as Only Peripheral Europe Bonds Do Worse: Japan Credit
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-12-22T03:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/banks-dumping-jgbs-as-only-peripheral-europe-bonds-do-worse-japan-credit.html
Japan’s banks, which bought record
amounts of government debt as demand for loans dropped, are
selling the bonds for the first time this year as prices tumble.  Lenders trimmed Japanese government debt holdings to 142.2
trillion yen ($1.7 trillion) as of Oct. 31 from a record 143.2
trillion yen a month earlier, Bank of Japan data show. They
added bonds in each of the previous nine months as  loans
outstanding  fell 2.1 percent to 391.9 trillion yen, the lowest
since May 2008. Government bonds lost 1.5 percent since Sept. 30,
set for the worst quarter in seven years, indexes compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  “Banks may make some changes to their strategies as
declining bond prices trim trading profits,” said  Yoshinobu Yamada , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. Lending will
extend its longest slump since 2005 as “the economic outlook is
weak, companies are building reserves and avoiding capital
spending, and manufacturing is hollowing out and moving
abroad,” he said.  The double whammy means earnings at Japan’s biggest banks
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Mizuho Financial Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. will drop at least 4.3
percent, while profit will rise at U.S. rivals including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Citigroup Inc., according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Japan’s government bonds are performing
worse this year than all but the European countries swept up in
the sovereign debt crisis, among developed nations.  Shinya Matsumoto, a spokesman for Mitsubishi UFJ, said the
bank regularly monitors all risk assets, declining to give
details of transactions.  Kyosuke Hattori , a spokesman for the
banking unit of Sumitomo Mitsui, declined to comment, as did
 Masako Shiono , a spokeswoman for Mizuho. The companies are all
based in Tokyo.  Bond Sales  The biggest banks in the world’s second-largest economy sold
a net 3 trillion yen of Japanese government bonds in November,
excluding short-term securities, the Japan Securities Dealers
Association reported on its website.  Investors in Japanese government bonds earned 3.3 percent
in the first nine months of 2010, according to the Merrill
indexes. The securities have since pared this year’s gain to 1.8
percent as of Dec. 20, ahead of only Ireland, Portugal, Spain
and Italy among 20 developed nations tracked by the indexes. U.S.
Treasuries returned 5.6 percent. Denmark’s debt climbed 8.4
percent to offer the largest profit.  Shrinking Lending  “Banks may have sold more debt in November as part of a
strategy to lock in decent profits out of bond sales and to
counter sluggish lending demand,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a
Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd. “Some
might have started offering loans to companies with narrower
lending margins to capture the largest pie in a shrinking
market.”  The  yield  on Japan’s 10-year bonds jumped 22 basis points
this quarter, the biggest increase since the second quarter of
2008. Ten-year yields, which declined 1 basis point to 1.15
percent as of 11:45 a.m. in Tokyo, will advance to 1.25 percent
by the end of 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Rising yields on Japanese government bonds and U.S.
Treasuries may have an impact on banks’ earnings in the second
half of the year ending March 31,  Masayuki Oku , head of the
Japanese Bankers Association, told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.
Oku, who is also chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui, added that yields
are unlikely to “change drastically.”  Bank lending  fell for a 12th month in November, extending
the worst streak since 2005, central bank figures show.
Corporate  demand for loans  has slid for six quarters as
businesses pare investments, according to a Bank of Japan survey
of loan officers.  Spending Cuts  Loans outstanding at the 83 lenders in the Topix Banks
Index declined 2.5 percent to 5.44 trillion yen on average in
the year to Sept. 30. Capital spending for the 1,664 companies
in the Topix Index shrank in the final three months of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing dwindled even after the Bank of Japan cut
interest rates to virtually zero and started three credit
programs totaling about 40 trillion yen to support the economy.
 Gross domestic product  is likely to shrink this quarter for the
first time in more than a year because of a stronger yen and
deflation, according to a survey of 42 economists released Dec.
8 by the government-affiliated Economic Planning Association.  “The biggest challenge facing Japanese lenders now is how
to improve their profitability,” central bank Deputy Governor
 Hirohide Yamaguchi  said at a forum in Tokyo on Dec. 10.  Smaller Earnings  Profit at  Mitsubishi UFJ , the country’s largest bank, will
decline 4.3 percent to 509 billion yen in the year starting
April 1 from a projected 532 billion yen this fiscal year,
according to the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News over the past month. Sumitomo Mitsui’s net income
will drop 24 percent to 410 billion yen and  Mizuho ’s will slip
26 percent to 368 billion yen, the estimates showed.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s two main banking units reported an average
lending margin of 1.43 percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30,
the lowest since March 2007. Interest rates on deposits stood at
0.13 percent, also the smallest since March 2007.  The cost to protect banks’ debt against default is rising
this quarter even as prices decline on average for contracts
covering the rest of the nation’s investment-grade borrowers.  Credit default swaps covering Mitsubishi UFJ’s subordinated
bonds for five years climbed to 103 basis points yesterday, the
most for almost five months, from 97 on Sept. 30, CMA prices
show. Swaps on the subordinated debt of Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., a Mizuho unit, rose to 120 from 113.  Wall Street Profit  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps on 50
investment-grade borrowers declined four basis points this
quarter to 102. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to meet its obligations.  Wall Street’s biggest banks are poised to report their
second-highest earnings ever this year, according to Bloomberg
surveys of analysts. JPMorgan’s profit will climb 15 percent to
$19 billion in 2011 and Citigroup  earnings  are projected to gain
26 percent to $14.6 billion, the surveys show.  Credit Suisse Group AG analyst  Shinichi Ina  downgraded
 Mizuho  and Mitsubishi UFJ to “neutral” on Nov. 29, citing
worsening bond-trading profits. Tokyo-based Ina kept Sumitomo
Mitsui at “outperform,” estimating a higher return on equity
than its peers next fiscal year.  Mitsubishi UFJ, Mizuho and  Sumitomo Mitsui  all raised their
full-year profit forecasts in November, as trading gains and
lower bad-loan costs in the first half made up for declining net
interest income.  Banks Underperform  The  Topix Banks Index  has slid 2 percent this year,
compared with a 0.1 percent increase in the benchmark  Topix .
Mitsubishi UFJ rose 1.4 percent at the 11 a.m. break in Tokyo,
paring this year’s loss to 1.8 percent. Mizuho gained 2.7
percent, trimming its decline for 2010 to 6.6 percent. Sumitomo
Mitsui added 1 percent, extending its gain to 11 percent.  In the U.S., the  KBW Bank Index  rose 20 percent this year,
outpacing a 13 percent gain for Standard & Poor’s 500. Citigroup
has climbed 43 percent, while JPMorgan fell 1.6 percent.  The BOJ, which held  interest rates  at between zero and 0.1
percent yesterday, has said it will keep them unchanged until
inflation reaches 1 percent.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh
food fell 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier.  Investors maintained bets the central bank won’t end the
decade-long deflation that the government says is curbing
economic growth. The difference between yields on five-year
Japanese government notes and inflation-linked debt, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices, was minus 0.65
percentage point today. The five-year average is minus 1.11
percentage points.  The yen gained 11 percent against the dollar this year,
reaching a 15-year high of 80.22 per dollar on Nov. 1. The
currency traded at 83.81 as of 12:02 p.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 