-- Bank of America, Deutsche Bank Assets Seized in Italian Derivatives Probe
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-12-21T12:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bank-of-america-deutsche-bank-assets-seized-in-italy-derivates-sale-probe.html
Italy’s finance police seized 22
million euros ($29 million) from six lenders including  Bank of
America Corp.  amid allegations of fraud in a probe focusing on
the sale of derivatives to five municipalities in central Italy.  Police said they took 15 million euros from Bank of
America, and 1.7 million euros each from  Deutsche Bank AG  and
UBS AG, according to an e-mailed statement. The remainder was
seized from Natixis SA, Dexia Crediop SpA and Banca Monte Paschi
di Siena SpA.  The amount represents the alleged illicit profit the banks
made from selling derivatives to the city of Florence, the
region of Tuscany and three other municipalities in the region,
the police said. The local governments have lost about 123
million euros on the swaps that adjusted payments on 1.4 billion
euros of debt, the police said.  Losses on derivatives from Puglia, on the heel of Italy, to
Liguria, the region that borders France along the Mediterranean,
are prompting local governments to review their arrangements,
while lawmakers have proposed rules that limit the use of swaps.
Four banks are on trial in Milan for alleged fraud in the sale
of derivatives to the city.  A spokesman for Bank of America in London and a spokeswoman
for Deutsche Bank in Milan declined to comment, while a
spokeswoman for  UBS  in Milan didn’t have an immediate comment.
Officials for Natixis, Monte Paschi, and Dexia couldn’t be
reached immediately.  The banks misled the municipalities by saying that the
deals would be economically advantageous, Florence’s finance
police said. The homes of some bankers and council officials
were also searched today, the police said.  The city of Florence on Dec. 9 suspended payments to Bank
of America, UBS and Dexia on swaps in a separate measure led by
the local government. In that case, the municipality is using a
clause that enables public administrations to cancel contracts
without seeking legal recourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  