-- Bank of Japan Pledges to Buy Assets, Provide Liquidity as Rates Unchanged
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2010-12-21T08:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bank-of-japan-pledges-to-buy-assets-provide-liquidity-as-rates-unchanged.html
The Bank of Japan said it will
“steadily” provide liquidity to support demand and Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  warned about the risks a climb in bond yields
posed to the nation’s expansion.  “Volatile long-term rates can affect the economy, prices
and financial conditions by influencing borrowing costs for
households and companies,” Shirakawa told reporters in Tokyo
today after the central bank left its credit programs unchanged
and kept the  key interest rate  between zero and 0.1 percent.  The BOJ’s purchases of real-estate investment trusts and
exchange traded funds have bolstered stock prices, a sign the
stimulus has supported sentiment even as global growth slows. At
the same time, an increase in bond yields suggests that higher
interest rates may threaten the economic outlook and compel the
BOJ to do more.  “Short-term rates are too high,” said  Shuichi Obata ,
senior economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The BOJ
should provide ample funds through money market operations to
rein in gains in the short-term rates.”  The rate decision was by a unanimous vote, as expected by
all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The BOJ left the
size of its asset-buying fund at 5 trillion yen ($60 billion)
and the credit program at 30 trillion yen.  ‘Comprehensive Easing’  “The bank will steadily purchase various financial assets
and provide longer-term funds” so that “the effects of
comprehensive monetary easing spread,” the BOJ said in a
 statement  in Tokyo today.  Yields on Japan’s two-year government bonds and benchmark
10-year bonds have climbed this quarter, setting the stage for
the biggest quarterly increases since the April-June period of
2008. The yield on 10-year government debt fell to 1.175 percent
today and two-year debt yielded around 0.21 percent, according
to Bloomberg Data.  An increase in borrowing costs may depress business
confidence and discourage consumers and companies from investing
and spending. The economy is already set to contract this
quarter because of fading stimulus measures and slowing export
growth. The central bank said it wanted to lower the yields of
debt with maturities of around 2 years when it unveiled its
policy measures in October.  Bank Profits  Shirakawa said profits of financial institutions can be
affected by volatility in long-term yields because they hold
government debt. Rising Japanese bond yields reflects a global
trend driven by higher borrowing costs in the U.S., he said.  Japan’s currency has weakened 0.8 percent against the
dollar since the BOJ adopted the package on Oct. 5. The Japanese
currency was traded at 83.67 as of 4:45 p.m. in Tokyo. A stable
yen may reduce pressure on the central bank to add policy
stimulus, according to analyst  Seiji Shiraishi .  “A major reason for the BOJ to adopt its policies was the
yen’s rapid appreciation,” said Shiraishi, chief economist at
HSBC Securities. “Given that the Japanese currency has been
weakening somewhat recently, there are few incentives for the
bank to forcefully push down yields now” using policy tools, he
said.  The central bank started buying exchange-traded funds and
real estate investment trusts last week. It commenced purchases
of corporate bonds rated at least BBB early this month, on top
of government debt purchases.  BBB Rating  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold such five-year
BBB-rated company debt rather than government notes of similar
maturity has narrowed since the BOJ introduced its asset-buying
program. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index has advanced 10.8
percent during the same period. The Nikkei 225 Exchange-Traded
Fund, which tracks the performance of the benchmark stock index,
has risen 7.3 percent, the same amount as gains in the Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  The central bank’s asset purchase plan has encouraged
companies to sell debt to investors.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co., 
which acquired Pilkington Group Ltd. in 2006, sold BBB rated
bonds this month and raised 24 billion yen from its first public
sale of bonds since May 2008.  Economic Contraction  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food fell 0.6 percent in
October, the 20th consecutive month of decline. BOJ policy
makers have pledged to maintain the near-zero interest rate
policy until the bank can forecast stable price gains, which
board members consider to be a rise of around 1 percent.  The economy will shrink 1.9 percent this quarter as Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s stimulus spending fades, the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association said Dec. 8, citing
analysts’ forecasts.  Kan’s ability to push through more stimulus is limited by
his falling approval ratings, an opposition-controlled upper
house and a swelling government debt burden. His approval
ratings slid to 21 percent in a survey conducted by the Asahi
newspaper on Dec. 11 and 12, compared with 27 percent in a
November poll.  “The BOJ will probably consider increasing the fund should
stocks fall and the yen resume gains ahead of the fiscal year
end” on March 31, said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at
Nikko Cordial Securities in Tokyo. Buying more government debt
is the most likely option while the bank may increase ETFs
should stock prices slump, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  