-- Bears Defeat Vikings 40-14 in Minneapolis to Clinch Berth in NFL Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-21T05:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bears-defeat-vikings-40-14-in-minneapolis-to-clinch-berth-in-nfl-playoffs.html
The Chicago Bears clinched
their first playoff berth since 2006 with a 40-14 win
against the Vikings in the first outdoor National Football
League game in Minnesota in 29 years.  Jay Cutler  threw three touchdown passes for the Bears
last night at the University of Minnesota’s TCF Bank
Stadium, and Chicago’s  Devin Hester  set an NFL record with
his 14th career kick return for a score.  The Bears rebounded from last week’s 36-7 home loss
against New England to improve to 10-4 and lock up the
National Football Conference North title. It’s Chicago’s
first division crown since the 2006 season, when they
advanced to the Super Bowl before losing to Indianapolis.  “It’s special,” Cutler said in a televised
interview. “We’re not done yet. This is the first step and
we just have to keep playing well.”  The Bears’ defense knocked Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  out of the game with a head injury and forced five
turnovers in snowy, icy conditions. The game was played at
the University of Minnesota because the roof of the
Metrodome in Minneapolis collapsed last week after a
snowstorm. The Vikings’ home game last week was held at
Detroit’s Ford Field.  “It’s one of the few times I kind of went blank there
for a while,” Favre said during a news conference. “Just
the way I was slung around on the turf. I wouldn’t say it
was necessarily the hit, it was when I hit the turf.”  Last night’s game marked 29 years to the day of the
last outdoor NFL game in Minnesota, a 10-6 Vikings loss to
Kansas City on Dec. 20, 1981, at Metropolitan Stadium in
Bloomington.  Favre Starts  While Vikings running back  Adrian Peterson  sat out
because of thigh and ankle injuries, Favre started at
quarterback a week after having his NFL-record streak of
297 consecutive starts snapped because of a shoulder
injury.  Favre, 41, threw a 23-yard touchdown pass to  Percy Harvin  on Minnesota’s opening drive before being forced out
of the game early in the second quarter. Favre, who threw
his 19th interception of the season on the Vikings’ second
possession, was hurt when he was sacked and thrown to the
turf by Bears rookie defensive end Corey Wootton.  Joe Webb  replaced Favre for the Vikings, who gave up
27 straight points after their opening touchdown.  Hester caught a 15-yard touchdown pass from Cutler in
the second quarter to give the Bears a 17-7 lead and
returned a punt 64 yards for another score in the third
quarter.  Hester’s Record-Breaker  Hester raced to the end zone untouched to break the
NFL record of 13 career kick return touchdowns he shared
with  Brian Mitchell . It was 10th punt score by Hester, who
returned the second-half kickoff 79 yards to Minnesota’s 6-
yard line to set up a field goal.  The Bears are the fourth NFL team to clinch a playoff
berth this season and the second in the NFC after the
Atlanta Falcons. The New England Patriots and Pittsburgh
Steelers have earned postseason spots in the American
Football Conference.  “Big win for us and we’re going to celebrate,” Bears
coach  Lovie Smith  said during a news conference after his
team improved to 6-1 on the road this season. “But we
realize it’s just one step.”  The Vikings fell to 5-9 and might be without Favre for
the final two games of the season. Webb completed 15 of 26
passes for 129 yards and was intercepted twice.  The field at TCF Bank Stadium doesn’t have an
underground heating system, so portable heaters were used
below a tarp before the game in an effort to keep the
artificial turf from freezing. The tarp was removed from
the field about three hours before kickoff, when the
temperature in Minneapolis was 19 degrees Fahrenheit
(minus-7 Celsius).  Snowballs from Stands  Snow and freezing rain fell throughout the game and
some fans threw snowballs from the stands. When the game
ended, Favre was bundled in a coat on the sidelines
watching the Bears celebrate a division title the Vikings
won a year ago.  “It was a great opening drive,” Favre said. “I
probably should have gone straight up the tunnel after
that. But you’ve got to try sometimes. It was important to
play in front of our crowd, I just wish it would have
turned out differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  