-- Bethlehem Business Reborn as Christmas Tourism Boosts Palestine Statehood
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bethlehem-business-reborn-as-christmas-tourism-boosts-statehood.html
Azur Murad is opening a gourmet food
store on Bethlehem’s Star Street in time for  Christmas , joining
11 other shopkeepers encouraged by Palestinian Authority
incentives to boost business in the biblical town.  “We want to bring special things here to make this street
successful,” said Murad, 52, pointing to cheeses from France
and olives from Greece and the West Bank.  Her optimism is a sign of the rebirth of Bethlehem, where
80 shops -- 12 of which opened this year -- line the street that
runs into Manger Square and the Church of the Nativity. The
quarter was almost deserted three years ago following the second
Palestinian uprising against Israel’s presence in the West Bank
and the Gaza Strip, which led almost everything to close.  Boosting tourism in the West Bank is part of Prime Minister
 Salam Fayyad ’s plan to have all institutions needed to run and
finance a state operational by the middle of next year. As U.S.
efforts to get Israel and the Palestinians to the negotiating
table stall, the authority’s ability to create a vibrant economy
may help its quest for international recognition.  In Bethlehem, store owners were encouraged this year by tax
exemptions, the municipality’s waiver of licensing fees and
monthly stipends of $200 to those who took the steps into
entrepreneurship.  “Bethlehem has a huge weight, culturally and religiously,
and this is why it is an area receiving great attention from the
Palestinian Authority,” said spokesman  Ghassan Khatib .
“Tourism is one of the main sources of income for the future
Palestinian state and for Palestinians now, and we are doing our
best to utilize this opportunity.”  Law and Order  The city has better-trained police on the streets and the
sewage systems have been improved, according to the authority.
President  Mahmoud Abbas  and his government have forsworn
violence and deployed U.S. and Jordanian-trained police forces
throughout the West Bank to keep law and order.  The West Bank and Gaza Strip economies are both heading for
growth of 8 percent in 2010, up from 7.2 percent in the West
Bank and 5.4 percent in Gaza last year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in September. The Tourism Ministry expects
the industry this year to account for as much as 15 percent of
the Palestinians’ gross domestic product, projected by the IMF
to be about $7 billion this year.  Tourism  is up, with 1.45 million visitors to Bethlehem, 60
percent more than in 2009, the Palestinian Tourism Ministry
said. About $250 million has been spent in the city’s hotels,
restaurants and shopping centers, up 60 percent from a year ago
and accounting for about a third of all Palestinian tourism
revenue, the ministry said.  Star Street  Jack Giacaman, who makes and sells olive wood and seashell
souvenirs, attributed the busy tourist season to the authority’s
push to reduce violence. “This encourages the economy to
grow,” said Giacaman, whose family has lived in Bethlehem for
five generations.  The merchants on Star Street, which residents believe was
the route that a pregnant Mary and her husband Joseph took into
the ancient town, are optimistic about the future.  “We hope this street will become like the Damascus market
and a tourist street in Cairo,” said Sameh Nofal, a 60-year-old
dentist who is also chairman of the street committee.  Nofal’s committee, working with the authority, the
municipality and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has plans
for a trolley to run up and down the street, a tourist
information center, and music and theater performances.  Jobless Rate  Unemployment in the town is down 2 percentage points to 22
percent from last year, compared with a jobless rate of 45
percent between the end of 2000 and 2004, said Samir Hazboun,
chairman of the Bethlehem Chamber of Commerce.  More of the tourists who visited Bethlehem stayed overnight
this year, leading to a 45 percent increase in  hotel stays  from
2009, Tourism Minister Khouloud Daibes told reporters last week.
The Palestinians’ share of tourism revenue from visitors to
Israel and the Palestinian territories has risen this year to 10
percent, from 3 percent to 5 percent in past years, she said.  Israel’s Tourism Ministry  is expecting a record 3.5 million
tourists this year, 2.4 million of them Christian. Last year 2.7
million people visited Israel.  “This year there were a lot of people here from everywhere
and we hope it will continue like this,” said Marina Hosh,
standing inside the coffeehouse she is opening for her 23-year-
old son, Jacques. It is near the Church of the Nativity, revered
by Christians as the birthplace of Jesus Christ.  Bethlehem is mostly surrounded by the snaking separation
wall Israel has built between it and the West Bank, a nine-
meter-high cement and wire-fence barrier that Palestinians say
has confiscated much of the residents’ land, separating farmers
from fields and disrupting travel. Israel says the wall is
necessary to prevent terrorist attacks on its towns and cities.  “Palestine is a challenging tourism destination,” the 45-
year-old Daibes told reporters, noting that much of the tourism
increase over the past year comes from Russia, eastern Europe
and India. “We tell visitors that Bethlehem is surrounded by a
wall, but if you cross it, you will have a unique experience.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 