-- BG Group Appoints Former Vale CFO as Finance Chief
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-12-21T12:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bg-group-appoints-former-vale-cfo-barbosa-as-finance-chief.html
BG Group Plc  appointed Fabio
Barbosa, the former finance chief at Brazilian miner Vale SA, as
chief financial officer, less than two months after boosting
estimates for its oil and gas resources in fields off Brazil.  Barbosa, 49, will replace  Ashley Almanza , 47, who will step
down from the role on March 31, the Reading, England-based
company said in a statement. Almanza will continue to work on
the conclusion of strategic projects before he leaves the group
within two years, BG said.  BG plans to spend $20 billion to develop offshore fields in
Brazil’s Santos Basin. The U.K.’s third-largest oil company
raised gross resources estimates from the Tupi, Iracema, and
Guara fields by 34 percent to 10.8 billion barrels of oil
equivalent in November.  Barbosa stepped down from his position at Vale in June, to
“pursue new professional challenges,” the mining company said
in a statement at the time. The former CFO didn’t agree with
investments being made in Brazil’s northern state of Para, Vale
Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  told Valor Economico Nov.
5. Prior to joining Vale in 2002 he worked in the Brazilian
finance ministry in positions which included acting as the
country’s national treasury secretary.  The management change may signal a possible sale of BG’s
assets in Brazil in the medium-term, said Jason Kenney, an
Edinburgh, Scotland analyst at ING Wholesale Banking. The
spinoff would allow BG to focus more on its gas projects in
Australia, the U.S. and North Africa.  ‘Brazilian Influence’  “For some the surprise announcement could indicate some
uncertainty within the hierarchy of what is currently a very
successful company,” Kenney wrote in an e-mailed report. At the
same time, “Barbosa is expected to bring to the company” his
“Brazilian influence and insight.”  BG has interests in six blocks in Santos basin, including a
25 percent stake in the Tupi and Iracema fields and a 30 percent
holding in the Guara discovery, according to the company’s
website. Its net share of output from the fields will reach
400,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2020.  BG also  holds a stake  in Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo, Brazil’s
biggest gas distributor. Royal Dutch Shell Plc is also a
shareholder in the pipeline company.  Barbosa also served as an adviser to one of the executive
directors at the World Bank. “He has extensive financial
leadership experience with one of the world’s largest resources
companies,” BG Chairman Sir  Robert Wilson  said in the statement
today.  Almanza  has worked for BG and its predecessor company since
1993. Last year, he took interim responsibility for the
management of the company’s operations in Europe and Central
Asia until the nomination of Chris Finlayson as an executive
vice president for the business in June.  Almanza has continued to supervise BG’s Karachaganak
project in Kazakhstan. The Central Asian government said it
wanted to secure a stake in the venture and has claimed unpaid
taxes from the operator of the nation’s second-largest producing
oil field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net 
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 