-- Bloomberg's International Quiz for 2010 Sporting Events and Personalities
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-21T15:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bloomberg-s-international-quiz-for-2010-sporting-events-and-personalities.html
Bloomberg’s 2010 international
sports quiz. The answers can be found at NSN LDS9M76KLVRF<GO>  ---SOCCER---  1. Which four players scored a tournament-best five goals at the
2010 World Cup, and which took the top scorer’s Golden Boot
award on the assists tiebreaker?  2. What item left goalkeepers including England’s Robert Green
and Ghana’s Roger Kingson with little “to celebrate” at the
2010 World Cup?  3. Which was the only team at the 2010 World Cup to end its
campaign undefeated?  4. In which South African cities were the following World Cup
stadiums located: Moses Mabhida Stadium; Green Point Stadium;
Loftus Versfeld; Peter Mokaba Stadium?  5. Name the only two players to have scored against champion
Spain at the 2010 soccer World Cup?  6. Why did television presenter Sara Carbonero say “madre mia”
after Spain won the World Cup?  7. Which member of Spain’s World Cup winning squad penned an
account of the tournament called “The World in Our Hands”
without playing in any games?  8. Who handled on the goalline to stop Ghana scoring near the
end of extra time in a World Cup quarterfinal? What happened
with the resulting penalty kick?  9. Which World Cup team’s officials ordered its jersey maker to
go back to the drawing board after deeming its first design was
too flashy?  10. Which three-time European champion agreed to sell
advertising on its jerseys for the first time?  11. To whom was Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho referring when
he said: “If you don’t have a dog to go hunting, you go with
the cat you have”?  12. Who did Arsenal coach Arsene Wenger say was like a virtual
“PlayStation” computer-game player after he scored four goals
against his team?  13. Who said: “I actually don’t know how much the deal is
worth. It depends what day it is.”  14. About whom was Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson
talking when he said: “Sometimes you look in a field and you
see a cow and you think it’s a better cow than the one you’ve
got in your own field. It never really works out that way.”  15. What other countries were bidding for the 2022 World Cup, an
event to be hosted by Qatar?  16. What three teams were promoted to the Premier League, and
which three were relegated at the end of the 2009-10 season?  17. Why did Real Madrid’s 15-year-old youth team player Enzo
Fernandez cause a stir when his father said he may play for
Spain when he’s older?  18. In January, which nation won the Africa Cup of Nations for a
record-extending seventh time? Which country did it beat in the
final?  19. What team was disqualified from the Africa Cup of Nations
after failing to take the field in its opening match, and why
didn’t the players attend?  20. Which player refused to shake the hand of Chelsea’s John
Terry before a match at Stamford Bridge in February?  21. Who scored four goals for Chelsea in a 7-1 victory over
Aston Villa in March?  22. Who was fired as Celtic manager in March a day after a 4-0
loss to St. Mirren?  23. In February, which became the first English Premier League
soccer club to seek protection from creditors?  24. Who did Carlos Tevez call an “idiot” and a “boot-licker”
on a radio show in January after his former teammate said Alex
Ferguson was right to not try to keep the striker?  ---RUGBY---  1. Which two players passed former All Blacks rugby captain
Sean Fitzpatrick for the most Test appearances for New Zealand
on the team’s November tour to Europe?  2. Which team was stripped of its 2007 and 2009 Australian
National Rugby League titles in April for breaches of the
competition’s salary cap?  3. What former Welsh international and Ospreys player is set to
dance across the field for Saracens?  4. Which team extended its own record by winning rugby’s
Heineken Cup for a fourth time?  5. Which team became the third straight to win rugby’s Six
Nations in a Grand Slam?  6. What team won the 129th Varsity Match?  7. How many of the eight teams that had to play to qualify for
next year’s World Cup can you name?  8. Who, after losing to New Zealand, implied that the All Blacks
were being favored by officials and referees to boost attendance
at the World Cup?  9. What team beat New Zealand to win the Hong Kong Sevens event?  10. What team defeated New Zealand 26-24 in October to end a 10-
match losing streak to the All Blacks?  11. Who became the fourth player to reach 1,000 career Test
points?  ---CRICKET---  1. Sri Lanka bowler Muttiah Muralitharan retired from Test
cricket in July with a record 800 wickets in the sport’s elite
format. Which Indian batsman did he dismiss with the final ball
of his 18-year Test career to bring up the milestone?  2. Which three England batsmen did Australia fast bowler Peter
Siddle dismiss for his hat trick in the series-opening Ashes
cricket Test?  3. Which teams won the ICC World Twenty20 and Indian Premier
League cricket competitions in 2010?  4. What bowler was dropped from Australia’s Test team against
England for the first time since making his debut in November
2007?  5. What team made its international championship debut in the
World Twenty20 tournament in the West Indies.  6. What country’s captain was suspended for two Twenty20
International matches after being found guilty of biting a ball?  7. In March, who became the first England off-spinner since Jim
Laker in 1956 to take 10 wickets in a Test.  8. Who broke the record for the highest individual score in a
one-day international innings with an unbeaten 200 in India’s
153-run win over South Africa in Gwalior.  ---GOLF---  1. Who was named the PGA Tour’s comeback player of the year in
2010 after following his worst season by shooting a final-round
59 to win the Greenbrier Classic and later clinching his first
Australian Masters title?  2. Name the winners of the four major tournaments in 2010?  3. Who did Kaymer defeat in a three-hole playoff at the PGA
Championship?  4. What was Tiger Woods’s first tournament on his season debut?
Where did he finish?  5. Louis Oosthuizen is the fourth South African to win the
British Open. Who were the others?  6. Who had two second-place finishes in this year’s majors?  7. Tiger Woods suffered his first winless season as a
professional. What was his best finish in an official PGA Tour
event?  8. Who won the four women’s major tournaments in 2010?  9. Which players fill the top five places in the current
Official World Golf Ranking?  10. Which two players tied for top point scorer for the
victorious European team at the Ryder Cup?  11. Tiger Woods and which player shared the U.S. point lead with
three at the Ryder Cup?  12. Which golfer returned home to Monaco thinking he’d miss the
cut at the BWM Championship at Wentworth, only to have to
charter a private plane to return to London and shoot a course-
record 62 in the third round?  ---TENNIS---  1. Name the only two women to have occupied the No. 1 singles
ranking on the WTA Tour in 2010?  2. At this year’s Wimbledon, what pair played for 11 hours, 5
minutes before ending the longest tennis match ever played?  3. Who halted Roger Federer’s record streak of 23 consecutive
Grand Slam semifinals, and where did he do it?  4. Roger Federer lost his top-ranking to Rafael Nadal in June.
How many weeks was Federer short of tying Pete Sampras’s record
of 286 non-consecutive weeks at the top?  5. Who did Rafael Nadal beat in the final of the U.S. Open to
complete the career Grand Slam of all four tennis majors?  6. How many men before Nadal had won the career Grand Slam?  7. At the end of the year, Nadal followed in the footsteps of
soccer players David Beckham and Cristiano Ronaldo when he
signed an endorsement deal with an Italian designer. Name the
brand.  8. What former French Open champion and world No. 1 player rose
to a ranking of 17th at the end of the year from 65th in July
with the help of Heinz Gunthardt, the former coach of Steffi
Graf?  9. When was the last time Kim Clijsters was defeated at the U.S.
Open?  10. Martina Navratilova has won a record nine Wimbledon titles,
yet one African peak proved too much. Name the mountain she
attempted to climb, but was unable to because of high-altitude
pulmonary edema.  11. Roger Federer beat Andy Murray in the final of the
Australian Open. How many Grand Slam singles titles has the
Swiss won?  12. Which country won the Davis Cup for the first time this
year?  ---FORMULA ONE---  1. Which middle-ranking driver held up Fernando Alonso’s
desperate attempt to win the Formula One world title in the
season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix?  2. Which three rookie teams entered Formula One in March and
ended the season without picking up a single point?  3. Who said, “Not bad for a No. 2 driver,” after he won a
Grand Prix in July?  4. Which Formula One drivers were involved in a “team orders”
controversy that led to a $100,000 fine in July?  5. Which driver had his road car impounded after a
“fishtailing” maneuver near Melbourne’s race circuit in March?  ---GENERAL---  1. Who won the following awards or trophies in 2010: the Border-
Gavaskar Trophy; the Golden Ball; Larry O’Brien Championship
Trophy; Venus Rosewater Dish?  2. Which national team dumped Bollinger and opted for Beer in
late 2010?  3. Why was Alberto Contador jeered on taking the yellow jersey
at the Tour de France?  4. How did Lance Armstrong fail to match Eddy Merckx in his last
charge at the Tour de France?  5. How did Formula One chief executive Bernie Ecclestone turn a
mugging for a $17,000 Hublot watch into a commercial event?  6. Which billionaire team owner employed a 68-meter (223-foot)
motorized wing on his boat to take sailing’s oldest prize?  7. Which city was designated as Larry Ellison’s preferred bidder
in the U.S. to stage the 2013 America’s Cup?  8. Which team won baseball’s World Series for the first time
since 1954?  9. Which team captured hockey’s Stanley Cup for the first time
in 49 years?  10. Which team did the New Orleans Saints defeat for their first
Super Bowl championship?  11. Who did heavyweight champion David Haye defeat in his two
title defenses in 2010?  12. Who scored in overtime to give Canada a 3-2 win over the
U.S. in the gold medal hockey game at the Vancouver Winter
Olympics?  13. Tony McCoy won the Grand National for the first time in 15
attempts aboard which horse?  14. Where did LeBron James sign after leaving the National
Basketball Association’s Cleveland Cavaliers?  15. Which horse won the Cheltenham Gold Cup?  16. Which horse won the English Derby and the Prix de l’Arc de
Triomphe?  17. Which athletes won the men’s and women’s London marathons?  18. Who clinched the men’s 5,000-meter and 10,000-meter titles
at the European athletics championships?  19. In February, who won Britain’s first individual Winter
Olympic gold medal for 30 years, claiming the skeleton title.  20. Which two teams were forced to return for a replay of the
Australian Football League grand final after tying 68-68 in the
first drawn grand final since 1977? Who won the replay?
 