-- BM&FBovespa Creates Brazilian Libor for New Fixed Income Benchmark Rate
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-12-21T15:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bm-fbovespa-creates-brazilian-libor-for-new-fixed-income-benchmark-rate.html
Brazil is introducing two benchmark
interest rates that will be the local versions of the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, part of an effort to wean
investors off overnight lending market returns and spur sales of
longer-term bonds.  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, will publish three- and six-month rates on
a daily basis starting in January, said  Sergio Goldenstein ,
director of fixed income and foreign exchange, in an interview
yesterday from Sao Paulo. The new rates will be based on futures
contracts on interbank rates traded on the BM&FBovespa, he said.  “We’re going to help develop the secondary market,
lengthening maturities,” Goldenstein said.  The creation of new short-term benchmark interest rates is
part of measures announced last week by Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to stimulate the domestic corporate debt market,
including tax cuts. The new reference rates are designed to
gradually replace the interbank overnight rate, known as CDI, as
a benchmark for all floating-rate debt, Goldenstein said.  The plan aims to foster longer-term financing currently
provided by the state development bank, or BNDES. The government
says it expects the effort will help boost sales of corporate
bonds to 70 billion reais ($41.2 billion) annually from 41
billion reais this year.  Hyperinflation Legacy  The use of an overnight rate as a benchmark for all fixed-
income investments is a legacy of hyperinflation, which required
daily indexing to protect the value of assets, he said.
Brazilian consumer prices rose as much as 6,821 percent annually
in April 1991. Inflation is running at 5.6 percent now.  The first sign that investors are willing to switch away
from the CDI overnight rate in floating-rate bonds was a 1
billion-real bond sold by the development bank last week whose
coupon will be a fixed spread over the interbank futures rate
for the next three months, said Goldenstein. Demand was three
times the size of the offer, he said.  Brazil’s government has about 1 trillion reais of debt
linked to the overnight rate, including repurchase agreements
with treasury notes, according to Goldenstein.  “Breaking with this culture will be a gradual process,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  