-- Boeing, Airbus Export Financing to Be Costlier Under Governments' Proposal
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-12-21T18:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/boeing-airbus-export-financing-to-be-costlier-under-draft-deal.html
Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co.  planes
will become more expensive to buy using state-guaranteed export
financing under a draft agreement struck today by the U.S.,
France and five other countries.  The proposal, which still needs final approval from the
governments by Jan. 20, would raise the premiums charged for
export guarantees to reduce distortions to competition between
airlines, said  Steven Tvardek , a negotiator with the Paris-based
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .  “It’s a robust agreement,” Tvardek said in a telephone
interview. “It will mean that government-backed financing can
complement the market, without crowding the market out.”  The rule change is designed to answer concerns among
airlines in the U.S., France, Germany, Spain and the U.K. that
are excluded from receiving guarantees because Boeing and Airbus
build planes there. Carriers such as British Airways Plc and
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  said the cheaper funding terms favored
rivals such as  Ryanair Holdings Plc  and Dubai-based Emirates.  Minimum premiums charged by the export-guarantee agencies
will be raised effective Feb. 1, and set annually with reference
to market conditions, Tvardek said, declining to give details.
For an investment-grade airline, the one-time premium for a
large-aircraft financing guarantee would almost double to about
8 percent, people familiar with the draft text said on Dec. 17.  Backlogs Exempt  Aircraft purchasers will also pay a “market surcharge” to
be revised every quarter, with increments limited to 10 percent
to reduce volatility, Tvardek said.  The draft, completed after four days of talks at OECD
headquarters, grants exemptions for the planemakers’ order
backlogs, the official added.  Airbus and Boeing can deliver planes through 2012 with the
current state-backed financing terms, Tvardek said. The waiver
also applies to 138 planes ordered from the world’s two largest
airliner manufacturers before May 2007 with even cheaper credit
guarantees, he said, adding that regional jets built by Canada’s
 Bombardier Inc.  and  Embraer SA  of Brazil get a year longer.  “This destroys all the efforts to have a consistent
approach,” said Marc Verspyck, senior vice president for
finance at Air France, the Paris-based unit of Air France-KLM
Group, Europe’s biggest carrier.  Still Cheaper  Commercial plane financing costs are still about 150 basis
points, or 1.5 percentage points, higher than the rates on
government-backed loans, Verspyck said in a telephone interview.
“The abnormally long transition will lead to savings for the
airlines that get these planes.”  Government guarantees typically account for 20 percent of
Airbus and Boeing deliveries, and a higher proportion during
financial reversals, according to data from both companies. With
about 1,000 combined annual deliveries, combined with the
exemption for pre-2007 orders, about 540 Boeing and Airbus
planes would escape the increased premiums in coming years.  Boeing spokesman John Kvasnosky and  Jacques Rocca  at Airbus
declined to comment on the accord until its final approval. The
companies had pressed government negotiators to waive the
premium increases for hundreds of planes already ordered,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  ‘Right Direction’  “Export aid has proved effective in supporting activity in
periods of crisis,” Airbus’s Rocca said. “It has also helped
airlines to renew their fleets and reduce fuel consumption.”  The OECD-brokered agreement is “a step in the right
direction,” British Airways spokeswoman  Laura Goodes  said in an
e-mail. “The new financing levels only become effective in two
years, however, and are still cheaper than the market rate.”  Deutsche Lufthansa AG didn’t immediately respond to calls.  Carriers based in the U.S. and the European signatory
countries also want their governments to withdraw from an
informal agreement to withhold export credit from each other’s
airlines. By bringing the cost of guarantees closer to market
rates, today’s deal may prepare for the abolition of the so-
called “home-country” rule, Tvardek said.  Air France may test the governments’ willingness to end the
restrictions by applying for export financing on its own future
orders, Verspyck said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  