-- Bond Rally Undermined as Government Scraps Gasoline Controls: India Credit
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-12-22T08:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bond-rally-undermined-as-government-scraps-gasoline-controls-india-credit.html
The 9 percent jump in gasoline prices
since the government scrapped controls in June may undermine the
biggest bond rally in seven months, say Pramerica Asset Managers
Pvt. and Development Credit Bank Ltd.  Two months of slowing inflation and a government plan to
repurchase bonds helped reduce the yield on benchmark 2020
securities by 11 basis points this month to 7.96 percent, headed
for the biggest decline since May. Indian Oil Corp. and Bharat
Petroleum, the nation’s top state-run refiners by capacity,
raised pump prices by 5.6 percent last week. The government also
plans to review diesel prices, Petroleum Minister  Murli Deora 
said on Dec. 13.  India has the highest 10-year borrowing costs among Asia’s
major economies after the central bank raised interest rates six
times this year to curb inflation. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Nomura Holdings Inc. predict the Reserve Bank of India will fail
to meet its goal of containing price increases to a 5.5 percent
rate by March from 7.5 percent now.  “Pressure remains on bond yields to rise on expectations of
another round of fuel-price increases,”  Mahendra Jajoo , head of
fixed-income investments in Mumbai at Pramerica Asset Managers,
the local unit of U.S.-based Prudential Financial Inc., said in
an interview yesterday. “Crude oil is estimated to touch $100 a
barrel.”  Diesel Prices  The government freed gasoline pump prices from government
control on June 25, helping ease losses at state refiners as
they sell fuels below cost. A panel of ministers may meet on
Dec. 22 to consider increasing diesel prices by as much as 2
rupees a liter, the Press Trust of India reported on Dec. 13,
citing a government official it didn’t identify.  The effect on inflation would be as much as 60 basis points
should prices be raised by about 2 rupees a liter after
including the impact on services such as transport,  Sonal Varma ,
a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said in an
interview on Dec. 16. Fuel and power account for about 15
percent of the wholesale price index, which India uses as the
benchmark for inflation.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds maturing in May 2020
rose three basis points to 7.96 percent today before the central
bank repurchases 120 billion rupees worth of debt to ease a
shortage of cash at banks.  ‘Biggest Headache’  The rate is 464 basis points, or 4.64 percentage points,
 more  than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, compared with 375 at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield is also 14 basis points more than Indonesia’s 7.82
percent, the second highest in Asia.  “Crude is the biggest headache for us which will drive
inflation higher,”  Anoop Verma , a bond trader at Mumbai-based
Development Credit Bank, said in an interview on Dec. 21. “The
yield on 10-year bonds will rise 10 basis points to around 8
percent within a month after diesel prices are raised by, say, 2
rupees.”  The difference in yields between India’s one- and 10-year
securities has narrowed 64 basis points this month to a two-year
low of 54. Pramerica Asset Managers’ Jajoo says short-term notes
will suffer the most as the outlook for bonds remains
“uncertain” over the “medium term.”  Government bonds in Asia’s third-biggest economy returned
5.2 percent this year, compared with 19.2 percent in Indonesia
and 12.3 percent in the Philippines, according to indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Concerns about price pressures may prompt policy makers to
delay raising diesel costs right away, according to N. R.
Bhanumurthy, an economist at the New Delhi-based National
Institute of Public Finance and Policy.  ‘Political Fallout’  “There could be much more of a political fallout from
raising diesel prices because that has a strong link to general
price levels compared with gasoline,” he said in an interview
yesterday. “Diesel prices may not be touched until after
crucial state elections in the first quarter of next year.”  The widening gap between the cost of fuel production at the
nation’s refiners and domestic retail prices makes a revision of
pump prices a necessity, ICICI Bank, India’s second-largest
lender, said in a research report yesterday. Crude-oil reached a
24-month high of $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7 and traded at $90.18
today.  Current Account  The 13 percent increase in crude prices in 2010 prompted
Barclays Plc to predict this month that the risk of India’s
current-account deficit widening has increased “quite
significantly.” The gap worsened to a record $13.7 billion in
the three months ended June, official data show.  The nation’s currency underperformed this year on concern
the deficit will widen. The rupee appreciated 3.2 percent, the
fourth-worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee gained 0.3
percent today to 45.09 per dollar.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, increased one basis point to 159 today. The cost dropped
to an eight-month low of 155 basis points on Dec. 16, according
to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “If there is a further spike in commodity prices, that
will have an impact on inflation,”  Rajeev Radhakrishnan , a
Mumbai-based money manager at SBI Funds Management Pvt. that
oversees assets worth $9.2 billion. “And definitely yields will
move up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pratish Narayanan  in Mumbai 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net .
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  