-- Bond Market Rejects Fed’s Unconditional Love: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-21T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bond-market-rejects-fed-s-unconditional-love-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
How’s that QE2 working out for you?  To answer the question, we first have to establish the
goals of a second round of quantitative easing as laid out by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke . The Fed’s purchases of
U.S. Treasuries “affect the economy primarily by lowering
interest rates on securities of longer maturities,” Bernanke
explained in a Nov. 19  speech  in Frankfurt. Lower rates equate
to more “accommodative financial conditions,” he said.  Oops.  Bernanke went on to say that QE is really a misnomer for
what the Fed is doing. Quantitative easing works by increasing
the quantity of  bank reserves . Treasury purchases, on the other
hand, “work by affecting the yields on the acquired
securities” and forcing investors to buy higher-yielding,
riskier assets, he said. Thanks for the clarification.  Based on those metrics, how is QE2 faring?  Credit spreads, or the difference between the yields on
risk-free Treasuries and other debt securities, have narrowed.
Check.  Stocks have rallied. Check.  As for the primary intent of QE2, which is to lower long-
term interest rates, that hasn’t worked out according to plan.  Not so, say some observers, who  argue  that the rise in
long-term rates is prima facie evidence QE2 is working, that
higher rates correlate with stronger growth.  That was quick. What happened to those “long and variable
lags” with which monetary policy is said to operate?  Real Story  A better, or more nuanced, interpretation of the Treasury
market’s response might be that QE2 was unnecessary, with the
increase in yields suggesting an improving economy independent
of any renewed stimulus on the part of the Fed.  The yield on 10-year U.S. government notes set a low for
the year of 2.4 percent in early October. After the Nov. 3
announcement of QE2, yields skyrocketed, reaching 3.53 percent
last week before retreating to 3.33 percent yesterday. The yield
on five-year notes jumped more than 1 percentage point as well.  Even worse from the Fed’s point of view is the rise in  real
yields , adjusted for inflation expectations: from 0.36 percent
to 1.2 percent on 10-year inflation-protection securities, or
TIPS. Policy makers teed up the idea that fanning inflation
expectations would cause real yields to fall, providing oomph to
the economy at a time when the federal funds rate is already
close to zero. Instead, the lion’s share of the increase in
yields since QE2 got under way has been in real rates, with
 inflation expectations  inching higher.  Of course, the Fed can always fall back on the claim that
yields would be higher without its intervention, a politically
popular tactic because such assertions can’t be proved.  Yield Curve Speaks  The  Fed has bought  $137.5 billion of intermediate and long-
term Treasuries so far of the $600 billion it intends to buy
through June. That amount is not subject to changing economic
conditions, Bernanke implied on a “60 Minutes” interview on
Dec. 5. In fact, additional purchases are “certainly
possible,” he said, stressing that, at the current pace of job
growth, the  unemployment rate  could remain elevated for four or
five years. (Yesterday, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
challenged that view, telling CNBC that QE2 was “reviewable and
changeable.”)  Rising long-term rates and a steepening yield curve are
expansionary, an indication that the benchmark overnight rate
would be rising, too, if it were left to market forces instead
of to the central bank.  A steeper yield curve is an inducement for banks to expand
their balance sheets, even if it’s through purchases of U.S.
government securities, not loans. (The Fed may think QE works
through prices, not quantities, but some economists, including
the late Nobel Laureate  Milton Friedman , would beg to  differ .)  Too Much Love  Part of the rise in yields may be anticipatory, which is
why rates have ebbed in the past week. Still, it coincides with
evidence of an improving economy, starting with the Index of
Leading Economic Indicators -- nine of the 10 components
registered an increase last month -- and moving on to
encouraging signs from retail sales, consumer confidence,
manufacturing surveys and factory output.  That’s not to say it’s smooth sailing for the U.S. economy.
The nation has structural problems to address, a tax code to
streamline, deficits and debt to pare and entitlement programs
to reform. The short-term focus, evident in both government and
the private sector, will have to give way to longer-term
thinking if the U.S. is to avoid the fate of other empires.  The Fed, meanwhile, seems comfortable that the benefits of
QE2 exceed the costs. Any indication the balance is shifting in
favor of greater costs will send long-term rates soaring.  Even when it comes to unconditional love, there can be too
much of a good thing.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  