-- Bond Returns Worst in Asia as Inflation Hits Two-Year High: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-22T04:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bond-returns-worst-in-asia-as-inflation-hits-two-year-high-china-credit.html
China’s  bonds  are Asia’s worst
performers for the second time in four years, reflecting concern
the central bank will have to be more aggressive in raising
interest rates as it seeks to rein in inflation.  Local-currency government bonds handed investors a return
of 1.7 percent this year, the least among HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes tracking Asia’s 10 largest economies excluding Japan.
Notes in  Indonesia , where borrowing costs have stayed at a
record low, led regional gains for a second consecutive year in
2010 with a 19 percent advance.  The People’s Bank of China has held off from adding to
October’s interest-rate increase, the first since 2007, because
further rises may spur capital inflows that stoke inflation,  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy governor, said Dec. 11. Consumer
prices jumped 5.1 percent from a year earlier in November, the
most in 28 months, and the nation’s top planning agency said
last week that prices “urgently” need to be stabilized to
safeguard people’s standards of living.  “Surging inflation and sustained robust economic growth
may prompt the central bank to raise interest rates five to six
times next year,” said  Guo Caomin , a bond analyst at Industrial
Bank Co. in Shanghai. “We are quite pessimistic about the bond
market next year.”  He forecast the  yield  on benchmark government 10-year bonds
will exceed 4.5 percent in 2011, up from yesterday’s closing
level of 3.83 percent. The rate jumped 50 basis points, or 0.50
percentage point, since September, headed for its biggest
quarterly gain since June 2007. It fell one basis point
yesterday.  Bonds, Swaps  China’s central bank will raise interest rates by a
percentage point in the next 12 months and the 10-year yield
will climb as high as 4.75 percent, according to Societe
Generale SA, the second-largest French bank. DBS Group Holdings
Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest bank, predicts 1.25 percentage
points of rate increases and a similar rise in yields.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, has gained 91
basis points to 3.10 percent this quarter, the largest increase
in Bloomberg data going back to 2006. The yield on the benchmark
two-year bond has jumped 105 basis points to 3.16 percent, the
biggest advance since 2008.  “Bonds have been dragged down because of inflation
concerns, and talk of an interest-rate hike,” said  Robert Reilly , co-head of Asian fixed income at Societe Generale SA in
Hong Kong. “The interest rate is coming from very low levels,
so the only way for them is to go up.”  Rates Outlook  China’s central bank raised its benchmark one-year lending
and deposit rates on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point
to 5.56 percent and 2.5 percent. They are likely to be boosted
by about 2 percentage points more in 2011, said  Tao Dong , chief
economist for Asia excluding Japan at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Hong Kong.  Citic Securities Co., China’s biggest listed brokerage,
predicts two to three increases in borrowing costs in the next
six months will prove sufficient to stem gains in consumer
prices, helping support bonds.  “It’s not necessarily going to be another bear-market year
for bonds in 2011, even though yields will rise in the first
half,” said  Hu Hangyu , a debt analyst at Citic Securities in
Beijing. The 10-year yield will reach 4.2 percent by the end of
June before declining to 3.8 percent in the second half, he
forecast.  Loan Growth  Credit growth in the past two years has played a part in
deterring Chinese policy makers from raising rates too fast,
according to DBS. Outstanding local-currency  loans  jumped 60
percent in that time to total a record 47.4 trillion yuan ($7.1
trillion) at the end of last month, central bank figures show.  Instead of lifting borrowing costs, China has in recent
months focused on restricting lending to help quell inflation.
This year’s sixth increase in reserve-requirement ratios for
major lenders took effect Dec. 20.  The central bank sold 1 billion yuan of one-year bills at a
yield of 2.3437 percent at an auction yesterday, holding the
rate unchanged for a sixth week, according to a statement on the
monetary authority’s website. The government plans to sell 20
billion yuan of three-month debt on Dec. 24.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. said Dec. 20 its China unit won
approval to issue up to 5 billion yuan ($751 million) of local-
currency bonds on the country’s interbank market. The Hong Kong-
based lender is the first locally incorporated foreign bank in
China to obtain approval to issue yuan-denominated financial
bonds, Chief Executive Officer  David Li  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Yuan Climbs  The yuan strengthened 0.09 percent to 6.6531 per dollar as
of 12:31 p.m. in Shanghai, contributing to a 2.6 percent advance
since a currency peg ended in June. Non-deliverable forwards
indicate the currency will gain 2.1 percent in the coming 12
months.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Chinese government bonds
fell 2 basis points to 69 yesterday, according to CMA prices in
New York. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The  seven-day repo rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, gained 10 basis points today to 4.17 percent, the
highest level since June 2008, according to a daily fixing
published by the National Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai.  “This year was primarily about managing liquidity and
hiking reserve requirements, but interest rates haven’t moved as
much; we will see more interest-rate increases next year,”  Jens Lauschke , a fixed-income strategist at DBS in Singapore, said in
an interview. “For government bonds, that means that the
bearish trend is likely to continue in the coming months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  