-- Bridges’s One-Eyed Lawman Chases Mad Killer; ‘Somewhere’: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-21T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bridges-s-one-eyed-lawman-chases-mad-killer-somewhere-film.html
The Coen brothers remake of “ True
Grit ” is so straightforward and un-ironic that I wondered if
the credits were wrong. But if you’re in the mood for a
traditional Western with fine acting, smart dialogue and
gorgeous cinematography, this movie is for you.  Jeff Bridges  stars as Rooster Cogburn, a gruff, drunken,
one-eyed U.S. Marshal hired by precocious 14-year-old Mattie
Ross (newcomer Hailee Steinfeld) to capture Tom Chaney ( Josh Brolin ), her father’s craven killer. Cogburn teams up with
LaBoeuf ( Matt Damon ), a cocky Texas Ranger who’s also chasing
Chaney.  The film sticks closer to the 1968 Charles Portis novel
than the 1969 film that earned  John Wayne  an Oscar for his
Cogburn. It’s more violent and funnier than the Wayne movie,
featuring characters who speak in formal, elaborate sentences
reminiscent of the TV series “Deadwood” without the cursing.  With his raspy voice, leather eye patch and Salvation Army
clothes, Bridges looks more like a beggar than a lawman. His
cavalier attitude toward killing is summed up by his reaction to
a bungled shootout. “That didn’t pan out,” he says matter-of-
factly.  Snake Bite  Steinfeld, discovered in an open casting call, shows no
signs of her big-screen inexperience. She’s as confident and
unfazed as Mattie, who rides her horse across a deep river,
plays hardball with a horse-trader (brilliantly played by Dakin
Matthews) and barely winces when Cogburn cuts open her wound
from a snake bite.  Damon’s lawman is a somber disciplinarian who spanks Mattie
when she insists on joining the hunt for Chaney. Brolin doesn’t
show up until late in the movie and is overshadowed by  Barry Pepper  as fellow criminal Lucky Ned, a gang leader with rotten
teeth and a strange ethical code.  The wintry landscape is evocatively shot by cinematographer
 Roger Deakins  and the spiritual-infused soundtrack strikes just
the right tone.  “True Grit,” from Paramount Pictures, opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Somewhere’  “Somewhere,”  Sofia Coppola ’s bare-bones story about a
debauched movie star hanging out with his 11-year-old daughter
from a failed marriage, opens with an extended shot of Johnny
Marco racing his black Ferrari around a track.  After a while, the scene gets monotonous. That also sums up
the film, which is filled with long silent scenes of people
sitting around doing nothing. Coppola wants to simulate real
life, but she forgets that reality is often repetitive and
boring on the screen.  Much of the film takes place at Hollywood’s Chateau
Marmont, the celebrity hotel where  John Belushi  died of a drug
overdose in 1982. Marco (a somnolent  Stephen Dorff ) lives alone
there in an untidy abode where he hires pole dancers to
entertain him as he lies in bed.  Marco’s aimless existence -- his main activities are
drinking beer, smoking and sleeping with groupies -- is
interrupted by a surprise visit from his daughter Cleo (perky
Elle Fanning), dropped off by her mother for a stay of
unspecified length.  Marco takes her to a skating rink and later on a
promotional trip to Milan, where they stay in a luxury hotel
suite with its own swimming pool. The more time he spends with
his daughter, the more he realizes that his life is a waste.  He’s so lethargic and bland that it’s hard to believe he’s
a movie star. Coppola may be telling us that vacuous celebrities
are tedious, but then so is her film.  “Somewhere,” from Focus Features, opens tomorrow in New
York, Chicago, Boston, Washington, Los Angeles and San
Francisco. Rating: *1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 