-- Britain's Budget Deficit Swelled to Record in November as Spending Climbed
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-21T10:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/britain-s-budget-deficit-swelled-to-record-in-november-as-spending-climbed.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  swelled to
a record in November, underscoring the challenge facing Prime
Minister  David Cameron  as his government prepares to implement
the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  Net borrowing was 22.8 billion pounds ($35.4 billion),
compared with 16.7 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said in London today. That exceeded the 16.8
billion-pound median forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Spending rose the most since February. The shortfall
excluding government support for banks was 23.3 billion pounds.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said there is a “constant
battle” between his Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives
over how to reduce the budget shortfall, the Daily Telegraph
reported today. As Britons brace for spending cuts and tax
increases, Cable’s comments to undercover reporters from the
newspaper illustrate Cameron’s struggles to keep his deficit-
reduction plan on track.  “You would have thought with the economy really growing at
decent rates that the deficit by now would be reflecting that,”
 David Tinsley , an economist at National Australia Bank in London
and a former Bank of England official, said in a telephone
interview today. “You’d expect a marked improvement in the 2011
fiscal year and if that doesn’t happen then I think the market
will start to get worried.”  The pound erased its gain against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.5497 as of 10:06 a.m. in London, little
changed from yesterday. Bonds were little changed, with the
yield on the benchmark two-year gilt at 1.18 percent.  Spending Increases  Revenue rose 3.1 percent in November from a year earlier,
the least this year, held back by repayments of value-added tax
to companies, the statistics office said. Government spending
jumped 10.8 percent, led by European-Union payments and
expenditure on health, defense and local government services.  In the first eight months of the fiscal year that began in
April, revenue increased 8.2 percent while spending rose 6.8
percent. The deficit in the period excluding financial
interventions narrowed to 104.4 billion pounds from 105.1
billion pounds a year earlier. The  Office of Budget
Responsibility , the government’s fiscal watchdog, estimates a
fiscal-year deficit of 149 billion pounds.  “The government’s target can be hit, but it can’t afford
to keep on seeing slippage of this magnitude,” said  Eoin O’Callaghan , an economist at BNP Paribas in London.  Protests  There was a  public-sector cash requirement  of 16.8 billion
pounds in November, up from 14.8 billion pounds a year earlier.
Economists predicted 12.3 billion pounds. The central-government
cash deficit, the measure the Treasury says most closely
indicates gilt sales, was 14.4 billion pounds. Net debt was at
58 percent of gross domestic product, up from 50 percent.  Britain’s government has faced opposition over its fiscal
austerity measures. Student protests against an increase in
tuition fees turned violent in recent weeks, while London
Underground union leaders have said they may strike in the New
Year as they contest planned job cuts.  The chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander , said
the government will “stand firm” on its spending-cut plans for
next year, the Financial Times reported today.  ‘Decisive Action’  A Treasury spokesman said in a statement that November’s
borrowing figures show why “decisive action” is required.
Today’s data are in line with forecasts from the OBR that
borrowing will fall by almost 10 billion pounds this year and
for tax receipts to increase by more than 7 percent, he said.  The OBR estimates that about 330,000 government jobs will
be axed by 2015, though it says the loss will be more than
offset by the creation of about 1.5 million private-sector jobs.
It cut its 2011 growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3 percent
on Nov. 29, and lowered its 2012 outlook to 2.6 percent from 2.8
percent.  GfK NOP said in a report today that while  consumer
confidence  was unchanged at a four-month low in December, it is
really “teetering on the brink.” The gauge was unchanged at
minus 21 from November, the lowest since July.  NAB’s Tinsley said it will be a “challenge” for the
government to meet its borrowing forecasts.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  “will have to
hope that the November figures are an outlier and we’ll see some
improvement in subsequent months,” he said. “The overshoot is
really coming from public spending still rising sharply, while
tax revenues are recovering but not nearly fast enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  