-- ‘Spider-Man’ Stuntman in Serious Condition After Preview Fall
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-21T19:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/broadway-s-65-million-spider-man-preview-halted-after-stuntman-injury.html
An aerialist who fell near the end
of last night’s preview performance of Broadway’s $65 million
“ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ” is in serious condition at
Bellevue Hospital Center, a hospital spokeswoman said today.  Christopher W. Tierney “fell from a platform approximately
seven minutes before the end of the performance, and the show
was stopped,” “Spider-Man” spokesman Rick Miramontez said in
an e-mail.  Video taken by audience members and posted online show a
cable apparently snapping as the actor leaps from a platform to
save the heroine. He can be seen falling into a darkened area in
front of the stage.  The injured man is 31 years old, according to the New York
City Fire Department. The actor fell 20 to 30 feet, a department
spokesman said.  Someone in serious condition “is an acutely ill patient
whose vital signs may be unstable and not within normal
limits,” the hospital spokeswoman, Minerva Joubert, said in a
phone interview.  Joubert declined to elaborate on Tierney’s condition.  Even before the accident, no performance was scheduled for
tonight. Miramontez said in an e-mail that tomorrow’s matinee
has been canceled and that performances will resume tomorrow
night.  Set Inspection  The actors union and the State Department of Labor are
inspecting sets and machinery at the Foxwoods Theatre and
discussing “backup safety measures,” said Maria Somma, a
spokeswoman for Actors’ Equity Association.  “Please pray with me for my friend Chris,” “Spider-Man”
actress Natalie Mendoza said on her Twitter account.
“A light in my heart went dim tonight.”  Mendoza was injured during a preview and missed more than a
week of performances. Before previews, another dancer broke both
wrists during an aerial stunt at a presentation for ticket
agents.  The show’s official opening already has been postponed
twice. It is currently scheduled to open on Feb. 7.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 