-- Brokerages Will Have to Tell IRS What U.S. Investors Paid for Their Stocks
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/brokerages-will-have-to-tell-irs-next-year-what-investors-paid-for-stocks.html
Investors who forget what they paid
for shares of stock will get help starting next year, courtesy
of the Internal Revenue Service.  That’s when the U.S.  tax-collection  agency will  require 
brokerages to track the cost basis on equities bought after Jan.
1, and send taxpayers and the government an annual form
recording it when investors sell shares.  Brokerages already are required to report the proceeds from
sales of securities to the IRS. Next year, they’ll also have to
provide information on the purchase price, known as the cost
basis, of stocks.  “We’ve been really hammering it home with our clients,”
said  Brian Keil , director of cost basis and reporting at San
Francisco-based  Charles Schwab Corp.  “We expect our clients are
going to get a 1099-B form in 2012 and they could have an
outcome that they don’t expect.”  Investors who buy shares of the same company on different
dates or prices will see the biggest change, said Eric Smith, a
spokesman for the IRS. They’ll need to identify which shares
they’re selling before the sale settles, which typically means
within three days for  stocks .  About 46 percent of U.S. households owned equities in 2010,
including stocks, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and
variable annuities, according to the  Investment Company
Institute , a Washington-based mutual-fund trade group.  Tax Compliance  “This law change is designed to improve tax compliance
while, at the same time, reduce the record keeping and paperwork
burden for millions of investors by ensuring that they receive
the information they need to easily report their gains and
losses correctly,” said Smith.  Before this rule, the government didn’t have a way to
verify if an investor was reporting the true gain on a sale
unless there was an audit, said Greg Rosica, a tax partner at
Ernst & Young who is based in Tampa, Florida.  The regulations take effect at later dates for other
trades. Starting Jan. 1, 2012, brokers will have to record the
cost basis for mutual funds and stocks held in  dividend
reinvestment plans , which require investors to reinvest at least
10 percent of dividends paid. Cost-basis reporting also applies
to the majority of ETFs in 2012, the IRS said.  The rules take effect for  options  and fixed income
securities, such as bonds, acquired on or after Jan. 1, 2013,
according to the IRS.  Look Backward  “Clients today often meet with their accountant, or when
they are doing their taxes, and look backward,” said Keil of
Schwab, the largest independent, publicly traded brokerage by
client assets. “They select which lots they would have used
with a lot of hindsight. That’s not going to be the case
anymore.”  Brokerages including Schwab,  Fidelity Investments  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp.  will offer investors choices for
reporting cost basis including using the last stock bought or
highest cost, the firms said. Investors may tell the company to
always sell shares minimizing gains, for example, or specify
shares for a particular trade before it settles, according to
the IRS.  For taxpayers who don’t choose, the brokerage must record
the purchase price of the first shares bought, known as first-
in-first-out or FIFO, according to the IRS. The firm may choose
cost averaging as its default for mutual funds and stocks held
in dividend reinvestment plans, the IRS said.  Transferring Records  Brokerages will be required to transfer cost-basis
information for stocks bought after Jan. 1, if an investor
switches firms, said  Gregg Murphy , senior vice president of
brokerage products for Boston-based Fidelity. Firms incur a $100
penalty for sending an incorrect form to the taxpayer and a
separate $100 penalty for sending an incorrect form to IRS,
according to regulations.  Investors should review their tax situation before choosing
a reporting method, said Sheryl Eighner, a director in the
personal financial services group at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in Chicago. Taxpayers may want to identify certain shares if
they need to offset gains with losses, for example, she said.  Depending on the amount of appreciation between the date a
security was bought and sold, choosing the right reporting
method could result in a smaller capital gains tax,  David Sands ,
a tax partner at New York-based Buchbinder Tunick & Company,
said. Picking the wrong one could result in a bigger payment
than necessary, he said. Gains on stocks, corporate bonds and
mutual funds held at least a year generally are taxed at a
maximum 15 percent federal rate. Short-term gains are taxed at
an individual’s ordinary rate, currently as high as 35 percent.  Cuts Extended  The tax-cut plan signed by President  Barack Obama  on Dec.
17 extended through 2012 Bush-era tax reductions on income,
capital gains and dividends. The capital-gains tax was scheduled
to increase as of Jan. 1 to as much as 20 percent and dividends
were set to be taxed as ordinary income before Congress acted.  “It’s very beneficial for the client,” Stuart Rubinstein,
managing director of client engagement in Omaha Nebraska-based
TD Ameritrade’s Jersey City office, said of the IRS regulation.
“They don’t need to do any record keeping, because it’s going
to be done for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
   dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 