-- Bullish Real Bets Tumble as Current-Account Deficit Swells: Brazil Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-12-21T19:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/bullish-real-bets-tumble-as-current-account-deficit-swells-brazil-credit.html
Foreign investors are paring bullish
bets on the Brazilian real at the fastest pace in seven months
as the country’s  current-account deficit  swells to a record.  Wagers  on the real strengthening declined 77 percent since
October to 51,161 at the end of last week, the biggest two-month
drop since May, futures contract trading shows. In May, the real
weakened beyond 1.9 per dollar for the first time in eight
months.  Concern is growing that currencies including the real,
 South African rand  and Australian dollar -- the best performers
in the world over the past two years -- will falter in 2011 as a
rise in imports widens their current-account gaps. Brazil’s
 deficit  in the broadest measure of trade in goods and services
grew to $4.7 billion last month, bringing the shortfall in the
year through November to $49.4 billion, the central bank said
today. Economists expected a $4.6 billion deficit, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 23 analysts.  “The widening current account deficit will weigh on the
currency over the medium term,”  Nick Chamie , global head of
emerging markets at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “I wouldn’t advise people to go
significantly overweight, or to ramp up exposure at current
levels.”  Investors poured money into Brazilian debt this year as
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe fueled a search
for higher-yielding assets. The country’s 10 percent reais-
denominated bonds due in 2021 yield 912 basis points, or 9.12
percentage points, more than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Real Forecast  Foreign investment in Brazilian bonds rose to $14.8 billion
in the 12 months through October from $8.3 billion in the same
year-ago period. Overseas investment in stocks rose to $33.7
billion from $31.7 billion in the same period.  The real will drop to 1.72 per dollar by the end of 2011,
from 1.7066 yesterday, after rising 41 percent since December
2008, according to the median forecast of 17 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. The real gained 0.6 percent to 1.6969 per U.S.
dollar at 1:26 p.m. New York time today.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled a tax on overseas
purchases of local bonds to 6 percent in October after the real
climbed to 1.65 against the dollar, the strongest in more than
two years. Brazil is ready to take new steps to prevent further
gains in the real, Mantega said on Dec. 9.  ‘Volatility’  Brazil’s increasing reliance on short-term flows into
stocks and bonds to finance its current-account shortfall may
lead the government to take more measures to curb “hot money,”
according to Enestor  Dos Santos  at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA.  “As you depend more on international funding, you get more
exposed to the mood in the international markets,” Dos Santos,
chief economist at BBVA, Spain’s second-largest lender, said in
a telephone interview from Madrid. “Then you get more
volatility.”  BBVA forecast the real will depreciate to 1.78 by the end
of next year and to 1.89 in 2012.  The 12-month shortfall in the current account is equal to
2.4 percent of Brazil’s  gross domestic product , the second-
biggest among seven major Latin America countries after
Colombia, and compares with deficits of 4.3 percent in South
Africa and 2.4 percent in Australia, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Brazil’s current-account gap will widen to 3.2 percent of
GDP by 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The government is likely to increase intervention to weaken
the currency and protect exporters as the deficit widens to 3
percent of GDP next year, Dos Santos said.  JBS  Sao-Paulo-based JBS SA, the world’s biggest beef producer,
said on Nov. 12 its third-quarter profit fell 28 percent partly
because of a 7 percent rally in the real during the period.  “Given the current-account deficit we have, the structural
conditions, the Brazilian currency should be weaker,” Mantega
said in a Nov. 30 interview.  The currencies of countries with current-account deficits
tend to underperform those with surpluses when foreign investors
shun higher-yielding assets and withdraw their capital.
Currencies from countries with the largest surpluses gained 1.1
percent in the past month against their peers with deficits, the
biggest since January 2009, according to  an index compiled by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points to 179
today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Rate Outlook  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose three basis points to 117 yesterday, according
to CMA prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 11 basis points to 12 percent today,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise borrowing
costs by at least 200 basis points to 12.75 percent next year.
By contrast, U.S. interest-rate futures show a 34 percent chance
the Federal Reserve will raise its target rate from between zero
and 0.25 percent.  Investors who bet against the real may lose money because
interest-rates in Brazil are high enough to attract foreign
capital, according to  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage about $2
billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in London.  FDI  “The spot has to move a long way before you’ve actually
lost money,” Curtis said in a telephone interview. “It’s
certainly very expensive to short. For a lot of people, it’s a
big yield to justify not being involved in over a medium-term
timeframe.”  Overseas investors  made 51,161 more bets on the real rising
than falling versus the dollar as of Dec. 17, compared with
221,615 on Oct. 15, the most since Sao Paulo-based BM&FBovespa
SA began compiling the data in 2005. With each contract worth
$50,000, the net bullish wagers dwindled to $2.6 billion from
$11.1 billion.  Foreign-direct investment in Brazil, which includes stable
longer-term investment in factories and machinery, accumulated
in the 12-month period hasn’t been enough to finance the
country’s current-account deficit since January 2010, with the
more volatile flows into bonds and stocks funding the gap,
according to central bank figures.  FDI fell short of financing the current-account deficit by
$11.9 billion in the year through October. The central bank
projects that figure will rise to $19 billion next year, after
revising today the 2011 current account gap estimate to $64
billion, up from $60 billion.  “The composition of financing is shifting away from
longer-term investment flows, more towards portfolio inflows,”
 Neil Shearing , an emerging-markets economist at London-based
Capital Economics, said in a telephone interview. “It will
become an increasing concern over the next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  