-- Buyout Loans Increase as Banks Chase M&A Fees: Credit Markets
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-12-22T17:50:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/buyout-loans-in-europe-mideast-jump-as-banks-chase-fees-credit-markets.html
Loans to finance acquisitions in
Europe, the Middle East and Africa jumped to a three-month high
as banks seek to capitalize on an increase in takeovers.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , the United Arab
Emirates-based phone company known as Etisalat, is leading
companies in the region arranging $19 billion of loans this
month to fund buyouts. The amount is the highest since September
when BHP Billiton Ltd. obtained $45 billion of loans for its
failed bid for Saskatchewan, Canada-based Potash Corp.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mergers and acquisitions in Europe, Africa and the Middle
East climbed 34 percent to $890 billion this year from all of
2009 as companies that accumulated cash during the recession
look to expand, Bloomberg data show. Banks have lent 94.5
billion euros ($124 billion) in 2010 to fund takeovers in the
region, compared with 51.2 billion euros last year, according to
Societe Generale SA.  “Loan volumes going forward will be driven by new money
and big M&A transactions,” said  Damien Lamoril , co-head of
European loan syndication in Paris at Societe Generale, France’s
second-largest bank. “The BHP loan was a turning point and a
testimony of market confidence. The market has demonstrated that
it’s prepared to support and finance the right deals.”  Excluding the financial-services industry, the 1,000
biggest European companies by market value have amassed about
$1.2 trillion in cash and equivalents based on their latest
regulatory filings.  Loan Market  “Corporates are drawing upon their cash for acquisitions
this year, but for the next large acquisition they will need to
come to the bank loan market,” said  Tom Muoio , a managing
director in Credit Suisse Group AG’s loan capital markets team
in London.  Fees earned from acquisition loans can be as much as double
those earned on a similar-sized refinancing loan, he said.
Refinancing accounted for three quarters of loan deals in the
region this year, Bloomberg data show.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt was unchanged at 170 basis points, or
1.7 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
3.94 percent.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
was little changed and leveraged loan prices rose to the highest
in almost six weeks. Speculative-grade company debt is likely to
outperform investment-grade bonds next year, according to Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC.  Bondholder Protection  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.12 basis point to a mid-
price of 84.9 basis points at 12:24 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell
0.97 basis point to 104.56 basis points.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, are likely to
outperform high-grade debt in 2011 as risky companies strengthen
their balance sheets and more-creditworthy issuers repurchase
stock and engage in mergers and acquisitions, Janney Montgomery
Scott said.  High-Yield Flow  “Investment-grade issuers are looking to re-leverage while
high-yield issuers are looking to deleverage,” said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott in Philadelphia. “The flow of dollars seems to be exiting
investment-grade and flowing into high-yield, and that will
really persist into 2011.”  The S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose 0.8 cent to
92.58 cents on the dollar, the highest since Nov. 10. The index
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans.  Etisalat is in talks with banks to raise $12 billion of
loans to fund its bid for a stake in Mobile Telecommunications
Co., or Zain, Kuwait’s biggest phone operator, three people
familiar with the matter said Dec. 13.  Etisalat Loan  Excluding BHP’s loan, which was canceled after the Potash
deal was blocked by the Canadian government, Etisalat’s would be
the biggest acquisition loan since August 2008, according to
Bloomberg data. Spain’s largest gas supplier, Gas Natural SDG
SA, got 18.3 billion euros of loans at that time to buy Madrid-
based power producer Union Fenosa SA.  VimpelCom Ltd. , Russia’s second-biggest mobile network
operator, this month hired six banks for a $4 billion bridge
loan to finance a planned merger with Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE and Weather Investments SpA, according to Bloomberg data.  Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc, ING Groep NV and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc agreed
to provide the short-term financing, which will be refinanced
with bonds next year. VimpelCom said Dec. 20 it will pursue a
new agreement after its biggest shareholder Telenor ASA rejected
an initial $6.5 billion proposal for the merger.  UPM-Kymmene Oyj, Europe’s second-biggest papermaker, said
Dec. 21 it will fund the acquisition of rivals Myllykoski Oyj
and Rhein Papier GmbH with 800 million euros of loans for four,
six and seven years.  ‘Bridge to Bonds’  Assa Abloy AB, the world’s largest maker of locks, said
Dec. 13 it got 14 billion kronor ($2 billion) of short-term
loans to fund the acquisition of a majority stake in Cardo AB
and other deals, which will be refinanced next year, mainly
through the capital markets.  About two-thirds of loans for mergers are likely to be
refinanced with bonds next year, compared with about one third
before 2007, according to Muoio at Credit Suisse.  “We’ll still see quite a large proportion of loans for M&A
being bridge to bonds,” Muoio said. “It makes corporate
financial sense to have longer-dated debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 