-- Cameron Says He Retains Confidence in Cable After `Nuclear Option' Comment
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-12-21T13:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/cable-regrets-threat-of-nuclear-option-amid-u-k-coalition-infighting.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  supported
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  after the Daily Telegraph
newspaper quoted him as giving details of Cabinet infighting.  Cable, 67, the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition, said last night he was
“embarrassed” by his comments. Asked by reporters in London
today whether the prime minister still had confidence in Cable,
Cameron’s spokesman  Steve Field  replied: “Of course.”  “There is a constant battle going on behind the scenes”
between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, Cable was
quoted as saying by the Telegraph. The newspaper said the
comments, including a remark by Cable that his resignation could
bring down the government, were taped by journalists who met the
minister “undercover” as constituents.  With Cameron and his Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg ,
giving a year-end press conference today in London, Cable’s
remarks illustrate the struggles of the first coalition
government since World War II. The Cabinet’s principle of
 collective responsibility  requires that ministers support each
other’s policies in public. This is difficult for colleagues who
fought an election eight months ago attacking each other and
will contest another in 2015.  ‘I Can Walk Out’  “Can I be very frank with you, and I am not expecting you
to quote this outside,” Cable was cited as saying by the
Telegraph. “I have a nuclear option, it’s like fighting a war.
They know I have nuclear weapons, but I don’t have any
conventional weapons. If they push me too far then I can walk
out of the government and bring the government down and they
know that. So it is a question of how you use that intelligently
without getting involved in a war that destroys all of us.”  “I am embarrassed by these comments and I regret them,”
Cable said in a statement yesterday after the report. “I have
no intention of leaving the government.”  Osborne, who didn’t escape criticism in Cable’s remarks,
offered his support in a Parliament appearance today.  “The business secretary is a powerful ally in the
government in promoting growth,” he told lawmakers in response
to a question from the opposition’s finance spokesman,  Alan Johnson , known as the shadow chancellor. “And, frankly, has
forgotten more about economics than the shadow chancellor ever
knew.”  Sterling weakened 0.3 percent to $1.5471 at 1:15 p.m. in
London after Britain’s budget deficit swelled to a record in
November.  Party’s Identity  The episode may help maintain the junior governing
partner’s distinctive identity, said  Steven Fielding , Director
of the  Centre for British Politics  at Nottingham University.  “What he’s done is say things that everybody really knew
he thought,” Fielding said. “He’s ended up giving a
justification for the coalition from the Liberal Democrat
perspective. It’s short-term embarrassment, but in the long-
term, it’s education of the voters.”  Cable, for example, said there was a “big battle going on
about the banks,” with “our Conservative friends” resisting
his and Clegg’s call for “a very tough approach.” Cable has
led calls for banks to show restraint in bonus payments.  He described the execution of a plan to cut welfare
payments to parents as “cack-handed” and said “we should be
putting a brake on” other projects in areas such as the health
service and local government.  “It’s the standard Liberal Democrat private discussion of
their position,” said  Philip Cowley , the co-author of “The
British General Election of 2010.” “They all say privately
that as the election approaches, you’ll hear more of this. They
know they need to show what they’ve been doing.”  Coalition Struggles  Twenty-one of the 57 Liberal Democrat lawmakers voted Dec.
9 against an increase in college tuition fees, though the
party’s ministers supported the policy. Cable, who sponsored the
legislation, initially suggested he might abstain.  Among Conservatives, there’s opposition to proposals for a
referendum on changing the voting system, which Liberal
Democrats made a condition of joining the coalition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  