-- California Condors Survive Lead-Poisoned Gut Piles: Commentary
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/california-condor-poisoning-provokes-quarrels-among-hunters-mike-di-paola.html
Two condors watched their chick
emerge from its egg on March 23 at  Pinnacles National Monument 
in central California -- the park’s first condor hatching in
more than 100 years.  The joy, shared in the following days by hundreds of human
gawkers, was soon clouded by an insidious menace.  On May 13, the park announced that the baby bird and its
parents had extremely high levels of lead in their blood. They
were evacuated to the  Los Angeles Zoo  to be treated by a team of
veterinarians and condor biologists.  When I visited the park in late August, the young condor
was still on the mend in Los Angeles, but its parents were
thriving again at Pinnacles.  Wildlife biologist Daniel George told me how the birds got
so sick.  “We feel pretty certain with the data we have that the
vast majority of exposures are coming from ammunition,” George
said.  Lead enters the food chain when hunters shoot game and
leave entrails or “gut piles” in the field, where carrion-
feeders such as condors consume it -- or feed it to their
offspring.  “This is unique, this nestling getting such a high lead
exposure at that age,” he says. “I can’t say it is the only
case, but it’s certainly the only one we’ve dealt with here, so
we’re charting new terrain.”  Brink of Extinction  It is not easy being a California condor. Brought to the
brink of extinction by the pesticide DDT, electrocution on power
lines and other lethal threats, the bird was among the first
creatures listed “Endangered” by the federal government in
1967.  By 1987, only 22 birds remained.  Since then, a vigorous federal program in coordination with
volunteer support has revived the population. At the moment
there are 383 California condors, including 188 in the wild. A
few hundred more and they could be designated as merely
“Threatened.”  Pinnacles has been involved with condor recovery since
2003. Biologists tag each of the park’s 26 birds with
transmitters to track them and ensure they have safe roosting
sites and ample food. They even train the birds to avoid
electrocution using aversion therapy, giving them a gentle
electric shock on perches that resemble utility poles.  Lead Pellets  In 2008, the use of lead ammo was banned within protected
condor areas in central and southern California, but of course
the birds are not aware of borders.  Dozens of bird species --from bald eagles to common ducks
and geese -- are also vulnerable to lead in the food chain.
According to the  Center for Biological Diversity , 10 million to
20 million birds and other animals still die from lead poisoning
every year in the U.S. even though the  U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service  banned lead ammo for waterfowl hunting in 1991.  These birds and others ingest spent lead pellets when they
are feeding, and lead lasts a long time in an ecosystem.  According to Ducks Unlimited, the ban on lead ammo for
waterfowl has curtailed introduction of new lead into wetlands,
but there are still periodic die-offs in areas where tons of
lead were once sprayed incontinently at ducks and their feeding
grounds.  NRA Pressure  National Park Service  biologists are counting on the
cooperation of responsible hunters to help keep the condor
population aloft.  “Hunters are not the enemy of the condor,” said George.
“The condor is happy to have hunters on the landscape because
there are gut piles and carcasses being generated. One thing
that I would say people can do to help condors and other
scavengers is to keep hunting.”  The U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency  botched an
opportunity this summer to ban lead ammo outright, perhaps
succumbing to pressure from the  National Rifle Association ,
which regards such a ban as tantamount to gun control.  “There is no legitimate scientific evidence that
establishes a definitive link between condor mortality and
traditional ammunition,” said NRA spokeswoman Rachel Parsons in
an e-mail statement.  Hunter Anthony Prieto, co-founder of an online resource for
lead-free hunting called  Project Gutpile , scoffs at the
suggestion that lead-free ammo is a slippery slope to gun
control.  “We don’t have lead pipes for water anymore, or lead-based
paint. And when we stopped putting lead in gasoline, nobody said
it was part of an agenda to stop people from driving.”  No Toxic Food  Prieto, who hunts wild pigs, deer and elk for food, sees
this as both a conservation and health issue. “I just want to
leave as little environmental impact as I can when I feed my
family. You don’t want your food toxic.”  Prieto and Project Gutpile are making a documentary on
lead-free hunting, to be pitched at hunting shows and film
festivals, such as the Santa Barbara International Film Festival
in January 2011. The squeamish be warned: Prieto has filmed a
wild pig shot with lead, then used radiography to show the
extent of lead in the animal’s flesh, compared with a lead-free
pig.  Not great news for wild pigs, but much needed for condors
and other birds. If you’re a hunter you needn’t wait for
legislation to start using lead-free ammo now. The  American Bird
Conservancy  has compiled a handy list of lead-free ammunition
manufacturers and retailers.  ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 