-- Canada Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast in October on Higher Gasoline
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-21T14:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/canada-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-in-october-on-higher-gasoline.html
Canadian  retail sales  increased in
October for a fifth straight month, with higher purchases at
gasoline stations more than offsetting declines at food,
clothing and department stores.  Sales advanced 0.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted C$36.6
billion ($35.9 billion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a 0.5 percent
increase, according to the median of 21 estimates.  Household spending has been stronger than anticipated in
the second half of this year, the Bank of Canada said Dec. 7.
The central bank  said in October  consumer spending growth was
likely to slow over the next two years amid concerns about
increasing debt levels and weakness in housing.  Sales in volume terms, which removes the effect of price
changes, fell 0.2 percent on the month. The drop is
“disappointing,” as other indicators such as  wholesale  and
 manufacturing  sales signaled “a bounce in activity” in
October,  Paul Ferley , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto, said in a note to clients.  “The Bank of Canada will likely want to see confirmation
of growth rebounding before returning to tightening mode given
its frequently voiced concerns about the high level of household
debt potentially impairing consumer spending,” Ferley said.  Seven of 11 sales categories advanced during October, the
agency said in its report, led by a 7.4 percent increase at
gasoline stations to C$4.23 billion.  Ex-auto Sales Rise  Automobile and parts dealers gained 0.3 percent to C$8.11
billion. Excluding that category,  sales  rose 0.9 percent,
compared with the 0.7 percent gain that was the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  Receipts at furniture and home furnishing stores rose 2.2
percent. Sales improved for the first time in 11 months at
miscellaneous stores, which include pet stores, office supplies
and stationary stores, increasing 1.4 percent from September.  General-merchandise store sales fell 1.2 percent, while
food and beverage stores declined 0.2 percent and clothing
stores dropped 0.8 percent, the report said.  Statistics Canada also revised September’s increase in
retail sales to 0.4 percent from its earlier estimate of 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 