-- Canada CPI and Retails Data Give Central Bank Scope to Hold Rates Steady
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-21T21:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/canada-cpi-and-retails-data-give-central-bank-scope-to-hold-rates-steady.html
Canada’s  consumer prices  advanced
less than forecast last month and the volume of retail sales
fell in October, giving the Bank of Canada scope to hold
interest rates steady until at least the second quarter of 2011.  The consumer price index rose 2 percent in November
following a 2.4 percent gain the previous month and October’s
retail sales fell 0.2 percent once the effect of price changes
is removed, Statistics Canada said today. The core inflation
rate, which  excludes eight volatile items  such as gasoline and
which is watched closely by the Bank of Canada, rose 1.4
percent, the slowest pace since March 2008, the agency said.  “The conditions are in place for the Bank of Canada to
maintain the status quo for several more months,” said  Benoit Durocher , an economist with Mouvement Desjardins, Quebec’s
largest credit union. Durocher predicts the central bank won’t
begin raising its overnight target rate before July.  The central bank, which aims to keep inflation close to its
2 percent target,  said in  October inflation will average 2.1
percent in the October-December period, and core prices will
average 1.6 percent. The bank kept its key lending rate at 1
percent Oct. 19 after three prior increases, and said inflation
pressures will be moderated by “slack” in the economy that may
persist until the end of 2012.  The inflation report “washes away any concern that may
have developed in October,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief
economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. November’s report
was the “mirror image” of the previous one and “brings us
back to square one, if not further,” in removing pressure on
the central bank to raise rates.  Porter predicts the central bank will begin raising rates
in May.  ‘Considerable’ Stimulus  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated last week
that the level of Canada’s policy interest rate “leaves
considerable monetary stimulus in place.”  Economists forecast the annual inflation rate would be 2.2
percent, according to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News
survey , while the core rate was forecast to be 1.6 percent.  Retail sales  increased in October for a fifth straight
month due to higher gasoline prices, Statistics Canada said in a
separate report. Sales advanced 0.8 percent to a seasonally
adjusted C$36.6 billion, Statistics Canada said. Leading the
gain was a 7.4 percent increase at gasoline stations that was
driven by higher pump prices, the report said.  The drop in sales volumes will subtract from October’s
growth, making it likely that Canada’s economy will expand at an
annual pace below 2 percent in the fourth quarter, Desjardins’
Durocher said. Statistics Canada will report October GDP data
Dec. 23 at 8:30 a.m. New York time, and economists forecast a
gain of 0.3 percent, based on the median of 21 estimates.  Currency Weakens  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0174
per U.S. dollar at 4 p.m. in Toronto from C$1.0168 yesterday.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.29 U.S. cents.  The next Bank of Canada interest rate decision is Jan. 18.
Investors have priced in an 11 percent chance that Carney will
raise his  benchmark policy rate  to 1.25 percent from 1 percent,
according to a Bloomberg calculation based on overnight index
swaps trading.  Energy  price increases  slowed in November, gaining 6.7
percent on the year, compared with a 9.1 percent rise in
October. Gasoline prices led the overall gain, rising 7.2
percent in November from a year earlier, Statistics Canada said.
Electricity prices advanced 5.9 percent, slower than October’s
8.1 percent gain.  Food, Clothing  Food prices rose 1.5 percent in November after a 2.2
percent gain in October, while clothing and footwear were 3.2
percent cheaper than a year ago, the agency said in its report.  The inflation report “certainly provides the Bank of
Canada with some increased elbow room on the policy front,”
 Stewart Hall , an economist with  HSBC Holdings Plc  in Toronto,
said in a note to clients.  The Bank of Canada said in October that sales tax increases
in Ontario, British Columbia and Nova Scotia will boost
inflation by 0.7 percentage point from July to June 2011.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.1
percent in November after a 0.4 percent gain the previous month.
The core rate was unchanged in November, after a 0.4 percent
increase in October that was the fastest since February.
Economists predicted that monthly prices would rise 0.3 percent,
and the core rate would increase 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 