-- Canada November CPI Slows to 2% as Core Rate Is Weakest Since March 2008
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-21T14:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/canada-november-cpi-slows-to-2-as-core-rate-is-weakest-since-march-2008.html
Canada’s  consumer prices  advanced
less than forecast in November as cost increases for energy and
food moderated, giving the Bank of Canada scope to hold interest
rates steady until the second quarter of next year.  The consumer price index rose 2 percent in November
following a 2.4 percent gain in October, Statistics Canada said
today. The core rate, which  excludes eight volatile items  such
as gasoline and which is watched closely by the Bank of Canada,
rose 1.4 percent, the slowest pace since March 2008.  The central bank, which aims to keep inflation close to its
2 percent target,  said in  October inflation will average 2.1
percent in the October-December period, and core prices will
average 1.6 percent. The bank kept its key lending rate at 1
percent Oct. 19 after three prior increases, and said inflation
pressures will be moderated by “slack” in the economy that may
persist until the end of 2012.  Today’s report “washes away any concern that may have
developed in October,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist
with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. November’s report was the
“mirror image” of October and “brings us back to square one,
if not further,” in removing pressure on the central bank to
raise rates.  Porter predicts the central bank will begin raising rates
in May.  ‘Considerable’ Stimulus  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  reiterated last week
that the level of Canada’s policy interest rate “leaves
considerable monetary stimulus in place.”  Economists forecast the inflation rate would be 2.2
percent, according to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News
survey . Projections of the 22 economists surveyed ranged from
2.1 percent to 2.5 percent. The core inflation rate was forecast
to rise 1.6 percent.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0177
per U.S. dollar at 9:09 a.m. in Toronto from C$1.0168 yesterday.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.26 U.S. cents.  The report “certainly provides the Bank of Canada with
some increased elbow room on the policy front,”  Stewart Hall ,
an economist with HSBC Holdings Plc in Toronto, said in a note
to clients. The figures give “no reason to believe that
Canadian consumer expectations for inflation are not firmly
wedded” to the central bank’s target, he said.  Energy  price increases  slowed in November, gaining 6.7
percent on the year, compared with a 9.1 percent rise in
October. Gasoline prices led the overall gain, rising 7.2
percent in November from a year earlier, Statistics Canada said.
Electricity prices advanced 5.9 percent, slower than October’s
8.1 percent gain.  Cheaper Clothing  Food prices rose 1.5 percent in November after a 2.2
percent gain in October, while clothing and footwear were 3.2
percent cheaper than a year ago, the agency said in its report.  The Bank of Canada said in October that sales tax increases
in Ontario, British Columbia and Nova Scotia will boost
inflation by 0.7 percentage point from July to June 2011.  On a monthly basis, overall consumer prices rose 0.1
percent in November after a 0.4 percent gain the previous month.
The core rate was unchanged in November, after a 0.4 percent
increase in October that was the fastest since February.
Economists predicted that monthly prices would rise 0.3 percent,
and the core rate would increase 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 