-- Cancer Survival Rates in Sweden, Canada Surpass U.K., Denmark, Study Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-12-21T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/cancer-survival-rates-in-sweden-canada-surpass-u-k-denmark-in-study.html
Cancer patients in the U.K. and
Denmark are less likely to survive than those living in
Australia, Canada, Sweden and Norway because of poorer early
diagnosis in the two countries, researchers said.  Survival rates for breast, colorectal, lung and ovarian
cancer rose in all six countries whose medical data was analyzed
in a  study  published in  The Lancet  medical journal today. The
U.K. and Denmark, which saw the biggest increase in breast
cancer survival rates, still lagged behind the other nations.  “The improvement is there to see in all countries,”
 Michel Coleman , the study’s lead author and a professor of
epidemiology and vital statistics at the  London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , told reporters at a briefing
yesterday in London. “Cancer is a very important chronic
disease and public health problem. One in three can be expected
to be diagnosed with cancer in our lifetimes and one in four
will die of it.”  Patients in the U.K. and Denmark are less likely to be
diagnosed in the early stages of disease, when treatment is more
effective, based on the one-year survival rates in the study,
said  Mike Richards , national cancer director at the U.K.
 Department of Health . Between 2005 and 2007, about 30 percent of
Britons were alive within one year of being diagnosed with lung
tumors, compared with 35 percent in Denmark, 39 percent in
Norway, 42 percent in Canada, 43 percent in Australia and 44
percent in Sweden, the study found.  Improving Diagnosis  Since 2007, the U.K. has focused more on improving tumor
detection, Richards said at the London briefing. Britain’s
coalition government, led by Prime Minister  David Cameron , is
attempting to tackle breast, colorectal and lung cancer with a
10.75 million-pound ($16.7 million)  awareness campaign  beginning
in January.  “We have not narrowed the gap effectively for lung,
ovarian and colorectal cancers,” he said. “It’s clearly good
news that we have narrowed the gap on breast cancer.”  The difference in breast cancer survival narrowed across
the six countries to about 5 percentage points in 2005 to 2007,
from 9 percentage points in 1995 to 1999, according to the
study. While the U.K. and Denmark saw survival rates improve the
most, they ranked behind Australia, where 91 percent of patients
were alive five years after diagnosis, compared with 86 percent
in the U.K. and 87 percent in Denmark, the researchers said.  “I’m optimistic we will see the narrowing of gaps with
other countries,” Richards said.  Drug Fund  U.K. Secretary of State for Health  Andrew Lansley  announced
an interim 50 million-pound fund for cancer drugs in October to
pay for new treatments not available in the government-run
health service until a two-year measure is introduced in April.  The drug fund won’t make a big difference in survival rates
in England, Richards said.  “Surgery still remains the treatment that cures the most
people,” he said.  The study, which examined data from 2.4 million adult
patients between 1995 and 2007, was funded by the Department of
Health and  Cancer Research U.K. , a London-based charity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  