-- Carlyle, Bain Capital Said to Vie for PAI's Gruppo Coin Stake
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-12-21T16:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/carlyle-bain-capital-said-to-vie-for-pai-s-gruppo-coin-stake.html
Carlyle Group and Bain Capital LLC
are among at least five companies that submitted bids for PAI
Partners’ majority stake in  Gruppo Coin SpA , Italy’s biggest
department-store chain, according to four people with knowledge
of the offers.  TPG Capital, based in Fort Worth, Texas, and London-based
BC Partners Ltd. also submitted indicative offers for the stake
last week, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the sale process is private. Apax Partners LLP and
Cinven Ltd. opted not to bid, the people said.  PAI, which leads a group of investors that owns 70 percent
of the retailer, is seeking to shed Coin after a five-year
investment during which the retailer added stores and revived
its discount-clothing unit. Shares of Coin, based in Venice,
have risen 60 percent this year in Milan, boosting the company’s
market value to 1.02 billion euros ($1.34 billion).  Final bids will be sought after the company reports holiday
sales figures, people familiar with the sale have previously
said. UBS AG and  Mediobanca SpA  are advising PAI.  Apax said in October it was considering making an offer for
Coin. Clessidra SGR SpA, an Italian firm, may bid jointly with
another fund, a spokesman said at that time. The Borletti Group,
an investor in department stores including France’s Printemps
and Italy’s La Rinascente, may bid for Coin, Chairman  Maurizio Borletti  said last month.  Private-equity firms are resuming dealmaking as they
attempt to invest a record $450 billion of capital raised before
the financial crisis, according to research firm Preqin Ltd.  Founding Family  An official for Paris-based PAI, which manages a 2.7
billion-euro buyout fund, declined to comment. Officials with
Carlyle, Bain Capital, Cinven, Apax, and TPG declined to
comment. Officials at BC Partners, Clessidra and Borletti
couldn’t immediately be reached to comment.  PAI bought a 63 percent stake in Coin from its founding
family in 2005 for more than 181 million euros. It later
increased its holding to about 70 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 