-- Cerberus Said to Recoup 90% of Chrysler Investment After Lending-Unit Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-21T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/cerberus-said-to-recoup-90-of-chrysler-investment-after-sale.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP will
recoup about 90 percent of its initial investment in Chrysler
after the sale of the automaker’s former lending unit to
 Toronto-Dominion Bank , according to two people with knowledge of
the transaction.  Cerberus will get about 75 cents on the dollar in cash when
the sale of  Chrysler Financial Corp . closes, said the people,
asking not to be identified because the New York-based firm is
private. Including about $900 million of assets Cerberus is
retaining as part of the deal, the company will be left with a
loss of 10 percent on the initial investment in the automaker
and its finance arm.  Toronto-Dominion Bank today agreed to buy Chrysler
Financial for $6.3 billion in cash, adding an auto-finance
company in its second-largest acquisition. The purchase includes
$5.9 billion in assets and about $400 million in goodwill.
Cerberus, the hedge-fund and buyout firm led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , bought a majority stake in Chrysler for $7.4 billion
from DaimlerChrysler AG in 2007, part of a wager on the U.S.
auto industry that included the 2006 takeover of  General Motors 
Corp.’s auto lender.  The deals preceded a decline in U.S. auto sales that sent
both carmakers into bankruptcy. Feinberg, 50, subsequently lost
control of both GMAC and Chrysler and held on to Chrysler
Financial. The lender repaid its $1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury
Department bailout funds last year and in July sought to return
to large-scale lending. The automaker, known as Chrysler Group
LLC, is now controlled by managers from Italy’s  Fiat SpA .  Premium  Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills, Michigan,
has about 1,850 employees and will have about $7.5 billion in
loans at the closing of the transaction, according to an
investor presentation Toronto-Dominion released today. About 90
percent of the loans are in the U.S., and 10 percent in Canada.  Toronto-Dominion is recognizing the net value of the assets
at $5.9 billion on its own books, more than the $5.2 billion
value on Chrysler Financial’s, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. Based on Chrysler Financial’s
value, Toronto-Dominion is paying about 1.2 times the book
value, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  