-- Chavez Lauds Lukashenko's `Extraordinary' Election Win as U.S. Slams Vote
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-21T11:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/chavez-lauds-lukashenko-s-extraordinary-election-win-as-u-s-slams-vote.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
congratulated his Belarusian counterpart  Alexander Lukashenko  on
winning a fourth term as the U.S. rejected the official election
results and condemned a crackdown on opposition demonstrators.  More than 580 people, including several opposition leaders,
remain in jail after protesting the results of the Dec. 19 vote,
state-run Russian news wire RIA Novosti reported today, citing
the Belarus Interior Ministry. A Russian reporter who was
detained during the riots has gone on a hunger strike, demanding
access to the Russian consulate, Moscow-based radio station Ekho
Moskvi said.  “It was an extraordinary day for democracy, which resulted
in the re-election of the great European leader,” Chavez said
in a statement issued in Caracas late yesterday. “Lukashenko
knows how to lead the glorious motherland to independence,
putting the sacred interests of his people ahead of the narrow-
minded intentions of the world powers.”  Chavez, who has courted allies among leaders opposed to the
U.S. including Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , signed an
agreement with Lukashenko in March to create a gas venture
between Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil company, and
Belarus’s Belarusneft to explore and extract natural gas at
fields in eastern Venezuela.  Thousands rioted on Independence Square in the center of
the Belarusian capital, Minsk, after the election. Protesters
smashed windows and chanted slogans including “Long live
Belarus,” footage on Google Inc.’s YouTube showed.  Ex-Soviet Republic  Belarus, an ex-Soviet republic of 10 million that borders
Russia and three European Union states, has been ruled since
1994 by Lukashenko, 56. The U.S. administration of former
President George W. Bush dubbed Lukashenko’s regime “the last
dictatorship in Europe.”  According to the Belarus Central Election Commission’s
website, Lukashenko won 79.7 percent of the vote in Sunday’s
election. The next-biggest tally was the 6.5 percent of voters
who selected “none of the above,” Interfax reported.  The U.S. “cannot accept as legitimate” the results and
calls on the Belarus authorities to release demonstrators, White
House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday.  The U.S. endorsed a report by the observer mission from the
Vienna-based Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe, which concluded that voting and counting were not free,
fair or transparent. The OSCE said the process was “marred by
the detention of most presidential candidates and hundreds of
activists.”  -- Editors:  Alan Crawford, Leon Mangasarian   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez  jagomez@bloomberg.net  