-- Shanghai Stocks Rebound from Biggest Drop in 3 Weeks; Property Shares Jump
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-21T07:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/china-s-stocks-rebound-on-commodity-price-gains-u-s-economic-outlook.html
China’s stocks  rose, led by property
developers and energy producers, as military tensions on the
Korean peninsula eased and investors speculated demand for
housing and coal will be sustained.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest developer, surged by
daily 10 percent limit as a survey showed property sales rose in
most cities in the past week.  China Shenhua Energy Co.  led gains
for energy companies after agreeing to pay $1.3 billion for
assets from its parent and as oil prices increased.  Cosco
Shipping Co.  surged the most in four months after Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. upgraded the stock to “buy.”  “There are opportunities in sectors with fair valuations
such as property,” said  Zhou Xi , a strategist at Bohai
Securities Co. in Tianjin. “The fundamentals of the market
haven’t changed. Fluctuations will continue for the near term.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 1.8 percent to
2,904.12 at the 3 p.m. close, the most in a week, and the  CSI
300 Index  gained 2.2 percent to 3,249.51.  The Shanghai Composite sank 1.4 percent yesterday as South
Korea engaged in a live-fire artillery drill which drew threats
of retaliation from North Korea. A U.S. negotiator said North
Korea agreed to let inspectors visit its uranium enrichment
facilities after the communist nation refrained from reacting
with force to the South’s military exercises.  The Shanghai Composite is Asia’s worst performing stock
gauge this year with an 11 percent loss amid concern monetary
tightening will slow economic growth and damp earnings. The
government has ordered banks to set aside more money as reserves
and raised interest rates to cool inflation and surging property
prices that were spurred by  record credit growth  in 2009.  Developers Rallu  A gauge  of developers in the Shanghai Composite Index rose
5.4 percent, the biggest gain in seven months. The property
gauge has tumbled 23 percent this year, the most among the five
 industry groups .  Vanke surged 10 percent to 9.13 yuan. Poly Real Estate
Group Co. advanced 10 percent to 13.51 yuan, paring its annual
loss to 22 percent.  Soufun.com’s research center said property sales volume
rose 11 percent in Shanghai and surged 34 percent in Shenzhen
and Hangzhou. More than 80 percent of the 35 Chinese cities
tracked by the research center reported a rise in property
transactions in the past week from the previous week, it said in
an e-mailed statement after the market close yesterday.  A gauge of  energy producers  jumped 4.2 percent, the most
among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300.  Asset Purchase  China Shenhua , the unit of the nation’s biggest coal
producer, surged 6 percent to 25.77 yuan, the highest level
since Oct. 11 and the second biggest contributor to gains on the
Shanghai Composite.  The company said it will pay 8.7 billion yuan ($1.3 billion)
for mining rights and companies controlled by state-owned
Shenhua Group Corp. The purchases will increase the listed
company’s recoverable coal reserves by 24 percent to 9.15
billion metric tons, the company said.  “Investors were expecting the company to buy more from the
parent, but this will be taken as the start of more
acquisitions,” said  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
Hong Kong. “The parent has more large mining assets that it will
inject into the listed company at some point.”  PetroChina Co., the biggest oil company, advanced 1.9
percent to 11.52 yuan.  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. , the
second largest and also known as Sinopec, rose 2 percent to 8.26
yuan. China Coal Energy Co. advanced 3.7 percent to 11.42 yuan.  Winter Demand  China more than doubled imports of natural gas last month
because of increased demand for heating during winter, the
nation’s top economic planner said today. Purchases jumped 150
percent from a year earlier to 1.9 billion cubic meters, the
National Development and Reform Commission said.  Oil rose 0.9 percent on speculation U.S. economic growth
will accelerate this year, bolstering demand in the world’s
biggest oil-consuming country.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2.8 percent
annual pace in the third quarter, quicker than the 2.5 percent
estimate published last month, the Commerce Department will say
tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in November after a 0.4
percent increase in October, a separate survey showed before
another Commerce Department report due on Dec. 23.  Cosco Shipping , the unit of China’s biggest shipping
company, rose 5 percent to 8.35 yuan, the most since Aug. 16.
Shenyin & Wanguo raised its recommendation on the shares to
“buy” from “outperform.”  Liquidity, Inflation  China’s stocks will probably do “reasonably well” heading
into next year because of liquidity and as inflation concerns
ease,  Michael Pettis , managing director at Shenyin & Wanguo said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Yuan appreciation expectations may sustain liquidity growth
even in the face of tighter policy, Macquarie Research said in a
report dated Dec. 17. The Chinese currency rose the most in two
weeks today as easing tensions on the Korean peninsula boosted
investor confidence, raising speculation funds will add to
holdings of higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  China will control full-year inflation at 3.3 percent,
China Central Television reported today, citing Peng Sen, vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission. The
government’s full-year inflation target is 3 percent.  Consumer prices  jumped 5.1 percent in November, a
government report showed Dec. 13, while a measure of wholesale
costs climbed 6.1 percent.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance by  John Duce  in Hong Kong. Editor:
 Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  