-- China Money Rate Jumps to 2-Year High After Banks' Reserve Ratios Raised
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-21T04:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/china-money-rate-jumps-to-2-year-high-after-banks-reserve-ratios-raised.html
China’s  money-market rate  rose to
the highest level in over two years, reflecting reduced
availability of cash after lenders were ordered to set aside
more capital as reserves.  The amount of cash  major banks  must set aside as reserves
rose by half a percentage point to 18.5 percent from yesterday,
the sixth increase this year. The central bank will inject up to
27 billion yuan ($4 billion) of funds through open-market
operations this week, about half of the average 56 billion yuan
pumped in during each of the last five weeks, said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  “Market liquidity is tightening after the reserve hike,”
said Hong Kong-based Cheung. “The cash injection for this week
won’t be a lot. Some banks are also more reluctant to lend cash
as we approach year-end; come early next year there may be some
loosening.”  The seven-day repurchase rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, jumped 54 basis points to 4.075 percent,
according to a daily fixing published at 11 a.m. by the National
Interbank Funding Center in Shanghai. That’s the highest level
since June 2008.  The People’s Bank of China sold 1 billion yuan of one-year
bills at a yield of 2.3437 percent at an auction today, holding
the rate unchanged for a sixth week, according to a statement on
the monetary authority’s website. The government plans to sell
20 billion yuan of three-month debt on Dec. 24.  The yield on China’s 3.67 percent government bond due in
October 2020 rose one basis point to 3.81 percent as of 12:19
p.m., according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose three basis
points to 3.06 percent. That’s the first increase in four days.  -- Sonja Cheung . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in Hong Kong at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  