-- China Shenhua Energy Rises After $1.3 Billion Plan to Buy Parent's Assets
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-12-21T08:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/china-shenhua-energy-rises-after-1-3-billion-plan-to-buy-parent-s-assets.html
China Shenhua Energy Co. , a unit of
the nation’s biggest coal producer, rose in Shanghai and Hong
Kong trading after it agreed to pay $1.3 billion for assets from
its parent.  The  shares  gained 6 percent in Shanghai, the most since
Oct. 11, and ended trading at 25.77 yuan. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite index rose 1.8 percent. The stock gained 3.7 percent
in Hong Kong.  China Shenhua will pay 8.7 billion yuan ($1.3 billion) for
mining rights and companies controlled by state-owned Shenhua
Group Corp., according to a statement released by the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday. The purchases will increase the listed
company’s coal proven and probable reserves by 24 percent to
9.15 billion metric tons under international standards, it said.  “Investors were expecting the company to buy more from the
parent, but this will be taken as the start of more
acquisitions,” said  Helen Lau , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd.
in Hong Kong. “The parent has more large mining assets that it
will inject into the listed company at some point.”  China Shenhua is also buying companies involved in power
generation, coal wholesaling, oil product sales, financial
services and information technology, according to yesterday’s
statement.  Reducing Competition  The acquisitions will be funded from the proceeds of China
Shenhua’s initial public offering of shares that trade in
Shanghai, according to a statement to the city’s exchange
yesterday.  China Shenhua said in August it was planning to buy assets
from its parent. The purchases will strengthen the energy
producer’s coal business and reduce competition between the
listed company and parent, according to the statement to the
Hong Kong exchange.  Twenty five  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg have a “Buy”
rating on China Shenhua. Six analysts rate the stock a “Hold.”  Third-quarter profit rose 11 percent to 9.7 billion yuan
after the coal producer increased output to meet higher demand
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Full-year  net income  may climb 20 percent to 38 billion
yuan, according to the mean estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  