-- China Supports Measures to Counter European Debt Crisis, Vice Premier Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-21T06:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/china-took-concrete-action-to-help-europe-counter-debt-crisis-wang-says.html
China backs the European Union’s
efforts to ensure financial stability, Vice Premier  Wang Qishan 
said today, spurring a rally in the euro.  China supports the International Monetary Fund’s measures
and “has taken concrete action to help some EU members counter
the sovereign-debt crisis,” Wang said at the start of the Third
EU-China High-Level Economic & Trade Dialogue, a one-day forum
in Beijing to discuss economic and trade relations.  The euro advanced against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts on speculation investments by China, which holds a
record $2.65 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves, will ease
Europe’s fiscal crisis and boost the allure of the region’s
assets. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in October that China
supports a stable euro and won’t reduce European bond holdings.  “EU members have taken a number of steps to actively
respond to the sovereign-debt crisis,” Wang said. “We hope
these measures will quickly produce results and lead to a steady
recovery of the EU economies.”  The euro yesterday fell to the lowest in two weeks against
the dollar and yen on speculation some European nations will
struggle to raise funds amid a slew of credit-rating and outlook
changes. Greece and Ireland were rescued by their neighbors and
the IMF this year, and investors now are concentrating their
sights on Portugal as economies throughout the continent slash
budgets to appease investors concerned by fiscal excess.  Irish Rating  “The comments would be a good Christmas present for the
euro if Asian support for the EU continues into next year,” said
 Kurt Magnus , executive director of foreign-exchange sales at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “There’s a lot of people looking
to sell euro and go into 2011 with a core short position and
there’s no way that you would be short euro,” if China continued
to support the region, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service last week cut Ireland’s debt
rating by five levels and put Greece on review for a possible
“multi-notch” downgrade. It said Dec. 15 it may lower Spain’s
creditworthiness. Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its assessments
of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  China’s economy faces “uncertainties” next year, and
because of that the country is paying “great attention” to
whether the EU’s sovereign-debt crisis can be controlled,
“especially in the first quarter of next year, what will
happen,” Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said at a press briefing
at today’s meeting.  Show of Support  Policy makers in the world’s fastest-growing major economy
will see if the EU can improve on prevention of risks and
“translate their consensuses into practice for them to step out
of the crisis as soon as possible,” Chen said.  The Portuguese government said last week that China had
made a “clear statement” of financial support during Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos ’s visit to Beijing.  China is willing to invest 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion)
to 5 billion euros in Portuguese government debt in the first
quarter of next year, Lisbon-based newspaper Jornal de Negocios
reported on Dec. 16, without saying where it got the information.  It wasn’t clear if China would acquire debt on the
secondary market, in government bond auctions or in a direct
transaction with the Portuguese treasury, the newspaper said.
China’s purchases would cover about a third of Portugal’s
refinancing needs through April, Jornal said.  The EU is China’s largest trade partner and China is the
EU’s second-biggest export market, with bilateral trade
increasing 33.1 percent in the 11 months through November from a
year earlier to $433.88 billion, China’s customs department said
Dec. 10.  The EU’s trade deficit with China widened to 122.2 billion
euros in the first nine months of 2010 from 97.8 billion euros a
year earlier, the Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
Dec. 17. EU exports to China increased 39 percent in the first
nine months while imports from the Asian country rose 30 percent.  Other officials in attendance at today’s meeting include EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , and EU Trade
Commissioner  Karel De Gucht .  -- Zheng Lifei ,  Kevin Hamlin ,  John Liu . With assistance from
 Candice Zachariahs  and  Ron Harui . Editors:  Stephanie Phang ,
 Sunil Jagtiani   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-106649-7560 or
 Lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7573 or
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  