-- China Raises Gasoline, Diesel Prices by 4% on Oil Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-22T08:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/china-said-to-raise-gasoline-prices-by-4-from-tomorrow-as-oil-costs-jump.html
China raised gasoline and diesel
prices today by less than half of what crude oil has gained in
the past month as the world’s fastest-growing major economy
seeks to contain inflation.  The price of  gasoline  will rise by as much as 4 percent to
310 yuan ($47) a metric ton and diesel by 300 yuan a ton, the
National Development and Reform Commission said in a statement
on its website yesterday, the third increase this year in the
world’s second-largest oil consumer. Crude in New York has
gained 9 percent since China last increased prices on Oct. 26.  “This is a long-delayed move as the government is
concerned about inflation while refiners are suffering losses
after crude costs soared,” said He Wei, an oil analyst with
BOCOM International Holdings Co. in Beijing. “We think the 4
percent increase is far from enough to offset crude gains.”  Inflation  in China accelerated to 5.1 percent last month
from a year earlier, the biggest jump in 28 months, driven by
higher food costs. Chinese consumers are more concerned about
rising prices than at any time in the past decade, the People’s
Bank of China said on Dec. 15 in its quarterly survey of 20,000
households across the country.  The decision to increase gasoline, diesel and kerosene
prices was taken after “careful consideration” in view of the
rapid increase in overall prices in China, the NDRC said. The
adjustment will add 0.07 percentage points to the monthly
consumer price index, it said.  Increase Delayed  “Crude prices in international markets this month reached
the highest since October 2008,” the commission said. “However,
taking into consideration the trend of prices and supply of
refined oil products, the government did delay the price
increase and limited its scale,” the NDRC said in a question-
and-answer posting on its  website .  The retail price of N90-grade gasoline will be allowed to
increase by up to 0.23 yuan per liter and  N0 diesel  by as much
as 0.26 yuan a liter, the commission said. The ex-factory cost
of No. 3 jet fuel will rise by 300 yuan per ton to 5,990 yuan.  China National Petroleum Corp.  and China Petrochemical
Corp., the nation’s biggest oil companies, and other refiners
have been told to ensure prices aren’t increased by more than
the ceiling set out by the government, the NDRC said. Local
departments of the commission will step up monitoring of fuel
prices and crack down on hoarding and price fixing, it said.  Shares Gain  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the listed unit of China
Petrochemical, rose 2.4 percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 13,
to close at HK$7.39 in Hong Kong. PetroChina Co., whose parent
is China National Petroleum, gained 0.3 percent to HK$9.94.  The government has made 13 adjustments since introducing a
mechanism in December 2008 that allows the NDRC to revise fuel
prices when crude costs change more than 4 percent over 22
working days. Futures in New York have risen 10 percent since
Nov. 18 and were trading at $89.94 a barrel at 11:40 a.m. in
Singapore.  Higher fuel prices may prompt refineries to boost
production to ease a domestic supply shortfall. Chinese state
oil companies are increasing processing in a bid to ease diesel
shortages in the south and east as demand from farmers and
factories rises.  -- Winnie Zhu . Editors:  Clyde Russell ,  John Viljoen .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  