-- Christie Places 2% Cap on Raises for New Jersey Police and Firefighters
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-21T23:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/christie-places-2-cap-on-raises-for-new-jersey-police-and-firefighters.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
signed a bill capping at 2 percent raises for police and
firefighters that mediators award when contract talks break
down.  The measure, which takes effect in January, will help cash-
strapped towns and cities meet a 2 percent limit on property-tax
increases that Christie signed earlier this year, the governor
said. Along with limiting pay increases, it requires a decision
within 45 days of either party’s asking for arbitration.  “I don’t think anyone is being vilified here,” Christie,
48, said at a signing ceremony in Wayne. “What we’ve done is
shine a bright light on a system that is not balanced. Police
and firefighters have done very well under the current system. I
don’t see anything wrong with a cap going forward.”  The new law follows the firing of 167 police officers last
month in Newark, the state’s largest city, as Mayor  Cory Booker 
copes with declining revenue caused by the worst U.S. economic
slowdown since the Great Depression. Camden, ranked the nation’s
second-most dangerous city by  CQ Press , also plans to shed half
its police officers.  Christie, a first-term Republican who took office in
January, has prodded the Democratic-controlled Legislature to
pass his 33-point “toolkit” to control property taxes and help
municipalities meet the new limit. He said the police and fire
pay caps were “the single toughest” component of that plan.  Laying Blame  “Taxpayers and law enforcement will face far more serious
issues in 2011 as layoffs continue and crime increases due to a
lack of funding,” Anthony Wieners, head of the New Jersey State
Policemen’s Benevolent Association, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Trenton needs to stop playing the blame game in an
environment where cops are being laid off daily.”  A Quinnipiac University poll released today found 61
percent of the state’s voters support the limits on raises. New
Jersey homeowners paid an average property tax bill of $7,281 in
2009, which the Washington-based Tax Foundation said is the
highest in the U.S.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded more than $1.7 billion
in bonds sold by 24 New Jersey towns and cities, citing reduced
flexibility because of the tax cap and Christie’s decision to
cut $1.2 billion in aid to schools and municipalities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  