-- Citigroup Wins Court Order for Legal Fees in Broker Suit Over Bonus Loans
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/citigroup-wins-legal-fees-in-brokers-bonus-suit-update2-.html
A lawyer for six former  Citigroup
Inc.  brokers who sued to avoid paying back balances on their
signing-bonus loans should pay the bank for its legal fees, the
federal judge who dismissed the case said.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis A. Kaplan  in New York granted
Citigroup’s legal-fee request in a ruling yesterday. Kaplan
dismissed the brokers’ claims in April. The amount of the fees
hasn’t been determined.  “This lawsuit was completely without merit,” Kaplan wrote
in his decision. “As the court previously found, the lawsuit
amounted to an attempt to use the judicial process for the quite
improper purpose of simply stalling” Citigroup’s effort to get
its money back from the brokers.  Kaplan said the brokers’ lawyer,  Mark Thierman  of Reno,
Nevada, should pay the fees. Thierman, representing  Thomas Banus , sued Citigroup in August 2009. An amended complaint in
October of that year added five other former Citigroup brokers,
who the bank said received signing bonuses. The bonuses totaled
$1.51 million, ranging from Banus’s $45,675 to as much as
$801,546.  The plaintiffs sought  class-action , or group, status on
behalf of at least 500 brokers employed by  Citigroup  during the
previous six years who executed promissory notes.  ‘Bad Faith’  “Mr. Thierman filed this action for the improper purpose
of delaying pending arbitration proceedings,” Kaplan wrote. He
said Thierman’s arguments were brought in “bad faith.”  The brokers appealed Kaplan’s April decision dismissing the
case.  “If we’re wrong, it doesn’t mean we acted in bad faith,”
Thierman said yesterday in a phone interview. He declined to
comment further on Kaplan’s ruling.  The brokers asked Kaplan to rule that they didn’t owe the
money. Newly hired brokers are typically given loans, portions
of which are forgiven annually for a number of years. If the
broker leaves before the loan is completely forgiven, the
remaining portion must be paid back with interest.  Banus called that requirement “unconscionable” in his
complaint. He said he shouldn’t have to pay all at once the
$39,000 left on his forgivable signing-bonus loan when he quit
in 2006.  The New York-based bank contended the brokers couldn’t
argue they didn’t get anything of value for the loans or that
it’s an “unconscionable penalty” for them to have to repay the
forgivable loans if they leave the company, according to a court
filing.  The case is Banus v. Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 09-cv-
07128, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 