-- Coffee Price Jumps to 13-Year High; Cocoa, Orange Juice Rise
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-12-21T19:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/cocoa-rises-in-london-as-companies-evacuate-ivory-coast-workers.html
Coffee futures extended a rally to
a 13-year high on speculation that supplies may be reduced
because of adverse weather in Brazil and India. Cocoa and
orange-juice prices climbed.  Coffee trees in Brazil, the world’s leading producer, may
be harmed by fungus after excessive rains, weather forecaster
Somar Meteorologia said in an e-mailed report. India won’t
produce its biggest crop ever, as forecast, after heavy
rainfall hurt plants and delayed the harvest in the biggest
growing region, the Coffee Board said yesterday.  “You’ve got the falling dollar, a lot of funds coming
into the market, weather problems, and tight supplies,” said
 Fain Shaffer , the president of Infinity Trading Corp., a
commodity brokerage in Medford, Oregon. A lot of buyers “are
scrambling for supplies,” he said.  Arabica coffee for March delivery gained 9.2 cents, or 4.1
percent, to close at $2.3385 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached $2.353, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 1997. In London,
robusta-coffee futures for March delivery rose $20, or 1
percent, to settle at $2,010 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe.  Cocoa Rises  Cocoa advanced as some companies evacuated personnel after
Ivory Coast’s disputed presidential election sparked violence,
threatening to disrupt exports from the world’s top producer.  Grain distributor Cargill Inc. said it removed its “small
number” of expatriate employees. Newcrest Mining Ltd.,
Australia’s largest gold-mining company, evacuated executives
at its Bonikro mine to Ghana.  “Cocoa is reacting to the fact that the political
situation is still unresolved,”  Kona Haque , a London-based
analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd., said today by telephone.
“Nonessential staff are being removed from the country. It’s
difficult to see how they’ll maintain full operations.”  Cocoa futures for March delivery gained $17, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2,975 a ton on ICE. In London, cocoa
futures for March delivery rose 21 pounds, or 1.1 percent, to
close at 2,008 pounds ($3,105) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  The United Nations Security Council voted 15-0 yesterday
to extend the mandate of the world body’s peacekeeping mission
in Ivory Coast for six months in defiance of President  Laurent Gbagbo’s  call for the withdrawal of the 9,000 troops.  The UN doesn’t accept Gbagbo as the legitimate leader of
the West African nation and has provided security for
challenger  Alassane Ouattara  since the Independent Electoral
Commission declared him the winner.  Orange-juice futures for March delivery rose 1.05 cents,
or 0.7 percent, to $1.5995 a pound in New York. The commodity
has jumped 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 