-- Copper Tops Record as China Boosts Imports, Chile Mine Disrupted
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-12-21T19:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/copper-advances-for-a-third-day-in-london-shanghai-new-york.html
Copper prices jumped to a record
after China said monthly imports of the metal increased for the
first time since August and an accident at the Collahuasi mine
in Chile disrupted supply.  Refined-copper imports by China, the largest user, surged
37 percent to 232,298 metric tons in November, compared with
October, the General Administration of Customs said.  Anglo
American Plc  and  Xstrata Plc ’s Collahuasi venture in Chile
declared force majeure yesterday after an accident shut its
port. Prices in London are up 44 percent since the end of June  “The fundamental situation seems very attractive,” said
 Eugen Weinberg , an analyst at  Commerzbank AG . “The damage to
the loading facilities in the port might well impact the
availability over the medium term.”  Copper for delivery in three months jumped $164, or 1.8
percent, to $9,365 a metric ton ($4.25 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange, after touching an all-time high of $9,392.
Prices have surged as demand from emerging markets reduced
inventories. Stockpiles in LME-monitored warehouses have plunged
28 percent this year, and on Dec. 10 touched the lowest level in
more than a year.  In New York, copper futures for March delivery climbed 7
cents, or 1.7 percent, to close at $4.276 a pound at 1:27 p.m.
on the Comex. Earlier, the price reached $4.2895, the highest
price for a most-active contract since at least December 1988.  Collahuasi, the world’s third-biggest copper mine, said it
won’t ship supplies from the Patache port in northern Chile
until further notice. A month-long strike at Collahuasi helped
drive prices to a record earlier this month.  Tin, nickel, aluminum and zinc also gained in London. Lead
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 