-- Copper Imports by China in November Rebound to 232,298 Tons, Customs Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-21T07:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/copper-imports-by-china-in-november-rebound-to-232-298-tons-customs-says.html
Refined- copper imports  by China, the
world’s largest consumer, increased for the first time in three
months as some traders bet the bull market will continue and
others shipped in the metal for trade financing purposes.  November imports were 232,298 metric tons, according to the
General Administration of Customs. That’s 37 percent higher than
169,897 tons in October, according to Bloomberg News
calculations.  Chinese refined-copper imports fell to the lowest in a year
in October as arbitrage trading became mostly unprofitable in
late July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Copper,
used in pipes and wiring, has gained 26 percent this year in
London on demand from China, reaching a record today.  “Traders who are bullish about the market took the risk to
bet on an increase in the absolute value of copper, rather than
just doing arbitrage trade,”  Zhao Kai , an analyst at Jinrui
Futures Co., said by phone from Shenzhen today. Arbitrage
traders buy the metal in one market and sell it in another to
profit from a price difference.  Buyers anticipated copper prices to gain during the
shipping period, which takes about one to two months, so when
the metal arrived in Shanghai, the local prices would be higher
than when it was ordered in London, according to Zhao.  The customs department said on Dec. 10  imports  of copper,
copper alloy and products in November rebounded by 29 percent
from a month earlier, surprising analysts who expected the
figure to remain low, given higher London prices than Shanghai.  Ample Supplies  Production of refined copper in China jumped to a record of
443,000 tons last month, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics. Output gained 13 percent in January-November to 4.37
million tons. “There’s ample supply in the market,” Zhao said.  Stockpiles  at the Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses
expanded to the highest level in six months last week, up 10
percent to 127,836 tons, according to the bourse. China’s
nonferrous metals output may jump by 57 percent to 41 million
tons by the end of 2015, compared with 26.05 million tons last
year, the Ministry of Land and Resources said in a statement
published today on its website.  China’s refined-copper imports probably climbed in the last
two months of this year from the low in October, Deutsche Bank
AG analyst  Adam Sieminski  said in a report today.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange hit a record $9,307.75 a ton today after the trade data
was released. Metal for March delivery on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange closed 0.9 percent higher at 69,250 yuan ($10,396) a
ton.  Trade Finance  “The jump of imports in November may also be a result of
trade financing,” Fan Junmei, an analyst at Shenzhen Rongtuo
Trading Co., said by phone. “As banks tightened loans, this has
become an option for firms looking to improve cash flow.”  Trading companies receive a letter of credit for imports as
they buy metals, such as copper and zinc, from overseas. The
firms then get a window of about 90 days of almost free credit,
and only need to pay back the funds after they sell the
products, according to Fan.  China’s central bank raised its benchmark lending and
deposit rates in October, the first time since 2007. It also
increased commercial lenders’ required reserve ratio three times
since November to fight inflation. The  consumer price index  grew
by 5.1 percent last month, the fastest pace in 28 months.  Still, the country, which overtook Japan as the world’s
second-largest economy in the second and third quarters, lags
behind Asian countries including Malaysia and South Korea in
boosting borrowing costs.  “As the market consensus is that the PBOC will further
tighten liquidity in coming months, imports for financing
purposes may sustain,” Fan said. “So even if the arbitrage
ratio is bad now, imports may not be very low.”  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  