-- Corporate Bond Sales May Rise in 2011 From Three-Year High: Canada Credit
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-12-21T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/corporate-bond-sales-may-rise-in-2011-from-three-year-high-canada-credit.html
Canadian corporate debt sales may
rise further next year after reaching a three-year high in 2010
as companies take advantage of growing demand for higher-
yielding assets.  Companies in Canada sold C$78.7 billion ($77.4 billion)
worth of bonds through Dec. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, a 38 percent increase over last year. This year’s
tally is the highest since C$82 billion was sold in 2007.  Rising corporate profits and renewed efforts by companies
to build up cash reserves are fueling investor appetite for
corporate bonds, said  Joanna Zapior , credit strategist and head
of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s macro strategy group.
Corporate bonds have returned 6.8 percent this year, topping
gains for federal and provincial government bonds.  “Corporates are a very legitimate way to chase yield,”
Zapior said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Canadian
balance sheets are strong and there is quite a bit of liquidity
on them. Canadian corporate quality is in good shape.”  CIBC predicts corporate bond sales in 2011 may rise to as
much as C$80 billion as new issuers such as public-private
partnerships tap the market.  “We see continued demand for corporates,” Zapior said.
“There is a requirement for yield. The higher-yielding part of
the market is quite vibrant.”  Extra Yield  Elsewhere in credit markets, Statistics Canada will today
report consumer prices for November and  retail sales  for
October, before releasing October gross domestic product data on
Dec. 23.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government narrowed yesterday to 140 basis points, or 1.4
percentage points, from 142 on Dec. 17, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. Yields were little changed at 3.94
percent.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields narrowed to
52 basis points from 53 on Dec. 17. Yields were unchanged at
3.21 percent. The securities are down 0.5 percent this month.  Consumer prices in Canada rose last month at an annual pace
of 2.2 percent, compared with a 2.4 percent rate in October,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
22 economists.  Retail Sales  According to a separate Bloomberg survey, retail sales
increased 0.5 percent in October, after rising 0.6 percent in
the previous month. Sales haven’t declined since May.  Canada’s GDP is expected to have increased 0.3 percent in
October, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 20 economists.  Canadian wholesale sales unexpectedly stalled in October as
a drop in machinery and equipment offset gains in sales of
vehicles and personal and household goods. Wholesale sales were
little changed at C$44.9 billion, Statistics Canada said
yesterday in Ottawa. The result was lower than all 12 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey, which had a median forecast of a 0.8
percent gain.  Canadian corporate bonds have returned 6.8 percent since
the start of the year, beating the 5.8 percent return for
Canadian government bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. Corporate bonds returned 15 percent last year, the
biggest annual gain this decade.  Financial Institutions  Sales of investment-grade corporate bonds this year amount
to about C$68.3 billion, or 87 percent of total sales. About
C$3.2 billion of high-yield bonds have also been sold, in
addition to C$7.1 billion of securities not rated by Moody’s
Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s.  Financial institutions led all issuers of corporate debt in
2010, with banks and credit unions holding the top six places.
CIBC was the biggest issuer, selling C$9.4 billion worth of
securities.  Royal Bank of Canada  was second, selling C$7.3
billion, while Bank of Montreal followed with C$4.5 billion.  Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets ranked first among
underwriters, managing C$20.6 billion worth of corporate bond
sales. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce followed with about
C$14 billion in sales, while Scotia Capital, a unit of Bank of
Nova Scotia, came third with C$11.2 billion.  Excluding self-led corporate bond sales, RBC Capital topped
the ranking, beating out  Toronto-Dominion Bank ’s TD Securities
unit and Scotia Capital.  Income Trusts  Demand for corporate bonds was also buoyed by the planned
elimination of income trusts, said  Susan Rimmer , CIBC’s head of
debt capital markets for corporates and financial institutions.
Income trusts, which typically focus on distributing cash flow
to unit holders, lose their tax benefits starting on Jan. 1.  “The end of income trusts is making investors look for
alternative sources of yield, and we expect that pace of growth
to continue in 2011,” Rimmer said from Toronto. “Absolute
government bond yields are low, which makes it interesting for
investors to get a pick-up in yield by investing in credit.”  Agrium  Inc., the Calgary-based fertilizer maker, last week
sold $500 million of senior unsecured debt maturing in January
2041. The 6.125 percent debt priced to yield 160 basis points
over Treasuries. The bond sale was “significantly”
oversubscribed, Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Waterman  said.  “I’ve been with the company 10 years and Agrium has never
borrowed at this kind of rate,” Waterman said in a telephone
interview. “If you have a good credit rating, you can borrow
money at very attractive rates and drive down your cost of
capital. There is a lot of money that has to be put to work.”  Agrium’s latest bond sale will allow the company to repay
8.25 percent debentures due in February. On Dec. 3, Agrium
completed the A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion) acquisition of
Australia’s AWB Ltd, and Waterman said the company wouldn’t
hesitate to borrow again if the need arose.  “It is tempting when rates are this low to go and get
money in anticipation of things you will do, but we decided $500
million was what we needed,” Waterman said. “If we had the
right opportunity, we certainly would go back to the market.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  