-- Cotton Rises to Record for Second Straight Day on Global Fiber Shortfall
-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-12-21T20:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/cotton-jumps-by-exchange-limit-to-record-on-outlook-for-supply-shortfall.html
Cotton futures jumped to a record
for the second straight day on speculation that global supplies
will fail to keep pace with rising demand in China, the world’s
largest user.  China’s custom agency said today that imports in November
surged 31 percent from October. Shandong, the country’s second-
biggest producing province, said on Dec. 17 that output dropped
22 percent this year from 2010. In India, the world’s No. 2
grower, production will be less than forecast, an industry group
said yesterday.  “The crops are disappointing,” said  Robin Rosenberg , a
futures strategist at PFGBest, a brokerage in Chicago. “Prices
will go even higher.”  Cotton for March delivery advanced by the exchange limit of
5 cents, or 3.2 percent, to close at an all-time high of $1.5912
a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The price
has more than doubled this year, heading for the biggest annual
gain since 1973.  “It’s not just new buyers that are driving prices up,”
Rosenberg said. Investors unwinding bets on falling prices also
helped support futures, he said.  Cotton may rise to $1.75 in a few weeks, he said.  Australian production this season may total 3.8 million
bales, with some reduction to the forecast possible because of
excess rains and flooding, National Australia Bank Ltd. said in
a report today. “Indications suggest that crop loss is not
major,” the bank said.  Stockpiles  in the U.S., the biggest exporter, are forecast
to plunge for a third straight year to the lowest level since at
least 1960, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yi Tian  in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 