-- Croatia Credit Rating Cut by S&P to Step Above Junk on Budget, Financing
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-12-21T18:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/croatia-rating-cut-by-s-p-to-lowest-investment-grade-with-negative-outlook.html
Croatia had its long-term sovereign
credit rating reduced to one step above junk at Standard &
Poor’s, which cited the country’s “deteriorated fiscal position
and continuously weak external financing.”  S&P lowered Croatia’s rating to BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, from BBB, it said in a statement today. The outlook is
negative, which means the credit evaluator is more likely to
reduce the grade than to raise or to keeping it unchanged.  The economy of Croatia, which expects to conclude European
Union entry negotiations next year and join the trading bloc in
2012, is contracting for a second year. The decline this year,
projected at 1.45 percent by the government, is deeper than S&P
estimated earlier, it said.  “Following a real GDP contraction of nearly 6 percent in
2009, we are of the view that the recession will likely have had
a greater impact in 2010 that we previously expected, delaying
Croatia’s catch-up” with the EU average, S&P analysts, led by
 Marko Mrsnik  in Madrid, said in the statement.  Croatia’s euro-denominated debt maturing in January 2015
fell, lifting the yield 5 basis points to 5.139 percent by 3:20
p.m. in Zagreb. The yield, which moves inversely to the bond
price, has risen from this year’s low of 4.2 percent on Nov. 11.
The downgrade may make it more expensive for the government to
refinance 750 million euros ($988 million) of debt maturing in
March 2011.  ‘Delayed Fiscal Consolidation’  The Adriatic nation of 4.5 million is struggling to
kickstart an economy held back by public-sector spending on a
swelling numbers of retirees, war veterans and welfare
recipients. The number of the retired and unemployed reached 1.4
million in October, exceeding by 2 percent the number of the
employed, according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce.  “The downgrade is a result of delayed reforms and delayed
fiscal consolidation,” said  Zdeslav Santic , chief economist at
Societe Generale SA’s  Splitska Banka d.d.   The International Monetary Fund in November said Croatia
needs “far-reaching and challenging reforms to improve its
outlook,” particularly in fiscal policy, public employment and
labor. The government expects its budget deficit to widen to 4.3
percent of economic output in 2011 from 4.2 percent this year.  The government is addressing some of the concerns raised by
S&P, and the results will be apparent in 2012 and 2013, the
Finance Ministry said on its website, citing fiscal
consolidation, debt reduction and an economic overhaul aimed at
increasing the country’s competitiveness.  ‘Political Maneuvering’  S&P also criticized the government’s “political
maneuvering” before general elections next year, which has
prompted the government to “significantly weaken its previous
fiscal policy stance.” Economic growth, which restarted in the
third quarter and is set to accelerate next year, won’t help
reduce the budget deficit, it said. The government estimates 1.5
growth in 2011 and plans to more than halve the deficit by 2013.  “Even with the expected recovery in growth, we forecast
that the deficit will be slightly higher in the absence of
further deficit-reducing measures,” S&P said, adding the
government may find it difficult to stay within its spending
targets.  S&P praised Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor  for tackling
corruption and organized crime, adding that this “helped Croatia
in its progress towards EU accession.” The government declined
to immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  