-- CSC Plans to Stay Independent as Buyout Firms Circle
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-12-21T14:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/csc-plans-to-stay-independent-as-buyout-firms-circle-ceo-says.html
Computer Sciences Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Laphen  said the computer-services
provider plans to remain independent, even as his team fields
calls from investors interested in taking the company private.  Computer Sciences  has been labeled a prime target for
buyout firms or larger technology companies because of its
positive cash flow, low debt, and roster of government
customers.  Joseph Vafi , an analyst with Jeffries & Co., wrote a
report in September that a private-equity firm could pay $8.7
billion for the company and earn a return of more than 25
percent over five years.  Laphen said he plans to keep Computer Sciences independent
because of the growth opportunities ahead and the value of a
services company that doesn’t sell its own hardware, like
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  International Business Machines Corp. 
do. His strategy to boost sales -- and his stock price -- is to
expand in developing markets, gain share in more profitable
services and lessen his dependence on government contracts.  “We’re undervalued, but there’s a relatively short path to
where that valuation comes back,” said Laphen, 60, in an
interview Friday at the company’s headquarters in Falls Church,
Virginia.  Calls from private-equity firms picked up after Vafi’s
report, said  Randy Phillips , the company’s head of corporate
development, in an interview at the headquarters. Though the
company reviewed all the inquiries, none of the phone calls have
led to serious talks, he said. He declined to identify any of
the potential acquirers.  “It’s not surprising, and humorous and tiring all at the
same time,” said Phillips, who joined the company in 2008.
“But we like where we are. The board likes where we are. We
like the plan.”  A Buyout Candidate  Computer Sciences  rose 67 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $48.41
at 9:53 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares had dropped 17 percent this year before today.  The company, called CSC by analysts and its executives, is
still a logical target for a financial buyer because of  its cash
and lower debt , Vafi said in an interview yesterday. The company
had $2.7 billion in cash at the end of September, when its
fiscal second-quarter closed.  The company gets about 40 percent of its business from the
U.S. government, and the balance from government work abroad and
private-sector customers. The mix is attractive to private-
equity firms, which would have more flexibility in spinning off
parts of the business, Vafi said.  Laphen’s Legacy  “You have two large, large business units -- you have the
huge federal piece,” said San Francisco-based Vafi, who rates
the shares “buy” and doesn’t own them. “You could sell that
back to the public. The same thing is true for the commercial
business.”  Laphen  works out of Computer Sciences headquarters, on a
tree-lined cul-de-sac about 10 miles west of Washington. He
served in the Air Force, got a master’s degree in business
administration from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School and started at the company in 1977. He moved Computer
Sciences two years ago from El Segundo, California, to put it
closer to the largest client -- the U.S. government.  In an interview in his white-walled conference room,
overlooking a forest, Laphen said he understands why the company
is mentioned so frequently as an acquisition candidate,
particularly for buyout firms.  “From their viewpoint, we’re an ideal candidate,” he
said. “We have very predictable cash flows and a strong balance
sheet.” He pointed out the company is buying back stock and
increasing its dividend to lower its cash holdings.  Growth Opportunities  Laphen also explained what he sees as the company’s growth
opportunities. The business-services sector, involving projects
like cloud computing and analytics for corporations, can expand
to a third of Computer Sciences’ $16 billion in revenue, up from
a fifth now, he said. That business is also more profitable than
traditional outsourcing, he said.  “We can’t stay stagnant,” he said. “There’s going to be
a natural migration from traditional IT services. That’s where
the market is going.”  The company also is looking to expand outside the U.S. and
Europe, where it gets more than 90 percent of its revenue. Last
year, it acquired the Brazil assets of BearingPoint Inc. to
boost its presence in Latin America.  ‘Completely Stealthy Company’  That should help the company  sustain revenue growth  of at
least 10 percent in the near-term, a target the company has
managed only once in the past five years, Phillips said. The
company will also keep spending about $400 million to $500
million per year  on acquisitions , he said, primarily on assets
in Latin America, as well as services aimed at specific
industries such as health care.  Part of the new strategy involves rebranding the company’s
image as more than just a government contractor, Phillips said.
The rebranding, which they’re working on this year, will involve
getting executives in public more, boosting the number of
advertisements and adding more salespeople.  “People say CSC stands for the Completely Stealthy
Company,” he said. “We’re trying to raise our visibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 