-- Czech Premier Necas's Government Survives No-Confidence Vote After Dispute
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/czech-premier-necas-s-government-survives-no-confidence-vote-after-dispute.html
The Czech Republic’s five-month-old
government survived a no-confidence vote in parliament yesterday
after the three coalition parties settled a dispute and pledged
to carry out the plan to narrow the budget deficit.  The opposition, which holds 82 seats in the 200-member
chamber, garnered 80 votes, short of the 101-vote majority
needed to oust the Cabinet, while 113 backed it. The largest
opposition party, the Social Democrats, filed the motion last
week, saying Prime Minister Petr Necas reacted “inadequately”
to allegations of wrongdoing in the Environment Ministry.  Concern about the government’s ouster rose two days ago
when Public Affairs, the smallest government party, said it was
undecided on how to vote and demanded Necas’ guarantee that the
Cabinet will fight against corruption. The government parties
pledged to continue ruling together yesterday after a meeting
with President  Vaclav Klaus  at the Prague castle.  “What is important is that there won’t be a signal of
government instability, because in these dynamic times, such
signals obviously affect the financial markets,” Necas told
reporters in the lower house of parliament before last night’s
vote. “We will undoubtedly continue with the reforms.”  Party Commitments  Klaus, who holds non-executive powers, said the leaders of
the government parties are committed to ruling together and
realized the severity of the political and economic situation in
the country, which last year fell into the worst  recession  since
the end of communism two decades ago.  Premier  Necas  relies on the three-party coalition, which
has the widest parliamentary majority since the Czech Republic
came into existence in 1993, to push through  budget-deficit  cuts
including a pension overhaul to drive the  shortfall  below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of  gross domestic product .  The koruna gained as much as 0.4 percent to the euro after
the announcement of the government unity, closing at 25.257 per
euro yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  An adviser to Environment Minister Pavel Drobil interfered
with a public-procurement tender to secure financing for his
Civic Democratic Party, which is led by Necas, newspaper Mlada
Fronta Dnes reported on Dec. 15, citing recordings it obtained.  Drobil, who denied any unlawful activity, resigned the same
day after the government pushed through the 2011  budget  that
cuts spending. Necas initially refused to dismiss Drobil and
said he trusted his fellow Cabinet member.  Investigation Sought  Public Affairs, whose Chairman Radek John holds the post of
Interior Minister, wanted backing for an investigation of what
he said were leaks from the police about the procedures in the
Environment Ministry case.  The Czech Republic had two minority governments and two
interim Cabinets in the past 12 years, stalling budget measures.
The latest government breakup was the fall of Prime Minister
 Mirek Topolanek ’s administration, which lost a no-confidence
vote last year, halfway into the country’s term holding the
European Union’s rotating presidency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  