-- TD Bank to Buy Chrysler Financial for $6.3 Billion
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-21T18:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/td-bank-to-buy-chrysler-financial-in-6-3-billion-deal.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank agreed to buy
Chrysler Financial Corp. from Cerberus Capital Management LP for
$6.3 billion in cash, adding an auto-finance company in its
second-largest acquisition.  The purchase includes $5.9 billion in assets and about $400
million in goodwill, Canada’s second-biggest bank said today in
a statement. Toronto-Dominion doesn’t intend to issue stock or
bonds.  Canadian lenders, ranked the soundest by the World Economic
Forum, are using their excess capital to expand abroad after
asset values plunged following the financial crisis. Bank of
Montreal last week made its biggest acquisition, agreeing to pay
$4.1 billion in stock for Marshall & Ilsley Corp., Wisconsin’s
biggest bank.  Toronto-Dominion Bank expects U.S. earnings to top its
target of $1.6 billion a year in three years with the Chrysler
Financial purchase, Chief Financial Officer  Colleen Johnston 
told analysts today on a call. That compares with a  profit  of
about $1 billion in the year that ended Oct. 31. The Toronto-
based lender owns a consumer bank with 1,300 branches in 16 U.S.
states and is the largest shareholder in  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp.   “This is a really good way to put those deposits in the
U.S. to work,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about C$4 billion ($4 billion), including Toronto-Dominion
shares.  “This is further execution of their U.S. strategy to
touch more clients.”  Stock Rose  Toronto-Dominion rose C$2.12, or 3 percent, to C$72.64 at
12:44 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest
gain in four months.  “With this deal, we are positioned to become a top-five
bank-owned North American auto lender,” Toronto-Dominion Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  said in the call.  Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills, Michigan,
has about 1,850 employees and will have about $7.5 billion in
loans at the closing of the transaction, according to an
 investor presentation  Toronto-Dominion published today. About 90
percent of the loans are in the U.S., and 10 percent in Canada.
Chrysler Financial isn’t related to Chrysler Group LLC, the
company that is now controlled by managers from  Fiat SpA .  Adds to Earnings  The transaction is expected to add about $100 million to
Toronto-Dominion’s earnings by 2012, and the bank forecasts new
loan origination of about $1 billion a month the following year.
The purchase will reduce the bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio by
about 55 to 60 basis points, the lender said in the
presentation.  Toronto-Dominion is recognizing the net value of the
assets at $5.9 billion on its own books, more than the $5.2
billion value on Chrysler Financial’s, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction.  Based on Chrysler Financial’s value, Toronto-Dominion is
paying about 1.2 times the book value, the person said. When
General Motors Corp. bought AmeriCredit Corp. in a $3.5 billion
deal in October, it paid about 1.4 times the book value
AmeriCredit assigned itself, according to Bloomberg data.  Toronto-Dominion left about $1 billion of loans behind with
Cerberus, Clark said in an interview.  Cerberus Wagered  Cerberus, led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , wagered on the
U.S. auto industry with takeovers of General Motors Corp.’s auto
lender in 2006, followed by the Chrysler automaker and lender
the following year. The deals preceded a decline in U.S. auto
sales that sent both carmakers into bankruptcy.  Feinberg, 50, subsequently lost control of both GMAC and
Chrysler and held on to Chrysler Financial. The lender repaid
its $1.5 billion in U.S. Treasury Department bailout funds last
year and in July sought to return to large-scale lending.  Toronto-Dominion Bank estimates the size of the auto-
lending market in the U.S. is about $700 billion, and the
industry is projected to grow by $200 billion over the next
three years.  The acquisition would be the biggest of a U.S. lender since
Wells Fargo & Co. bought Wachovia Corp. in December 2008 for
about $15 billion. Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP are advising Cerberus on the
transaction.  Toronto-Dominion’s deal also would be the second-largest
acquisition by a Canadian bank, ranking behind its $8.33 billion
deal for Commerce Bancorp Inc. in 2008, according to Bloomberg
data.  Building Network  Toronto-Dominion has spent about C$20 billion ($19.6
billion) over the past six years building a consumer-bank
network that spans from Maine to Florida.  Acquisitions  included
Portland, Maine-based Banknorth Group and Commerce Bancorp of
Cherry Hill, New Jersey. This year, the bank added the U.S.
Southeast, taking part in Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-
assisted transactions and buying Greenville, South Carolina-
based South Financial Group Inc.  Clark, 63, expressed an interest last month in entering
automobile leasing in Canada, which domestic banks have been
banned from doing since 1980. The Canadian government has been
looking at changing regulations. Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s
third-largest bank, purchased as much as $20 billion in auto
loans from General Motors in 2005.  This quarter is the biggest for Canadian bank takeovers
into the U.S. in at least 12 years based on dollar value,
according to Bloomberg data.  Other recent takeovers by Canadian banks included Royal
Bank of Canada’s announced purchase in October of U.K. fixed-
income money manager BlueBay Asset Management Plc for 963
million pounds ($1.53 billion), its biggest takeover in three
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;  Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
   dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 