-- TD Bank Increases U.S. Bet With Chrysler Financial as Europeans Retreat
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-12-21T21:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/td-bank-increases-u-s-bet-with-chrysler-financial-as-europeans-retreat.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank  is increasing
its bet in the U.S. with the $6.3 billion purchase of Chrysler
Financial Corp., capping a record quarter for U.S. takeovers by
Canadian lenders as some European rivals retreat.  The purchase of the auto-finance company adds to the more
than C$20 billion ($19.6 billion) that Canada’s second-largest
bank spent on U.S.  acquisitions  since 2004. Toronto-Dominion’s
U.S. territory spans 16 states from Maine to Florida with 1,269
branches, the first time a Canadian bank has more locations
south of the border than at home.  “These small transactions have ended up with us having a
pretty significant franchise in the United States,” Chief
Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  said today in a telephone
interview. “We clearly have very strong market presence down
the east coast of the United States; now we’ll be in the top
five for bank-owned auto lending.”  Toronto-Dominion, Bank of Montreal are among Canadian banks
that are taking advantage of their relative strength to add
assets in the U.S. as troubled Europeans lenders pull back. Bank
of Montreal last week agreed to buy Wisconsin’s biggest bank for
$4.1 billion.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Britain’s biggest bank, bought U.S.
subprime lender Household International Inc. in 2003 for $15.5
billion, in its biggest-ever acquisition. Following the bursting
of the subprime bubble, HSBC closed the U.S. consumer finance
division to new customers in 2009 after more than $53 billion of
loan-loss provisions in North America. London-based HSBC also
sold a $4 billion U.S. car loan portfolio this year, while
Allied Irish Banks Plc sold its stake in Buffalo-based M&T Bank
Corp. for $2.1 billion.  Not in Position  “The European banks are not in any kind of a position to
compete for these assets, and the Canadian banks certainly
are,” said  Tony Demarin , chief investment officer at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which manages about C$250
million, including Toronto-Dominion shares. “This is a once-in-
a-decade, once-in-a-20-year opportunity.”  Canada’s banking system has been ranked the world’s
soundest for three straight years by the Geneva-based World
Economic Forum. Lenders including Toronto-Dominion and Royal
Bank of Canada withstood the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression without taking government bailouts, and
recorded only a fraction of the $1.31 trillion in writedowns
taken by banks and brokers worldwide.  Toronto-Dominion’s purchase follows the bid last week by
Bank of Montreal to buy Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley Corp.,
The acquisitions top the biggest quarter for Canadian bank deals
in the U.S. in at least 12 years, according to Bloomberg data.  Adds Banknorth  Toronto-Dominion, which operates south of the Canadian
border as TD Bank, began its U.S. expansion in 2004, convinced
that there were limited growth opportunities once the federal
government blocked Canadian banks from buying each other.  In August 2004, Toronto-Dominion announced it would buy 51
percent of Portland, Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. for $3.5
billion. A year later, the bank sold TD Waterhouse to  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. , making it the largest shareholder in
the Omaha, Nebraska-based brokerage.  By 2007, Toronto-Dominion acquired the rest of Banknorth
for $3.19 billion, with Clark installing former risk officer
 Bharat Masrani  as head of the U.S. operations. In March 2008,
the bank bought Cherry Hill, New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp
for about $8.33 billion. Toronto-Dominion  added  South Financial
Group Inc. this year for $191.6 million and now has about 200
branches in the U.S. southeast.  “We obviously have an unbelievable deposit-gathering
machine,” said Clark, who joined the bank in 2000 and became
CEO in 2002. “Now we need to complement it with an asset-
gathering machine.”  Earnings Target  The purchase of Chrysler Financial from Cerberus Capital
Management LP will add $100 million to Toronto-Dominion’s
earnings by 2012, and the bank forecasts new loan originations
of about $1 billion a month the following year. The bank expects
to surpass a target of $1.6 billion a year in U.S.-based profit
within three years, compared with $1 billion in earnings last
fiscal year.  “It gives them a big book of auto-loan business you will
have gone through with a fine-toothed comb, and TD has the
ability to borrow at a better rate than Cerberus would,” said
 Terry Shaunessy , President of Shaunessy Investment Counsel in
Calgary, which manages about C$200 million. “TD has shown it
has very good credit analysis.”  Loan Book  Chrysler Financial, based in Farmington Hills, Michigan,
has about 1,850 employees and will have about $7.5 billion in
loans at the closing of the transaction. About 90 percent of the
loans are in the U.S., and 10 percent in Canada. Chrysler
Financial is not related to Chrysler Group LLC, the company that
is now controlled by managers from Fiat SpA.  “In our view, the largest risk in the transaction is that
the company will be unable to hit its average loan balance
targets for 2012 of $10 billion,” said  Brian Klock , an analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. “We believe this target should
prove manageable.”  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP are advising New York-based Cerberus on the
transaction. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Toronto-Dominion.  Toronto-Dominion climbed C$2.64, or 3.7 percent, to C$73.16
in 4 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest
gain in four months. Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce also rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 