-- Deutsche Bank's Ackermann Bets Investors Will Choose Returns Over Capital
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/deutsche-bank-s-ackermann-bets-investors-will-choose-returns-over-capital.html
Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  may be betting concern about capital at
the biggest banks will give way to a race for higher returns.  Deutsche Bank’s core capital ratio, a buffer against
possible losses, may fall to the lowest level among eight
competitors under new Basel III rules in 2012, even after it
raised 10.2 billion euros ($13.4 billion) in a share sale in
October, according to  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at
Mediobanca SpA.  Ackermann, who shunned German government aid during the
credit crisis, warned at a Frankfurt conference in September
against a “dangerous race to the top” among banks seeking to
lift reserves above Basel III requirements years before the
rules kick in. Deutsche Bank, the largest German bank, may be
able to hold less capital than peers, and borrow more to enhance
returns, because its clients are convinced the government would
never let it fail, analysts and investors said.  “Deutsche is taking a slightly more commercial view on
capital, which probably only they can,” said London-based
Wheeler, who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “Deutsche
is one of the too-big-to-fail banks, so why on earth if you’re a
client would you be worried about the counterparty risk?”  Ackermann, 62, said in October that Deutsche Bank expects
to fulfill the Basel III requirements as early as 2013, six
years ahead of schedule.  Ronald Weichert , a spokesman for
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, declined to comment further.  ‘Close as Possible’  Wheeler estimates Deutsche Bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio
would fall to 7 percent in 2012, when calculated to reflect all
the Basel III changes. By his reckoning, that would trail Paris-
based  BNP Paribas SA  and Societe Generale SA, HSBC Holdings Plc
and Barclays Plc of London, Zurich-based UBS AG and Credit
Suisse Group AG, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
of New York.  “Deutsche Bank may find it the best way to increase value
for shareholders is to run as close as possible to the level of
capital they can get away with operationally and from a
regulatory perspective,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. with a “market perform” rating on
the stock.  Some investors take the view that capital is paramount,
especially after sovereign debt concerns roiled European markets
in 2010. Operating with a slimmer capital cushion than peers
could backfire, especially if a euro-member government defaults,
said  Daniel Hupfer , who helps manage about $42 billion,
including Deutsche Bank shares, at M.M. Warburg.  Euro ‘Haircuts’  “Deutsche Bank’s ambition should be to boost its capital
reserves,” said Hupfer, based in Hamburg. “We don’t know what
will happen to the euro countries and there could be haircuts”
on sovereign debt. “That would definitely hit the banks, and
then capital will be an issue again.”  Deutsche Bank and Deutsche Postbank AG, the consumer lender
it took control of this month, have a net 19.4 billion euros in
sovereign debt of Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and
Spain, or 69 percent of the banks’ core Tier 1 capital,
according to calculations by Hoffmann-Becking.  Hupfer said investors may be giving a lower valuation to
Deutsche Bank in part because of its capital level. The shares
trade at 0.63 times book value, the third-lowest among its 20
closest banking competitors worldwide by market value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank is down 12 percent in Frankfurt trading this
year, compared with a 6.5 percent decline in the 53-company
Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  Capital Buffer  Leaders of the Group-of-20 nations last month endorsed
rules, known as Basel III, which will more than triple the
highest-quality capital that banks must hold. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision drew up the new regulations
after a credit seizure forced governments from Washington to
Berlin to bail out financial institutions and led to the worst
global economic slump since the Depression.  Rulemakers left it to national governments to decide
whether to require their banks to hold additional reserves.
German regulators have given no indication they will ask
Deutsche Bank or the country’s other largest lenders to do so.
Basel III rules are scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  “German lawmakers have given BaFin several new tools since
the financial crisis to intervene on a bank-by-bank basis, such
as requiring higher capital ratios,” said  Sven Gebauer , a
spokesman for the country’s financial regulator.  Swiss Stance  Germany’s stance contrasts with Switzerland, where
regulators are proposing to lift the minimum Basel III core
capital ratio requirement to at least 10 percent from 7 percent
for  UBS  and  Credit Suisse , the country’s biggest banks. Britain
may follow with similar requirements, Morgan Stanley analysts
said in an Oct. 20 report, and is also examining whether the
largest banks should be broken up and how to limit bonuses.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Kian Abouhossein  estimates
Deutsche Bank’s core capital ratio could fall to 7 percent in
2012 under tighter regulations, the second-lowest among a group
of 12 banks.  Morgan Stanley’s  Huw van Steenis  said in an Oct. 11 note
that the German lender will have “less room for error compared
to peers” and “be constrained to  return  capital.”  Deutsche Bank estimates its core capital ratio may reach
8.1 percent by the end of 2013, helped by retained earnings.  Leverage Cap  Deutsche Bank’s investment bank used less capital in the
first nine months while boosting returns, reports show. Average
active  equity allocated  to the division fell to 16.7 billion
euros in the period from 18.6 billion euros a year earlier. The
unit’s pretax return on that equity rose to 36 percent this year
from 22 percent as total assets grew 16 percent.  Deutsche Bank also relies more than competitors on borrowed
funds, or leverage, to increase returns. Its assets amounted to
51 times shareholders’ equity on Sept. 30, up from 48 times at
the end of 2006, based on International Financial Reporting
Standards. Only Brussels-based  Dexia SA  has higher leverage
among Europe’s 15 biggest listed banks. Investment banks’
extensive use of borrowed funds, which can exaggerate risks, was
blamed by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for
contributing to the financial crisis.  The Basel committee aims to cap leverage at 33 times as
part of the overhaul of financial regulation. It will assess the
ratio between 2011 and 2017 and decide whether adjustments are
required, with the goal of making it binding at the start of
2018, the committee said in a  report  last week.  ‘Clever Strategy’  Deutsche Bank prefers to use U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, which net out derivatives positions, to
measure its leverage. By that standard, its assets at the  end of
September  matched its goal of 25 times equity, up from 23 times
a year earlier and down from 38 times in mid-2008, company
reports show. By comparison, Goldman Sachs assets were 12 times
capital at the end of September.  “It’s a clever strategy,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps
manage about 12 billion euros at Landesbank Berlin Investments,
including Deutsche Bank shares. “If you have less capital and
higher leverage, then you have a higher return on equity.”  The bank may benefit more than some peers from a potential
pickup in business for investment banks in the first quarter,
analysts said. “They’re best positioned by a distance if the
markets turn up,” said Wheeler at Mediobanca.  ROE vs Capital  Ackermann has sought to counter criticism that Deutsche
Bank’s business is too risky by making acquisitions to reduce
dependence on investment banking, which accounts for about two-
thirds of revenue. He led the purchase of Postbank, wealth
manager Sal. Oppenheim and some of ABN Amro’s commercial banking
operations in the Netherlands in the last 15 months.  The Swiss native said in September that the share sale
would raise sufficient funds for Postbank, regulatory changes
and investments, making another capital increase unnecessary.
Ackermann has said financial industry profitability will decline
amid overregulation and a lack of global coordination on rules.  “Deutsche Bank is hoping that the market will focus more
on return on equity than capital,” said  Dirk Becker  of Kepler
Capital Markets, whose recommendations on the stock produced the
highest total returns over the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “They simply don’t have any other option
if they want to avoid another capital increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  