-- German DAX Is Little Changed; Adidas Drops as Pfleiderer Rises
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-22T16:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/deutsche-bank-pfleiderer-phoenix-solar-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks were little changed,
after the benchmark DAX Index recovered all the losses from the
plunge that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s September
2008 collapse.  Adidas AG  retreated after competitor  Nike Inc . reported
orders that missed some analysts’ estimates.  Pfleiderer AG 
jumped to the highest level in more than a month after saying it
has signed a “standstill agreement” with banks valid until
March 31, 2011.  The DAX Index slipped 0.1 percent to 7,067.92 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt, having swung between gains and losses
more than 30 times today. The gauge has climbed 19 percent this
year as corporate profits increased, the Federal Reserve
unveiled a $600 billion bond-purchase program to assist the U.S.
economy’s recovery and the European Union bailed out Greece and
Ireland. The broader HDAX Index was little changed today.  “Sentiment will continue to be buffeted by each
development in the euro-zone debt crisis” in 2011,  Michael McNaught-Davis , head of international equities at Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership in Edinburgh, said in a note e-
mailed today. Even so, the firm “expects market bulls to come
out on top as attractive fundamentals -- notably cheap
valuations, low interest rates and renewed growth -- push
equities higher,” he said.  The DAX plunged 41 percent through March 2009 as the
collapse of Lehman Brothers fueled the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, causing banks worldwide to book
writedowns and losses of more than $1.8 trillion.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in
the third quarter, marking a pickup in growth that may extend
into 2011 as companies and consumers gain confidence to spend.
The revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a
2.5 percent estimate issued last month and was less than the
median forecast of a 2.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey,
figures from the Commerce Department showed today.  A separate report showed sales of U.S. existing homes rose
less than forecast in November as the industry that triggered
the worst U.S. recession in seven decades struggled to recover
after a government tax credit lapsed.  Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
dropped 1.6 percent to 50.58 euros. Nike said orders for
December to April rose 11 percent for a total of $7.7 billion,
excluding currency fluctuations, from a year ago. That missed
the 11.6 percent gain projected by an average of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Pfleiderer Rallies  E.ON AG , which accounts for about 7 percent of the DAX
Index by weighting, added 0.9 percent to 22.93 euros.  Infineon
Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, rose 1.6
percent to 7.25 euros.  Pfleiderer surged 7.5 percent to 2.75 euros after the maker
of laminate flooring said lenders agreed not to exercise rights
to terminate their credit lines until the end of March.  Phoenix Solar AG  advanced 2.7 percent to 22.82 euros. The
German solar project developer said it has started building a
solar power plant on a 5.9-megawatt solar carport in northern
Italy for Solarwatt AG.  -- With assistance from Nandini Sukumar in London. Editor:
Christiane Lenzner  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 