-- Health Insurers Must Justify Premium Increases of More Than 10 Percent
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-21T21:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/health-insurers-must-justify-premium-increases-of-more-than-10-percent.html
U.S. health insurers led by
 UnitedHealth Group Inc.  and  Humana Inc.  must provide
justification for any planned premium increases of more than 10
percent next year, according to federal rules proposed today.  States can reject higher  insurer  rates, while the federal
government will be limited to only publishing data on premiums,
according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
the agency writing the regulations. States may bar insurers with
a pattern of “unreasonable” rate increases from exchanges
where 24 million newly insured individuals will buy coverage.  The publication of  rate increases  and the states’ review
will put insurers “under tremendous scrutiny,” Health and
Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said today at a press
conference in Washington. “The bright light of sunshine
convinces insurers to think twice and check their math.”  The rules were prompted by a proposal from the California
subsidiary of Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc.  to raise rates
as much as 39 percent in 2010, Sebelius said. After review by
California’s insurance commissioner, the underlying calculations
were found to be incorrect and WellPoint cut the increase in
half. “It was a very effective mechanism,” she said.  Insurance exchanges set up by the law that President  Barack Obama  signed in March will offer tax credits for people to buy
private coverage by 2019. Starting in 2011, insurers must
provide state and federal regulators with justification for any
premium increases of 10 percent or more.  Slice of Market  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Managed Health Care Index  rose
less than 1 percent at 4 p.m. New York time. The rate review
process in the rule, which can be revised by regulators, applies
to small group and individual insurance plans rather than the
large group coverage used by employers for workers, Sebelius
said.  WellPoint referred requests for comment to the Washington-
based lobbying group, America’s Health Insurance Plans. The
group said the regulation of rates was best left to states.  “The federal government is not in position to make these
assessments,”  Karen Ignagni , the group’s chief executive
officer, said in an e-mailed statement. The proposal sets up a
review threshold that’s “incomplete because it does not
adequately factor in all of the components that determine
premiums,” she said.  State Regulation Focus  The disclosure rules won’t have a large effect on profit
margins,  Matthew Borsch , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. insurance
analyst, said today in a note to clients.  “Health insurance is already extensively regulated at the
state level,” Borsch wrote. “We would be more worried about an
additional level of rate scrutiny if in fact the health insurers
were siphoning a significant portion of premiums for profit.
That is not the case.”  The administration  estimates  that as much as 70 percent of
insurance offered in the small group and individual market will
exceed the 10 percent threshold and will be subject to review,
according to the regulations published today.  The 10 percent threshold will change after 2011 to a state-
by-state measurement based on the history of health costs in
each state, Sebelius said.  An “unreasonable” increase is defined as either lowering
the percentage of premiums spent on customers’ care to less than
80 percent, or being unaccompanied by substantial evidence that
 health costs  are rising, the agency said.  Exchange Denial  Insurers also must spend at least 80 percent of premium
revenue on patient care or rebate the difference to customers.
Insurers as of 2014 won’t be able to reject people based on pre-
existing medical conditions, and won’t be allowed to vary
premiums widely based on people’s age or health status.  Denying insurers access to the state-based insurance
exchanges that begin in 2014 will prevent the companies from
reaching consumers subsidized by $350 billion in tax credits
during a decade, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  The  federal government  lacks the power to ban insurers from
the exchanges. It can recommend to states, which decide on the
insurers that can sell within the marketplaces, that certain
health insurers don’t participate, Sebelius said.  “We’ll certainly look at patterns of insurance company
practices, in terms of selecting the companies to participate in
future exchanges,” Sebelius said. State insurance
commissioners, along with Sebelius’s department, will watch for
insurers deemed “good public citizens” for participation, as
opposed to “ones you might want to keep an extra eye on or
don’t want to enhance in the marketplace.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 