-- Leaping Nudes, Wonder Woman’s XL Bodice Fill Holiday Art Books
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-12-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/leaping-nudes-wonder-woman-s-xl-bodice-fill-holiday-art-books.html
As the Victorians liked to say,
every picture tells a story. On the other hand, not every story
can be told in a picture.  That’s the lesson of “Decade,” a book billed as “the
definitive photographic history of the first decade of the 21st
century” ( Phaidon , 504 pages, $39.95, 24.95 pounds).  Flipping through these 500 glossy images, you soon discover
that some important events are eminently photographable, others
far less so. The selection, edited by Eamonn McCabe, includes
harrowing shots of victims of earthquakes, hurricanes, 9/11,
massacres and tsunamis.  Political upheavals are less visual. As for finance, well,
a shot of the exterior of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s London
headquarters on the day the bank filed for bankruptcy just
doesn’t cut it. Still, this book is highly browse-able and good
for inducing early-onset nostalgia.  If, like  Simone Signoret , you believe nostalgia isn’t what
it used to be, a more old-fashioned variety can be found in  Paul Levitz’s  “75 Years of DC Comics: The Art of Modern Mythmaking”
( Taschen , 720 pages, $200, 135 pounds). Here, in XL format, are
all the heroes of yesteryear: Superman, Wonder Woman, Batman,
Robin et al. Most of them are pretty XL themselves.  Those were simpler, more innocent days, when heroes and
heroines looked like bodybuilders on steroids and could get away
with the most outrageous costumes.  Wonder Woman  went around in a
bodice emblazoned with the American eagle, plus blue shorts
bearing the stars (but no stripes).  This was the kind of popular art that inspired pop art.
Just one word of warning: Anyone old enough to feel genuine
nostalgia for the golden days of comic-book derring-do should be
careful of their backs when handling this volume; as the
publicity boasts, even Superman might have trouble lifting it.  Durer and iPads  Albrecht Durer  (1471-1528) was something of a popular
artist in his day. He was the first great painter-draftsman to
use the new media of woodcuts and engravings to break through to
a mass public that could afford an image printed on paper,
though not a painted one. His works were on sale in Italy as
well as his native Nuremberg. In many ways, he was the first
international art star and the forerunner, in his use of novel
technology, of today’s iPad artists.  He is the latest Old Master to get the XL treatment, in
“Albrecht Durer” by Norbert Wolf ( Prestel , 304 pages, $120, 80
pounds). Though handsome in format, this volume suffers from a
chewy text and gimmicky design. It abounds in details that have
been blown up to sizes massively bigger than they appear in the
original works.  Lucian Freud  Lucian Freud , who celebrated his 88th birthday on Dec. 8,
is the nearest thing we have to a living Old Master. “Lucian
Freud: The Studio” ( Hirmer , 256 pages, $65, 44 pounds) is an
English translation of the catalog from an acclaimed exhibition
at the  Centre Pompidou  in Paris earlier this year.  The book contains a good chronology; some fine David Dawson
photographs of the artist at work; essays by several writers;
and a range of Freud’s paintings, including more naked sitters
than clothed. A fully comprehensive catalog of Freud’s work
doesn’t yet exist; this makes a handy compilation while we wait.  Freud’s old friend  Francis Bacon  was one of many artists
much influenced by Eadweard Muybridge, the subject of Hans
Christian Adam’s “Eadweard Muybridge: The Human and Animal
Locomotion Photographs” (Taschen, 804 pages, $69.99, 39.99
pounds).  Nudes Take Tea  Muybridge (1830-1904) was a pioneer -- the first to use a
sequence of rapidly taken images to capture the reality of how
men, women, horses and other creatures actually move. All the
plates from his original publications, “Animal Locomotion” and
“The Attitudes of Animals in Motion,” can be found here.  In these pictures, we can still see late 19th-century
people, often stark naked, walking, running, jumping, climbing
and performing such everyday tasks as feeding the dog and
drinking tea.  Muybridge’s process was a close precursor of cinema. If you
run his photographs in rapid succession, you can see our great-
great-grandparents in the nude come jerkily to life. It’s a
strangely touching sight.  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 