-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain Most in Three Weeks; Currencies Strengthen
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-21T13:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/emerging-market-stocks-gain-most-in-two-weeks-led-by-commodity-producers.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to its biggest gain in almost three weeks,
and currencies strengthened after China said it’s supporting
European Union efforts to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.9 percent to
1,121.08 at 8:02 a.m. in New York, the biggest increase on a
closing basis since Dec. 2. South Korea’s  Kospi Index  gained 0.8
percent to the highest level since November 2007 after a U.S.
negotiator said North Korea agreed to let inspectors visit its
nuclear facilities. India’s rupee climbed 0.5 percent against
the dollar to lead gains in emerging-market currencies.  China supports measures to ensure financial stability in
Europe and “has taken concrete action to help some EU members
counter the sovereign-debt crisis,” Vice Premier  Wang Qishan 
said at the Third EU-China High-Level Economic & Trade Dialogue
in Beijing. Shares in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary
rose amid speculation Chinese investments in the euro region
will bolster economic growth.  “China’s trying to take a more prominent role in global
events,”  Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “It’s going to be another very strong year. China’s
taking an incredible amount of momentum into 2011.”  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied for the first time in
five days, climbing 1.8 percent after a survey showed property
sales rose in most Chinese cities during the past week.  Poland, Czech Republic  India’s  Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index  advanced 0.9
percent as companies from JSW Steel Ltd. to Lanco Infratech Ltd.
announced expansion plans that may boost profitability. Russia’s
Micex Index increased 0.3 percent and the ruble climbed to the
strongest level in more than three months versus the euro as
metals prices advanced. The Bovespa Index added 0.5 percent
after Morgan Stanley upgraded Brazilian stocks.  Poland’s WIG20 Index added 0.5 percent, the Czech PX Index
increased 1 percent and Hungary’s BUX Index rallied 0.3 percent.
The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 2.51 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  Brazilian stocks were upgraded to “overweight” from
“equal-weight” at Morgan Stanley after earnings prospects and
valuations improved, according to a research report.  South African stocks were raised to “equal-weight” from
“underweight,” while Chile was cut to “underweight” from
“equal-weight,”  Jonathan Garner , the Hong Kong-based chief
Asia and emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in
a report dated today.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index climbed 0.7 percent,
while Chile’s IPSA Index lost 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  