-- Tessera Wins Appeal in Patent Case Against Qualcomm
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-12-21T23:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/tessera-wins-appeal-in-patent-case-against-qualcomm-stmicro.html
Tessera Technologies Inc . won an
appeal in a patent case against  Qualcomm Inc .,  Spansion Inc . and
 STMicroelectronics NV , which had sought to overturn an
International Trade Commission ruling over chip packaging.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit today
upheld a finding of patent-infringement against the companies,
agreeing that the commission’s decision was “supported by
substantial evidence and contained no errors of law.”  Tessera, based in San Jose, California, rose $1.45, or 7
percent, to $22.09 at 4:30 p.m. New York time in  trading  on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Earlier, it touched $22.30, the biggest
increase since June 2.  The  U.S. International Trade Commission  in said in 2009
 Qualcomm ,  Motorola Inc.  and other companies infringed Tessera
patents for the chips’ packaging and issued an order to halt
imports of certain chips by the companies that aren’t covered by
licenses. Motorola has since taken a license.  Tessera sued the companies in federal courts in Texas and
California. Those suits were put on hold until the ITC claim was
resolved, said  Bernard Cassidy , Tessera’s general counsel. The
company will seek damages for past infringement from the expired
patents, he said.  “Now we can go back to court and try to get paid from the
federal lawsuits,” Cassidy said. “We’re pleased the federal
court of appeals has affirmed this case and we look forward to
going” ahead.  The ruling will have “no impact” on Qualcomm’s ability to
continue shipping its products, the San Diego-based company said
in an e-mailed statement. Spansion spokeswoman Michele Landry
said in an e-mailed statement that the Sunnyvale, California-
based company expects “little impact” from the ruling, noting
Tessera still needs to prove damages and infringement in federal
court.  Michael Markowitz, a U.S. spokesman for Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics, said by telephone that company officials
“received the decision and are studying our options.”  The case is Spansion Inc. v. International Trade
Commission, 2009-1460, -1460, -1462, -1465, U.S. Court of Appeal
for the Federal Circuit  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  