-- EU to Sell as Many as Eight Bonds for Ireland in 2011
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-12-21T14:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/eu-funds-will-sell-bonds-to-raise-up-to-45-billion-for-ireland-next-year.html
Europe’s financial aid funds for
distressed governments will sell bonds to raise as much as 34.1
billion euros ($45 billion) for Ireland in 2011 and 14.9 billion
euros in 2012, the European Commission said.  The two funds -- the European Financial Stabilization
Mechanism and  European Financial Stability Facility  -- will sell
a total of seven to eight benchmark bonds each worth 3 billion
euros to 5 billion euros in 2011, the commission said in a
statement in Brussels today.  The fundraising schedule “will ensure smooth market
operations over the entire duration of the support program,”
the commission said. The European Union “will however carefully
analyze the markets after they reopen in the New Year and may
adapt funding plans accordingly.”  The two funds form the kernel of the 750 billion-euro
financial backstop that European finance ministers set up in May
to prevent the spreading sovereign-debt crisis from undermining
the euro. Both funds enjoy AAA rating.  Bonds will be sold mainly at maturities of five, seven and
10 years, possibly supplemented by “smaller bond issues”
either through taps or “targeted transactions,” the commission
said.  Ireland’s 85 billion-euro rescue last month includes 22.5
billion euros from the EFSM -- which is managed by the
commission -- and 17.7 billion euros from the EFSF, overseen by
euro-area governments.  The Luxembourg-based EFSF sells bonds backed by 440 billion
euros in national guarantees and uses the money it raises to
make loans to debt-swamped euro-area countries. It sells debt
only after an aid request. So far the only country to tap the
fund is Ireland, whose package also includes loans from the
U.K., Sweden, Denmark and the International Monetary Fund.  Greece’s earlier 110 billion-euro rescue involved loans
from euro-area governments and the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  