-- Euro Rises After China Says It's Helping European Union's With Debt Issue
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-21T15:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/euro-strengthens-after-china-says-it-has-taken-steps-to-ease-debt-crisis.html
The euro rose from near a two-week
low against the dollar and yen after Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said his nation had taken “concrete action” to help the
European Union with its debt problems.  The single currency’s strength was tempered and the Swiss
franc strengthened after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
cut Portugal’s credit rating. The dollar weakened against most
of its major counterparts as tensions eased in the Korean
Peninsula, reducing demand for the U.S. currency as a haven.
Stocks rose.  “China made some supportive comments of the euro,” said
 Win Thin , global head of emerging market strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Downgrades will continue.
That whole story is still feeding the market into remaining
bearish euro.”  The euro climbed 0.1 percent to $1.3140 as of 10:01 a.m. in
New York, from $1.3131 yesterday, when it dropped to $1.3095,
the lowest since Dec. 2. The common currency was up 0.1 percent
to 109.87 yen after paring earlier gains. It fell to 109.58 yen
yesterday, the weakest since Dec. 7. The Japanese currency rose
to 83.62 per dollar, the strongest since Dec. 14, from 83.77.  Fed Liquidity  The Federal Open Market Committee authorized the extension
through Aug. 1 of its temporary dollar liquidity swap
arrangements with the European Central Bank and the central
banks of Japan, Canada, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The
swaps allow the U.S. central bank to provide the “full
allotment” of U.S. dollars as needed to European central banks,
the Fed said in a statement in May.  The euro gained on speculation investments by China, which
holds a record $2.65 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, will
ease Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and boost the allure of
assets in the region.  The EU is China’s largest trade partner and the Asian
nation is Europe’s second-biggest export market, with bilateral
trade increasing 33.1 percent in the 11 months through November
from a year earlier to $433.88 billion, China’s customs
department said on Dec. 10.  “EU members have taken a number of steps to actively
respond to the sovereign-debt crisis,” Wang said at a forum in
Beijing today. “We hope these measures will quickly produce
results and lead to a steady recovery of the EU economies.”  Funding Issue  The euro’s gains were limited by speculation some European
nations will struggle to raise funds amid a slew of credit-
rating and outlook changes.  Moody’s today said Portugal’s credit rating is at risk amid
the economy’s “sluggish” growth. The agency last week cut
Ireland by five levels and put Greece on review for a potential
“multinotch” downgrade, and said on Dec. 15 that Spain’s
rating was at risk. Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  The difference in yields between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds rose for a 10th straight day, widening to 356
basis points.  “Moody’s placement of Portugal on negative watch is more
of an emblem of the problems that will continue to afflict
Europe as we move into 2011,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of
Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New
York. “These fundamental problems will not go away, they’re
going to continue.”  Euro Forecast  The common currency will strengthen to $1.33 by March 31,
according to the median forecast of 45 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News.  The Swiss franc rose as investors sought a haven from
fluctuations in the euro.  “Peripheral European currencies, which are backed up by
strong economic fundamentals, like the Swiss franc, have
strengthened,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London.  The franc appreciated 0.6 percent to 95.91 centimes against
the dollar. It erased declines to trade 0.5 percent stronger at
1.2603 per euro, after touching to 1.2597, a record since the
creation of the common currency.  The yen climbed to a one-week high versus the dollar on
speculation Japanese exporters purchased the nation’s currency
as the end of the year approaches.  Yen Buys  Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to trade at an
average of 86.47 per dollar in the year through March, the
highest since the Bank of Japan’s Tankan business-confidence
survey included the yen-forecast question in 1996, compared with
the 89.66 predicted in September, the survey showed Dec. 15.  The Bank of Japan said after its meeting today that it will
“steadily” provide liquidity to support demand. Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  warned about the risks a climb in bond yields
posed to the nation’s expansion.  “Volatile long-term rates can affect the economy, prices
and financial conditions by influencing borrowing costs for
households and companies,” Shirakawa told reporters in Tokyo
today after the central bank left its credit programs unchanged
and kept the key interest rate between zero and 0.1 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, slumped 0.4 percent. The European benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced, extending a two-year high, and
U.S. equities futures rose.  The dollar slipped against most of its 16 most actively
traded counterparts as risk appetite was boosted by an easing of
tension in the Korean peninsula.  A U.S. negotiator said North Korea agreed to let inspectors
visit its uranium enrichment facilities after the communist
nation refrained from retaliating after South Korea’s military
exercises in disputed waters yesterday.  Canada’s dollar fell for a fourth day versus its U.S.
counterpart after a report showed annual inflation slowed in
November, increasing speculation the Bank of Canada will keep
borrowing costs on hold.  The loonie, as the currency is known, dropped 0.1 percent
to C$1.0173.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  