-- Euro Rises as China Says Taken `Concrete Action' to Help Europe; Yen Gains
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-21T07:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/euro-rises-as-china-s-wang-pledges-to-help-eu-with-debt-crisis-yen-gains.html
The euro rose from near a two-week
low against the dollar and yen after Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said his nation had taken “concrete action” to help the
European Union with its debt problems.  The single currency strengthened against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts on speculation investments by China, which holds a
record $2.65 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves, will ease
Europe’s sovereign fiscal crisis and boost the allure of assets
in the region. The yen reached a one-week high versus the dollar
on speculation Japanese exporters bought the currency to bring
home funds before the end of the year.  “The comments would be a good Christmas present for the
euro if Asian support for the EU continues into next year,”
said  Kurt Magnus , executive director of foreign-exchange sales
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney. “There’s a lot of people
looking to sell euro and go into 2011 with a core short position
and there’s no way that you would be short euro,” if China
continued to support the region, he said.  The euro climbed to $1.3175 as of 6:52 a.m. in London from
$1.3131 in New York yesterday, when it dropped to $1.3095, the
lowest since Dec. 2. The common currency rose to 110.24 yen from
110 yen yesterday, when it fell to 109.58, the weakest since Dec.
7. The yen rose to 83.67 per dollar from 83.77 after reaching
83.57, the strongest since Dec. 14.  Largest Partner  The EU is China’s largest trade partner and China is the
region’s second-biggest export market, with bilateral trade
increasing 33.1 percent in the 11 months through November from a
year earlier to $433.88 billion, China’s customs department said
on Dec. 10.  “EU members have taken a number of steps to actively
respond to the sovereign-debt crisis,” Wang said at a forum in
Beijing today. “We hope these measures will quickly produce
results and lead to a steady recovery of the EU economies.”  The euro weakened yesterday on speculation some European
nations will struggle to raise funds amid a slew of credit-
rating and outlook changes.  Moody’s Investors Service last week cut Ireland’s debt
rating by five levels and put Greece on review for a possible
“multi-notch” downgrade. The company said Dec. 15 it may lower
Spain’s creditworthiness. Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  Further Downgrades  “We should expect a string of potential multi-notch
downgrades in late January and early February,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking
Corp., the nation’s second-biggest lender. “We get a number of
reviews at the end of January, a heavy auction schedule and a
shorter month due to holidays at the beginning and end of the
month. We’re surprised that euro isn’t lower.”  The common currency will strengthen to $1.33 by March 31,
according to the median forecast of 45 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News.  The yen climbed to a one-week high versus the dollar on
speculation Japanese exporters purchased the nation’s currency
as year-end approaches.  “There’s talk of Japanese exporters buying their
currency,” said  Takashi Kudo , general manager of market
information services at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp. “This may be related to seasonal
factors such as the end of the month and year.”  Large Manufacturers  Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to trade at an
average of 86.47 per dollar in the year through March, the
highest since the Bank of Japan’s Tankan business-confidence
survey included the yen-forecast question in 1996, compared with
the 89.66 predicted in September, the survey showed Dec. 15.  Fumio Ohtsubo , president of  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s
largest maker of plasma televisions, said this month the yen’s
appreciation is making it tougher for the company to compete
with its South Korean rivals, such as  Samsung Electronics Co. 
The yen has risen 11 percent versus the won this year.  Taiwan’s dollar rose toward a 13-year high after better-
than-forecast export orders boosted optimism about the island’s
growth prospects.  Orders  for overseas shipments increased by 14.3 percent
last month, higher than the 13.3 percent median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey, the Ministry of Economic
Affairs said yesterday. The government will say tomorrow the
jobless rate fell to an almost two-year low of 4.9 percent,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  “Sentiment for the Taiwan dollar is strong because of
strong exports and economic growth,” said  Hao-Yun Juan , a
currency trader at King’s Town Bank in Taipei.  Taiwan’s dollar climbed 2.4 percent to NT$29.890 against
its U.S. counterpart. The currency reached NT$29.766 on Dec. 17,
the highest since October 1997.  New Zealand’s currency gained for a second day as prices
rose for commodities, which are a majority of its exports.
Copper climbed for a third day from London to Shanghai and oil
rose. The so-called kiwi rose 0.8 percent to 74.82 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 