-- Euro Trades Near 2-Week Low Versus Dollar on Downgrade Concerns
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-12-22T01:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/euro-falls-versus-dollar-franc-on-concern-of-portugal-greece-downgrades.html
The euro traded near a more than
two-week low against the dollar as prospects for more credit
downgrades in Europe increased concern about the ability of some
nations to tap the international bond market.  The shared currency reached a record low against the Swiss
franc as the cost of protecting the sovereign bonds of Greece
and Portugal from default rose yesterday. The dollar rallied
from a one-week low versus the yen before data forecast to show
the U.S. economy expanded more than earlier estimated. New
Zealand’s currency was near a decade low against Australia’s on
speculation a report tomorrow will show the smaller  economy 
slowed last quarter.  “Everyone knows that the possibility of downgrades is
around, but when the ratings agencies come out and say something
you get a quick reaction,” said  Matthew Brady , executive
director for foreign exchange at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in Sydney.
“Rallies in the euro will be sold.”  The euro traded at $1.3127 as of 9:55 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.31 in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.3074, the lowest
since Dec. 2. The common currency bought 109.93 yen after
earlier reaching 109.57 yen, matching its Dec. 7 low. The franc
traded at 1.2559 per euro after touching 1.2534, a record since
the creation of the common currency.  The dollar was little changed at 83.77 yen after yesterday
reaching 83.50 yen, the least since Dec. 14.  Movements in currency markets may be volatile as liquidity
thins going into the holiday season, Brady said.  Portugal’s bond rating may be downgraded one or two levels
by Moody’s Investors Service after the company warned yesterday
of concern that budget cuts will worsen the country’s
“sluggish” economic growth. Greece may have its credit rating
cut to non-investment grade by Fitch Ratings within six weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 