-- European Investment Banking Fees Tumble to Six-Year Low Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/european-investment-banking-fees-tumble-to-six-year-low-amid-debt-crisis.html
Investment banking fees in Europe
shrank to the lowest in six years in 2010 as companies aborted
fundraisings and takeovers during the sovereign-debt crisis.  Income from arranging mergers, stock, bond and loan sales
in Europe, the Middle East and Africa dropped about 10 percent
from 2009 to $21.9 billion, estimates by New York-based research
firm Freeman & Co. show. Fees in Asia jumped 18 percent to $17.8
billion, narrowing the gap with Europe to the lowest since at
least 1998. At that rate, revenue from Asia may surpass Europe
in 2011, according to Freeman.  Greece’s near-default this year sparked speculation among
investors that Ireland, Portugal and Spain would follow. Concern
that the euro might not survive the crisis intact and that
government spending cuts may stifle growth in the region made
companies wary of making acquisitions and investors reluctant to
back offerings of new stocks and bonds.  “The euro uncertainty holds European companies back from
being more active,” said  Tom Kirchmaier , a fellow at the London
School of Economics. “It’s therefore difficult to predict
whether or not the numbers will improve, as it very much depends
on political decisions.”  The value of completed takeovers involving western European
companies fell 16 percent from 2009 to $532 billion in 2010,
while the value of share sales more than halved to $51 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley  was the top-
ranked adviser on mergers announced in Europe in 2010, followed
by JPMorgan Chase & Co., the data show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
and Deutsche Bank AG were the top arrangers of stock offerings
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa in the period.  Job Cuts?  Revenue from arranging mergers in Europe, the Middle East
and Africa, the most lucrative business, declined 1 percent to
$8.7 billion, the Freeman data show. Fees for arranging stock
offerings posted a 33 percent drop to $4.2 billion, the steepest
fall, and income from arranging leveraged loans shrank 21
percent, Freeman said.  Europe’s decline in fees in 2010 contrasts with gains in
Asia and the U.S., the Freeman estimates show. That may make
investment banks more likely to cut jobs in Europe than in other
regions, or curb bonuses for bankers in London and Frankfurt.  “Remuneration should be reflective of profitability,”
said  Neil Dwane , who helps oversee about $80 billion of equities
as chief investment officer at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM
unit in Frankfurt. “Profitability will be declining as trading
profits, bond and equity divisions have had a tougher time year
over year.”  Bond Sales Decline  Overall sales of corporate bonds in Europe fell 43 percent
to 602.7 billion euros ($790 billion) this year, according to
Bloomberg data. Fees from arranging investment-grade bond sales
for European companies fell 27 percent to $4 billion, while
income from sales of high-yield securities doubled to $1.6
billion, Freeman said.  Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas SA  and  Barclays Capital  were the
top three underwriters of corporate bonds in the region in 2010,
Bloomberg data show.  “Concern about the prospect of a double-dip recession,
coupled with the fact that no one really knows what is going to
happen with the sovereign- stock and bond debt crisis means
investors are very wary about committing capital,” said  James Chappell , a financial services industry strategist at Olivetree
Securities in London, who has been covering the sector for about
15 years. “Investors in credit are looking for the greatest
risk-reward and that’s to be found in high yield bonds. That’s
why fees are up there.”  Revenue in the Americas rebounded 23 percent to $41
billion, driven by a 52 percent increase in fees from mergers
and a 76 percent rise in income from arranging high-yield bonds,
the data show.  U.S. Economy  U.S. analysts expect the recovery to gain strength: the
economy will expand by 2.6 percent in 2011, according to the
median forecast of 66 economists in a Bloomberg News survey this
month, up from a 2.5 percent prediction in November.  Fees in Asia climbed 17 percent to $17.7 billion, led by a
66 percent increase in revenue from China, according to Freeman.
China is encouraging state-owned companies to make international
purchases as it seeks to secure energy and raw materials for its
growing economy. The country accounted for 9 percent of the
global value of deals announced so far this year, up from 5
percent in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s a case of Europe exiting the fees recession more
slowly and later,” said  Scott Moeller , professor at Cass
Business School in London and a former investment banker at
Deutsche Bank and  Morgan Stanley . For Europe, “it may just be
that in 2011 the stars will come into alignment, but I suspect
that will be in the second half of the year.”  Irish Rescue  The European Union-led 85 billion euro bailout of Ireland
has helped the  Stoxx Europe 600  index to climb 6 percent since
the package was agreed on Nov. 28. The benchmark is up 10
percent for the year.  That’s helped the pace of announced deals to pick up in the
final quarter: companies announced $164.8 billion of mergers
since the end of September compared with $155.5 billion in the
previous three months, according to Bloomberg data. That rebound
culminated with Novartis AG’s Dec. 15 announcement it will take
full control of Alcon Inc. after agreeing to pay $12.9 billion
for stock of the eye-care company it doesn’t already own.  “The equation is straightforward, fewer deals means less
in fee revenue,” said  Frank Aquila , partner at law firm
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP in New York. “It really has been a
challenging year in Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  