-- Euro Declines Versus Dollar as Debt Ratings Reviews May Hinder Borrowing
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-21T22:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/euro-declines-versus-dollar-as-debt-ratings-reviews-may-hinder-borrowing.html
The euro dropped against most of its
major counterparts as more possible downgrades to the region’s
debt boosted concern about some countries’ ability to tap the
international bond market.  The 16-nation currency weakened to a two-week low against
the dollar after Fitch Ratings placed Greece’s BBB- rating, the
firm’s lowest investment-grade level, on rating watch negative.
The Swiss franc extended gains against Europe’s single currency
after Moody’s Investors Service said it may cut Portugal’s
credit rating. The Brazilian real gained as commodity prices
surged.  “The Swiss franc, which is typically a currency sold in an
upward pro-risk environment, is being bid as a proxy for money
that would normally be invested into Europe,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada
in Toronto.  The euro dropped 0.2 percent to $1.3100 as of 5:01 p.m. in
New York, from $1.3131 yesterday. It touched $1.3074, the lowest
since Dec. 2. The common currency fell 0.3 percent to 109.71
yen. The dollar was little changed at 83.75 yen.  The franc appreciated 0.9 percent to 1.2551 per euro after
touching 1.2546, a record since the creation of the common
currency.  Hot Commodities  The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of raw materials  rose  as
much as 0.9 percent to the highest since Oct. 3, boosting
currencies of commodity-exporting countries.  The euro earlier rose as much as 0.5 percent versus the
greenback after Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said his nation
had taken “concrete action” to help the European Union with
its debt problems. The comments boosted speculation investments
by China, which holds a record $2.65 trillion of foreign-
exchange reserves, will ease Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and
boost the allure of assets in the region.  The euro’s gains were reversed by speculation some European
nations will struggle to raise funds amid a slew of credit-
rating and outlook changes.  Greece had its BBB- long term foreign and local currency
issuer default ratings placed on rating watch negative by Fitch.  Rating Is at Risk  Moody’s said Portugal’s credit rating is at risk amid the
economy’s “sluggish” growth. The agency last week cut Ireland
by five levels, put Greece on review for a potential
“multinotch” downgrade, and said on Dec. 15 that Spain’s
rating was at risk. Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its
assessments of Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  The difference in yields between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds rose for a 10th straight day, widening to 355
basis points.  “Moody’s placement of Portugal on negative watch is more
of an emblem of the problems that will continue to afflict
Europe as we move into 2011,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of
Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New
York. “These fundamental problems will not go away, they’re
going to continue.”  The euro has declined 10.4 percent so far this year, the
biggest loss among the 10 developed nations measured in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
dropped 1.1 percent and the yen has added 11.1 percent.  The 16-nation currency has added 0.9 percent against the
dollar so far this month and the yen has lost 0.1 percent.  The Brazilian real was the second-biggest gainer against
the dollar among the major currencies, after the franc. It added
0.7 percent to 1.6954 per dollar.  Emerging Strength  “There’s a little bit better attention on emerging
markets,” said  Win Thin , global head of emerging-market
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “The
fundamentals remain very good.”  The yen earlier climbed to a one-week high versus the
dollar on speculation Japanese exporters purchased the nation’s
currency as the end of the year approaches.  Japan’s large manufacturers expect the yen to trade at an
average of 86.47 per dollar in the year through March, the
highest since the Bank of Japan’s Tankan business-confidence
survey included the yen-forecast question in 1996, compared with
the 89.66 predicted in September, the survey showed Dec. 15.  The Bank of Japan said after its meeting today that it will
“steadily” provide liquidity to support demand. Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  warned about the risks a climb in bond yields
posed to the nation’s expansion.  “Volatile long-term rates can affect the economy, prices
and financial conditions by influencing borrowing costs for
households and companies,” Shirakawa told reporters in Tokyo
today after the central bank left its credit programs unchanged
and kept the key interest rate between zero and 0.1 percent.  The Federal Open Market Committee authorized the extension
through Aug. 1 of its temporary dollar liquidity swap
arrangements with the European Central Bank and the central
banks of Japan, Canada, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  