-- Ex-Madoff Aide Bongiorno Surrenders to Florida Marshals After Bail Revoked
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-21T21:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/ex-madoff-aide-bongiorno-surrenders-to-florida-marshals-after-bail-revoked.html
Annette Bongiorno , the former aide
to  Bernard Madoff  indicted last month for her alleged role in
his massive Ponzi scheme, surrendered to U.S. marshals in
Florida after her bail was revoked by a judge.  U.S. District Judge  Laura Taylor Swain  in New York ruled
today that Bongiorno has access to millions of dollars that may
help her to flee. Swain rejected a proposal by Bongiorno’s
lawyers to place funds held by her and her husband under the
supervision of a monitor to be hired with her money.  Bongiorno surrendered in West Palm Beach today, before the
3 p.m. deadline set by Swain, according to Wayne Pickering,
supervisory deputy in the marshal’s office there. Bongiorno was
being booked at the Palm Beach county jail, according to
Pickering, who said he didn’t know when she will be flown to New
York.  “This process has been excruciating for her,” Maurice
Sercarz, one of Bongiorno’s lawyers, said in an interview after
the hearing today. “Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanzaa -- she didn’t
want to go in,” Sercarz said when asked whether Bongiorno had
expressed a desire to remain free to celebrate Christmas.  Bongiorno is charged with conspiracy, securities fraud,
falsifying records and tax evasion. She faces as long as life in
prison if convicted. She has pleaded not guilty.  Bongiorno Finances  Prosecutors told Swain in an earlier hearing that Bongiorno
has $2.4 million in cash, plus access to an undetermined amount
of money held by her husband, Rudy Bongiorno, who withdrew about
$3.8 million from a Madoff account over many years.  Prosecutors have argued that the money belongs to victims
of the Madoff fraud and can’t be used to meet the $5 million
bond originally set by Swain. The government has said it may try
to seize any funds held by the Bongiornos.  Bongiorno’s attorneys submitted information, to Swain only,
about the couple’s finances. Yesterday they asked Swain to
approve a plan to hire a firm to monitor the Bongiornos’
finances and report to the judge.  Swain rejected that request today, saying there is “no
condition or combination of conditions that will reasonably
assure Ms. Bongiorno’s presence at trial.”  After the hearing, Sercarz said that it will be much more
difficult to prepare Bongiorno’s defense, in a case involving
millions of documents, with his client in jail.  ‘Get Her Out’  “We’ve got to keep working to get her out,” Sercarz said.  Bongiorno, who has homes in Manhasset, New York, and Boca
Raton, Florida, is currently in the Florida house. Her lawyers
told Swain she is afraid to fly.  Bongiorno began working for Madoff in 1968 after she
graduated from high school. She oversaw about 200 accounts at
Bernard Madoff Investment Securities LLC, Madoff’s fraudulent
financial advisory firm, according to prosecutors.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he ran the largest Ponzi
scheme in history. At the time of his arrest in 2008, client
account statements reflect about $65 billion in nonexistent
investments. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-228, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 