-- Texas Hispanics Set to Challenge Status Quo in Reapportionment
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-12-21T16:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/texas-hispanics-set-to-challenge-status-quo-in-reapportionment.html
Texas  emerged today with the biggest
political boost from the 2010 Census, adding four congressional
seats as a growing Hispanic population is set to challenge
Republican party dominance in some districts, lawmakers said.  Growth since 2000 in the second most-populous state gave
Texas 36 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, up from 32,
the largest gain of any state, Census figures show. The increase
raises the stakes for Republicans, who have dominated the Austin
statehouse since 2002 and will draw the new district lines.  In Texas, Latinos have tended to back Democrats, said U.S.
Representative  Gene Green , a Houston Democrat, and  Blake Farenthold , a Brownsville Republican. While Hispanics make up
about 37 percent of the population, Republicans hold all
statewide elective offices.  “If the Legislature can marginalize the Democrats, they
will,” U.S. Representative  Charles Gonzalez , a San Antonio
Democrat, said last week in a telephone interview. “But you
need the congressional districts to be drawn in a way that
reflects the growth in Hispanics.”  In states with large Latino populations, the group’s
support can help sway elections. Last month in California, 75
percent of Hispanic voters in the most-populous state favored
Governor-elect  Jerry Brown , while 62 percent picked victorious
Senate incumbent  Barbara Boxer , according to the  Public Policy
Institute of California . Both are Democrats.  Most of Gain  Hispanics composed about 70 percent of the 3.9 million
people added to the Texas population in the past decade, said
Lloyd B. Potter, a demography professor at the University of
Texas at San Antonio who is the official state demographer.
Anglo-Americans made up 8.1 percent of the gain, he said.  The growth was propelled by people seeking work in an
economy buoyed by oil and gas companies and expanding technology
industries, said Pat Guseman, president of  Population & Survey
Analysts , a research firm in College Station.  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,
the world’s largest oil company by market value, is based in
Irving and Round Rock is home to  Dell Inc. , the third-largest
maker of personal computers.  About 25 percent of eligible Texas voters are Latino, the
Washington-based  Pew Hispanic Center  said Oct. 15. About 75
percent of those who voted on Nov. 2 backed Democrats, according
to  Richard Murray , a University of Houston politics professor.  Hispanics will dominate two or three of the new Texas
districts, predicted Green, Farenthold, Gonzales and state
Representative  Delwin Jones , a Lubbock Republican who has led
redistricting committees three times.  Shared Values  Farenthold, who in November defeated 28-year incumbent
 Solomon Ortiz  in his southeast Texas district, said the election
showed Latino voters will support an Anglo-American Republican
who shares their views on abortion and other key issues.
Farenthold beat Ortiz by less than 1 percent of the vote in the
district, which borders Mexico.  “South Texans are mainly Catholics with traditional values
and people who value a hard day’s work,” Farenthold said last
week in a telephone interview. “We’ve done a poor job until
this election of getting that message across.”  The 435 congressional seats are  reapportioned  every decade
after completion of the decennial census, with each district
drawn to contain roughly the same number of people. After the
2000 Census, each district was supposed to have about 647,000
people, which will now increase to reflect the nation’s growth.  Presidential Calculus  The reapportionment also will alter electoral-vote
calculations for presidential elections. A state’s Electoral
College vote is the sum of its House and Senate seats.  Federal law prevents legislators from drawing
reapportioned districts filled with too many or too few voters
from minority groups, said  Bruce Cain , who teaches politics at
the University of California, Berkeley. “Texas Republicans will
try to pack Latinos into districts to the extent they can to
limit Democratic strength in the state,” he said.  In the last redistricting,  Tom DeLay , a U.S. representative
from suburban Houston who was House Majority Leader from 2003 to
2005, “wiped the Democrats out,” Murray said. On Nov. 2, 23
Texas Republicans won election or re-election to Congress for a
net gain of three seats.  DeLay engineered a redistricting plan in the state
Legislature that enabled Republicans to pick up five House seats
in 2004. Democrats tried to block the plan by leaving the state.  Last month, DeLay was found guilty of channeling $190,000
in corporate donations to legislative candidates and of
conspiring to commit money laundering.  Republican Supermajority  Republicans now hold 101 of the 150 seats in the state
House, enough so that they can pass bills without the votes of
any Democrats. The party also controls 19 of 31 Senate seats.
 Rick Perry , a Republican, has been governor since  George W. Bush 
was elected president in 2000. Republicans elected statewide
include U.S. Senators  Kay Bailey Hutchinson  and  John Cornyn .  Five-term state Representative  Aaron Pena  of Edinburg,
elected as a Democrat, and colleague  Allan Ritter  of Nederland
in East Texas both strengthened the Republican hold by switching
parties last week.  “If you don’t have a seat at the table, you may be on the
menu,” Pena, 51, wrote on his blog on the day of his switch.  Republicans will be fair in the redistricting process, said
Pena, who is part of his South Texas district’s Latino majority.  “There is a trending away among Hispanics from the
Democratic Party,” he said in a telephone interview.  Such a  trend  may be crucial to the party’s continued
dominance in the state: Hispanics may outnumber Anglo-Americans
in Texas by 2017 because of higher birth rates, lower mortality
and continued migration, said Potter, the state demographer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  