-- Fiat Dealers Bracing for Sad Christmas Show Marchionne's Italian Challenge
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-12-22T15:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/fiat-dealers-bracing-for-sad-christmas-show-marchionne-s-italian-challenge.html
Holiday shoppers pack the streets
circling Milan’s Gothic cathedral carrying bags from Gap, Gucci
and Prada. Just a few blocks away at a  Fiat SpA  dealer, there’s
no sign of the bustle: The showroom is empty.  “Who does come in is interested in buying a specific model
and visits several dealers to find the best deal,” says
Cristina Fermi, a sales assistant at the dealer. “The risk is a
cannibalization of the market. We may bleed ourselves dry to get
a new client in a losing competition with other dealers.”  About a third of Italy’s 3,600 dealerships are at risk of
going bankrupt in the next 18 months, taking 15,000  jobs  with
them, as car sales plunge following the expiration of government
incentives, the Italian dealers’ association said. Deliveries in
the country, Europe’s third-largest auto market, plummeted 21
percent last month.  Auto sales in Italy will continue to decline in the first
quarter, Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told
analysts Oct. 21, without providing figures. The CEO says Fiat’s
Italian business will still be unprofitable this year.  Fiat , whose biggest market is Italy, unveiled a plan at a
meeting with about 400 dealers in Rome today to help car
sellers, the association said. “Fiat has prepared a marketing
plan which may help us to sustain sales,” said Piero
Carlomagno, chairman of Fiat dealers in Italy, declining to give
details.  Shares Reaction  Fiat  rose  as much as 3 percent to 15.56 euros, the highest
price since January 2008, and traded at 15.36 euros as of 4:28
p.m. in Milan, giving the company a market value of 18.8 billion
euros ($24.6 billion)  The Italian market is dragging on Fiat’s profit potential.
 Fiat  raised its 2010 forecast, thanks to demand in emerging
markets. Full-year trading profit will be at least 2 billion
euros, up from a previous target of as much as 1.2 billion
euros, Fiat said in October. The company, which also controls
Chrysler LLC, is splitting into two by spinning off its
industrial business on Jan. 3.  “With 30 percent of sales exposed to an Italian car market
that we estimate could fall 7 percent in 2011, the outlook is
tough,” wrote Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts led by
 Fraser Hill  in a note to clients Nov. 22.  Bonus Policy  The number of Italian dealers shrunk by more than 200 in
2010, and more than half of current dealerships are losing
money, the dealers’ association estimates. Last year Italy
offered 1,500 euros to consumers who traded in cars older than
10 years. The incentive program, which was part of a 2 billion-
euro stimulus package approved by Italy’s government in February
2009, wasn’t renewed for 2010.  Dealers are in talks with Fiat, based in Turin, to receive
“extraordinary resources” beginning next year that would
include an overhaul of the bonus and margins’ policy on car
sales, said Filippo Pavan Bernacchi, who heads the dealers’
association. “Our request were mostly accepted,” Carlomagno
said after the meeting with Fiat today. A Fiat spokesman
declined to comment.  “At Christmas we usually have many clients popping in,
such as fathers who want to give a new car to their sons ” said
 Angelo Colaneri , head of Gruppo Colaneri, which has four Rome
dealerships. “This year they are not coming. I’ve never seen
such a crisis in the more than fifty years I’ve sold cars. Our
survival is at risk. It’s a very sad Christmas”  Tight Margins  Fiat led an eighth consecutive monthly sales slump in
Italy in November. Eleven-month deliveries in the country are
down 8 percent to 1.83 million vehicles. The drop off has
increased throughout the year because people who ordered a new
car by the end of 2009 could still get the government payment
even if the vehicle was delivered at the start of 2010.  “Italian dealers’ margins are tight, and they are being
squeezed by the automakers,” said Andrea Sianesi, a professor
for supply chain management at Milan’s Polytechnic University.
“In the end they are not finding buyers. They should aim for
more efficiency and merge to survive.”  Economic growth in Italy slowed to 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from 0.5 percent in the second, Istat, the national
statistics institute, said Dec. 10. The unemployment rate
climbed for a second month in October to 8.6 percent, the
highest since monthly records began in 2004, Istat said Nov. 30.  Unprofitable  “We don’t expect any improvement for Italian car sales in
2011,” said  Gianni Filipponi , general manager of UNRAE, an
association for non-Italian carmakers. “The market is heavily
influenced by the economic conditions and the unemployment rate
may even increase next year.”  Italian car dealers as a whole have been unprofitable for
the last three years, and 2011 will be again be difficult,
especially for  Fiat  dealers because the automaker isn’t planning
many new models for next year, Bernacchi said.  Fiat’s Italian market share fell in November to 28.5
percent from 30.4 percent. Fiat next year plans a European
version of the 300C sedan from Chrysler under the Lancia
nameplate and an updated Panda compact by the end of 2011.  Fiat 
will also unveil its new five-door subcompact Lancia Ypsilon in
Geneva in March.  Fiat, which acquired a 20 percent stake in Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based Chrysler last year, has said it will raise the
holding to 35 percent by the end of next year.  As dealers go bust, they leave behind large tracts of
abandoned land. An area more than three times the size of the
Piazza San Marco in Venice sits unused along the road to the
airport in the northern town of Treviso after Marazzato SpA, one
of the region’s biggest auto dealers, went bankrupt last year.
Efforts to sell the property have failed so far.  “We are engaged in a new challenge,” said Roberto
Ferrari, chairman of Alfa Romeo’s Italian dealers association.
“The first step of our strategy is to survive. The second is to
change the way we do business with automakers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  