-- Five Ways to Start the Euro Rescue Operation: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-12-21T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/five-ways-to-start-the-euro-rescue-operation-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Another summit, another messy
compromise. With the euro facing renewed crisis, and with
Portugal, Spain, Belgium and Italy all under the same kind of
pressure that forced Greece and Ireland into a bailout, the
stage was surely set for a clear and decisive defense of the
single currency.  And what did the European Union’s leaders come up with
after high-level talks in Brussels? A two-line treaty amendment.  It’s crazy. It might be the case that the euro isn’t worth
saving. This column has certainly argued that it has turned into
a bankruptcy machine. It would be better for the peripheral
nations to get out now -- and better in the medium-term for the
EU as well.  But given that no one is contemplating that yet, it would
surely make sense to come up with a credible plan for salvaging
the euro. Boosting public spending in Germany, doubling the size
of the emergency fund and creating clear economic rules for the
euro area would be among the best places to start.  “Our determination is clear,” said the EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  in a statement at the close of the Brussels
meeting. “The heads of state and government of the euro zone
stand ready to do whatever is required to ensure the stability
of the euro zone as a whole.”  Tough words. The trouble is, words aren’t enough. When it
came to action, this had all the force of a pea-shooter when a
cruise missile is needed. All the EU actually managed to come up
with was a minor treaty amendment to create a permanent debt-
crisis mechanism in 2013. It amounted to less than 50 words. It
was a feeble and timid response.  Get Real  If you want to get real about doing whatever is required to
save the euro, there are five steps that could be taken now to
shore up confidence in the currency:  -- One, boost public spending in Germany and run bigger
 budget deficits . The peripheral countries need to export more.
They can only do that if someone else imports more. Sure, not
all the extra spending in Germany will go toward Greek or Irish
exports. It will buy a lot of Korean TVs, just like everyone
else is. And, sure, the Germans hate to run budget deficits.
Balancing the books is part of the national ethos. But either
you want to save this thing or you don’t. Getting the Germans to
spend more has to be part of the rescue package.  Bigger Fund  -- Two, double the size of the 750 billion euro ($980
billion) bailout emergency fund. There’s enough in the kitty to
bail out Ireland and Portugal. But probably not Spain, and
certainly not Italy. The thing is this: The EU is engaged in a
battle with the markets over the future of the euro. If there
isn’t much ammo in the locker, the traders will be tempted to
keep hammering away. So get more ammo. The markets will keep
picking fights until you make it clear they can’t win.  -- Three, create Eurobonds. Only by pooling the debts of
the peripheral and core nations into single euro-area bonds can
enough money be raised on reasonable terms to salvage the single
currency. Of course the Germans and the French don’t want to end
up paying the bills for other countries. Voters don’t want to
see their taxes sent abroad either. But get real. Germany and
France are on the hook for Greek, Irish and Spanish debts
anyway. They may as well raise money together. It will be
cheaper -- and more honest as well.  Start Rewriting  -- Four, rewrite the  treaties  so that euro-area governments
cede ultimate control over budget and tax policies to Brussels.
True, everyone will complain about an unacceptable sacrifice of
independence. But how much economic sovereignty do Greece and
Ireland have left anyway? Just about none. The EU, the European
Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund are paying the
bills and calling the shots already. All the peripheral
countries are going to have to give up most of their autonomy to
stay in the euro, so it might as well happen sooner rather than
later. If that means negotiating a new treaty, so be it.  -- Five, prepare for austerity. According to calculations
by the London-based Centre for Economics and Business Research,
Greece, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy will need to cut
government spending by 10 percent, and consumer spending by 15
percent, to stay within the euro. That is slightly more than the
14 percent drop in consumption the British endured during World
War II. It is going to involve massive sacrifices, so it would
be better to lay out now what kind of pain is involved. People
will be angry, but they will be a lot angrier if you don’t level
with them.  Of course, when you lay out starkly the things that need to
be done to rescue the euro it becomes clear that it is hardly
worth it. Few people in Europe are likely to sign up to that
package of measures.  But it is far better to be honest about the scale of the
task ahead than to stumble from one half-hearted summit to the
next.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  