-- Food-Safety Bill Approved by U.S. House Gives Regulators Recall Authority
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-21T22:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/food-safety-measure-backed-by-u-s-house-clearing-way-for-obama-signature.html
The biggest U.S. food-safety
overhaul in more than 70 years won passage in the House of
Representatives, clearing the way for President  Barack Obama  to
sign the measure into law.  The Food and Drug Administration will gain more power to
police domestic and international food companies under the bill
that passed today in a 215-144 vote. The  Grocery Manufacturers
Association  and the  Consumers Union  are among groups that backed
the legislation.  The measure adds inspections and requires most food
producers to develop hazard prevention plans. It also gives the
FDA the authority to force recalls, rather than relying on
companies to voluntarily pull tainted foods from store shelves.
The bill was prompted in part by recalls of cookie dough,
spinach, jalapenos and salmonella-tainted peanuts that killed at
least nine people and sickened more than 700 in 2008 and 2009.  “For too long, the cornerstone of our food-safety system,
the FDA, has had only ancient tools and an outdated mandate at
its disposal,” Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a Connecticut
Democrat, said before the vote. “This bill will go a long way
toward stemming the potential of a full-blown foodborne epidemic
in the future.”  The legislation would cost about $1.4 billion over five
years, according to estimates from the  Congressional Budget
Office . A previous version cleared the Senate last month before
a technical error led lawmakers to consider a revised bill.  Illness Tally  Foodborne germs sicken almost 48 million people in the U.S.
each year, leading to 128,000 hospitalizations and 3,000 deaths,
the Atlanta-based  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said. Such illnesses cost the U.S. economy $152 billion a year
in health care and related expenses, according to a March  report 
by Georgetown University’s  Produce Safety Project  in Washington.  The bill’s passage is “a big victory for consumers that
finally brings food-safety laws into the 21st century,”  Jean Halloran , director of food policy initiatives at the Yonkers,
New York-based  Consumers Union , said today in an e-mail. “This
win is a powerful testament to the people across the country who
came to Washington to tell their lawmakers how contaminated food
had killed their loved ones or left them horribly sick.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  