-- Foreclosures in Most U.S. States Bypass Judges, Easing Way for Evictions
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/foreclosures-in-most-u-s-states-bypass-judges-easing-home-sale-process.html
Two years before dementia forced her
to move into a nursing care facility, Dorothy Halstien obtained
a $73,000 loan from  Washington Mutual Inc.  secured by her house
on Whidbey Island, north of Seattle.  In 2007, a year after she moved, the bank hired a trustee,
Quality Loan Service Corp. of Washington, to foreclose.
Halstien’s home was sold off for $83,000, even though her
guardian had arranged a  sale  for about $150,000 more. The party
that bought the house out of foreclosure later sold it for
$235,000, according to a suit filed in state court in Seattle.  More than two-thirds of foreclosures occur in the 27 states
where there’s no mandatory court supervision, according to
 Christopher Dodd , the chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.  Halstien’s case illustrates what some homeowner advocates
call a conflict of interest in states where trustees, hired by
mortgage lenders and servicers, rather than the courts shepherd
homes through the foreclosure process.  Trustees get paid by the loans they process and “the
quicker they do it, the more business they get,” said Fred
Corbit, an attorney at the  Northwest Justice Project  in Seattle
who represents the Halstien estate. “Quality’s whole business
model was pleasing these banks.”  The guardian sued, alleging that Quality wasn’t impartial
as called for by Washington law, which requires that trustees
act in good faith, and that it had filed a falsely notarized
notice of foreclosure.  Jury Award  A jury in January awarded the estate of Halstien, who died
in 2008, the difference between the foreclosure price and the
final sale price, finding Quality had violated the state
consumer-protection law. King County Superior Court Judge
Barbara Mack added about $78,000 in interest and attorney fees
in March.  Quality Loan , which didn’t return calls seeking comment,
has appealed.  About 70 percent of foreclosures nationwide are in the 27
so-called non-judicial states, where banks and other servicing
companies don’t need judges to sign off on foreclosures, Dodd,
the Connecticut Democrat, said at a hearing last month.  “A judicial state is one where the lender/beneficiary has
to file a lawsuit to foreclose,” said Bruce Neas, of Columbia
Legal Services, in Olympia, Washington. In some non-judicial
states, such as Colorado, a court order is needed to allow a
sale, according to the National Consumer Law Center’s  survey  of
foreclosure laws.  In some non-judicial states, including Washington, a bank
hires a trustee to handle the foreclosure and courts don’t
review documents.  ‘Much More Vulnerable’  “It puts the borrower in a much more vulnerable
position,” said  Christopher Peterson , a University of Utah law
professor who specializes in commercial and contract law. In the
23 judicial states, homeowners can bring complaints to the judge
overseeing the foreclosure. “The only recourse in non-judicial
states is to file a lawsuit,” Peterson said.  All 50 U.S. states are investigating whether banks and loan
servicers used false documents and signatures to justify
hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. Attorneys general in non-
judicial states, including Arizona, Texas and Washington, are
conducting independent probes of mortgage foreclosure practices
and examining the documents used to secure foreclosures.  “Washington’s foreclosure process frequently includes
inaccurate documents, conflicts of interest, faulty chains of
title and failures to provide the disclosures and conduct
mediations required by law,” state Attorney General  Rob McKenna 
said at a press conference on Oct. 13.  Letters Sent  McKenna sent out about 50 letters that day to trustees
operating in the state, asking them to suspend all foreclosures
where documents hadn’t been confirmed as legally signed, or
where the chain of homeownership wasn’t clear.  “Our consumer-protection division has already begun
investigations regarding several trustees,” he said.  Washington will have about 40,000 foreclosures this year,
up from 31,000 in 2009, according to  Statewide Poverty Action
Network  in Seattle. The state is ranked at 17th nationwide, said
Danielle Friedman of the network, an advocacy group for the
state’s poor.  “A handful of trustees do the vast majority of the
foreclosures” in Washington, said Jim Sugarman, assistant
attorney general. About 60 trustees operate in Washington, he
said. Most are affiliated with law firms, he said. Trustees
receive a set amount of money to handle a foreclosure based on
the difficulty of the transaction, he said.  ‘More Efficient’  The trustee system was set up as a “more efficient and
less costly alternative for both the borrowers and the
lenders,” said Lance Olsen, a Bellevue, Washington, attorney.
In a judicial foreclosure state, the borrower “could end up
with half of the default owed in attorneys’ fees in a few
months,” said Olsen, who represents Northwest Trustee Services
in Bellevue.  Opponents of the system “want the outside independent
review of a judge,” he said. “That’s a valid request, but it’s
an expensive one for a review that’s most often not required.”  Borrowers in non-judicial states can still sue to stop a
foreclosure, he said.  “The borrower still gets all of his rights, such as
notice,” he said. “There is plenty of opportunity to reinstate
and they can reinstate more cheaply.”  There’s no conflict of interest in lenders’ hiring the
trustees, he said.  “Even if we’re retained by a lender, we can’t turn a blind
eye to injustice, nor would we want to,” Olsen said.  $500 to $750  Fees are often about $500 to $750 a foreclosure, he said.  “If you’re not acting in accordance with the statute,
you’re going to be sued,” he said. “It doesn’t take long that
an entire profit margin could be eroded.”  Fees can add up, Corbit said in an interview. Quality Loan
received $1.9 million in fees to handle foreclosures for  WaMu  in
Oregon and Washington from Jan. 4, 2004, to April 30, 2008,
covering 805 foreclosures, he said, citing evidence produced
before trial. While the banks hire the trustees, “it’s actually
the borrower who pays,” he said. The fees get added to the cost
of the foreclosure.  Puget Sound Guardians, based in Redmond, Washington, and
appointed to handle Halstien’s affairs while she was in the
nursing home, sued Quality Loan Service after the foreclosure
sale. When Halstien died in November 2008 at age 76, the case
was pursued by her estate’s administrator.  ‘Never in Jeopardy’  “WaMu was never in jeopardy of not being paid in full
because Ms. Halstien had no other home loans and WaMu’s
appraiser concluded on Jan. 18, 2008, that the house was worth
$320,000,” the estate said in the trial brief. The final sale
price was about one-third the tax-assessed value, according to
the suit.  The estate said Quality rushed the foreclosure and wouldn’t
stop the sale even after the guardian had arranged for a buyer.
Quality said that only WaMu had the authority to postpone the
foreclosure sale, “misrepresenting both the trustee’s duty and
the trustee’s authority,” the estate claimed.  The estate said the guardian’s representatives called and
faxed requests to WaMu asking that the foreclosure be delayed a
few weeks. The bank didn’t respond, the estate said. Washington
Mutual filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 and was dropped
from the suit. Ronald Adams, a Portland, Oregon, attorney who
represented WaMu, didn’t return a call for comment.  Estate Claims  The Halstien estate also claimed that “Quality predated
and falsely notarized the notice of foreclosure,” according to
the Jan. 4 filing. This helped the foreclosure sale to occur
before the planned March 18, 2008, closing date on the
transaction arranged by the guardian.  “During trial, Quality acknowledged that it predated
notarizations,” the company said in its appeal. Quality said it
stopped this practice in 2007.  Quality Loan said it didn’t violate the state’s consumer
laws and it wasn’t authorized to stop the foreclosure unless the
bank agreed.  The guardian could have stopped the sale by providing the
purchase agreement at the time of foreclosure auction, the
trustee said. The guardian also failed to inform Quality that
the bank wasn’t responding to its e-mails and calls, the trustee
said.  Quality was given details of the guardian’s higher purchase
offer and was asked to halt the foreclosure sale, Corbit said.  “The guardian was twice told that it would do nothing and
that the guardian should talk to WaMu,” he said, citing trial
evidence.  ‘Never Had Trouble’  If Puget Sound had informed Quality of communication
problems with the bank, “Quality would have contacted the bank
itself,” the company said in court papers. “Quality has never
had trouble getting this bank to postpone a sale.”  Quality attorney Kenneth Masters in Bainbridge Island,
Washington, didn’t return calls for comment.  Melissa Huelsman, a homeowners’ attorney in Seattle, said
the system in Washington creates an “inherent conflict of
interest” because the banks hire the trustees.  “The trustees won’t get the business if they don’t do what
the creditor wants,” she said in an interview. “If you have a
foreclosing entity being unreasonable, you need the trustee to
step in.”  Bias shouldn’t occur, said Sugarman, Washington’s assistant
attorney general. “But any trustee wants to please the
lender.”  The case is Klem v. Washington Mutual Bank, 08-2-13989-1,
Superior Court, King County, Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 