-- Foster's Says Pollaers Would Head Its Beer Business After Planned Split
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-22T05:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/fosters-group-names-pollaers-as-nominee-to-lead-beer-unit-after-demerger.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest brewer, named  John Pollaers  as the new chief executive
officer of the company’s beer unit should its board proceed with
plans to spin off the world’s second-largest wine business.  David Dearie  would head the separated global wine business,
Melbourne-based Foster’s said today in a statement. Any split of
the beer and wine units, which requires shareholder approval,
would be completed by the middle of next year, it said.  Current CEO  Ian Johnston , set to leave after the split, has
said the separate companies may be valued more “appropriately”
after A$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion) of writedowns at the wine
business. Pollaers, formerly with Diageo Plc, has run Foster’s
Australian brewing division since April. Dearie became head of
Foster’s Treasury Wine Estates in Australia and New Zealand in
July 2009 after heading Brown-Forman Corp.’s wine unit.  “They have the right background to take on those roles,”
said  Theo Maas , who helps manage $5 billion at Arnhem Investment
Management in Sydney, including Foster’s shares. “It takes
Foster’s closer to a demerger.”  Foster’s  was unchanged at A$5.62 as of the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading. The stock has gained 2.2 percent this year,
compared with a 1.9 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index.  Fat Yak  Johnston first announced plans in May for a split of the
company, which has a current market value of A$10.9 billion.  Pollaers has worked to stabilize Foster’s share of
Australian beer sales at about 50 percent, accelerating the
roll-out of new brews such as Fat Yak to offset declining sales
of its Victoria Bitter, the nation’s top-selling brew.  The company is battling increased competition from smaller
rivals such as second-ranked Lion Nathan, a unit of Tokyo-based
 Kirin Holdings Co. , and a shift in consumer tastes to sweeter,
pre-mixed drinks.  Foster’s share of the Australian beer market dropped 1
percentage point in the 12 months ended June. About half of that
was because of the decline in traditional beers, such as
Victoria Bitter, which account for 41 percent of beer sold in
the nation, compared with 56 percent five years ago.  Dearie is cutting A$100 million of annual costs from
Treasury by the end of June by reducing expenses for packaging,
warehousing and bottling. He is also targeting shorter
production runs for brands such as  Wolf Blass  to enable Foster’s
to cut inventory holding costs.  In September, the company rejected a bid for its wine unit
worth as much as A$2.7 billion, saying it “significantly
undervalues” a business that generates in excess of A$2 billion
from annual sales of more than 35 million cases of wine.  The offer came from a buyout firm that Foster’s didn’t
identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  