-- Scottish Investors Say No to Spanish Bonds Even at 5.5% Yield: Euro Credit
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-12-21T11:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/france-s-aaa-grade-at-risk-as-rating-downgrades-sweep-europe-euro-credit.html
Spanish bond yields, approaching
their highest level in eight years, still don’t offer enough
reward to tempt fund managers 1,000 miles north in Scotland.  The yield on  10-year Spanish debt  rose 1.52 percentage
points to 5.52 percent in the past two months as investors
speculated Spain might follow Greece and Ireland in needing a
rescue package to avoid default. That’s about half the level
available for lending to Greece for the same period.  “You should ask if any of us would buy Spanish government
bonds yielding five-and-a-half percent,”  Bill Dinning , head of
strategy at Aegon Asset Management, said during a discussion
among three investors overseeing 360 billion pounds ($557
billion) at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh office. “Probably not.”  “It’s too risky,” said  Andrew Milligan , who holds the
same post at Standard Life Investments.  Spanish debt prices slumped last week after borrowing costs
rose at the government’s final bond sale of the year. The 10-
year yield climbed more in November than in any month since at
least 1993, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Treasury in Madrid today sold 3.88 billion euros ($5.1
billion) of three- and six-month bills, with average yields for
the latter jumping as much as 49 basis points from a month ago.  Moody’s said on Dec. 15 it might cut the nation’s Aa1
credit rating, citing “substantial funding requirements, not
only for the sovereign but also for the regional governments and
the banks.” The cost of insuring Spanish government debt
climbed to a three-week high yesterday, with five-year contracts
protecting $10 million of debt up $12,000 to $344,000 a year.  Previous Rescues  The European Union and International Monetary Fund put
together a 110 billion-euro package of loans in May for Greece,
crippled by government spending it struggled to finance. Ireland
secured 85 billion euros last month as bank debt threatened to
bring down the economy. Greek 10-year bonds yield 11.9 percent,
while those in Ireland are at 8.5 percent.  “There is a lot of doubt still about the sustainability of
finances among some of the peripheral governments,” said  Mike Turner , head of strategy at Aberdeen Asset Management in
Edinburgh. “Unless we get some more overt support now, then we
think markets are going to come back again.”  EU leaders approved on Dec. 17 a permanent crisis-
management facility from 2013. Leaders have taken “decisive
action” to keep financial stability and foster economic
recoveries, they said after a two-day summit in Brussels.  “The amount of action needed from the policymakers is
growing each crisis,” said Milligan. “The amount to cap Greece,
the amount to cap Ireland, the amount to cap Spain is going to
be very different.”  Funding Woes  Spanish 10-year bonds  yield about 253 basis points more
than German bunds, up from a low for the year of 137 in July.
“Spreads remain high by historical standards, emphasizing the
need for Spain to strengthen financial-market confidence in the
sustainability of government finances,” the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday. “If the
high sovereign spreads persist, funding conditions in the
private sector could be affected.”  The country needs to borrow 290 billion euros next year,
including the funding needs of its central government, regional
administrations and banks, which leaves it “susceptible to
further episodes of funding stress,” according to Moody’s.  “It seems natural to assume that Spain is a much bigger
issue in terms of the size of the country and the impact on the
euro as a whole,” Turner said. “To allow spreads to get to the
level of Ireland and Greece, something would have to be
seriously, seriously awry.”  Australian Alternative  For now, Spanish bonds have further to fall and spreads
further to widen, according to the strategists. What’s more,
there’s better value outside Europe, they said.  Spain had a budget deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic
product last year and the government is targeting 9.3 percent
this year and 6 percent for 2011. Australia, whose currency rose
to a record against the U.S. dollar on Nov. 5, is targeting a
spending gap of 2.4 percent for 2011 and its 10-year bonds yield
5.52 percent.  “Why would you buy Spain at 5.5 percent when you can get a
bigger yield in Australia?” Dinning said. “Do I expect the
spread on Spanish debt to get to the sort of level we saw in
Greece? No. There is a price at which Spanish bonds are a buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  