-- FreshDirect Said Planning to Raise as Much as $200 Million
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-12-21T20:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/freshdirect-said-to-be-seeking-200-million-for-d-c-baltimore-expansion.html
FreshDirect Inc., the New York-based
online grocer, plans to raise as much as $200 million to expand
in Washington and Baltimore, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation.  FreshDirect is working with Deutsche Bank AG on raising
funds, said one of the people, who declined to be identified as
the plans are private.  Scott Helfman , Deutsche Bank’s spokesman,
declined to comment. A FreshDirect representative said the
company isn’t working with Deutsche Bank.  The grocer, led by Chief Executive Officer  Rick Braddock ,
currently operates in the five boroughs of New York and parts of
New Jersey and Connecticut. In July, Braddock told Bloomberg
News the grocer might pursue an initial public offering to help
fund its expansion.  “FreshDirect has been experiencing over 20 percent sales
growth and will expand beyond the Tri-state” area, according to
an e-mailed statement from the company. “Baltimore and D.C. are
among the target expansion markets. We do not comment on any
fundraising details.”  The company, founded more than a decade ago by  Joe Fedele 
and  Jason Ackerman , raised $31 million in 2003 in a private
placement led by American International Group Inc.-sponsored
investment funds with $15 million. The remaining $16 million was
funded by individual investors including CIBC Capital Partners,
Canyon Partners and Mercantile Capital Partners LLC.  FreshDirect vies for customers with other Internet food
retailers such as Peapod, acquired by Royal Ahold NV in 2001.
U.S. grocery chains such as Kroger Co. and Safeway Inc. have
faced increasing competition from discount retailers such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and Target Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  