-- Oil Industry Challenge to EPA Biofuel Rules Rejected by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-21T20:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/fuel-industry-challenge-to-epa-rejected-by-court-update1-.html
A federal appeals court rejected an
oil industry challenge to a new Environmental Protection Agency
rule requiring more biofuels in gasoline and diesel, saying the
agency properly carried out its mandate on energy independence.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington today turned down
claims that regulations on fuel sold in the U.S. were
retroactive and that the EPA missed a crucial deadline in
setting up the regulation. The appeal was made by the National
Petrochemical & Refiners Association and the American Petroleum
Institute.  The decision will increase demand for biodiesel beginning
next year, said Gary Haer, vice president of sales and marketing
at the Renewable Energy Group, a biodiesel manufacturer based in
Ames, Iowa.  “This lawsuit was the final piece of uncertainty creating
market disruption for the biodiesel industry,” Haer said in a
statement.  Ethanol futures on the Chicago Board of Trade were little
changed, gaining 0.1 cent to $2.245 a gallon at 1:34 p.m. The
ethanol contract has climbed 40 percent in the past six months.  Biodiesel, which is made from vegetable oils or waste
grease, costs about $3.28 a gallon in the Midwest, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Critical Pillar’  “This is an important legal development that upholds a
critical pillar of a national energy policy that is intended to
wean the United States off of foreign sources of fossil fuels,”
Tom Buis, chief executive officer of Growth Energy, an ethanol
industry trade group, said in a statement. Growth Energy
intervened in the case backing the EPA.  In its 40-page ruling, the three-judge panel said the EPA
correctly did what it’s required to do by the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007, which calls for an
expansion of the renewable-fuel program. The rules must be
complied with by Feb. 28, 2011.  “This is a disappointing decision,” Patrick Kelly, a
senior policy adviser at the American Petroleum Institute, said
in a statement. “The decision significantly complicates
compliance and may set a dangerous precedent allowing
retroactive requirements for past compliance periods.”  Gregory Scott, general counsel of the petrochemical
association, said he was still reviewing the opinion and
couldn’t immediately comment.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  The case is National Petrochemical & Refiners Association
v. Environmental Protection Agency, 10-1070, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 