-- Palestinian Rocket Strikes Near Kindergarten; Israel Hits at Gaza Targets
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-21T22:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/gaza-rocket-strikes-near-israeli-kindergarten-as-violence-grows.html
Israel’s air force struck at least
eight different targets in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip,
wounding six people, and Palestinians fired a rocket into Israel
that hit near a kindergarten, injuring two.  The situation is “fragile and explosive,” Lieutenant
General  Gabi Ashkenazi , the Israeli military’s chief of staff,
told a parliamentary committee yesterday, according to the army
 website . Israel has stepped up operations in Gaza in response to
“terrorists’ decision to intensify their activity,” Ashkenazi
said.  About 15 mortar shells and rockets have hit Israel since
Monday, the army said. The upturn in violence came as Israeli-
Palestinian peace negotiations remained stalled and
reconciliation talks between the Islamic Hamas movement that
controls the Gaza Strip and the Palestinian Authority that runs
the West Bank are frozen.  Hamas “is saying we are still here,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at Bar Ilan University outside
Tel Aviv, adding that he expected “low-level escalation over the
next few weeks” and nothing more than that.  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union, refuses to recognize or negotiate
with Israel. The Islamic movement seized control of Gaza in 2007
after winning parliamentary elections a year earlier, ending a
partnership government with Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah party.  Mortar Attacks  Since the beginning of 2010, more than 200 rockets and
mortar shells have been fired into Israeli territory from the
Gaza Strip.  The attack in southern Israel came after warplanes struck
seven targets in Gaza early yesterday, the army said in a text
message to journalists. Israel launched another strike in the
afternoon, hitting what it said was a “Hamas terror activity
center.”  In Gaza, Adham Abu Silmeya, spokesman for the Hamas-run
Health Ministry’s emergency service, said two Palestinian
militants and four civilians were wounded in Israeli air
strikes.  Ronit Gil, a preschool teacher in Kibbutz Zikim, the
collective community where the rocket fell, said she was getting
out of her car and walking to the kindergarten when the air
siren went off.  “I heard the boom,” Gil said on  Army Radio . “Things are
very tense here.”  A teenager and an adult were injured in the attack, the
army said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 