-- German Bonds Fall After Vice Premier Says China Helped EU With Debt Crisis
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-21T16:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/german-bonds-decline-as-china-s-pledge-reduces-euro-region-crisis-concern.html
Portuguese and Irish bonds fell and
German government debt trimmed earlier declines after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut Portugal’s credit rating.  The retreat drove the yield difference between Portuguese
10-year bonds and similar-maturity German bunds wider for a 10th
straight day. Moody’s Investors Service put Portugal’s A1 long-
term government bond rating on watch today, saying the ranking
may be cut a notch or two because of the economy’s “sluggish”
growth. The same company reduced Ireland’s credit ranking five
levels on Dec. 17.  “There’re still a lot of concerns about credit quality in
the region, given what has happened lately,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European fixed-income strategy at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “That’s weighing on peripheral bonds,
although bond moves may have been exaggerated somewhat by thin
year-end volumes.”  The Portuguese 10-year bond yield rose five basis points to
6.75 percent at 4:05 p.m. in London, pushing its spread over the
benchmark German bund seven basis points wider to 357 basis
points, according to Bloomberg generic data. The 10-year Irish
bond yield climbed 25 basis points to 9.1 percent.  The yield on the bund, the region’s benchmark government
security, gained one basis point to 2.98 percent. It rose
earlier to as much as 3.01 percent after Chinese Vice Premier
 Wang Qishan  said his nation had taken “concrete action” to
help the European Union with its debt crisis.  German Returns  German bonds have returned 6 percent this year, compared
with a 6.7 percent gain for U.K. gilts and 5.7 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish debt
lost 12.5 percent, while Portuguese securities dropped 7.4
percent, the indexes show.  Europe’s financial aid funds will sell bonds to raise as
much as 34.1 billion euros ($45 billion) for Ireland in 2011 and
14.9 billion euros in 2012, the European Commission said today.  The two funds -- the European Financial Stabilization
Mechanism and European Financial Stability Facility -- will sell
a total of seven to eight benchmark bonds each worth 3 billion
euros to 5 billion euros in 2011, the commission said in a
statement in Brussels.  Bonds will be sold mainly at maturities of five, seven and
10 years.  Downgrade Threat  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in October that China supports a
stable euro and won’t cut its holdings of European bonds. The
Portuguese government said last week that China made a “clear
statement” of financial support during Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos ’s visit to Beijing this month.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600  Index  climbed 1 percent
while the MSCI World  Index  of stocks rose 0.5 percent.  Moody’s will “evaluate” Portugal if it requests a
bailout,  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at the company, said
by phone today. The service also said it wouldn’t be negative if
the nation resorts to tapping the European Financial Stability
Facility.  Portugal said yesterday that its budget deficit narrowed in
the 11 months through November, the first annual reduction in
the shortfall this year.  French bonds were little changed. The yield on the 2.50
percent security maturing in October 2020 held at 3.33 basis
points. Two-year note yields rose less than one basis point to
1.12 percent.  France’s Funding Needs  The country plans to sell less debt next year than
originally anticipated as buybacks and improved cash management
reduce its financing needs, the nation’s debt management office
said today.  The French government plans to sell 184 billion euros in
debt in 2011, Agence France Tresor Chief Executive  Philippe Mills  said. The government’s previous plan was to sell 186
billion euros of debt in 2011. It issued 188 billion euros of
bonds in 2010.  French debt lagged behind its euro-region AAA counterparts,
handing investors a 5.2 percent return this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Austrian bonds beat their peers,
with a 6.6 percent gain.  Spanish Sale  Spanish bonds declined, pushing the 10-year yield up two
basis points to 5.55 percent. The government sold six-month
bills at a yield of 2.597 percent, up from 2.111 percent at a
similar sale on Nov. 23.  Holders of Spanish securities lost 5.1 percent this year as
speculation grew that Spain may follow Greece and Ireland in
seeking aid as the sovereign debt crisis deepens. Even as
Spanish yields approach multi-year highs, they still don’t offer
enough reward to tempt some fund managers.  “You should ask if any of us would buy Spanish government
bonds yielding five-and-a-half percent,”  Bill Dinning , head of
strategy at Aegon Asset Management, said during a discussion
among three investors overseeing 360 billion pounds ($557
billion) at Bloomberg’s Edinburgh office. “Probably not.”  Moody’s said on Dec. 15 it might cut Spain’s Aa1 credit
rating, citing “substantial funding requirements, not only for
the sovereign but also for the regional governments and the
banks.” The cost of insuring Spanish government debt climbed to
a three-week high yesterday, with five-year contracts protecting
$10 million of debt up $12,000 to $344,000 a year.  “It’s too risky,” said  Andrew Milligan , head of strategy
at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  