-- GM CEO Akerson Said to Aim for Tripling Electric-Car Sales Goal
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-12-22T17:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/gm-chief-akerson-said-to-aim-to-triple-automaker-s-electric-car-sales-goal.html
General Motors Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Akerson  is looking to at least triple the company’s
target for electric-car  sales  by expanding the market for the
Chevrolet Volt and adding models that would share similar
technology, said three people familiar with his plan.  Akerson, who took over on Sept. 1, told his executive team
in early December to find ways to sell three to four times as
many electric cars as planned for 2012 by mid-decade, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. GM has said it expects to sell 10,000 Volts in 2011 and
45,000 the following year, when capacity may reach 60,000.  Increasing Volt sales and developing other models with
electric drive will spread out the cost of developing the
technology across more vehicles. It also carries risk because
hybrid and electric cars have tended to sell in low volume and
be unprofitable, said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics
Inc., a consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan.  “That makes sense in the long term, but they have to get
costs down,” Hall said. “Once the government sales incentives
are gone, GM has to mature the cost of the technology to get
prices down and make sure they’re not losing money.”  Akerson’s plan for more cars with electric drive
underscores his strategy to differentiate GM and make it a
technology leader, following an initial public offering that
raised more than $20 billion in November, 16 months after the
carmaker emerged from bankruptcy. Akerson, 62, has told top
executives that he wants Detroit-based GM to seek new markets
and prepare for higher fuel prices, according to the people.  Europe, China  The Volt went on sale this month in the U.S. at a price of
$41,000. The car, which can travel as much as  50 miles  (80
kilometers) using batteries, will be sold in China during the
second half of 2011. GM last month began taking reservations for
the electric-drive Opel Ampera, which will sell in Europe next
year. The models include a gasoline engine that extends the
driving range to more than 370 miles.  Dave Darovitz , a GM spokesman, said GM will look at other
models for the Volt system. He declined to comment on Akerson’s
volume goals for the technology.  Sales to companies and governments that want EVs for their
fleets would help support increased production for GM and other
carmakers could, Hall said. Last month,  General Electric Co. 
said it would buy 25,000 electric cars by 2015, of which 12,000
will be Chevrolet Volts.  The federal government is offering consumers a $7,500 tax
credit to buy the Volt, plug-in hybrids and electric cars. The
credit begins to phase out after a manufacturer produces 200,000
eligible plug-in electric vehicles, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s  website .  GM Stock  Akerson, a former managing director of private-equity firm
Carlyle Group, succeeded  Ed Whitacre  as CEO in September and
assumes the role of chairman at the end of the year. Akerson
told his executive team to come back to him with a way to meet
the higher sales numbers for the Volt and other electric-drive
models, or with reasons why it can’t be done, one of the people
familiar with the plan said.  GM  rose 44 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $34.29 at 12:29 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange trading. The shares have gained 2.6
percent since the IPO before today.  GM is considering adding electric-gasoline Volt technology
to several models under multiple brands, most of them larger
than the Volt, including SUVs, according to the three people
familiar with the plan. In April at the Beijing Motor Show,
Chevrolet showed a five-passenger SUV that could drive in all-
electric mode for 32 miles using the Volt’s powertrain system.
That kind of vehicle is one possibility, the people said.  Larger Cars  Making larger models using the same system is difficult and
may be more expensive because adding features and passenger
space will make the car heavier and less aerodynamic, according
to two of the people. GM stopped work on a plan hatched by now-
retired Vice Chairman  Bob Lutz  to make a two-door Cadillac
sports car called the Converj that used the Volt’s drive system,
two executives with knowledge of the decision said in March.  The Volt runs using only electric drive for the first 25
miles to 50 miles. After that, a four-cylinder gasoline engine
turns on and recharges the lithium-ion battery.  The EPA rated the Volt’s fuel economy at the equivalent of
93 miles per gallon in electric-only mode and 37 mpg if the car
runs on gas after the battery is drained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 