-- African Gold Rush Kills Children as Miners Discover Lead Dust
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/gold-rush-in-nigeria-kills-children-as-miners-belatedly-discover-lead-dust.html
Gold brought death to Umoru
Musa’s nine-family compound in Sunke, a mud-brick village in
northern Nigeria.  Five of the 25 children, including Musa’s 1-year-old
daughter Nafisa, lost their lives in May after villagers ground
ore from nearby hills they didn’t know were also loaded with
lead. Rising prices for gold promised a windfall. Instead, they
helped unleash the deadliest lead-poisoning crisis in modern
medical history.  As the adults pulverized rocks with their grain grinder,
they spewed lead dust across the ground where their children
played and poultry grazed. They spread more of the material,
lethal to children in high doses, around the communal well where
they washed the ore to sift out the gold.  “This gold cost us a lot,” Musa, 40, said in the open-air
courtyard of his home last month as a clean-up team in white
respirator masks cleared away lead-laden dirt. “There is
nothing God can give that is better than a human being.”  At least 284 children under the age of five have died from
lead poisoning in eight villages in Nigeria’s Zamfara state as a
result of small-scale gold mining, according to government
officials. An additional 742 are being treated for high levels
of lead in their blood, a number which may rise to 3,000 by the
end of next year, according to  Medecins Sans Frontieres , also
known as Doctors Without Borders.  Brain Damage  Health effects from lead poisoning, including brain damage
and miscarriages, will plague the area for years, said Joseph
 Graziano , professor of environmental health sciences at Columbia
University’s Mailman School of Public Health in New York.  The deaths are an unintended consequence of a 21st century
gold rush. Villagers turned en masse to mining over the past two
years, spurred on by more frequent visits from gold-buying
middlemen. During that time, investors drove bullion prices up
58 percent in London as they sought a haven from the aftermath
of the financial crisis. Gold reached a record $1,431.25 an
ounce in London on Dec. 7.  In Nigeria, soil from 29 villages has shown unsafe lead
levels for children, according to preliminary tests by the U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The crisis is
“unprecedented” for the number of deaths and the amount of
lead found in the children, according to Atlanta-based CDC,
which has helped set up testing and treatment in the area. Some
cases were measured at about 15 times the level that calls for
immediate treatment, said Medecins Sans Frontieres, an
international humanitarian organization often referred to as
MSF.  ‘Morbid Novelty’  “I’m stunned to learn of an epidemic of this severity and
magnitude at a time when lead poisoning in the developed world
is truly  diminishing ,” said Graziano, who with two colleagues
 discovered  the lead-treatment drug now being used in Nigeria.
“This has a morbid novelty of poor people trying to find a
source of income only to encounter this massive exposure.”  In June, Nigeria’s federal government  banned  all mining in
Zamfara state, which is in the country’s northern Muslim area.
Yet lead levels found in a few compounds in October show that
some families were grinding the ore in their homes again,
according to aid workers and local officials.  Blacksmith Institute, a New York-based charity working on
the cleanup effort, has a total budget for the project of about
$950,000, most from the United Nations Children’s Fund, known as
 Unicef , said John Keith, Blacksmith’s head of operations in
Nigeria.  Costly Cleanup  Blacksmith is seeking an additional $2 million to extend 
the efforts to more contaminated villages and provide long-term
training to help Nigerian agencies deal with the problems.  “It would be a lovely and appropriate response to find
that people who have profited very much so from this run-up
looked to give back a little,” said  Richard Fuller ,
 Blacksmith ’s president. Nigeria’s small-scale miners “are just
trying to pull themselves from the very bottom of the poverty
rung and artisanal mining is one of the best ways of increasing
local economic development, all over the world,” he said.  In Sunke, the mud-brick village where the 1-year-old girl
died, her father, Musa, says he got the idea of grinding ore for
gold from the nearby village of Dareta. Residents there made
enough income to roof 36 structures with corrugated metal,
replacing the traditional thatch or earth and keeping the rainy
season from eroding layers of their mud-brick walls each year.  $100 a Day  Soon Musa was in business, buying 50-kilogram (110-pound)
bags of ore to process in the compound. The family could earn
the equivalent of $100 on a good day by grinding and processing
five bags.  Musa would make the three-hour trip by motorcycle to
Zamfara’s capital,  Gusau , to sell the gold mix to dealers. The
compound earned enough to buy a metal roof of its own, a
motorbike and breeding cows.  A few months later, Musa said he realized that the chicks
and ducklings that pecked about the grounds were disappearing.
Then nine-month-old Nazifi became gravely ill, convulsing
violently. He died a few days later. Four other children rapidly
showed similar  symptoms , and were dead within about a week, he
said.  With the cause of the deaths a mystery, he said he kept
processing gold though he was overcome by grief at times.  “It was very silent, very emotional,” Musa said in his
native Hausa. “When I was grinding the rock, sometimes my heart
would begin to ache so much that my head would start to pound
and I would have to stop.”  Shutting Down  Once doctors linked the deaths to the gold operation, Musa
said he shut it down. The cleanup team found the ground around
the compound’s well contained more than 100 times the lead limit
in the U.S. for public areas such as playgrounds.  “We only grind grain now,” Musa said, pointing to the
blue grinder hooked up to a generator just outside his compound
door.  Small-scale gold mining creates work for 10 million people
 worldwide , according to  Kevin Telmer , an associate professor at
the University of Victoria in Canada and executive director of
the Artisanal Gold Council.  For most of them, “this is the best opportunity they have
of escaping poverty,” he said.  Small-scale miners  start  by beating rocks into gravel with
a mortar and pestle or an iron bar, then grinding it. The
resulting sand is washed over a ridged board to remove the
lighter particles. Villagers who do the processing themselves,
such as Musa in Sunke, then use mercury to extract the gold.  ‘Desperate Situations’  The health risks come more often from the mercury, which
can damage the central nervous system, according to the findings
of the United Nation’s  Global Mercury Project .  Telmer described the Zamfara crisis as a “perfect storm”:
poor miners working with toxic ore in the home, and using a dry
grinding process that spreads the toxic dust.  When prices rise, no matter the commodity, people start
pushing into places that otherwise wouldn’t be economical, said
Ian von Lindern, the chief executive officer of  TerraGraphics
Environmental Engineering Inc. , a Moscow, Idaho-based consulting
company that is providing the technical direction for the
cleanup.  “A lot of those are desperate situations,” he said.  The state government in Zamfara has called for the mining
ban to be lifted. It’s impossible to stop people from mining who
have gotten used to a new way of life, according to Alhaji Sadiq
Abubakar, special assistant to Zamfara’s governor. It’s better
to educate them on how to mine safely, he said.  Helping Miners  If the ban is lifted, the state plans to set up processing
areas near mines and provide water to the miners in the area,
said Zubairu Mohammed, the district head of Anka, the local
government area that encompasses Sunke. Officials would also
supply registered miners with tools, training and micro loans,
he said.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country, is best known for
its oil resources in the Niger Delta. The country exported tin,
coal and  gold  in the 1930s and 1940s, when it was under British
rule. It gradually turned away from mining, and in the late
1950s began to focus on oil, which  accounted  for 85 percent of
exports in 2009.  In 2007, the western African nation passed a new mining  law 
and encouraged foreign companies to invest there. Zamfara State
invited teams of surveyors from China, the U.S., Australia and
elsewhere in May and August 2009 to assess levels of gold,
copper and other minerals, said Abubaker Maru, the state
environment commissioner.  Mining in Earnest  In Dareta, villagers began gold mining in earnest after the
arrival of a group of Chinese miners, according to village chief
Mohammed Bello. They dug neat square holes in a dry riverbed two
kilometers (1.2 miles) out of town. Neither Bello nor other
local officials were able to say who employed the Chinese
workers.  Mining picked up after the discovery last year of a rich
vein of gold a few kilometers from Sunke in an area contaminated
with lead, Maru said.  Many families established ore grinding operations in or
near their homes for the first time. The lead spread far from
its original sources as couriers on motorcycles took the rocks
to villages across the region for processing.  Besides metal roofs, the gold profits afforded people
motorcycles and other luxuries. In rural Zamfara, 85 percent of
the population lives on less than $1 a day, a higher proportion
than for the country as a whole, according to the most recent
survey funded by the World Bank. Nationally, 37 percent of
Nigerians living in rural areas have access to safe water,
according to Nigeria’s National Bureau of Statistics’  Social
Statistics Report, 2009 .  ‘A Good Thing’  Kabiru Sani, 25, a former cow-herder with no income, shifted
to gold about two years ago when he saw people wearing new
clothes paid for by mining proceeds.  “My instinct was that it was a good thing to try,” says
Sani, who wore green khakis and a t-shirt with SKELETON written
across the back. He dug ore from mines around Sunke and ferried
bags of it to a nearby processing area on his Honda motorcycle
that’s adorned with a pink seat cover and a decal of crossed AK-
47s on the headlight.  He says he was able to earn as much as 50,000 naira a week,
or $323, at the height of the gold rush this year.  The motorcycles villagers bought helped get the gold to
traders in Gusau. From there, gold was further refined and
driven to Benin, on Nigeria’s western border, to be turned over
to dealers working with wholesale buyers from Europe and Dubai,
according to interviews with several traders.  “We have very big wholesalers coming here to buy gold and
they always want more,” Jibril, a dealer in Cotonou, the main
port city of Benin, said by phone. He declined to provide his
last name because he said he operates in the black market.  Kulu’s Son  Kulu Rabiu watched as other women earned cash from crushing
ore in her village of Tungar Daji before asking for her own bags
in February. Pounding rocks into gravel with a mortar and pestle
netted her 500 naira, or about $3.23, for three days work --more
money than she had ever had, she said.  Now her 2-year-old son Imrana shows signs of permanent
brain damage: crying, biting his mother and hitting her,
according to Medecins Sans Frontieres doctors treating him at a
hospital in Anka.  He became sick in May, crying inconsolably at night. By
July, when the symptoms worsened, the rainy season had filled
local riverbeds cutting off the roads to the hospital.  Observing Symptoms  “He was a boy who moved so much, so active, now he just
lies here,” Rabiu, 30, said, her hand on Imrana’s head as he
slept next to her on a hospital mattress. “What will he do even
if he lives? He can’t walk or think right.” Rabiu recently was
released and is being treated at home, according to MSF.  Doctors from Medecins Sans Frontieres on a tour to
encourage meningitis vaccines in the region were dismayed when
they started seeing the heavy metal-poisoning symptoms in March.
Nigeria has a high child mortality rate from illnesses such as
malaria, meningitis and measles. About 186 children in 1,000  die 
in Nigeria before the age of five, compared with 8 in the  U.S. ,
according to Unicef figures from 2008.  Dr. Anyaji Prince Chinedu said five families brought in
small children who were convulsing and vomiting on his first day
at the Yargalma town dispensary. He and the lone nurse could
treat only one at a time. Some lost consciousness while waiting
to be examined and one child died, he said.  Chinedu, just two years out of medical school, returned to
the MSF base in Gusau that night feeling helpless and broke down
crying to his coordinator, he said.  ‘Scenario is Horrible’  “Please don’t send me there again,” he recalls saying.
“The scenario is horrible. They were all little, little kids.”  He did go back and he’s now treating children in the lead
work of a hospital in Anka.  Nearly half the children who visited clinics with symptoms
of lead poisoning died in the first months until the lead-
treatment drug succimer was approved by the Nigerian government
and reached Zamfara in June, according to Antonio Neri, medical
epidemiologist at the CDC.  Danish drugmaker  H. Lundbeck A/S  is providing succimer to
MSF free through its U.S. unit. A 19-day course for a young
child normally costs $308, the company said. Some children in
Nigeria are on their sixth course of the drug.  Succimer, which binds to the lead and then is expelled from
the body with urine, has lowered lead levels in the children who
have taken it, said Ellen van der Velden, who served as MSF’s
emergency coordinator for Nigeria from July through November.
However, the level shoots higher when they stop taking the drug,
indicating they either have large amounts of the metal stored in
their bones or are being re-contaminated, she said.  “We have no idea how long it will take for these children
to be cured,” she said.  Cleanup Progress  To eradicate the lead, cleanup teams scrape off about 5
centimeters of topsoil, bag it, and deposit it in landfills with
a high proportion of clay. The scraped areas in the village are
topped by new soil. The landfill is marked off so villagers
won’t dig or plant crops there.  By the end of January, seven villages will have been
completed, said Blacksmith’s Keith. The charity also has enough
money to cover about a quarter of the cleanup required in Bagega
village.  The mining ban has reduced the amount of gold coming from
the region to traders in Gusau by about 80 percent, according to
Abdul Wahid Halidi, a dealer who has been in the business for a
quarter century.  At a lake by Bagega, as many as 200 people used to gather
to wash their ground ore and separate gold.  Lead-Filled Bricks  It was mostly quiet on a Sunday in November. Four boys ran
leftover ore across a washboard looking for specks of gold
missed in prior washings. A dozen blue Viking-brand grinders sat
unused on the land above the lake. One was being cleaned by
Mohammed Sani, who said he planned to take it to Niger to
process gold there. Ore deliveries had slumped to almost nothing
from a peak of as much as 30 bags day, he said.  That doesn’t mean the crisis is over. In Bagega, hundreds
of mud bricks made from the lead-tainted, red-brown sand left
over from processing ore lay drying in the area between the
grinders and the lake. Built into houses, they will poison
residents for years, as pieces flake off to be inhaled or eaten
by children, Keith said.  “Welcome to lead poisoning in action,” he said.  ‘Hopeless Case’  In Dareta, the first village to be decontaminated, soil
samples in three family compounds revealed high lead levels
again in October, indicating they’d gone back to grinding ore
there, Keith said.  With the price of gold being what it is, it seems
inevitable that some mining will continue, said Columbia
University’s Graziano.  “If they can’t stop the exposure, it’s a hopeless case,”
he said.  Even if all lead could be removed, health problems will
plague the communities for years to come, he said.  As girls now aged 6 to 15 marry and become pregnant, their
bodies will release lead stored like calcium in their bones,
causing miscarriages, and children exposed to such high lead
levels will have reduced brain function of some form, Graziano
said.  “We do know they will be left permanently impaired,”
Graziano said.  Bitter Moments  Musa said that while he still has bitter moments, the pain
is fading and the village has come to life again. Children are
singing again and they dance around.  He sent one of his brothers to fetch Naziru Haruna, a 1-
year-old who has been to Anka hospital three times for lead
treatment. Sitting tall in his fathers’ arm, Naziru smiled,
laughed and grabbed at a hand as it came up to pat him on the
back. “Now we have hope,” Musa said.  A week later, the lead poisoning had appeared again. Musa’s
six-month-old son Ibrahim started vomiting and losing his hair.
Musa took him to the lead ward at the Anka hospital where
doctors asked that Ibrahim and his mother stay for treatment.
MSF said Ibrahim’s condition improved, he recently was released,
and is now under treatment at home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 