-- Google Should Pay for Network Usage, France Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-21T16:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/google-should-pay-for-telecom-network-usage-france-says.html
Google Inc.  and other providers
of Web content aren’t contributing enough to the costs of
telecommunications networks and may be forced to pay, the French
minister responsible for the Internet said.  The French government plans to convene a working group
including Internet companies with “the objective that services
that occupy the largest part of our networks contribute to the
deployment and maintenance of those networks,” Industry
Minister  Eric Besson  told reporters in Paris today.  The minister’s comments back up complaints from some of
Europe’s largest telecom operators, who are investing in
networks to cope with the growth of services like Google’s
YouTube. France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard , Telefonica SA CEO  Cesar Alierta  and Telecom Italia SpA
CEO  Franco Bernabe  have said that Internet companies are getting
an unfair deal from their networks.  “These companies are based in foreign countries, don’t pay
any tax in France, and occupy at the same time very dominant
positions in the French market,” Besson said. “The digital
economy is developing thanks to the investments of operators.”  Bill Echikson , a Brussels-based spokesman for Mountain
View, California-based  Google , didn’t immediately return a
telephone call seeking comment.  Net Neutrality  A related debate, over whether telecommunications operators
can interfere with subscribers’ Web service to manage the flow
of data, is currently playing out in the U.S. The Federal
Communications Commission is set to vote today on so-called
net neutrality rules.  France last week delayed the implementation of a small tax
on online advertising revenue to allow more time for discussion
with operators.  While the number of mobile data connections in western
Europe will rise by an average of 15 percent a year to
270 million in 2014, overall end-user revenue will fall about
1 percent a year, researcher IDC estimates. Operators’ annual
spending on network gear in the period will surge 28 percent
from last year to about $3.7 billion, according to researcher
Canalys.  As network spending climbs, operators are looking for ways
to win new revenue from data-hogging customers as well as
content providers.  Vodafone Group Plc  and France Telecom have
announced plans to shift to tiered pricing based on data use,
following a similar move away from unlimited-data plans by  AT&T
Inc. , the largest U.S. phone company.  ‘Severe Ramifications’  Tensions between Web companies and operators are “a huge
issue, which has potentially severe ramifications,” said  Paolo Pescatore , a telecommunications analyst at CCS Insight in
London. “Other countries will be watching France very
carefully, and much will depend on how effective the operators’
lobbying is.”  With hundreds of thousands of workers, European telecom
operators such as Madrid-based Telefonica and Deutsche Telekom
AG are among their countries’ biggest employers. California-
based companies such as Google, Apple Inc., and Facebook Inc.
have relatively small operations in Europe.  French regulators and cultural groups have clashed with
Google over copyright, privacy and artist compensation. This
year, the owner of the world’s largest search engine signed
accords with French artistic collection agencies and pledged to
build a research-and-development center in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 