-- Greece's Debt Ratings Put On Watch by Fitch for Possible Downgrade to Junk
-- B y   G r e g   C h a n g   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-21T18:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/greece-s-debt-ratings-put-on-watch-by-fitch-for-possible-downgrade-to-junk.html
Greece may have its credit rating
cut to non-investment grade by Fitch Ratings within six weeks
after a review of the nation’s “fiscal sustainability.”  The assessment will focus on government measures to lower
the budget deficit, the economic outlook and the “political
will and capacity of the Greek state” to push through austerity
measures, the company said in a statement today. Greece is rated
BBB- at Fitch, its lowest investment-grade rating.  Fitch said it expects the review to be completed in January
and there is a “heightened probability” of a downgrade.  Greece, the first euro-area nation to seek international
aid this year, already has non-investment grade ratings at
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s. The Greek
bailout in May and subsequent aid for Ireland last month have so
far failed to quell investors’ concerns that Europe’s debt
crisis may spread to other nations.  “On the margin, this will further put pressure on
peripheral spreads at the time when sovereign credit quality is
a major concern,” said  David Keeble , New York-based head of
fixed-income strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank. “But this is barely a surprise move. Fitch is the final
guy to catch up. The market has moved way ahead.”  Moody’s has Greece on a Ba1 rating, while S&P has it on
BB+. The  extra yield  investors charge to hold Greek 10-year debt
over German bunds was at 898 basis points today, compared with a
record of more than 965 basis points in May.  The so-called yield premium on  Ireland’s debt , which rose
to a euro-era high of 680 basis points on Nov. 30, was at 590
basis points today. Portugal was at 354 basis points.  Greece is cutting spending and raising taxes as a condition
of its aid from the European Union and International Monetary
Fund. The IMF said on Dec. 17 that the country’s rescue program
has “continued to perform well” and it approved payment of
another 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) under the deal.  “The overall fiscal adjustment to date has been
impressive,” the IMF said last week. “It is important that
fiscal structural reforms be forcefully advanced to ensure a
lasting consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Chang  in San Francisco at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  