-- Liberty Global Said to Weigh Bid for Germany's Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-12-22T11:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/liberty-global-said-to-weigh-bid-for-germany-s-kabel-baden-wuerttemberg.html
Liberty Global Inc. , the cable
operator controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone , is
considering a bid for Germany’s No. 3 cable company  Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co KG , according to two people with
knowledge of the deliberations.  Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global is evaluating the
viability of combining its Unitymedia GmbH with Kabel BW in the
face of possible antitrust hurdles, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private. Liberty
Global hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to advise on a possible
bid, one of the people said.  EQT Partners AB, the private-equity firm partly owned by
Sweden’s Wallenberg family, hired banks to prepare a potential
sale or initial public offering of Kabel BW which may fetch
about 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), two people said last
month. Liberty Global, which paid about 2 billion euros and
assumed 1.5 billion euros in debt to acquire Germany’s second-
largest cable operator, Unitymedia, has previously identified
Kabel BW as a possible takeover target.  “It makes perfect sense to combine Unitymedia with Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg but there are regulatory hurdles,” said
 Andrew Hogley , an analyst at Execution Noble. Kabel BW “is
probably the fastest-growing cable operator in Europe.”  Investors are betting on German cable companies because of
rising demand for pay-TV channels and so-called triple-play
offerings that bundle TV, Internet and phone services.  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG , Germany’s largest cable TV operator, has
gained more than 60 percent in Frankfurt trading since its IPO
in March.  ‘Terrific Asset’  Spokespeople for Liberty Global, EQT, Goldman Sachs and
Kabel BW declined to comment.  German cable companies need to expand to compete against
 Deutsche Telekom AG , the country’s biggest phone company,
Liberty Chief Executive Officer  Mike Fries  said in June, calling
Kabel BW a “terrific asset.” Chief Strategy Officer  Shane O’Neill  said in March that buying Kabel BW would “still keep us
properly sized,” and that the company would consider such a
deal if antitrust conditions eased.  Attempts to consolidate the German cable market failed in
the past. Kabel Deutschland, which was separated from Deutsche
Telekom in 2003, scrapped a plan to buy Kabel BW and
Unitymedia’s Ish GmbH and Iesy eKabel Hessen GmbH units in 2004
because German antitrust regulators indicated they wouldn’t
approve the deal.  Regulatory Hurdles  “In principle, there haven’t really been any changes to
our position when it comes to consolidation of the cable
market,”  Kay Weidner , a spokesman for the Bundeskartellamt,
Germany’s federal antitrust regulator, said yesterday via phone.
“But we must consider every case openly and without
prejudice.”  Kabel BW’s enterprise value, or the sum of its stock and
debt minus cash, may be 2.5 billion euros to 3 billion euros and
a transaction could take place in the first half of next year,
depending on markets, one person said this week.  EQT, which owns 100 percent of Kabel BW according to its
website, hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Deutsche Bank AG  to
advise on the divestment of the Heidelberg-based cable operator,
the people said last month.  Stockholm-based EQT bought Kabel BW in 2006 from  Blackstone
Group LP , without disclosing a price. The deal was worth about
1.3 billion euros, newspapers including the Wall Street Journal
said at the time. Kabel BW, which has more than 2.2 million
cable  subscribers , had sales of 493 million euros in 2009.  Kabel BW had a nine-month profit before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of 231.4 million euros, compared
with 307.4 million euros at Unitymedia, according to company
reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Berlin at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net  