-- Microsoft Said to Be Unveiling Windows for ARM Chips
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-12-21T22:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/microsoft-is-said-to-announce-version-of-windows-for-arm-chips-at-ces-show.html
Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest
software maker, will announce a version of its Windows computer
operating system that runs on  ARM Holdings Plc  technology for
the first time, said two people familiar with Microsoft’s plans.  The new product will debut at the Consumer Electronics Show
in January, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because  Microsoft ’s plans are confidential. The software would
be tailored for battery-powered devices, such as tablet
computers and other handhelds, the people said.  The operating system would give Microsoft another way to
attack the market for tablets and phones, where it’s lost ground
to Apple Inc. and Google Inc. ARM chips -- made by  Qualcomm
Inc. , Texas Instruments Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. -- are
used in most smartphones, as well as Apple’s best-selling iPad.  A full-featured version of Windows for ARM chips is the
best way for Microsoft to make a dent in the iPad’s lead, said
 Robert Breza , a Minneapolis-based analyst for RBC Capital
Markets. While Windows is dominant in the personal-computer
market, it hasn’t parlayed that into tablet success yet.  “They’ve got to come back with a product that’s better
than ‘me too’ and is equal if not better in features,” Breza
said. He has an “outperform” rating on Microsoft’s stock,
which he doesn’t own. “A lot of tablets today are inferior to
PCs.”  ARM Climbs  Microsoft  rose  26 cents to $28.07 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has lost 7.9 percent
this year. ARM’s U.S.-traded shares, which have more than
doubled in value this year, climbed 6.6 percent to $19.78.  The new software also will be able to work on Intel Corp.
and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  processors -- the chips that
power PC versions of Windows. While other versions of Microsoft
software aimed at phones and mobile devices work on ARM chips,
this is the first time it will make a full version of Windows
available on that technology.  Intel is trying to make its own forays into tablets and
smartphones, squaring off against ARM’s technology. ARM, based
in Cambridge, England, sells the rights to use its patents and
chip designs and doesn’t manufacture the electronic components.  Bill Cox , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment. Charlene Marini, a California-
based spokeswoman for ARM, said the company doesn’t comment on
rumor or speculation.  Tom Beermann , at Santa Clara, California-
based Intel, also declined to comment.  Apple sold 7.46 million iPads from the product’s April
debut through September. The device accounted for 95 percent of
the tablet market last quarter, according to Strategy Analytics.  Microsoft  may be able to win 10 percent to 20 percent of
the as many as 50 million tablets that will be sold next year,
Breza estimates. He predicted that Windows tablets will be
cheaper than the iPad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  