-- India to Seek Coal Mines in Africa to Plug Shortfall in Domestic Supplies
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-22T04:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/india-to-seek-coal-mines-in-africa-to-plug-shortfall-in-domestic-supplies.html
India’s Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said state-run companies will seek deals to buy mines in
South Africa, Botswana and Mozambique when he visits the
continent next month in a bid to plug a domestic shortfall.  “The top priority is to buy coal mines,” Jaiswal said in
an interview in New Delhi yesterday. “We already have two mines
in Mozambique and the government is seeking more there and in
other countries in Africa.”  Coal India Ltd. , the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
and Neyveli Lignite Corp. are among state-owned companies
looking for deposits overseas to feed an  economy  growing at more
than 8 percent a year. Jaiswal said local supply may fall short
of demand by 83 million metric tons in the year ending March 31,
with Coal India set to miss its annual output target.  “Coal India is a bit late in the game,” said P. Phani
Sekhar, a fund manager with Angel Broking Ltd. based in Mumbai.
“It should have started this exercise 10 years ago and should
have matured by now to make big acquisitions.”  Coal users imported 72 million tons of the fuel last
financial year, Jaiswal said. The minister said he will visit
South Africa, Mozambique, Botswana, Malawi and Swaziland
starting Jan. 4.  Coal India  shares  gained 1.1 percent to 316.65 rupees at
9:24 a.m. in Mumbai trading.  Neyveli Lignite  rose as much as 1.4
percent and was trading 0.2 percent higher at 128.90 rupees. The
benchmark  Sensitive Index  advanced 0.2 percent.  China Competition  India has lost out to China for assets overseas as Asia’s
fastest-growing major economies seek to secure energy supplies.
State-run Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion last year
acquiring energy and resources assets overseas compared with
India’s single $2.1 billion investment by Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  “In China, the government has supported this drive,” said
 Pauli Laursen , an Aabenraa, Denmark-based fund manager at
SydInvest Asset Management. “It is a positive sign that the
Indian government is also now joining to help its companies
acquire assets.”  Coal India , in which the government sold a 10 percent stake
in October to raise 152 billion rupees ($3.4 billion), may miss
its target to produce 461 million tons of the fuel this fiscal,
the minister said.  “There are delays on environment clearances,” Jaiswal
said. “We need to increase production as coal will be the most
important fuel for power generation for at least another
decade.”  Coal Demand  India’s government has pledged to provide electricity
nationwide by 2012 and needs to increase installed generation
capacity to 200,000 megawatts to sustain economic growth,
according to the power ministry. More than half of the country’s
current capacity of 167,278 megawatts is fueled by coal.  Coal demand in India may more than triple in the next two
decades to 2 billion tons, Jaiswal said Sept 24. India produced
530 million tons of coal last year, the minister said. The
country’s power plants may import 60 million tons of coal next
financial year, Power Secretary  P. Uma Shankar  said Dec. 9.  Coal India is considering buying a Peabody Energy Corp.
mine in Australia, one owned by Massey Energy Co. in the U.S.,
and another in Indonesia, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said Nov.
25, declining to name the third company. While Coal India hasn’t
started due diligence on two more mines in Australia, it may
appoint banks soon to evaluate offers, he said.  “It’s more expensive to bring coal from the U.S. to India
because of the distance,” Jaiswal said. “Africa is an ideal
location.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kartikay Mehrotra  in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 