-- India, Russia Sign Military, Nuclear Pacts as Leaders Vow to Double Trade
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-12-21T14:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/india-russia-sign-military-nuclear-pacts-as-leaders-vow-to-double-trade.html
Russia and India signed pacts to
provide missiles for the Indian army, develop advanced stealth
fighter jets and build more nuclear reactors as their leaders
vowed to double trade over four years.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s two-day visit to India
comes after similar trips by President  Barack Obama , Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Major
nations are jostling for contracts as India builds its armed
forces and plots a $100 billion expansion of its nuclear-power
generating capacity.  “There is enormous unexploited potential for the
development of our relations particularly in the area of trade
and economic affairs,” Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
said today at a press conference with Medvedev in New Delhi.  Russia successfully tested a prototype of its fifth-
generation PAK FA stealth fighter in January, one year behind
schedule and 13 years after the first flight of its U.S. rival,
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin’s F-22 Raptor. Today’s
deal -- which covers design modifications for planes to be
bought by India -- may be worth $295 million, RIA Novosti
 reported  Dec. 16.  India, Russia’s top arms customer, has tripled its defense
budget over the last decade as it looks beyond a traditional
military rivalry with Pakistan to counter China’s rising power.  India’s BrahMos Aerospace Pvt. agreed with Russia’s NPO
Mashinostroyenia to make missiles for India’s army. No details
were immediately available.  ‘Major Player’  “Russia has always been a major player in India, but now
it faces increasing competition in areas it traditionally
dominated such as the arms trade as India tries to diversify its
suppliers further to get the best price and quality,”
 Konstantin Makiyenko , deputy head of the Center for the Analysis
of Strategies and Technologies in Moscow, said in a Dec. 17
telephone interview.  “The fifth-generation fighter deal will be the most
important issue,” and could be worth as much as $30 billion
over the life of the agreement, because India may seek to deploy
as many as 300 of the jets, Makiyenko said.  At first “Russia will be leading in terms of contribution,
while the Indian participation will be increasing further on,”
said  Mikhail Pogosyan , chief executive officer of OAO Sukhoi
Co., which will develop the jet in collaboration with the
company’s Indian partner.  $20 Billion Target  Medvedev’s trip caps six months of visits by leaders and
company executives from all five permanent members of the United
Nations Security Council as they seek to boost exports to
India’s $1.3 trillion economy, which may expand almost 9 percent
this financial year.  Russia and India will attempt to increase bilateral trade
to $20 billion by 2015 from the current level of $10 billion,
they said in joint statement today.  Reliance Industries Ltd.  and OAO Sibur Holding agreed a
petrochemicals deal,  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd.  and Russia’s
R-Pharm announced a joint venture, and Tata Group said it will
work on the Skolkovo technology park project outside Moscow in
other pacts announced today.  AFK Sistema , Russian billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov’s
holding company, may team up with India’s  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp.  as the two companies seek to expand oil production with
overseas projects. Sistema and ONGC agreed to study “a potential
transaction” involving their Russian oil units, the Moscow-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. ONGC is seeking to
expand in Russia, the world’s biggest oil and gas producer.  Nuclear Reactors  In agreements to provide the nuclear energy India wants to
power its economy, Russia plans to build at least 18 reactors at
three locations across the country,  Sergei Kiriyenko , chief of
Moscow-based Rosatom, said today.  As well as the reactors being built at Kudankulam in the
southern state of Tamil Nadu, Russia will develop units at site
near the eastern city of Kolkata and another undisclosed
location, he said. Kiriyenko said each plant will have at least
six reactors and the first at Kudankulam will be operating by
the end of March.  India’s nuclear industry has attracted foreign interest
following the 2005 agreement with the U.S. that attached
 International Atomic Energy Agency  safeguards to the South Asian
country’s civilian nuclear facilities. U.S. companies have so
far lagged behind state-backed French and Russian companies over
concerns new laws may make them liable for damages in the event
of a nuclear accident.  ‘Strong U.N. Candidate’  Medvedev said today India would be a “strong candidate”
to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security
Council if a decision is taken to expand it, joining
endorsements by Obama and Sarkozy during their India visits.  China’s Wen stopped short of giving support last week,
saying in a joint statement Singh that China “understands and
supports India’s aspiration to play a greater role in the United
Nations, including in the Security Council.”  Russia, the U.S., France, China and the U.K. are the
council’s permanent members at present. They hold veto power
over any measure.  India and Russia announced in a joint statement that they
welcomed South Africa’s engagement in the BRIC group of emerging
economies which also includes Brazil and China. South Africa,
Africa’s biggest economy, asked to join the group, the country’s
Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  