-- India's Toilet Shortage Costs More Than $50 Billion, World Bank Study Says
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-12-21T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/india-s-toilet-shortage-costs-more-than-50-billion-world-bank-study-says.html
A lack of toilets costs India more
than $50 billion a year, mostly through premature deaths and
hygiene-related diseases, a study found.  Illness, lost productivity and other consequences of fouled
water and inadequate sewage treatment trimmed 6.4 percent from
India’s gross domestic product in 2006, or the equivalent of
$53.8 billion, according to the study by the World Bank’s  Water
and Sanitation Program .  The finding suggests India bears a higher cost than other
Asian countries from inadequate collection of  human excreta : $48
per person, compared with $9.30 per person in Vietnam, $16.80 in
the Philippines, $28.60 in Indonesia and $32.40 in Cambodia, the
study’s authors found. More than three-quarters of the premature
mortality-related economic losses are due to deaths and diseases
in children younger than 5, according to the report.  “For decades we have been aware of the significant health
impacts of inadequate sanitation in India,” Christopher Juan
Costain, the program’s team leader for South Asia, said in a
statement yesterday. “This report quantifies the economic
losses to India, and shows that children and poor households
bear the brunt of poor sanitation.”  Inadequate Sanitation  Diarrhea among children younger than 5 years accounts for
more than 47 percent of the total health-related economic
impacts, the study found. Premature mortality and other health-
related impacts of inadequate sanitation were the most costly at
$38.5 billion, 72 percent of the total economic burden, followed
by productive time lost to access sanitation facilities or sites
for defecation at $10.7 billion, or 20 percent, and drinking
water-related impacts at $4.2 billion, or 7.8 percent.  “The cost is more than I expected,”  Clarissa Brocklehurst ,
water, sanitation and hygiene chief at the  United Nations
Children’s Fund , said in a telephone interview from New York.
“Yet, if you know the scale of open defecation in India, it’s
not all that surprising.”  More than half of India’s 1.17 billion people were mobile-
phone subscribers, yet only 366 million people had access to
proper sanitation in 2008, a  study  published in April by the
United Nations University, a UN research organ, found.  Eighteen percent of India’s urban population and 69 percent
of rural dwellers defecated daily in fields, bushes, beaches and
other open spaces, according to a March report by the World
Health Organization and Unicef.  “It’s a long hard slog to change social norms around open
defecation, to create an enabling environment where everybody
can buy a toilet,” said Brocklehurst, who has lived and worked
in New Delhi. “There is no glitzy solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  