-- India's Media, Technology Stocks Seen as Best Bets by Kotak Insurance Unit
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-12-21T02:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/india-s-media-technology-stocks-seen-as-best-bets-by-kotak-insurance-unit.html
Indian  software, media and health-
care companies are likely to deliver the best returns among the
nation’s stocks in the next 15 months as spending increases,
according to billionaire  Uday Kotak ’s insurance venture.  “We are overweight on the overall consumption theme,”
 Sudhakar Shanbhag , who manages about $1.8 billion in assets as
chief investment officer at Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life
Insurance Ltd., said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday. He
declined to comment on specific stocks.  Shanbhag, 41, said the insurer has cut its holdings in real
estate stocks to “close to zero” amid a corruption probe into
loans to developers that has driven property stocks lower. He is
also “staying away” from telecom stocks as the government
investigates the issue of licenses at below-market rates.  India’s economy may expand more than China in the next
decade as spending on roads, bridges and power plants improves
productivity, Nouriel Roubini, the New York University professor
who predicted the global financial crisis, said this month.
Software exporters may benefit from the renewal of “mega-
deals,” Standard Chartered Plc said Dec. 16.  Sun TV Network Ltd., the broadcaster controlled by Indian
billionaire  Kalanithi Maran , Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., the
nation’s second-biggest drugmaker by sales, and Infosys
Technologies Ltd., the No. 2 software exporter, are among stocks
Shanbhag owns, according to a fund document for November.  Increased Spending  “Corporate spending on media is going up,” said  Shanbhag .
“We see value in technology and pharma as the demand potential
is huge.”  Worldwide spending by businesses and governments on
technology, including equipment and software, will increase 7
percent this year to $1.5 trillion, after falling by 8.6 percent
last year, according to  Forrester Research Inc.  Most of the
growth will be in the U.S., Forrester said. India’s software
services companies get about half of their sales in the world’s
largest economy.  Indian property companies face rising borrowing costs and
shrinking access to credit amid a bribery investigation into
improper loans, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit and Ambit Capital Pvt. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Realty Index  has tumbled 13 percent since executives from about
six companies were detained on Nov. 24. The 30-member benchmark
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has advanced 1 percent during the
same period.  “We would like to participate again when we have clear
visibility on the sector,” Shanbhag said.  The investigation into the issuing of airwave permits after
the nation’s top auditor last month reported that the 2008 sale
of airwaves at below-market prices may have cost the exchequer
$31 billion. The country’s highest court has said it will
directly monitor a federal probe into the sale of licenses.  “We own some telecom stocks but we remain underweight on
the sector,” he added.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. , the nation’s largest
mobile-phone operator, is among the stocks in his portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 