-- Indonesian Antitrust Authorities Are Evaluating Temasek Assets for Seizure
-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 2010-12-22T10:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/indonesian-antitrust-authorities-are-evaluating-temasek-assets-for-seizure.html
Indonesia’s anti-monopoly agency is
evaluating  Temasek Holdings Pte ’s assets in the country and said
the government has the right to seize them if a court-imposed
fine isn’t paid.  The Singapore state-owned investment company lost its final
appeal in the Supreme Court on May 24 for violating antitrust
laws, the Indonesian court said on its website at the time. A
fine of 150 billion rupiah ($17 million), which includes 15
billion rupiah for each of 10 Temasek-linked companies,
including the holding company, involved in the case, was set,
the anti-monopoly agency said.  “We’re now inventorying Temasek’s assets and expect to
complete that in 2011, and they will be seized if the fine isn’t
paid,” Tresna Soemardi, the agency’s chairman, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  The Temasek case may cause uncertainty and cool foreign
investors’ appetite for Indonesian assets in the short-term,
said  Chandra Pasaribu , an analyst at PT Danareska Securities in
Jakarta.  “This case won’t affect investment in Indonesia medium to
long term,” Pasaribu said by phone today “But the coverage of
the case will bring negative impact as it will tend to affect
the intention to invest in Indonesia due to the monopoly. The
investment risk will increase.”  Antitrust Laws  The Indonesian competition regulator KPPU has said Temasek
breached antitrust laws by using indirect stakes in  PT
Telekomunikasi Selular , known as Telkomsel, and  PT Indosat , the
country’s top two mobile-phone service providers, to fix prices.  “Temasek has not received official notification from the
Supreme Court,”  Goh Yong Siang , Temasek’s senior managing
director of strategic relations, said in an e-mailed response to
queries.  The Central Jakarta District Court received the formal
notification from the Supreme Court, sent on Dec. 3, and is
processing the document that it will then send to KPPU, Temasek
and the South Jakarta District Court, where the Temasek lawyers
settled the case, said Hendro Santosa, a spokesman at the
Central Jakarta District Court.  It took since May because the court had to collect the 770
pages of the judicial review panel, Santosa said.  “Once the company has been formally notified of the fine
and doesn’t pay it, the Indonesian anti-monopoly commission may
ask for a court order to seize the assets,”  Muhammad Reza , the
agency’s chief of investigations, said by phone yesterday.  Temasek’s Singapore Technologies Telemedia Pte unit sold
its stake in Indosat, Indonesia’s second-largest mobile-phone
services provider, to  Qatar Telecom QSC  in June 2008 after an
earlier district court ruling. A unit of  Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. , Southeast Asia’s biggest phone operator
and majority owned by Temasek, has a 35 percent stake in
Telkomsel, the biggest mobile carrier.  Koran Tempo first reported the possible seizure of
Temasek’s assets yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Femi Adi  in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  