-- Industry Should Pay for New Oilsands Environmental Monitoring, Panel Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-21T19:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/industry-should-pay-for-new-oilsands-environmental-monitoring-panel-says.html
Canada will implement the
recommendations of an advisory group that said water-quality
monitoring of Alberta’s oilsands is not good enough and the oil
industry should pay for a new and credible system, Environment
Minister  John Baird  said today.  The Oilsands Advisory Panel, which was appointed in
September by Baird’s predecessor and made its  findings public  in
Ottawa today, said the country lacks a “first-class” system to
monitor the environmental impacts of the industry’s development
of the oilsands.  “The actions we take will be guided by science and by
facts, not by politics and public relations,” Baird told
reporters in Ottawa. The government has a “solemn
responsibility” to ensure the oilsands are developed in an
environmentally responsible way, he said. “We heard the panel’s
message loud and clear and we are ready to act.”  Canada, which sits on the largest pool of oil reserves
outside the Middle East, is working on improving the oilsands’
image as part of an effort to brand itself as an “energy
superpower.” Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  earlier this month
touted the country’s energy resources in a speech to investors
in New York, pointing to its political stability and proximity
to the U.S.  Crude oil is Canada’s biggest export, accounting for 12
percent of the country’s C$333.1 billion ($327.1 billion) in
sales to overseas buyers between January and October, according
to Statistics Canada’s latest available  data .  Toxic Waste  Development of the oilsands by companies such as Syncrude
Canada Ltd. and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd . has been
criticized by environmental groups including the  Pembina
Institute  because of the toxic waste and emissions from
processing that contribute to global warming.  In October, Syncrude said about 200 waterfowl landed in
toxic sludge at its plant in northeastern Alberta and that most
of the birds were euthanized. The same month, Syncrude, whose
owners include  Exxon Mobil Corp .’s Canadian unit,  Suncor Energy
Inc.  and Sinopec Oilsands Partnership, was fined a record C$3
million ($2.95 million) for a 2008 incident in which about 1,600
birds died.  The federal panel said that “a new credible, coherent and
collaborative governance model is required” to properly monitor
the impact on water, because the current system is
“fragmented.” The body should be overseen by a joint federal-
provincial board and any additional funding should come from oil
companies, the panel also said.  Implemented ‘Immediately’  Baird said he has spoken to Alberta Environment Minister
 Rob Renner  and the two governments “will work together to build
this system.” Officials will design the system within 90 days,
have a proposal reviewed by independent experts and the new
structure implemented “immediately,” he said.  Alberta yesterday  appointed  a group of independent experts
to devise a broader monitoring system that would cover the
entire province and track air, water and biodiversity.  The province is committed to working with the federal
government “so that there’s no duplication and no turf war,”
said Jessica Potter, a spokeswoman for Renner, by telephone.  Oil producers including Suncor are boosting their capital
spending in the oilsands, helping support Canada’s economic
recovery. Of the five companies on the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index that recorded more than C$1 billion in capital
expenditures in the third quarter, four are energy firms --
Suncor,  Encana Corp .,  Talisman Energy Inc . and  Imperial Oil Ltd .
-- while the other,  TransCanada Corp ., is a pipeline company.  Oil Reliance  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  has in the past
condemned his country’s reliance on “dirty oil” and his
advisers have specifically mentioned oil from tar sands.  “Our long-term goal is responsible development and
obviously a world-class monitoring system helps us achieve
that,” said Travis Davies, a spokesman for the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, an industry association.
“We’ll work with government to ensure that a world-class system
is supported and effective over the long-term.”  “A lack of effective monitoring makes it impossible for
Canada to demonstrate that oilsands development is proceeding
responsibly,” Nathan Lemphers, a policy analyst with the
Calgary-based Pembina Institute, said in a  statement . “No
politician or corporate executive can claim they are protecting
the environment while developing this resource if we don’t even
have adequate monitoring and oversight in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 