-- Insurance Sales Rise Most in 4 Years on Personal Lines
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-12-21T17:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/insurance-sales-rise-most-since-2006-on-auto-home-coverage.html
U.S. property and casualty  insurance 
sales gained the most in 16 quarters on a recovery of personal
auto and home coverage.  Third-quarter policy sales rose 2.3 percent to $110.7
billion from $108.2 billion in the year-earlier period, the
Property Casualty Insurers Association of America said today in
a  statement . A revival may help carriers including  American
International Group Inc. , Travelers Cos. and Allstate Corp.
counter lower yields on some fixed-income holdings.  “Sustained growth in written premiums from this point
forward could bring about improvement in underwriting and
overall financial results,” said  David Sampson , chief executive
officer of the association, in an e-mailed statement today.  Carriers are selling more policies to individuals after
commercial clients including builders and manufacturers scaled
back coverage in 2008 and 2009. Liberty Mutual Holding Co., the
Boston-based insurer owned by policyholders, said it added
personal auto and homeowners sales in the third quarter.  “Growth and profitability of personal” lines helped
offset pressure on rates charged to business customers, Liberty
Mutual Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Kelly  said in a conference
call on Nov. 5.  Insurers rely on auto sales, home construction and gains in
employment to stoke demand for coverage. Total  seasonally
adjusted auto sales  rose to 12.26 million last month from 11.17
million in June. U.S.  housing starts  increased to a 555,000
annual rate in November, up from June’s 539,000 pace, according
to the Commerce Department. First-time applications for
 unemployment benefits  decreased by 3,000 to 420,000 last week,
Labor Department data showed.  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  A gain in sales may increase claims costs, said  Michael Murray , assistant vice president for financial analysis at ISO,
a unit of Verisk Analytics Inc.  “The economic recovery is a double-edged sword,” said
Murray. Higher demand for coverage may be followed by higher
claims as “roads become more congested, foot traffic in stores
and other establishments increases, and businesses hire more and
more inexperienced employees.” Verisk, the supplier of
actuarial data to insurers, published the report with the
association and the Insurance Information Institute.  Net income for the industry was $10.1 billion in the third
quarter, compared with $10.5 billion a year earlier. Investment
income, such as payments on bonds, slipped to $11.4 billion from
$12.3 billion as yields declined.  Fitch Ratings reiterated its “stable” outlook for U.S.
property and casualty insurers on Dec. 7, saying that premium
revenue may rise in 2011 as rates improve for personal coverage.  Farmers, Allstate  Farmers Group Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of Switzerland’s
largest insurer,  Zurich Financial Services AG , is adding
customers at a unit that sells auto coverage to customers over
the phone and on the Internet, said  Jeff Dailey , Farmers’
president of personal lines, in an interview on Dec. 17.  Farmers’ revenue from auto policies is starting to “tick
up,” said Dailey.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, is increasing rates in Texas, the second most populous
state, after overall property-liability  premiums  fell to $6.5
billion in the third quarter from $6.54 billion a year earlier.  The insurer raised home rates 5.4 percent for Allstate
Texas Lloyd’s customers and 9.7 percent for Allstate Fire &
Casualty Insurance Co. clients, according to filings with the
Texas Department of Insurance last month. in the third quarter
from $6.54 billion a year earlier.  “We increase prices when we think we need to,” said Chief
Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  in an earnings call on Oct. 28.  The last time sales climbed more than 2.3 percent was in
the third quarter of 2006, according to the groups’ data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 