-- Intel Wins Approval for McAfee Acquisition From FTC
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-21T22:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/intel-wins-u-s-approval-for-mcafee-deal-europe-still-reviewing-purchase.html
Intel Corp. , the world’s largest
chipmaker, won clearance from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
to acquire McAfee Inc., bringing the company a step closer to
expanding into the security-software market.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, announced the
decision in a statement on  its website . The company is still
working with the European Commission as that organization
reviews the purchase, Intel said.  In August,  Intel  agreed to buy the company for $7.68
billion, saying it will use the deal to create chips with built-
in security. The acquisition of McAfee, also based in Santa
Clara, would be the biggest purchase in Intel’s history.
Integrating McAfee defenses into its products will make devices
more efficient and secure, Intel has said.  Shares of Intel declined 13 cents to $21.10 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The  stock  has gained 3.4
percent this year. McAfee rose 33 cents to $46.38 in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading .  Under the deal, Intel would pay $48 a share in cash per
share -- 60 percent more than McAfee’s closing price before the
acquisition was announced.  New Markets  Intel’s processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s
personal computers. In addition to helping the company add
features to its PC chips,  McAfee  is part of Intel’s plan to
expand into new areas, such as mobile phones and consumer
electronics. McAfee is the second-largest maker of security
software, behind Mountain View, California-based  Symantec Corp.   Intel plans to run McAfee as an independent company, under
the leadership of current Chief Executive Officer  Dave DeWalt .
It also will continue to sell stand-alone software products. New
Intel chips, including capabilities provided by McAfee, would go
on sale next year.  Computer functions can run more quickly when it’s woven
directly into a chip and doesn’t have to go through other
programs, Intel said when it announced the deal. That also makes
it harder for hackers to circumvent. In the first half of the
year, McAfee added more than 10 million new malware variants to
its database of security threats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  