-- Inter-Dealer Swaps to Face Open Trading, O’Malia Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2010-12-21T19:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/inter-dealer-swaps-to-face-open-trading-o-malia-says-update1-.html
Bank-to-bank trading in private
derivatives will have to be done on systems available to all
market users, opening a previously closed arrangement to
competition, said Commodity Futures Trading Commissioner  Scott O’Malia .  The change would fundamentally alter the inter-dealer
broker market where companies such as  ICAP Plc  and  GFI Group
Inc.  allow banks to trade credit-default, interest-rate and
other swaps among themselves on electronic systems or over the
phone. The CFTC is writing rules to govern how swaps can be
traded after Congress passed the financial reform Dodd-Frank Act
this year.  “We have the impartial access requirements that require
them to be open,” O’Malia said in a telephone interview today,
referring to swap-execution facilities. An SEF that was open
only to dealers -- creating an inter-dealer broker SEF, in
essence -- wouldn’t meet this requirement, he said. “They’re
going to be competitive and, quite frankly, they’re going to get
the benefit of these tighter bid-ask spreads.”  The proposed CFTC rule on swap-execution facilities allows
banks to show negotiable prices on a request-for-quote, or RFQ,
system that can be limited to a select number of trading
partners. SEFs also will be allowed to carry real-time quotes
that are executable. Increased price transparency will tighten
the difference between the price to buy and sell a swap, known
as the bid-ask spread.  Clearinghouses  Congress mandated that most swaps be processed by
clearinghouses once they’ve been traded on regulated exchanges
or swaps-execution facilities after the over-the-counter
derivatives market complicated efforts to resolve the financial
crisis. Regulators are writing the rules to lessen risk and
increase price transparency.  While the prior CFTC rule for SEFs included mention of
telephone trading, the revised proposal has no reference to so-
called voice brokers. The CFTC did allow, however, for “any
such other trading system or platform as may be determined by
the commission,” according to the summary.  O’Malia said he expected investors to still be able to
place orders over the phone with their brokers as long as the
trade was then executed on an exchange or SEF. Large trades and
non-standardized transactions that can’t be guaranteed by a
clearinghouse will also be allowed to be traded over the phone,
he said.  ‘Transparency and Flexibility’  “Transparency and flexibility are the keys here,” he
said.  The CFTC rewrote a prior attempt at the SEF rule last week
after Chairman  Gary Gensler  pulled the proposal from
consideration at a Dec. 9 meeting. The original rule would have
required dealers to provide executable swaps prices to all
market users prior to any trade being done on an electronic
system that mimics how futures exchanges operate.  O’Malia announced he planned to vote against the first rule
before Gensler pulled it from considerations. “It tried to
mandate a futures model” for swaps trading, which won’t work
for the less-frequently traded market, he said. The new rule
“is a vast improvement and it balances the core principles of
transparency and execution on SEFs.”  Hedge funds and money managers, known as the buy side, and
not dealers, complained the most about the first rule, O’Malia
said. “It was the buy side that really made the strongest
impression.” The commissioner said he was ready to offer an
alternative to the pulled rule before Gensler withdrew it.  “Rather than try to negotiate it on the fly, he pulled the
rule,” O’Malia said.  Proposed Rules  Since Dodd-Frank became law in July, the CFTC staff has
recommended 33 proposed rules to the five commissioners, as well
as four advanced notices of proposed rulemaking, two interim
final rules and one final rule, according to the commission. All
proposed rules come with public comment periods before any
changes can be made for a final rule, which must then be passed
by a majority of the commission to become effective.  “All this creates a cumulative burden that we have to be
mindful of,” O’Malia said. “We might have to give people more
time to digest this so they can give thoughtful comments.”  The Dodd-Frank rules are required to be in place by July
2011, according to the law.  “Having been in Washington for a number of years, I’ve
never seen a federal agency work so hard to comply with a
federal act,” he said. “This is refreshing, but we also have
to make sure we provide enough time” for the market to react
and help shape the new rules, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 