-- Ivory Coast Is on the Brink of Civil War, UN's Secretary-General Ban Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-21T22:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/ivory-coast-on-brink-of-renewed-civil-war-un-secretary-general-ban-says.html
The political standoff and violence
in Ivory Coast has pushed the world’s leading cocoa grower to
the brink of civil war,  United Nations  Secretary-General  Ban Ki- moon  said.  “There is a real risk of a return to civil war,” Ban told
a meeting of the UN General Assembly in New York. “There has
been an alarming increase in the use of intimidation by elements
of the national forces loyal” to President  Laurent Gbagbo .  Violence has broken out since Ivory Coast’s Electoral
Commission declared  Alassane Ouattara  the winner over Gbagbo in
the Nov. 28 presidential run-off election and the UN certified
that result. Ouattara and Gbagbo, who claimed victory, both took
the oath of office on Dec. 4 and confrontations have followed
almost daily since then, leaving at least 50 people dead and 200
injured.  “The world community cannot stand by,” Ban said. “The
international community must act, and act decisively.”  Ivory Coast has been split between a rebel-held north and a
government-controlled south since a 2003 cease-fire ended
fighting that killed hundreds and displaced 1 million people.
The UN sent peacekeepers into the country in 2004 to monitor the
cease-fire, and currently has about 9,000 soldiers and civilian
police there.  Eurobonds Tumble  Ivory Coast’s Eurobonds tumbled, lifting yields to a
record.  The dollar-denominated bonds fell for a fourth day as
investors bid 44.25 cents on the dollar for the notes due
December 2032, down from a close of 46.06 yesterday, as of 5:04
p.m. in Abidjan, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The decline to the lowest since the bonds
were issued drove the yield to a record 14.479 percent from
13.943 percent.  Ivory Coast doesn’t have a sovereign debt rating. The
bonds, issued on April 16, replaced $2.4 billion of debt that
the country defaulted on in September 2000, according to the
prospectus.  Cocoa rose today as some companies evacuated personnel from
Ivory Coast.  Cocoa futures for March delivery gained $17, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2,975 a ton on ICE. In London, cocoa
futures for March delivery rose 21 pounds, or 1.1 percent, to
close at 2,008 pounds ($3,105) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Ban, who referred to Ouattara as “president-elect,” said
forces loyal to Gbagbo were guilty of “abductions and killings
and propagation of hate speech through the state broadcasting
corporation.” There has been an escalation in the types of
weapons used against civilians, and mercenaries have been
recruited to enter the country and target Gbagbo’s political
opponents, Ban said.  Strangling UN Forces  Alain LeRoy , head of UN peacekeeping operations, told
reporters Gbagbo was attempting to “strangle” the UN mission
and use the media to incite violence against the troops. He
confirmed reports of foreign mercenaries, which he said were
probably from Liberia or Angola.  LeRoy said he welcomed Gbagbo’s reported appeal for
restraint and an end to the violence, saying that if he was
sincere the efforts to block supplies to UN troops and attack
them should immediately cease.  Gbagbo said in a speech on state-owned television today
that he wants to establish a “commission of experts,”
including members of the international community, to find a
“peaceful solution” to the crisis.  “I don’t want any more blood spilled, I don’t want war in
Ivory Coast,” he said, calling for young people to remain calm
and show restraint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  