-- Ivory Coast Opposition Calls for ‘Disobedience’
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-21T18:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/ivory-coast-s-soro-calls-on-people-to-mobilize-to-oust-gbagbo-from-power.html
The government of  Alassane Ouattara ,
the United Nations-backed winner of Ivory Coast’s Nov. 28
election, urged supporters to restart protests against  Laurent Gbagbo , who defied the electoral commission and claimed victory.  Guillaume Soro , Ouattara’s choice for prime minister,
called on Ivorians to use “disobedience” and to “mobilize and
to protest, by every means, until the departure of Laurent
Gbagbo,” according to a statement e-mailed today from  Abidjan ,
the commercial capital.  Security forces loyal to incumbent Gbagbo opened fire on
opposition protesters last week, killing at least 50 and
injuring 200, according to the United Nations. Gbagbo refuses to
cede power to Ouattara, claiming electoral fraud in the north of
the world’s top cocoa grower. The African Union, the U.S. and
European Union have also recognized Ouattara as the winner.  After years of delays the elections were to stabilize Ivory
Coast after a 2002 rebellion tore the country apart and brought
on a period of slower economic growth. Gbagbo’s intransigence
has jeopardized the West African country’s chances of winning $3
billion of debt relief and continued donor support.  The U.S. and EU are both planning travel bans on Ivorian
leaders, with the EU’s list including Gbagbo, his wife, and 17
other officials.  Travel Ban  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today authorized a
travel ban on supporters of Gbagbo’s regime, around 30 of whom
would be immediately affected, Deputy Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs William Fitzgerald told reporters.  “Everyone who is connected to and supports the regime of
Laurent Gbagbo can be barred,” Fitzgerald said on a conference
call. “We will start by revoking the visas of about 30 people
who are in the government.”  Wider economic sanctions against Ivory Coast are not
currently planned, he said.  The UN Security Council yesterday extended its peacekeeping
mandate by six months, pledging to investigate opposition claims
that security forces were killing and abducting Ouattara
partisans.  “The U.S. government is very concerned by the reports from
Ivory Coast that people were killed, were attacked, were injured
by Gbagbo’s security forces,” Fitzgerald said. “It’s a very
serious situation on the ground.”  Stabilization Force  The international community will continue to ratchet up
pressure on Gbagbo and would consider sending in forces with a
more aggressive mandate, Fitzgerald said.  “Is there the option of destabilization and sending in a
stabilization force? Of course,” he said “All options are
open, but probably not an American force. It may be an African
force.”  African countries may not have the capability or political
will to step in, said Richard Downie, deputy director of the
Africa program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Nigeria, whose troops led regional interventions in Liberia
and Sierra Leone in the 1990s, is unlikely to get involved with
military force before its own elections scheduled for next year,
he said in a phone interview.  Few ‘Sticks’  “It reflects a kind of impotence by the international
community,” he said. “They want to stand forcefully against
Gbagbo but there aren’t that many sticks they can wield against
him.”  UN personnel are protecting Ouattara’s administration at
the Golf Hotel in Abidjan, as pro-Gbagbo security forces attempt
to cut off supplies by surrounding the facility. In turn,
Ouattara has asked the  Central Bank of West African States  to no
longer recognize Gbagbo as president and cut off his funding.  That may have a more substantial impact on Gbagbo’s
standing internally, said Downie. “The question is whether
Gbagbo can hold on to his core support and his ability to keep
paying his military.”  Amnesty International has received increasing reports of
abductions, arrests and physical abuse. “In a situation where
the security forces are collaborating in the commission of
serious human rights violations, the international community
must act to ensure that violations are halted immediately,”
said Salvatore Sagues, London-based Amnesty’s West Africa
researcher, in an e-mailed statement today.  The African Union, which endorsed Ouattara, warned of the
risk of “large scale violence” in the country, in an e-mailed
statement from the body’s peace and security council. The AU has
“determination to take necessary measures, at the appropriate
time, against all those who persist in undermining the will of
the people,” it said.  Cocoa for March delivery climbed for the second straight
day, adding $24, or 1 percent, to $2,982 per metric ton by 12:41
p.m. in New York.  Cargill Inc., the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company which
buys and exports cocoa beans in Ivory Coast, has removed its
expatriate staff from Ivory Coast amid the violence, spokeswoman
Susan Eich said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 