-- Ivory Coast Post-Election Tensions Threaten Increasing Violence, UN Stays
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/ivory-coast-post-election-tensions-threaten-increasing-violence.html
Post-election tensions in Ivory
Coast threatened increasing violence in the world’s leading
cocoa grower, as the United Nations rejected a government order
to withdraw its peacekeeping force and mercenaries entered the
country to support President  Laurent Gbagbo .  “It looks to me like the country is on the brink of a kind
of civil war,” John Campbell, a former U.S. ambassador to
Nigeria and State Department official from 1975 to 2007, said in
an interview. “The U.S. embassy ordered non-essential personnel
be sent home, which means it is viewed as pretty serious.”  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 yesterday to extend the
mandate of 9,000 troops for six months. The peacekeepers are
providing security for  Alassane Ouattara , who was certified by
the UN as defeating Gbagbo in a Nov. 28 presidential run-off
election.  Alain LeRoy , the head of UN peacekeeping operations, told
reporters in New York that mercenaries have joined forces loyal
to Gbagbo, who has ordered the peacekeepers to leave the
country.  Violence has broken out since Ivory Coast’s Electoral
Commission declared Ouattara the winner and the UN certified
that result. Ouattara and Gbagbo, who also claimed victory, both
took the oath of office on Dec. 4 and confrontations have
followed almost daily since then, leaving at least 50 people
dead and 200 injured.  Ivory Coast has been split between a rebel-held north and a
government-controlled south since a 2003 cease-fire ended
fighting that killed hundreds and displaced 1 million people.
The UN sent peacekeepers into the country in 2004 to monitor the
cease-fire, and currently has about 9,000 soldiers and civilian
police there.  Possible Sanctions  The Obama administration is ready to impose sanctions
against Gbagbo to pressure him to accept his defeat, White House
press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday.  Gbagbo continues to cling to power “illegitimately,”
Gibbs said. “We stand ready to impose targeted sanctions,
individually and in concert with our partners around the world,
on President Gbagbo, on his immediate family, on those that are
associated with him.”  William Fitzgerald, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of
state for West Africa, said the administration was “very
close” to imposing a travel ban on as many as 40 members of
Gbagbo’s cabinet, senior civil servants and military officers,
plus their families.  “It is likely that within 24 to 48 hours we will implement
the ban,” Fitzgerald said in an interview. “We will start with
sanctions and continue with other means I cannot go into now.”  All Options  Asked about the possibility of U.S. or allied military
intervention, Fitzgerald said “no option is off the table.”  Campbell said the U.S. could provide logistical support for
military intervention organized by the African Union or the 15-
nation Economic Community of West African States, both of which
back Ouattara.  “It looks like the Obama administration is using the
levers it has available to itself,” Campbell said “There is a
whole range of things they could do that fall far short of
sending in the Marines.”  The European Union also is considering sanctions targeting
Gbagbo and officials of his government.  “We are not going to leave,” LeRoy, the head of UN
peacekeeping, told reporters after yesterday’s Security Council
meeting. “It is a very delicate and dangerous period, but we
have a mandate to fulfill, and we will use all means necessary
to fulfill that mandate.”  Mercenaries Confirmed  LeRoy said the UN has confirmed that “mercenaries,”
probably from Liberia, have entered Ivory Coast. LeRoy said he
didn’t know how many fighters were involved.  The Security Council condemned violence directed at
civilians and UN peacekeepers, U.S. Ambassador  Susan Rice  told
reporters in her capacity as president of the council this
month. She said the Security Council warned all parties to the
conflict that they would be held accountable for attacks.  Rice said the presence of mercenaries, while not confirmed
to her, would be a source of “grave concern.”  Cargill Inc. yesterday said it removed its “small number”
of expatriate employees from Ivory Coast. Cargill, the largest
closely held U.S. company, has operated in Ivory Coast since
1998, and is following the advice of foreign governments and the
UN, Susan Eich, a spokeswoman for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based grain distributor, said in an e-mail.  The company has operations to buy, handle and export cocoa
beans in Brazil, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Indonesia and Vietnam.  Deploying Peacekeepers  The resolution adopted by the Security Council stated that
it would consider authorizing deployment of more UN troops to
Ivory Coast, possibly moving them from Liberia. The text also
said the Security Council was prepared to impose “targeted
sanctions” on anyone “seeking to undermine the outcome of the
electoral process” or obstruct the work of the peacekeeping
mission.  Young-jin Choi , head of the UN mission in Ivory Coast, said
Gbagbo and his supporters “harassed” UN workers and have
“distorted” the impartial role peacekeepers are playing in the
crisis. Access to the Gulf Hotel in Abidjan, where Ouattara has
his headquarters, has been blocked, denying delivery of food and
water to UN troops and civilians.  “Our patrols are intended to monitor, observe and dissuade
acts of violence and human rights violations,” Choi said,
according to a transcript of his remarks given to reporters in
New York. “Our rules of engagement allow us to fire only when
we are fired at.”  Gbagbo’s camp has begun “sending armed young men to the
domiciles of some UN staff, knocking at the door and asking them
their departure date or entering their residence under the
pretext of looking for weapons,” Choi said. “Their preferred
time for such visits so far has been during the night. Such
serious acts are a clear sign of lack of moderation that is
essential in the exercise of power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  