-- J&J Directors Ignored ‘Red Flags’ on Recalls, Probes, Suit Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/j-j-directors-accused-by-shareholders-of-ignoring-warnings-before-recalls.html
A group of  Johnson & Johnson 
shareholders accused the company’s directors of ignoring “red
flags” foreshadowing product recalls and government probes of
manufacturing defects and marketing practices.  The  shareholders  asked a judge to find that directors and
top executives mismanaged  J&J  and order them to pay damages.
They also want J&J to “improve its corporate governance and
internal procedures,” according to a complaint filed Dec. 17 in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey. Any money recovered would
go to the company and not investors individually.  J&J, the world’s  biggest maker  of health-care products,
recalled more than 40 types of medicines this year because of
contamination and incorrect labeling. U.S. lawmakers began
investigating J&J after a recall of batches of children’s
Tylenol in April forced the company to suspend operations at a
Pennsylvania plant. The probe uncovered the use of contractors
to buy defective Motrin painkiller.  J&J also faces government investigations into whether it
illegally marketed drugs and devices for uses not approved by
the Food and Drug Administration and paid kickbacks. On Dec. 17,
shareholders amended their so-called derivative lawsuits that
seek to force directors and officers to pay the company.  While J&J once set “the gold standard for integrity and
excellence,” the directors’ “utter disregard for their
fiduciary duties, including permitting and fostering a culture
of systemic, calculated and widespread legal violations has
destroyed J&J’s hard-earned reputation,” shareholders claim.  Carol Goodrich , a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, said the company is reviewing the complaint
and has no comment.  Shares Fall  J&J  fell 15 cents to $62.34 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday. The company has dropped 3.2 percent
this year, compared with a 1.1 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Health-Care Index of 52 stocks.  The  board  received “years of red flag warnings of systemic
misconduct,” according to the complaint. “These red flags came
in the form of federal and state regulatory investigations,
subpoenas and requests for documents, FDA Warning Letters, news
articles and the recall of products accounting for hundreds of
millions of dollars in corporate losses.”  Earlier this year, J&J got three letters from shareholders
demanding that it “investigate a variety of alleged issues and
take appropriate action,” according to an Aug. 9 court filing.
The suing shareholders include the Minneapolis Firefighters’
Relief Association and the Hawaii Laborers Pension Fund.  Special Committee  In response, the board voted April 22 to appoint a special
committee to investigate and named four independent directors.
 Charles O. “Chuck” Prince , the former Citigroup Inc. chief
executive officer, was named chairman. Other members of the
committee are  Anne Mulcahy , former CEO of Xerox Corp.;  William D. Perez , former CEO of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co.; and Michael M.E.
Johns, chancellor of Emory University.  The committee appointed Lowenstein Sandler PC of Roseland,
New Jersey, as its independent counsel, according to the filing.
Sidley Austin LLP of Chicago is defending the company in the
derivative litigation.  The case is In Re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation,
10-cv-2033, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net . 