-- Nikkei 225 Rises the Most in Two Weeks on Outlook for U.S., Europe Economy
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2010-12-21T07:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/japanese-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-commodity-prices-gain.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, driving up
benchmark indexes by the most in at least a week, after a U.S.
official said the economy may grow faster than some economists
forecast and China said it’s helping Europe with its debt crisis.  Fanuc Ltd. , Japan’s largest maker of industrial robots,
gained 2.2 percent. Sony Corp., an electronics maker, gained 2.7
percent.  Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest maker of
earthmoving machines, rose 1.5 percent. Japan Tobacco Inc., the
No. 3 publicly traded cigarette maker worldwide, jumped 4
percent after brokerages boosted their stock-price estimates.  “The U.S. economy is strong,” and that affects the global
economy and Japanese stocks, said  Koichi Kurose , chief
strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57
billion. “Surplus money has started moving into shares of
developed countries like Japan.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 1.5 percent to 10,370.53
at the close in Tokyo, the biggest increase since Dec. 2. The
broader Topix index gained 0.9 percent to 906.21, with almost
twice as many shares advancing as declining. Both indexes
climbed to their highest levels since May.  The Topix has  retreated  9.3 percent from its high this year
on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis, China’s steps to curb
property prices and concern about U.S. economic growth damped
confidence in a global recovery.  For the year, the Nikkei 225 has dropped 1.7 percent, while
the Topix is little changed. Shares in the broad index are
valued at 15.7 times  estimated earnings  on average, near a four-
month high.  Fanuc, Sony, Canon  Fanuc, which earns about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
climbed 2.2 percent to 12,420 yen. Sony rallied 2.7 percent to
3,010 yen, the largest contributor to the Topix, followed by
Canon Inc. Canon, the world’s biggest camera maker, advanced 1.6
percent to 4,185 yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.3 percent
yesterday in New York to near its closing level on Sept. 12,
2008, the last trading day before the bankruptcy filing of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard
said provision of stimulus is “reviewable and changeable”
depending on economic growth, which may be stronger next year
than some economists forecast. Bullard said in an interview with
CNBC yesterday that while Europe’s fiscal crisis is “very
serious” and may continue for “quite a while,” recent U.S.
economic data “bodes well” for 2011.  Gains accelerated today after Chinese Vice Premier Wang
Qishan said China has taken “concrete action” to help the
European Union address its debt crisis. Also today, the Bank of
Japan said it will “steadily” provide liquidity in Japan, as a
climb in short-term borrowing costs posed a risk to the
country’s economic expansion.  ‘Getting Better’  “Consensus is forming that the global economy is gradually
getting better,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. “Growth in the world
economy is boosting commodity prices, and surplus money is going
into commodities and stocks.”  Komatsu , which gets about 40 percent of sales in China and
the Americas, increased 1.5 percent to 2,490 yen. Hitachi
Construction Machinery Co., the world’s biggest maker of giant
excavators, rose 1.2 percent to 1,960 yen.  JX Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest refiner, rose 1.5 percent
to 547 yen. Itochu Corp., a trading company that gets more than
30 percent of its sales from energy, metals and minerals,
advanced 1.1 percent to 822 yen.  Oil traded near the highest in two weeks on speculation
that economic growth in the U.S. will accelerate next year,
bolstering demand in the world’s biggest crude-consuming country.
The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including copper
and aluminum climbed 1.1 percent yesterday, rising for the
second day.  Japan Tobacco  jumped 4 percent to 303,500 yen, the highest
close since June 16, after UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. boosted
their share-price estimates and maintained “buy” investment
ratings. Tokai Carbon Co., a maker of carbon-based industrial
products, rallied 3.5 percent to 510 yen after Credit Suisse
Group AG rated the shares “outperform” in new coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 