-- Japan Forecasts Slower Economic Growth as Yen's Strength Threatens Exports
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-12-22T06:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/japan-s-november-exports-increase-9-1-slower-than-economists-estimates.html
Japan’s government said growth will
slow in 2011 as the yen’s 11 percent surge against the dollar
this year threatens the recovery.  Gross domestic product  will probably rise 1.5 percent in
the year starting April 1 after growing a projected 3.1 percent
this year, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.  Shares in Toyota Motor Corp. and Panasonic Corp. fell after
the government also downgraded its assessment of the nation’s
exports, which have been threatened by the currency’s advance to
a 15-year high. Overseas shipments expanded 9.1 percent in
November, missing economists’ estimates, a report by the Finance
Ministry showed today.  “With the yen staying at these high levels, exports will
likely struggle to grow even though demand in advanced nations,
mainly the U.S., will recover,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan
economist at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo.  The yen traded at 83.71 per dollar at 3:34 p.m. in Tokyo.
The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.23 percent, paring gains
posted earlier after a report showed exports accelerated for the
first time in nine months in November.  “We need to keep a close eye on any possible slowdown in
overseas economies and swings in the foreign-exchange rate,”
the government said. “We will continue to take bold action
including currency intervention when necessary, given that an
excessively strengthening yen and its prolongation risk damaging
economic and financial stability.”  Losing Steam  Government data in the past month have shown that
industrial output fell by the most since February 2009, the
jobless rate rose, and machinery orders declined more than
economists’ forecast, signaling the economy is losing steam.  “The economic recovery is clearly losing momentum, while
deflationary pressures are still strong,”  Julian Jessop , a
London-based economist for Capital Economics, said in a note
highlighting the risk that the economy may contract this quarter
and the next. “The room for fiscal stimulus is also now largely
exhausted.”  Japan’s economy is expected to shrink at a 1.9 percent
annual pace in the three months through December, according to a
survey of 42 economists released Dec. 8 by the Economic Planning
Association. Growth was 4.5 percent in the third quarter as
incentives to buy cars and electronics spurred consumer spending.  Sony Corp. , the world’s third-largest television maker, may
miss a target to sell 25 million TVs this fiscal year, Vice
President  Hiroshi Yoshioka  said on Dec. 20.  Falling Short  The company may fall short of its goal for the year ending
in March 31 by a “little bit,” he said without elaborating.
Sony said in October the television industry is heading toward
“harsh competition,” making it difficult to profit from TV
operations this fiscal year.  The Japanese parliament last month passed an extra budget
to fund a stimulus package aimed at fighting deflation and
combating the stronger yen. To foster growth, the Bank of Japan
cut its benchmark interest rate and created an asset-purchase
fund in October.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet last week approved an
outline of tax revisions, including a cut in the corporate tax
rate, to bolster a slowing economy. His government also is
compiling a budget for the next fiscal year.  Kan’s declining popularity and a split parliament may
complicate his efforts to implement new economic policies. The
Kan Cabinet’s approval rating fell to 21 percent, the lowest
since he took office in June, according to a survey by the Asahi
newspaper. The poll was conducted on Dec. 11 and 12, and
compared with a rating of 27 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  