-- JPMorgan Woos `Paranoid' Clients to Money Funds Promising Shorter Maturity
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/jpmorgan-woos-paranoid-clients-to-money-funds-promising-shorter-maturity.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . and a U.S. unit
of French bank  Natixis  SA are offering money-market mutual funds
aimed at wooing back customers spooked by the financial crisis
into moving their money to federally insured deposits.  The new offerings promise to keep the average maturity of
their holdings at 10 days or fewer, one-fourth that of competing
funds, according to the companies and researcher Crane Data LLC.
Shorter maturities allow managers to shift more quickly out of a
troubled issuer and into other securities or cash.  “They are aimed squarely at the paranoid cash manager,”
said  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC in Westborough,
Massachusetts, which tracks the $2.79 trillion industry.  Money-market funds lost their place as the top destination
for short-term corporate investments after the $62.5 billion
 Reserve Primary Fund  collapsed in September 2008, spurring a run
on funds that buy corporate debt. Company treasurers moved cash
to the safety of insured bank deposits, which for more than a
year have also provided more income than money funds because of
historically low interest rates on short-term government and
corporate bonds.  The portion of short-term investments corporate treasuries
held in bank deposits rose to 42 percent from 25 percent two
years earlier, according to a  survey  published in June by the
Association for Financial Professionals in Bethesda, Maryland.
Money-market funds dropped to 25 percent from 39 percent.  10-Day Maximum  The  JPMorgan Current Yield Money Market Fund , opened at the
beginning of October, will maintain an asset-weighted maturity
on holdings of 10 days or fewer under “normal market
conditions,” according to the prospectus. Current Yield is a
prime fund, meaning it invests in corporate debt as well as
government instruments.  Robert Deutsch , head of global liquidity at New York-based
JPMorgan, said the fund’s short duration also will allow it to
move quickly into higher-yielding bonds when the U.S. Federal
Reserve eventually raises interest rates.  RNT Natixis Liquid Prime Portfolio , a prime fund run by
Reich & Tang Asset Management LLC that opened Nov. 30, will
maintain an asset-weighted average maturity of nine days or
fewer, said Tom Nelson, head of sales and marketing at the New
York-based firm.  The average maturity of holdings in prime funds was 43 days
as of Nov. 30, according to Crane.  ‘New Niche’  “Managing funds that short is not a novelty, but promising
never to go above 10 days is unique,”  Peter Rizzo , senior
director of fund services at Standard & Poor’s in New York, said
in a phone interview. “It could be a new niche.”  Liquid Prime provides shareholders with a daily disclosure
of its portfolio, while most money funds reveal holdings monthly
or quarterly. It also discloses a list of approved issuers from
which the fund can buy.  “The focus is less on the absolute level of yield than on
making sure clients can understand what’s in the portfolio and
can see what could be in the portfolio,” Nelson said.  Reserve Primary became the second money-market fund in the
four-decade history of the industry to expose investors to a
principle loss after it wrote down to zero $785 million in debt
from bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Clients pulled out
$230 billion from funds in the week ended Sept. 19, 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 