-- JSW Steel to Acquire Majority Stake in Ispat Industries for $476 Million
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-21T14:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/jsw-steel-plans-to-buy-stake-in-ispat-industries-for-21-6-billion-rupees.html
JSW Steel Ltd. , India’s third-
biggest producer, will take control of  Ispat Industries Ltd.  in
the biggest deal by a local steelmaker in 3 1/2 years as JSW
aims to boost capacity amid rising demand.  JSW will spend 21.6 billion rupees ($476 million) to buy
1.09 billion new shares of Ispat at 19.85 rupees each, it said
in a statement today. The price is 21 percent lower than Ispat’s
closing price yesterday. The deal gives JSW 41.3 percent stake
in the Kolkata-based steelmaker.  Control of  Ispat  will help JSW, part owned by Japan’s
second-largest steelmaker, expand output in India without
investing in new projects that may get stalled by delays in land
acquisition and permits. Proposals for new steel plants worth
more than $80 billion have been held up in the nation in the
past six years.  “The Ispat acquisition is operationally positive
considering the benefits of scale,” analysts  Prasad Baji  and
 Manan Tolat  at Edelweiss Securities Ltd. said in a report today.
Ispat can be turned around with JSW’s “financial strength and
better management,” they said.  Ispat posted a  net loss  of 3.7 billion rupees in the
quarter ended in September,  Seshagiri Rao , chief financial
officer of JSW, said at a press conference in Mumbai. The
acquirer will refinance Ispat’s 85 billion rupees of debt within
nine months, JSW’s Managing Director  Sajjan Jindal  said.  No Waiting  “Building greenfield steel plants is difficult in India as
it requires lot of land, water and mines,” Jindal said. “With
Ispat, we are able to raise capacity without having to wait for
new projects.”  Ispat, owned by the brothers of billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ,
owes about 75 billion rupees to lenders including IFCI Ltd.,
IDBI Bank Ltd. and ICICI Bank Ltd, said Jindal, who will become
Ispat’s chairman. JSW will make an open offer to buy a further
stake in Ispat as required by India’s takeover rules.  Ispat  shares fell 15 percent, the most since January 2008,
to 21.2 rupees at the 3.30 p.m. close in Mumbai. JSW rose 2.1
percent to 1,211.8 rupees. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Benchmark
Sensitive index rose 0.9 percent.  Ispat converted part of its debt into equity on Nov. 26,
issuing 77.7 million shares to lenders. Founder brothers  Pramod Mittal  and  Vinod Mittal  pledged 95 percent of 41.14 percent
 stake  in the company held through investment arms and family
members, according to Bombay Stock Exchange data.  ‘High Prices’  “JSW will have to get raw material linkages to run Ispat’s
factory and the high prices of iron ore and coking coal will
raise the cost of running the company,” said  Rahul Jain , an
analyst at RBS Equities India Ltd. who has a “sell” rating on
JSW.  India’s steel demand, which grew 7.6 percent last fiscal
year, is forecast to grow 10 percent in the year ending March 31,
helped by demand for automobiles and spending on roads and ports,
G.K. Basak, executive secretary of the steel ministry’s joint
plant committee, said on Sept. 6.  JSW’s plan to build a $7.7 billion factory in the state of
Jharkhand is stalled due to delays in getting mines and land.
Mumbai-based JSW will double capacity to 16 million metric tons
by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  