-- High-Yield Bonds Better Buy Than Investment-Grade Next Year, Janney Says
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-12-21T17:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/junk-debt-better-buy-than-investment-grade-in-2011-janney-says.html
High-yield corporate debt is a
better purchase than investment-grade bonds for 2011, as risky
companies strengthen their balance sheets and more-creditworthy
issuers repurchase stock and engage in mergers and acquisitions,
according to Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “Investment-grade issuers are looking to releverage while
high-yield issuers are looking to deleverage,” said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott in Philadelphia. “The flow of dollars seems to be exiting
investment-grade and flowing into high-yield, and that will
really persist into 2011.”  The Philadelphia-based broker-dealer recommends an
“overweight” on high-yield debt, which may post returns of
more than 7 percent in 2011, according to LeBas. Janney
Montgomery Scott maintains its “market weight” rating on
investment-grade bonds, which it cut from “overweight” in
September, according to a report today on its outlook for 2011.  “Market weight” means the firm expects a sector’s total
returns to perform in line with comparable benchmarks, while
“overweight” signals an expected outperformance.  “The high-yield market is getting fundamentally healthier,
and as additional investor dollars flow into it, issuers’
ability to sell debt will improve as well,” LeBas said today in
a telephone interview.  Default Risk  Speculative-grade companies, rated lower than Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s, have “eaten away” at near-term maturities, “pushing
out the major risk of higher defaults to 2013 and beyond,”
according to today’s report. Janney Montgomery forecasts a
speculative-grade default rate of less than 2 percent next year.  The firm said investment-grade debt may return 2 percent to
3 percent in 2011. High-yield bonds have returned 14.28 percent
this year, compared with the 8.79 percent gain on investment-
grade debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  “We’re looking for M&A volumes to increase and the share
repurchase releveraging transaction to dominate the investment-
grade market,” said LeBas, referring to debt-funded share
buybacks.  Expedia Inc., the world’s largest Internet travel agency,
and personal-computer maker Dell Inc. are among companies that
sold bonds this year to raise capital that may be used for stock
purchases. Janney Montgomery Scott forecasts mergers and
acquisitions to increase by about 10 percent next year,
according to today’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 