-- Kenyan President Vows to Boost Security After Blast
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-12-21T16:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/kenya-starts-investigations-into-nairobi-bus-attack-president-kibaki-says.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  pledged
to tighthen security after an explosion late yesterday killed as
many as three people at a bus station in the capital, Nairobi.
Police in neighboring Uganda blamed the blast on Somali Islamist
rebels.  “No efforts will be spared to ensure that security is
beefed up,” Kibaki said in an e-mailed statement today. “Those
behind the evil act will be brought to justice.”  The explosion occurred as passengers boarded a bus heading
for Uganda’s capital, Kampala, injuring at least 30 people. It
comes five months after Somalia’s Al-Shabaab Islamist group
claimed responsibility for bomb blasts in Kampala that killed 76
people as they watched the soccer World Cup on television.  Nairobi-based The Standard newspaper reported that three
people died in the blast. Police believe the explosion may have
been caused by a grenade and that one of the dead included a man
thought to have been carrying the device, it said.  Al-Shabaab may be responsible for the attack, Kale
Kayihura, Uganda’s inspector-general of police, told reporters
in Kampala. It may also be linked to attacks on Kenyan police
this month.  “There is of course a connection,” Kayihura said. “Those
ones who attacked the bus are related.”  ‘Cowardly’ Attack  Kenyan police detained a man in Nairobi in connection with
the explosion, Capital FM radio reported, citing police. It
didn’t give any details.  Jean Ping , chairman of the African Union Commission, said
in an e-mailed statement that the “cowardly terrorist attack”
can’t be justified under any circumstances.  Somalia lies on Kenya’s northern border and hasn’t had a
functioning government since 1991 when dictator  Siad Barre  was
overthrown. Al-Shabaab said at the time of the July blasts that
it was targeting Uganda for deploying troops in Somalia to shore
up the government in its fight against the Islamists. The group
has made repeated threats this year to attack Uganda and
Burundi, which has also sent troops to Somalia.  Kenya, which has pledged to help Uganda track down al-
Shabaab militants, is East Africa’s biggest economy and the
world largest producer of black tea. The Kenya shilling weakened
as much as 0.9 percent to 81.17 per dollar today and was trading
at 80.49 as of 2:40 p.m. in Nairobi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 