-- Kenya Shilling Weakens as Europe Flight Curb Hampers Tourism to the Nation
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-12-21T11:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/kenya-shilling-weakens-as-europe-flight-curb-hampers-tourism-to-the-nation.html
Kenya’s shilling weakened for a
second day in three as adverse weather in Europe curbs tourism
arrivals and damps demand for the currency.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.9 percent to 81.17 per dollar and traded 0.1
percent down at 80.49 per dollar at 1:29 p.m. in Nairobi,
compared with a close of 80.45 yesterday.  “Inflows from the tourism sector are muted because of the
flight cancellations,” Mark Orubia, a trader at Nairobi-based
African Banking Corp., said in a phone interview today.  Snow curbed airlines in Europe for a fourth day as
travelers tried to get home for the Christmas and New Year
holidays. Paris’s Roissy-Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports
stayed open late yesterday to clear a backlog of flights delayed
by the snow, and operating hours were extended for four days at
London’s Heathrow airport, whose second runway will remain
closed until later today. Gatwick airport reopened after
suspending outbound flights because of heavy snow.  Tourism accounts for 11 percent of gross domestic product
in Kenya, and is the second-biggest foreign-exchange earner
after horticulture.  A suspected grenade explosion at a bus terminal in Nairobi
yesterday injured at least 30 people and killed three, including
the man thought to have been carrying the device, the Standard
newspaper reported today.  In July, bomb attacks on two bars in Kampala on the night
of the Soccer World Cup final in South Africa took place,
killing more than 70 people. Al-Shabaab, an Islamist group in
Somalia, claimed responsibility for the attack Al-Shabaab was
likely to be responsible for yesterday’s explosions, Ugandan
police Inspector General Kale Kayihura told reporters in Kampala
today.  “If there will be any effect” on the currency “it will
be marginal because it does not expose a major flaw in the
security system,”  Fred Moturi , a fixed-income dealer at
Nairobi-based Sterling Investment bank Ltd., said in a telephone
interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 