-- Posco Advances Most in Six Months on Report May Buy Stake in Korea Express
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-21T07:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/korea-express-jumps-in-seoul-on-report-posco-interested-in-buying-stake.html
Posco , the world’s second-biggest
producer of stainless steel, rose the most in six months in
Seoul trading after MoneyToday said the company is considering
buying a stake in logistics company Korea Express Co.  Pohang-based Posco gained 5.1 percent to 493,000 won at the
close on the Korea Exchange, the largest gain since June 21.
Seoul-based  Korea Express  rose 3.6 percent to 95,400 won, an 18-
month high. Chung Jae Woong, a Posco spokesman, declined to
comment when reached by phone. Korea Express declined to comment
in an e-mailed response to questions. Korea Exchange Inc., the
nation’s bourse operator, ordered Posco to comment by 6 p.m.  Buying Korea Express, an operator of ships, terminals and
express-delivery trucks, may help Posco save transport costs as
it seeks to boost energy and nonferrous metals businesses,
according to Meritz Securities Co. Korea Express shareholders
Asiana Airlines Inc. and Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co.
said last week they may sell their respective 24 percent stakes.  “It’s good for Posco to add a logistics company as it
tries to diversify its businesses,” said  Shin Yoon Shik , a
Meritz analyst. “Speculation that Posco won’t look at other
costly acquisitions is also giving investors some relief.”  Posco plans to hire an arranger and ask the board about the
potential purchase, according to MoneyToday, the Korean-language
Internet news provider, which didn’t say where it got its
information.  In August, Posco agreed to buy control of Daewoo
International Corp., the steel and crude oil trader, for 3.37
trillion won ($2.9 billion), as Chief Executive Officer Chung
Joon Yang spearheads a $30 billion capacity expansion plan in
countries from India to Indonesia. Posco said in July it would
invest in an iron-ore project in Western Australia and in a
Brazilian mill.  Kumho Asiana Debts  Asiana Airlines said Dec. 16 it may sell its 24 percent
stake in Korea Express as parent Kumho Asiana Group struggles to
repay debt. The group has already sold assets and lost control
of units including Daewoo Engineering, Kumho Industrial Co. and
Kumho Tire Co. to creditors.  Asiana Airlines fell 1.5 percent to 10,000 won. Daewoo
Engineering added 0.4 percent to 12,550 won.  Other Korean steelmakers advanced as benchmark hot-rolled
coil  prices  in China rose to the highest level since May 11
yesterday.  Hyundai Steel Co.  jumped 7.6 percent to 127,000 won,
while  Dongkuk Steel Mill Co.  added 5.7 percent to 34,550 won.
The 45-member Korea Basic Metallic Index was the  best performer 
among the Kospi Index’s 19 industry groups today, rising 5
percent. The broader Kospi added 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ; 