-- New Jersey Voters Back Christie's Salary Cap on Superintendents, Poll Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-21T16:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/n-j-voters-back-christie-cap-on-superintendent-pay-poll-says.html
Almost two-thirds of  New Jersey 
voters back Governor  Chris Christie ’s salary limits for public
school superintendents, a Quinnipiac University poll found.  Sixty-three percent of respondents said Christie’s move to
cap administrative pay at his own $175,000 salary is a “good
way” to balance schools’ budgets and lower property taxes.
Sixty-one percent said they support a 2 percent limit on police
and firefighter raises.  Forty-six percent of voters approved of Christie’s job
performance, down from 51 percent in a Nov. 9 survey. His
approval score is up from 33 percent in a poll taken before he
took office in January. The Republican, 48, has since feuded
with teachers, canceled a commuter-rail tunnel under the Hudson
River and enacted a 2 percent cap on property-tax growth.  “He started the year fighting with the educational
establishment,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac
University Polling Institute, said in an interview. “He seems
to have hit a sore point there and people agree with him. The
war on the educational establishment seems to be working.”  Christie, who ousted Democrat  Jon Corzine  amid voter anger
about the state’s property taxes, proposed the salary caps to
limit growth in bills that averaged $7,281 in 2009. Education
funding generally accounts for the largest portion of the bills.  ‘Snapshot in Time’  Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for the governor, said the poll
is a “snapshot in time” and declined to comment further.  More than 50 school superintendents had salaries of more
than $200,000, according to state Education Department data.
Christie’s administrative-pay cap would cut salaries for 366
people.  Christie, the first Republican in New Jersey to win a
statewide race since 1997, was elected in a state where
registered Republicans account for one-in-five voters.  He was correct in killing the Hudson River commuter tunnel,
voters said 46 percent to 38 percent, the poll found. Sixty-four
percent backed extending New York City’s No. 7 subway line to
New Jersey. Approval dropped to 49 percent when voters were
asked to spend $1 billion on the project.  “As a conservative Republican in a blue state, he’s doing
OK,” Carroll said. “If I was Christie, I’d be happy with this
year. He ended it with a national reputation and locally he
hasn’t won everything but he also hasn’t lost.”  Researchers at Hamden,  Connecticut -based Quinnipiac
surveyed 1,276 New Jersey voters by telephone Dec. 14-19. The
poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.7 percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  