-- Natural Gas Futures Decline in New York on Forecasts of Milder Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-21T15:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/natural-gas-futures-drop-in-new-york-on-forecasts-of-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures fell for the
first day in three on forecasts of moderating temperatures that
may reduce demand for the heating fuel.  Futures declined as temperatures may be normal or above-
normal in the eastern U.S. during the first week of January,
according to MDA Federal Inc’s EarthSat Energy Weather in
Rockville, Maryland. MDA predicted last week colder-than-normal
weather in the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast.  “It’s a simple function of people reacting to the weather
and thin trading ahead of the holidays,” said  Mike Rose , the
director of energy trading for Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida. “The market’s just going to sit around the
$4.20 area, give or take 20 cents.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 7.3 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $4.164 per million British thermal units at 10:33
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have
dropped 0.4 percent this month a1nd 25 percent this year.  The low temperature in New York on Jan. 1 may be 33 degrees
Fahrenheit (1 Celsius), 6 degrees above normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania. The low
temperature in Philadelphia may be 32 degrees Fahrenheit, 5
degrees above normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  U.S. gas  stockpiles  totaled 3.561 trillion cubic feet for
the week ended Dec. 10, 9.9 percent above the five-year average
and 1 percent below last year’s level. The Energy Department may
report a larger-than-average reduction in gas inventories this
week because of cold weather last week in the eastern and
central U.S., analysts predict.  The department may say Dec. 23 that 181 billion cubic feet
of gas were withdrawn from storage during the week ended Dec.
17, according to the median of four analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The five-year average withdrawal from inventories
is 136 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  