-- Cuomo Sues Ernst & Young for Assisting Lehman Brothers in `Repo 105' Fraud
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-21T23:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/new-york-s-cuomo-said-to-plan-fraud-suit-against-lehman-s-accounting-firm.html
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued Ernst & Young LLP, accusing the firm of facilitating
a “major accounting fraud” by helping  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  deceive the public about its financial condition.  For more than seven years before Lehman declared bankruptcy
in 2008, the investment bank engaged in transactions approved by
Ernst & Young whose purpose was to move debt off its balance
sheet and make it appear less leveraged, Cuomo said in a
statement. This was done through what are known as “Repo 105”
transactions.  “This practice was a house-of-cards business model
designed to hide billions in liabilities in the years before
Lehman collapsed,” Cuomo said today in one of his last cases as
attorney general. “Just as troubling, a global accounting firm,
tasked with auditing Lehman’s financial statements, helped hide
this crucial information from the investing public.”  The state  seeks to recover  more than $150 million in fees
collected by Ernst & Young for work performed for Lehman from
2001 to 2008, plus investor damages and equitable relief, Cuomo
said. He will be sworn in as New York governor on Jan. 1. His
successor will be New York Democratic state Senator  Eric T. Schneiderman .  ‘Vigorously Defend’  Ernst & Young intends to “vigorously defend against”
Cuomo’s allegations, the firm said in a statement today. The
accounting for Repo 105 trades conformed with U.S. rules, giving
Cuomo “no factual or legal basis for a claim,” it said.  “Lehman’s audited financial statements clearly portrayed
Lehman as a highly leveraged entity operating in a risky and
volatile industry,” it said, responding to Cuomo’s allegation
that investors were deceived by Lehman’s financial reports.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, failed in
September 2008 because of risky real estate bets and too much
debt, which it tried to hide from investors, partly by using so-
called Repo 105 trades, according to bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas ’s report.  Repo 105 transactions, or sale and repurchase agreements,
are a form of short-term financing that Lehman used to move as
much as $50 billion off its balance sheet temporarily to show
investors it wasn’t carrying too much debt, according to Valukas
and Cuomo. Higher leverage undermines a firm’s capacity to
absorb financial shock, and scares off lenders.  Leverage Ratios  In 2007 and 2008 before Lehman collapsed, the company was
reporting net leverage ratios of 12.5 to 16.1, Cuomo said,
referring to the investment bank’s measure of how much debt it
had. The ratios were “materially misleading” because they
ignored $39 billion to $50 billion of Repo 105 assets that were
temporarily removed from Lehman’s balance sheet, he said. The
investment bank “hid” these assets in a large group of
derivatives in footnotes to its financial statements, he said.  “This aggregation made it impossible for readers of the
financial statements to know that Lehman had engaged in Repo 105
transactions, he said. “E&Y was fully aware of each of these
materially misleading statements by Lehman with respect to net
leverage but took no steps to require Lehman to correct them.”  According to Cuomo, Lehman first accounted for Repo 105
trades as borrowing, then in 2001 used a new accounting rule
with Ernst & Young’s help to portray them as sales. By doing so,
Lehman disguised that it was obligated to take the debt back,
swelling its leverage ratios again, he said.  Repo 105 Impact  “Lehman and E&Y also affirmatively decided not to disclose
the impact of Repo 105 transactions on Lehman’s financial
statements -- and in particular the obligation to repurchase --
to the investing public,” Cuomo said.  Also in 2001,  Lehman  gained approval for the use of Repo
105 trades to manage debt from Ernst & Young partners William
Schlich and Matthew Kurzweil, along with Kevin Reilly, who
handled the accounting firm’s relationship with Lehman, Cuomo
said.  “E&Y understood that the Repo 105 transactions were, as
Reilly described it, designed to “manage balance sheet
metrics,’” he said.  “As the public auditor for Lehman, E&Y had the absolute
obligation to ensure that Lehman’s financial statements complied
with GAAP and did not mislead the public,” Cuomo said in his
lawsuit, referring to generally accepted accounting principles.
Instead, Ernst & Young delivered a clean opinion each year,
Cuomo said. “By doing so, E&Y directly facilitated a major
accounting fraud and helped Lehman mislead the public as to its
true financial condition.”  ‘Blatant Purpose’  Lehman checked with Ernst & Young again in 2002 as it
rapidly expanded its use of repurchase agreements “for the
blatant purpose of reducing the balance sheet,” Cuomo said,
citing a memorandum from Lehman to the accounting firm. Lehman’s
limit on Repo 105 trades was then about $30 billion, he said.  Lehman at times had to go abroad to find an accounting firm
that would classify repurchase agreements as sales, using the
U.K. firm of  Linklaters LLP , according to Cuomo. While
Linklaters’ classification applied only to U.K. transactions,
Lehman used its opinion also for billions of dollars in
government bonds, Cuomo said.  While Schlich has said he was unaware of this use of the
Linklaters opinion, Lehman told him about it, according to
Cuomo, who cited testimony by ex-Lehman financial controller
Martin Kelly.  As credit tightened in 2007 and 2008,  Lehman ’s Repo 105
trades shot up to as much as $50 billion. The investment bank
portrayed the trades in internal documents as “a low cost way
to offset the balance sheet and leverage impact of current
market conditions,” according to Cuomo.  ‘Frantic’ Use  The attorney general cites e-mails within Lehman near the
close of quarterly financial reporting periods when the use of
the debt-reducing devices became “frantic,” he said.  “We have a desperate situation and I need another 2
billion from you, either through Repo 105 or outright sales,” a
Lehman financial executive wrote to the firm’s fixed income
group in the first quarter of 2008. “The cost is irrelevant, we
need to do it.”  In a July 2008 e-mail, Lehman’s Michael McGarvey, a senior
member of Lehman’s finance group, said he considered the Repo
105 program to be “window dressing” based on “legal
technicalities.”  Ernst & Young audited Lehman’s 2007 results and reviewed
the investment bank’s 2008 quarterly financial statements, Cuomo
said. “At a time when disclosure was most warranted, when
Lehman was facing severe liquidity problems in 2007 and 2008 and
its leverage was too high in the view of the financial community
on which Lehman depended for capital, the fraud grew even
larger.”  Lehman’s ‘Responsibility’  Responding to the Valukas report in March, Ernst & Young
said leverage ratios reported in Lehman’s management discussion
and  analysis  “were the responsibility of management, not the
auditor. They are not part of the audited financial
statements.”  Auditors are required to read such statements by management
in case something conflicts with details in the financial
statements they’ve audited, said Barry Epstein, an accountant
who has done work for the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “They should have reviewed enough of the firm’s
transactions to see that it was engaging in window dressing,”
Epstein said.  Class Action  Ernst & Young has been named in at least one class-action
lawsuit accusing former Lehman Chairman  Richard Fuld  and other
executives of misleading investors by using devices such as Repo
105. Responding to one suit, filed in April on behalf of
retirement funds including the Alameda County Employees’
Retirement Association in Oakland, California, Ernst & Young
said in court papers that even Valukas “did not find that
Lehman’s accounting for the Repo 105 transactions was wrong.”  In his report, Valukas faulted the accounting firm because
it “did not evaluate the possibility that Repo 105 transactions
were accounting-motivated transactions that lacked a business
purpose,” and didn’t take a stand on whether Lehman’s extensive
use of the device was “material” and should be reported.  “Financial statements may be materially misleading even
when they do not violate GAAP,” he wrote in his report.  In December 2009, Ernst & Young and some of its partners
paid $8.5 million to settle SEC allegations that they knew or
should have known about fraudulent accounting by Bally Total
Fitness Holding Corp. In June 2009, the firm paid $109 million
to settle investor claims the auditor didn’t find a $2.7 billion
fraud at HealthSouth Corp.  Arthur Andersen  Cuomo, who has powers to bring criminal charges, brought a
civil suit against Ernst & Young. Arthur Andersen LLP, the
accounting firm that was accused of destroying Enron Corp.
documents, was convicted of obstructing justice in 2002 and is
now largely defunct.  “Regulators are concerned there will be no competitors
left” to audit U.S. companies, Epstein said.  The Cuomo lawsuit is People of the state of New York by
Andrew Cuomo v. Ernst & Young, 451586/2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Lehman’s bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The class action lawsuit is In re Lehman
Brothers Equity/Debt Securities Litigation, 08-cv-05523, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 