-- New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania to Lose House Seats After U.S. Census
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-21T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/new-york-new-jersey-pennsylvania-to-lose-house-seats-after-u-s-census.html
New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania will lose political influence in Congress over the
next decade as job losses in the region contributed to slower
population growth, according to government data released today.  New York will have 27 seats in the U.S. House of
Representatives, down from 29, the Census Bureau said in
Washington. The agency’s state-by-state headcounts for 2010
determine reapportionment of the 435 seats in the House, one of
the two chambers in Congress.  The slowing pace of population growth in the Northeast is
a decades-long trend spurred in part by the decline of
manufacturing jobs in the region. The faster-growing South and
West regions will gain House seats, as companies have been
shifting jobs there in response to financial incentives by
state and local governments and the lack of strong labor
unions.  “States are willing to give huge tax benefits to
companies that locate there,” said  Ross Baker , a political
scientist at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  The decline in New York marks the seventh consecutive
decade in which it will have lost House seats. With 27 seats
for the next decade, the state will have its smallest
delegation in 200 years and will dip to 40 percent below its
high of 45 seats after the 1930 and 1940 reapportionments.  New Jersey  New Jersey will lose one representative in the House,
bringing its tally to 12, based on today’s 2010 Census  data .
That will be the lowest total for the state since 1920 and will
mark the second time in the past three decades it will have
lost seats.  Pennsylvania will see its representation fall to 18,
compared with 19 this past decade. The state’s House delegation
will be reduced for the ninth consecutive reapportionment. It
had 36 seats a century ago.  New York’s population during the past decade grew 2.1
percent, to 19.4 million, compared with 5.5 percent the
previous 10 years, today’s census data showed. In New Jersey,
growth slowed to 4.5 percent, from 8.9 percent in the 1990s.  Pennsylvania saw its population expand 3.4 percent between
2000 and 2010 -- the same as the previous decade.  Payrolls at manufacturers in Pennsylvania declined 35
percent during the last 10 years, according to estimates from
Moody’s using data from the U.S. Labor Department. During that
same period the  unemployment rate  climbed 8.6 percent from 4.1
percent, government figures show.  Jobless Rate  The  jobless rate in New Jersey  this past decade increased
to 9.2 percent, from 3.8 percent.  Unemployment in New York  in
November was 8.3 percent, compared with 4.7 percent in January
2000, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  The lack of employment has dealt a blow to state and
municipal budgets, resulting in job cuts for government
workers.  “All three states had employment fall between 2000 and
2010,” said  Steven Cochrane , director of regional economics at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “The
biggest losses were in manufacturing. When you look at where
there was growth, it’s almost all in education and health
care.”  Some companies in the Northeast are still cutting workers.
 West Pharmaceutical Services Inc. , based in Lionville,
Pennsylvania, on Dec. 7 announced plans to close a
manufacturing facility in the state, resulting in the loss of
about 170 jobs.  Closed Plants  In May, New York-based Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest
drugmaker, said it would close eight manufacturing plants,
including one in Rouses Point, New York and another in Pearl
River, New York.  Budget shortfalls among municipal and state governments
also have spurred job losses.  New York City, facing a $3.3 billion deficit in next
year’s budget, will cut its workforce by more than 10,000 over
the next year-and-a-half, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s budget
office reported last month. More than 6,200 workers will be
fired, and the remaining cuts, from a city that employs 300,000
people, will be accomplished by attrition, the mayor’s office
said in a report. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Seats Reapportioned  Congressional seats are  reapportioned  every decade after
completion of the census, with each district to have roughly
the same number of people. After the 2000 Census, each member
was supposed to represent about 647,000 people, which will now
increase to about 710,000 to reflect the nation’s growth.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who rose
to national prominence in a state where his party accounts for
just one in five registered voters, said he anticipates a fight
as congressional districts are redrawn.  Christie’s support helped Republican U.S. Representative-
elect  Jon Runyan  defeat Democratic incumbent  John Adler  in the
November midterm elections.  “It’s going to be intensely partisan because someone’s
going to have to lose a seat,” Christie said. “Whenever
someone’s ox is getting gored it becomes intensely personal.”  The reapportionment will also alter electoral vote
calculations. A state’s Electoral College vote is the sum of
its House seats, plus its two Senate seats. That could provide
assistance to Republicans as they prepare to oppose a re-
election bid by President  Barack Obama .  South, West Gained  The U.S. population grew to 308,745,538 residents since
the last census count in 2000. That’s up 9.7 percent, compared
with 13 percent the previous decade, today’s figures showed.  The South and West gained at the Northeast’s expense in
part because of the proliferation of technological advances
such as air-conditioning that have boosted the attractiveness
of warm-weather states.  “There was a time when people would think twice about
moving to a state like Georgia from a state like New Jersey
because the summers are so intolerable,” Baker said. “But now
with virtually everything air-conditioned, including
automobiles, the disincentive to move to a hot-weather state is
largely removed.”  California surpassed New York to become the nation’s most
populous state in the 1960s. Texas overtook New York in the
1990s. Florida, now 577,000 people behind New York, will likely
surpass that state later this decade, based on the census data.  Data from the 2010 Census will affect the allocation of
about $4 trillion in government funds during the next 10 years.
The agency will release detailed demographics for individual
states starting in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Giroux  in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  