-- New Zealand's Economy May Have Stalled as Quake Slowed Housing, Factories
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-12-21T22:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/new-zealand-s-economy-may-have-stalled-as-quake-slowed-housing-factories.html
New Zealand’s economy may have
almost stalled in the third quarter as the nation’s worst
earthquake in eight decades slowed housing and manufacturing.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.1 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, according to the
median of 15 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  before a
government report tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The
economy expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter.  Slowing growth adds to the case for central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  to keep interest rates unchanged until at least the
second quarter next year to revive consumer confidence from a
17-month low and bolster housing demand. That outlook has pushed
the country’s currency down 6.7 percent from a 2 ½-year high
reached in early November, and some economists predict it may
weaken further next year.  “The economy has not gained as much traction as we had
hoped through the middle parts of 2010,” said  Nick Tuffley ,
chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “The household
sector has been very soft,” and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand
may wait until June to raise the cash rate, he said.  Five of 12 economists surveyed on Dec. 10 by Bloomberg News
expect Bollard will keep the official cash rate at 3 percent
until the April-to-June period, and three forecast the next
boost will happen after June 30. Four predict a move in the
first three months of the year.  Bollard’s Forecast  A majority of economists surveyed predict third-quarter
growth was slower than the 0.3 percent Bollard  estimated  on Dec.
9. His forecast was completed before reports that manufacturing
sales and homebuilding shrank during the same period.  A government report earlier today showed New Zealand’s
current-account deficit was NZ$1.77 billion ($1.32 billion) in
the three months to Sept. 30 compared with a revised NZ$987
million in the second quarter, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today. That was narrower than the NZ$2.3 billion
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists.  After the report, the New Zealand dollar was little changed,
trading at 74.37 U.S. cents at 11:40 a.m. in Wellington from
74.38 cents immediately before the data.  Growth hasn’t been as slow as 0.1 percent since the April-
June period in 2009, when the economy was recovering from five
straight quarterly contractions as the global credit crisis
contributed to the nation’s worst recession in three decades.  2009 Recovery  Growth returned through the middle of 2009, buoyed by a
housing recovery and demand for the nation’s  commodity  exports
from China and Asia.  Still, the pace of expansion slowed as consumers and
companies preferred to reduce debt rather than spend or invest.
Four economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the economy shrank
in the quarter, and two expect no growth.  On Dec. 9, the central bank cut its 2010 growth forecast
and said borrowing costs needed to stay low until the recovery
became more robust.  Bollard lowered his 2010 outlook to 1.8 percent from 2.6
percent, citing domestic spending and the housing market.  Retail spending fell in July and was unchanged in August,
although there was a gain in September before an Oct. 1 increase
in the sales tax. A home-price index dropped in September and
October, and prices declined in the third quarter from a March
peak, the Real Estate Institute said last week.  Quake Effects  The magnitude 7 earthquake that rocked Christchurch city
and surrounding districts on Sept. 4 curbed retail spending and
manufacturing in the final month of the quarter as offices and
factories closed, the central bank said Dec. 9.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand has estimated the cost of
the rebuilding will be at least NZ$5 billion ($3.7 billion)
spread mainly over 2011 and 2012.  Sales at  Smiths City Group Ltd. , a Christchurch-based
furniture and appliances retailer, fell 12 percent in the three
months ended Oct. 31 from a year earlier, it said on Nov. 4.
Roads around its central city store were partly or completely
closed, the company said in a statement sent to the stock
exchange.  Weaker construction, manufacturing and exports likely
curbed growth in the quarter, economists said. The nation’s
currency gained 7.2 percent against the U.S. dollar in the third
quarter and yesterday was still about 6 percent higher than a
year earlier.  Commercial Building  The value of residential construction fell 5.3 percent from
the second quarter, Statistics New Zealand said on Dec. 8.
Commercial building also declined in the quarter, reducing the
demand for structural steel and reinforcing, Steel & Tube
Holdings Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Dave Taylor  told the
annual meeting in Wellington last month.  Manufacturing sales fell for a third straight quarter,
declining 1.4 percent, according to a statistics report Dec. 8.
 Export volumes  fell in the third quarter led by meat, dairy and
forestry shipments, according to figures on Dec. 10.  “The New Zealand economy has some serious structural and
growth issues that will likely weigh on the currency in 2011,”
TD Securities strategists including  Annette Beacher , head of
Asia-Pacific research in Singapore, wrote in a research note
this week.  The South Pacific island’s credit-rating outlook was
lowered to negative by Standard & Poor’s last month, and “it’s
unlikely to make much progress in closing its output gap in
2011,” the TD Securities strategists said.  Still, farm production is expected to have rebounded after
a drought affected milk production in the three months to June.
Exports account for about 30 percent of New Zealand’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  