-- News Corp. Wins EU Antitrust Approval for BSkyB Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-21T17:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/news-corp-wins-eu-antitrust-approval-for-bskyb-deal.html
News Corp.  doubts it will get a fair
hearing from the U.K. government over the planned acquisition of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  after Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  reportedly “declared war” on Chairman  Rupert Murdoch .  News Corp. is “shocked and dismayed” by the reports of
Cable’s comments, spokeswoman  Miranda Higham  said today. “They
raise serious questions about fairness and due process.”  “I have declared war on Mr. Murdoch and I think we are
going to win,” Cable said, according to the Daily Telegraph
newspaper which cited a secretly recorded conversation. A
spokeswomen for Cable said she had no immediate comment.  News Corp., the owner of four of the biggest-selling
British newspapers, is waiting for the U.K. to rule on whether
the deal to take full control of BSkyB, the country’s biggest
pay-TV operator, gives Rupert Murdoch too much power over
Britain’s media. The company today won European Union approval
for the proposed purchase.  Cable is “exercising some sort of quasi judicial role in
the whole process and he has to maintain an element of fairness
in his decision-making,” said Robert Bell, a London-based
antitrust lawyer with  Speechly Bircham LLC . “His reported
comments go contrary to that and in many ways he’s in an
untenable position.”  Media Plurality  British media regulator Ofcom has a Dec. 31 deadline to
recommend to  Cable  whether to start a Competition Commission
probe on how the deal might affect the British media landscape.
Cable said earlier today he will review Ofcom’s findings after
lawmakers return to parliament on Jan. 10 and decide if the case
should be referred to the Competition Commission for a full
investigation.  “The issue has always been media plurality, and that is
not really something the EU can opine on,” said  Guy Peddy , an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in London. “The key issues
behind multiple TV, printed media ownership in the U.K. and what
that means politically haven’t changed an iota.”  While the issues are significant, they can probably be
resolved by offering remedies,  Simon Holmes , a lawyer with  SJ
Berwin LLP  in London, said in a phone interview.  The most likely remedies would concern editorial
independence, Holmes said. “Whether they would go as far as
requiring a divestiture of Sky News, I’m more skeptical.”  Steady Cash Flow  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of BSkyB, asked the EU on Nov. 3 to approve its
proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June
rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer, saying it was too
low. The companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new
offer is made.  The takeover of BSkyB by the publisher of the Wall Street
Journal won’t “significantly impede effective competition,”
the European Commission said in an e-mailed statement today. The
approval doesn’t prejudice the U.K. government’s own review “to
protect its legitimate interest in media plurality.”  The EU regulator said today News Corp. lacks “sufficient
market power” in the market for broadcasting rights for premium
movie content. It also said there would be no competition
concerns for newspaper publishers.  The U.K. government decision may create a dilemma for the
coalition of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative
Party was backed by Murdoch’s newspaper the Sun in Britain’s May
general election. Cable is the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in
Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition.  The Business Secretary will decide on the bid based on the
“rule of law rather than the commercial noise and lobby of
competitors,” BSkyB Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith 
said in October.  Cable “could be accused of procedural unfairness and there
will be serious questions about due process not being followed”
Speechly Bircham’s Bell said today. “That would render his
decision open to judicial review.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 