-- News Corp. Wins EU Antitrust Approval for BSkyB Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-21T14:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/news-corp-wins-european-union-antitrust-approval-to-take-control-of-bskyb.html
News Corp.  won European Union
approval to take full control of pay-TV broadcaster  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc , leaving the U.K. to rule on whether the
deal gives  Rupert Murdoch  too much power over Britain’s media.  The takeover of BSkyB by the publisher of the Wall Street
Journal won’t “significantly impede effective competition,”
the European Commission said in an e-mailed statement today. The
approval doesn’t prejudice the U.K. government’s own review “to
protect its legitimate interest in media plurality.”  British media regulator Ofcom is carrying out a separate
probe into whether the takeover by the owner of four of the
biggest-selling U.K. newspapers would give too much media
control to News Corp. It has a Dec. 31 deadline to recommend to
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  the start of a Competition
Commission probe on how the deal might affect the British media
landscape.  “From an EU perspective there wasn’t really an issue,”
said  Guy Peddy , an analyst at Macquarie Securities in London.
“The issue has always been media plurality, and that is not
really something the EU can opine on. The key issues behind
multiple TV, printed media ownership in the U.K. and what that
means politically haven’t changed an iota.”  Cable said today he will review Ofcom’s findings after
lawmakers return to parliament on Jan. 10 and decide if the case
should be referred to the Competition Commission for a full
investigation.  ‘Plurality Issues’  “The plurality issues are significant, they merit detailed
investigation,”  Simon Holmes , a lawyer with SJ Berwin LLP in
London, said in a phone interview. “It’s more likely than not
that the deal goes ahead,” with some commitments.  The most likely remedies would concern editorial
independence, Holmes said. “Whether they would go as far as
requiring a divestiture of Sky News, I’m more skeptical.”  Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., attempting to gain from the
steady subscription business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV
operator, asked the EU on Nov. 3 to approve its proposed 7.8
billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB
that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June rejected the initial
700 pence a share offer, saying it was too low. The companies
are seeking regulatory approval before a new offer is made.  The commission opted not to impose any remedies after News
Corp. earlier this month offered undertakings in its bid to win
EU antitrust approval for the deal.  The EU regulator said today News Corp. lacks “sufficient
market power” in the market for broadcasting rights for premium
movie content. It also said there would be no competition
concerns for newspaper publishers.  Cable’s decision may create a dilemma for the coalition
government of Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose Conservative
Party was backed by Murdoch’s newspaper the Sun in Britain’s May
general election. Cable, 67, is the No. 2 Liberal Democrat in
Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition.  The Business Secretary will decide on the bid based on the
“rule of law rather than the commercial noise and lobby of
competitors,” BSkyB Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith  said
in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net 
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 