-- North Korea to Allow Nuclear Inspections as Tension Eases, Richardson Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-21T09:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/north-korea-agrees-to-new-uranium-inspections-richardson-says.html
North Korea indicated a willingness
to avoid further confrontation with South Korea and resume talks
on its nuclear program, New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson  said
today after an unofficial visit to the Communist country.  “I noticed a pragmatic attitude on their part, a more
realistic attitude,” Richardson told reporters in Beijing,
according to a transcript provided by AP Television. “When I
pushed hard for non-retaliation, I saw a little bit of movement
in a positive direction.”  The Kospi Index  climbed  to a more than 3-year high in Seoul
and the won snapped three days of declines after North Korea
didn’t retaliate to military drills yesterday on Yeonpyeong
Island, which it had shelled last month, killing two South
Korean soldiers and two civilians.  Richardson said  yesterday  that North Korea had agreed to
let inspectors visit its uranium enrichment facilities and may
sell South Korea surplus fuel rods that had been the focus of
proliferation concerns. The former U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and Secretary of Energy under President  Bill Clinton  has
made a number of private trips to Pyongyang to engage the
country’s reclusive leadership.  China, which has been criticized by the Obama
administration for not doing more to restrain its communist ally,
said it welcomed diplomatic efforts to reduce tension.  “China has always supported contact between North Korea
and the U.S.,” Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told
reporters in Beijing today when asked about Richardson’s visit.
“China hopes such contacts can be beneficial to the resumption
of six-party talks and an appropriate solution to relevant
issues.”  Opportunity for Dialogue  Richardson said today he hoped North Korea’s decision not
to respond to the South’s military exercises close to a disputed
sea border might provide an opening for official talks.  “Let’s use that opportunity for all sides to start
talking,” he said. “There’s been no dialogue for several
months, maybe this is an opportunity to have that dialogue
restart.”  In Washington, State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley 
said yesterday that Richardson, who was on a private trip, had
not been charged with negotiating on behalf of the U.S. He said
Richardson would brief the State Department on his return.  Richardson said he had reached agreement to let inspectors
from the  International Atomic Energy Agency  have access to the
North’s uranium enrichment facility as well as agreement to
allow a third party “such as South Korea” to buy the fuel rods
from the North.  Not Enough  Crowley said Richardson’s declaration was not enough to
restart six-party disarmament talks with North Korea that
stalled in 2009.  “If they meet their international obligations, take
affirmative steps to reduce tensions in the region and take
affirmative steps to denuclearize, we will respond
accordingly,” he said.  North Korea said yesterday it had no need to respond to all
military provocations, and the official Korean Central News
Agency called the drill “a childish play with fire of
cowards.” Even so, it said, a “powerful retaliatory strike”
might “lead to blowing up the bases of the U.S. and South
Korean puppet warmongers” at any time.  Yeonpyeong Island abuts the western coast sea border that
North Korea says is illegal and that the South insists it will
police. An emergency meeting of the Security Council ended Dec.
19 without agreement as China blocked moves to condemn the North
and Russia urged that the drills be scrapped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  