-- NYSE Tweaks Trading Prices to Appeal to High-Frequency Firms
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-21T18:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/nyse-tweaks-trading-prices-to-appeal-to-high-frequency-firms.html
The New York Stock Exchange is
changing prices for transactions on its market for the first
time since May as it seeks to lure more business from high-
frequency trading firms, according to an exchange  notice .  Brokers and traders will pay 23 cents per 100 shares
starting in January to execute against bids and offers at the
exchange, 2 cents higher than the  current charge . Those placing
orders that wait for executions at the Big Board, the largest
U.S. equities venue, will get a rebate of 15 cents, up from 13
cents. The difference between the fee and payout will stay the
same.  Higher pricing enables NYSE to give more money to the  10
firms  that make markets on the exchange as so-called
supplemental liquidity providers, which now account for almost
15 percent of its trading. NYSE will also offer them different
rebates based on the volume they add on the exchange.  “The tiers are another incentive to firms to grow the SLP
program,” said  Colin Clark , senior vice president for strategic
analysis at  NYSE Euronext . “There are a variety of different
participants with different activity levels, so layering in some
tiers to drive more liquidity-provider activity is what we’re
after.”  Adding Liquidity  U.S. equity exchanges adopted pricing programs that reward
firms for posting bids and offers on their platforms after a
decade of reform cut the profitability of market making. Faster
computers and measures such as pricing stocks in penny
increments reduced the so-called spread that once compensated
professionals for keeping trading orderly, spurring exchanges to
pay rebates to firms that carry out the same function through
high-speed strategies.  NYSE ’s share of trading in stocks listed on its market in
the fourth quarter is expected to be 23.3 percent, according to
a Barclays Capital research report yesterday, down from 25.5
percent in the third quarter and 25.6 percent a year earlier.  Firms that provide a daily average each month of 50 million
shares traded will receive rebates of 22 cents per share, or a
penny lower than the fee to execute immediately. Firms meeting
lower volume thresholds will get 21 cents or 20 cents.
Currently, all SLPs adding more than 10 million shares across
their assigned securities get a penny less than the fee charged
to remove liquidity.  Maker-Taker  If SLPs provide and take roughly the same number of shares,
maintaining a 1-cent spread between the fee and rebate isn’t
likely to affect their trading. For those primarily adding
liquidity, the higher rebates will enable them to earn more to
help offset the bid and offer prices they send the exchange.
SLPs must quote at the national best bid or offer -- the highest
price at which investors can sell shares and the lowest at which
they can buy -- an average of 10 percent of the day each month
to get higher rebates than  are available  to other member firms.  Trading by the SLPs accounted for 14.6 percent of NYSE
volume in November, up from 12.4 percent in September, Clark
said. High-frequency firms Tradebot Systems Inc. in Kansas City,
Missouri and New York-based HRT Financial LLC became official
market makers on NYSE in September.  “We’ve seen a meaningful increase with the addition of
Tradebot and HRT,” Clark said. While Spear, Leeds & Kellogg
Specialists LLC, owned by a division of New York-based  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. , left the program this year, another brokerage
unit within the bank remains an SLP.  Market Makers  NYSE also has five “designated markets makers,” including
a New York-based unit of Barclays Capital, the investment
banking arm of Barclays Plc in London, and Spear Leeds. Those
firms oversee the opening and closing auctions in the stocks
they represent and can choose to meet higher quoting
requirements to earn bigger rebates. While each stock has one
DMM, it may have multiple market makers.  Nasdaq Stock Market, the second-largest U.S. exchange, had
 136 market makers  in November, with an average of 15 per
security, according to the company’s website. Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. doesn’t give market makers better  pricing  than other firms
trading on its market.  NYSE Euronext is also introducing a discount tier for
orders sent to the Big Board’s closing auction and new pricing
for trading on NYSE Amex.  NYSE, Nasdaq  While the largest exchanges -- including NYSE and Nasdaq --
employ what’s called maker-taker pricing that pays those
providing liquidity on their venue and charges firms executing
against those orders, an alternative pricing setup has gained
traction over the last couple years.  Four stock markets -- BYX Exchange, EDGA Exchange, Nasdaq
OMX BX and  CBOE Stock Exchange  -- do the opposite of NYSE,
paying traders to execute against orders at their markets while
the firms that submitted those bids and offers are charged a
fee. CBSX, one of the smallest stock exchanges, pays firms 18
cents, the highest rate, for orders executed immediately.  BYX is owned by Bats Global Markets, based in Kansas City,
Missouri. EDGA Exchange is run by Direct Edge Holdings LLC in
Jersey City, New Jersey. The companies run two exchanges each,
and totaled 20 percent of U.S. equities trading in November.  Nasdaq OMX BX is also  altering  its pricing in January. It
will pay firms executing immediately 14 cents instead of its
current 2 cents, and will charge them 18 cents instead of 4
cents for providing orders. That pricing replicates what’s
available on CBSX, owned by Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc.  and
a group of brokers.  CBSX, based in New York, tested the pricing starting in
August and expanded it to all stocks in October as it gained
volume. In November, CBSX’s share of trading in  Citigroup Inc. ,
one of the most actively traded stocks, was 0.9 percent,
compared with less than 0.1 percent a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 