-- Oil Advances Amid Optimism U.S. Economic Growth Will Accelerate Next Year
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-21T13:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/oil-advances-amid-optimism-u-s-economic-growth-will-accelerate-next-year.html
Oil traded near a two-week high on
speculation that economic growth in the U.S. will accelerate
next year, bolstering demand in the world’s biggest crude-
consuming country.  Futures rose as much as 0.6 percent as traders bet data
tomorrow will show U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a
faster pace than economists’ estimates. Oil stockpiles decreased
for a third week, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts before an Energy Department report. Chinese officials
said today the country is poised to raise gasoline prices.  “There has been an insatiable appetite from hedge funds
and other investors as oil demand picks up,” said Christopher
Bellew, senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London. “But
if higher internal fuel prices and monetary tightening slow
Chinese growth, and Northern Hemisphere temperatures warm up,
the oil market could come off the boil.”  Crude for February delivery was at $89.76 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 44
cents, at 1:41 p.m. London time. It rose as high as $89.94, its
strongest since Dec. 7. Brent crude for February settlement was
at $93.08 a barrel, up 34 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  U.S. GDP grew 2.8 percent in the third quarter, up from an
estimate of 2.5 percent last month, based on the median forecast
of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Commerce
Department report at 10:30 a.m. in Washington tomorrow.  Chinese Prices  China, the world’s largest energy user, will raise the
price of gasoline by 310 yuan ($47) a metric ton and diesel by
300 yuan a ton from tomorrow, according to two officials who had
been notified of the increase and declined to be identified as
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  Oil, which rallied 78 percent in 2009, has advanced 13
percent this year on signs of a global economic recovery and as
stockpiles decreased.  U.S.  crude inventories  probably fell last week as refiners
on the Gulf Coast reduced their assets for tax savings at the
end of the year, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Stockpiles dropped 3.5 million barrels in the seven days
ended Dec. 17 from 346 million, based on the median  estimate  of
seven analysts before the report. Supplies in the previous week
slumped 9.85 million, the most since May 2008, as imports fell.  Not Much Direction  “The economic situation can support the upside further,
although liquidation of long positions may be possible with no
change in fundamentals,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a Tokyo-based
commodity derivative sales manager at Newedge, a brokerage. “I
don’t think we can see much direction during the week, which
means continuing range-bound trade between $87 and $90.”  Gasoline inventories may have increased by a median 1.5
million barrels from 214.8 million, the survey showed.
Distillate fuel stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel,
were probably unchanged last week at 161.3 million.  “Now that gasoline prices have broken to the upside, we
have to expect heating oil and crude oil prices to follow,”
 Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy
adviser in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  