-- London’s Top 10 New Restaurants of the Year: Richard Vines
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/london-s-top-10-new-restaurants-of-the-year-richard-vines.html
Selecting the best new London
restaurants this year is easy because there are plenty, and
many offer value for money as well as good food and service.  There has been no flight to the safety of familiar dishes
and no-risk wines. More adventurous choices are on offer and
culinary novelties include the advent of the kimchi burger.  Here’s my Top 10:  28-50: This wine bar on Fetter Lane is the brainchild of
sommelier Xavier Rousset and chef Agnar Sverrisson of Texture,
a restaurant that just keeps getting better. At 28-50, much of
the focus is on unusual, good-value wines, yet the food is far
from playing second fiddle. Chef Paul Walsh spent the previous
five years at the three-Michelin-star Restaurant  Gordon Ramsay 
and he works wonders in a tiny kitchen. Best dish: Onglet of
beef, chips, sauce Choron (15.50 pounds/$24).
 http://www.2850.co.uk/ .  Bar Boulud: New York chef Daniel Boulud’s bistro at the
Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park was the hit of the year. Alongside
classic dishes such as coq au vin were options such as spicy
Tunisian sausages and a Moroccan-style terrine of slow-cooked
leg of lamb with aubergine and sweet potato. Best dish: Yankee
Burger with cheese and fries (13.25 pounds).
 http://www.barboulud.com/barbouludLondon.html .  Bistrot Bruno Loubet: Bruno Loubet was one of London’s
most lauded chefs in the 1990s, with restaurants such as
L’Odeon. His return to the U.K. after spending much of the
past decade in Australia has been a triumph, turning the
generally neglected dining room of the Zetter Hotel into a
gourmet destination. It can be hard to get a table, and the
service has been stretched at times by the crowds, yet this is
a bistro that is always worth the trip. Best dish: Hare
royale, macaroni and spinach gratin (20 pounds).
 http://www.bistrotbrunoloubet.com/ .  Brawn: This East London restaurant builds on the success
of its big brother Terroirs, specializing in charcuterie and
well-sourced seasonal dishes prepared with a minimum of fuss.
Brawn is as stripped down as St. John, with which there is a
spiritual connection, but chef Ed Wilson is no copycat. He’s
doing his own thing, serving natural food and wine mainly from
southern Europe with a generosity that feeds your enjoyment.
Best dish: Baked field mushrooms, bone marrow, garlic and
parsley (5 pounds). 49 Columbia Road, E2 7RG. Tel. +44-20-
7729-5692. (No website.)  Les Deux Salons: Chef  Anthony Demetre  and front-of-house
business partner Will Smith here take to a bigger stage the
winning formula they developed at Arbutus and Wild Honey: fine
food and value for money combined with an entire wine list
available by the glass and carafe. Demetre tends to use
cheaper cuts rather than luxury ingredients and so is able,
for example, to offer a three-course pretheater menu for 15.50
pounds. The service was uneven in the opening days. Best dish:
Starter of ravioli of rose veal, fresh goat’s curd, cavolo
nero (8.95 pounds.  http://www.lesdeuxsalons.co.uk/ .  Hawksmoor (Seven Dials): If you thought the original
Hawksmoor in Spitalfields was popular, try getting a table at
the new place, in a former brewery in Covent Garden. Few of us
would normally favor dining underground, yet this steak house
and cocktail bar is so buzzy and beautifully designed, it’s a
pleasure from the moment you start to descend the staircase.
The bar menu is best and it’s worth trying for options such as
the kimchi burger in the restaurant itself. Don’t forget the
beef-dripping chips. Best dish: Warm lobster roll with garlic
and hazelnut butter, Bearnaise on the side (25 pounds).
 http://www.thehawksmoor.co.uk/ .  Koffmann’s: Chef  Pierre Koffmann  is revered and respected
by his peers. He evolved the rustic food of his childhood in
southwest France to the level of three-Michelin-star
gastronomy at La Tante Claire, and then retired from the stove
after the death of his wife. He’s back now with nothing to
prove, creating the kind of food he likes to eat and he’s in
the kitchen every day, doing what he loves. Best dish: Pig’s
trotter stuffed with sweetbreads and morels (28 pounds).
 http://www.the-berkeley.co.uk/koffmanns.aspx .  Polpetto: This New York-style, casual Italian eatery
above the French House pub in Soho is the creation of  Russell Norman , the restaurateur behind Polpo. Snacks start at 1 pound
and a dish such as crispy soft-shell crab, parmesan batter,
fennel salad is 8 pounds, which goes some way to explaining
the waiting lines. While you can’t book for dinner, it’s worth
the wait. Best dish: Panacotta, blackberries, salted hazelnut
praline (6 pounds).  http://www.polpetto.co.uk/ .  Savoy Grill: Gordon Ramsay Holdings looked to have lost
its nerve with the opening of Petrus, which lacked ambition.
The Savoy Grill is an adventurous leap back to an age where
the style is understated flamboyance and the vehicle is a
trolley for tableside service and dishes such as mandarin
baked Alaska flambe. It’s fun, glamorous and a return to form
for Ramsay. Best dish: Steamed steak-and-onion pudding with
onion sauce (18 pounds).
 http://www.gordonramsay.com/thesavoygrill/ .  Zucca: Italian food in London just gets better and Zucca,
in Bermondsey, is evidence of the rising standards. Everything
about this place -- the dining room, the menu, the service and
the wine -- is unfussy and the food is so good that you are
likely to keep returning, if you can get a table. I order most
of the starters (including venison, with balsamic vinegar, and
carpaccio of sea bream) and both the daily pasta plates rather
than main courses. Best dish: Pappardelle, hare ragu and
pecorino (8.50 pounds as a main).  http://www.zuccalondon.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 