-- Loomis Tops 95% of Bond Fund Rivals by Exiting Treasuries: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-21T18:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/loomis-tops-95-of-bond-fund-rivals-by-exiting-treasuries-credit-markets.html
Loomis Sayles & Co.  has fled
Treasuries and bought Canadian and Indonesian debt, beating out
95 percent of fixed-income funds this year.  The $19.5 billion  Loomis Bond Fund  returned 12.2 percent as
the Boston-based firm shifted money into Canadian government
securities, emerging markets and convertible and junk bonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Total Return  Fund , the world’s largest bond
mutual fund, gained 7.99 percent.  Loomis hasn’t owned Treasuries for more than a year and is
betting emerging-market currencies including Indonesia’s rupiah
will appreciate against the dollar, money manager  Kathleen Gaffney  said in a telephone interview. The Federal Reserve
affirmed on Dec. 14 its plan to buy as much as $600 billion of
Treasuries to stimulate the economy in the latest stage of a
process known as quantitative easing, or QE2. That may weaken
the U.S. currency, Gaffney said.  “We’re going to see the developing world lead the global
recovery,” said Gaffney, who has worked at Loomis for 26 years
and helps oversee the firm’s $150 billion in assets. “The
developed world is getting on that QE2 bandwagon, letting your
currency devalue.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Chase & Co. Asia-Dollar  Index , which
tracks the performance of Asia’s 10 most-active currencies
against the U.S., has risen to 114.5 this year from 110.7 on
Dec. 31. The rupiah climbed to 9,043 to the dollar from 9,404 at
the end of 2009.  Treasuries Lose  Treasuries have lost 2.09 percent in December, the worst
monthly performance in a year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. The U.S. government has issued $2.15 trillion
of notes and bonds in 2010, topping last year’s record of $2.109
trillion.  “There’s going to be a ton of supply,” said  Elaine Stokes , who also helps manage the Loomis Bond Fund along with
 Dan Fuss  and  Matthew Eagan . “Whenever there’s an artificial
buyer in the market, we have to be a little bit worried.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt was unchanged at 170 basis points, or
1.7 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
3.94 percent.  Credit Protection  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. also was little changed ahead of data to be released
tomorrow that may show the economy grew more than previously
forecast.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.3 basis point to a
mid-price of 85.2 as of 12:07 p.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The cost of protecting against a default on Portugal’s
government bonds surged today as contagion from the euro
region’s fiscal deficit crisis spread. Credit-default swaps on
the nation’s debt jumped 11 basis points to 487, compared with a
record-high closing price of 543 basis points on Nov. 30,
according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps typically fall when investor
confidence improves and rise when it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Junk Outlook  Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC today
recommended investors “overweight” high-yield debt, which the
broker-dealer predicted may post returns of more than 7 percent
in 2011. The firm maintained its “market weight” rating on
investment-grade bonds.  High-yield corporate debt is a better purchase than
investment-grade bonds for 2011, as risky companies strengthen
their balance sheets and more-creditworthy issuers repurchase
stock and conduct mergers and acquisitions, said  Guy LeBas ,
chief fixed-income strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott.  Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
publicly traded insurance broker, got a 270 million-pound ($420
million) credit line to refinance existing debt.  The five-year revolving credit replaces the company’s
existing credit facilities which expire in 2011, London-based
JLT said in a statement. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Barclays Capital, HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. provided the new
financing.  Emerging Markets  In emerging markets, relative yields fell 6 basis points to
248 basis points, according to JPMorgan index data.  China’s gross domestic product is estimated to increase 9
percent in 2011, compared with 6.3 percent in Indonesia, 2.6
percent in the U.S. and 1.9 percent in the U.K., according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Loomis Bond Fund holds Indonesian 10 percent government
bonds denominated in rupiah due in September 2024, Bloomberg
data show. The government’s rupiah debt has returned an average
of 25 percent in dollar terms this year, according to JPMorgan
index data.  A U.S. extension of Bush-era tax cuts may add a 1
percentage point increase to the nation’s GDP,  Michael Cloherty ,
head of U.S. rates strategy of RBC Capital Markets LLC, wrote
Dec. 9 in a research report.  “It’s not good for the Treasury market,” Gaffney said.
“We don’t think rates are going to start rising for at least a
year, but sometime over the next year or two.”  Loomis Strategy  Loomis has shortened the average duration of its flagship
bond fund to about 5.9 years from 6.5 years at the end of 2008
to guard against rising interest rates, Gaffney said.  The benchmark Treasury yields 3.34 percent and is forecast
to yield 3.55 percent by the fourth-quarter of 2011, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Loomis favors Canadian government bonds instead of
Treasuries in part because the country has less debt relative to
the size of its economy than the U.S. Canada’s budget deficit
for fiscal year 2010 equaled 3.6 percent of its GDP, compared
with an estimated 8.9 percent for the U.S.  Canada is also better positioned to benefit from emerging
market demand for commodities, Gaffney said. Commodities account
for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  Demand for Commodities  “Our developed world positions, and the commodity
currencies, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, are also
beneficiaries of emerging market demand,” Gaffney said.  Melbourne-based BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, draws more annual revenue from sales to China
than any other region, Bloomberg data show.  Companies worldwide have issued $3.15 trillion in bonds
this year compared with almost $3.88 trillion in 2009, Bloomberg
data show. Investment-grade corporate bonds have lost 1.61
percent in December, poised for their worst monthly performance
since October 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  “We have pared down the investment-grade corporates,”
Gaffney said. “That’s the area where we’ve seen the biggest
tightening in spreads, leaving them much more sensitive to
interest rate changes.”  While Loomis has sought junk bonds that offer a cushion
from rising interest rates, the firm is wary of taking too much
credit risk, Gaffney said.  Convertible debt, which can be swapped for equity shares,
has returned 15.14 percent in 2010, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. Pimco, based in Newport Beach,
California, last week said it’s expanding its policy to allow
investments in equity-linked securities for the first time since
2003.  “Rather than going too far down in quality, we’re saying
we’ll take some equity risk,” Gaffney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  