-- Mouse Virus Link to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is Challenged in Four Studies
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-21T06:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/mouse-virus-link-to-chronic-fatigue-syndrome-is-challenged-in-four-studies.html
A mouse virus linked to chronic
fatigue syndrome may not be the cause of the disease, according
to four studies that cast doubt on the basis of a U.S. move to
ban sufferers of the energy-sapping illness from donating blood.  Researchers from the U.S., U.K. and Japan found that
previous research linking the virus, XMRV, to chronic fatigue
and prostate cancer may have used contaminated specimens and
chemicals that led the scientists involved to draw the wrong
conclusions. The studies were published yesterday in the journal
 Retrovirology .  The American Red Cross, the largest U.S. supplier of blood
products, said Dec. 3 it would no longer allow donors with
chronic fatigue syndrome, based on results of a study published
last year that was the first to link the condition to XMRV. The
U.S. Food and Drug Administration is considering banning blood
donors with the illness.  “Our conclusion is quite simple: XMRV is not the cause of
chronic fatigue syndrome,”  Greg Towers , who led one of the four
new studies at University College London, said in a  statement .
“We are not saying chronic fatigue syndrome does not have a
virus cause -- we cannot answer that yet -- but we know it is
not this virus,” Towers said.  The U.K., Australia, Canada and New Zealand have decided to
defer blood donations from people with chronic fatigue syndrome,
according to the FDA.  Mouse Material  XMRV, or xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus, is
present in mouse DNA and can infect mice and humans. Mouse DNA
is “ubiquitous” in laboratory specimens, creating potentially
misleading experiment results, according to researchers led by
 Mark Robinson  at Imperial College London, who wrote one of the
studies.  XMRV was first identified in 2006 in tissue specimens from
men with prostate cancer, according to the U.S.  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention . It was linked to chronic fatigue
syndrome in October last year by a study in the journal Science
that found it in two-thirds of people with the disease. CDC
researchers failed to find a viral link to the illness in a
separate  study  published in July.  Chronic fatigue syndrome affects more than 1 million
Americans, mainly women, according to the  CDC  in Atlanta. The
illness, marked by exhaustion, joint and muscle pain, lacks a
widely accepted cure or approved treatments.  Doubts Cast  Since the October 2009 study was published, some
researchers studying chronic-fatigue patients found genetic
material from mouse viruses not including XMRV, raising
questions about whether XMRV was really the cause,  Robert Smith ,
a research assistant professor of pathology at the University of
Washington in Seattle, said in a commentary accompanying the
studies.  In the latest four papers, two found trace elements of
mouse DNA in prostate tissue samples and blood from patients
with chronic fatigue, based on a more sensitive test than that
used in the original research. That suggests the specimens were
contaminated with mouse DNA in the laboratory, Smith wrote.  The third study identified viral DNA in a chemical used to
conduct experiments, and the fourth found that tests used to
detect XMRV can also detect related viruses that only infect
mice, suggesting mouse DNA can contaminate human samples.  “It is premature to rule out XMRV or related viruses as
factors in prostate cancer or” chronic fatigue syndrome, said
 Ian Lipkin , a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University
who wasn’t involved in the research.  While the latest research highlights the hazards of
contamination, rigorous trials are needed to prove or disprove
the link between XMRV and the diseases, Lipkin said in an e-
mail. The U.S.  National Institutes of Health  is conducting such
a study, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 