-- SEC Said to Start Inquiry Into Hurd’s Exit From HP
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C o r y   J o h n s o n
-- 2010-12-21T21:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/hp-says-cooperating-with-sec-after-report-on-probe-into-hurd-s-resignation.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has begun an inquiry into  Mark Hurd ’s departure as
chief executive officer from Hewlett-Packard Co., two people
familiar with the matter said.  The people declined to be identified because the inquiry
hasn’t been made public. The securities regulator is looking
into whether Hurd leaked information about HP’s planned
acquisition of Electronic Data Systems Corp. to a contractor,
the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday.  Hurd, 53, left HP on Aug. 6 after an investigation found
that he violated standards of business conduct by concealing a
personal relationship with a contract event coordinator,  Jodie Fisher . He leaked information about the proposed acquisition of
EDS, the newspaper reported in November, citing the letter from
Fisher accusing Hurd of harassment.  The investigation into the harassment allegation found
inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or in his name, HP said
in August. The company also determined that he didn’t violate
its harassment policy.  As part of the SEC probe, regulators are also examining
Hurd’s handling of expense reports and whether he destroyed
evidence related to his departure, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday.  The company is cooperating with an SEC investigation, said
 Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-
based HP. She declined to discuss what the SEC is investigating.  HP rose 2 cents to $41.91 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has declined 19 percent this year.  Shares Tumble  Shares of HP dropped 18 percent after Hurd’s resignation
through Aug. 27, as investors fretted that his successor might
struggle to replicate the growth he spurred. As CEO since 2005,
Hurd more than tripled  profit  by cutting costs and expanding
beyond the company’s core business of computers and printers. He
oversaw an  acquisition  spree of more than $20 billion, moving
the company into services, networking equipment and smartphones.  “Mark acted properly in all respects,” said  Glenn Bunting , a spokesman for Hurd. “It is understandable that the
SEC is looking into the events surrounding Mark’s departure,
which was followed by a precipitous drop in the value of HP’s
stock.”  Oracle Corp. hired Hurd as co-president in September, and
 Leo Apotheker  became HP’s CEO Nov. 1.  Calls to Hurd’s office at Oracle were directed to the
company’s public relations department.  Carol Sato , a spokeswoman
for Redwood City, California-based Oracle, declined to comment.
 John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, also declined to comment.  Second Letter  While the company determined that Hurd didn’t harass
Fisher, it found that she received inappropriate payments from
HP during her two years as a contractor. A person familiar with
Hurd’s thinking said in August he never knowingly falsified
expense reports or instructed his staff to do so.  After her initial allegation of harassment, Fisher wrote a
second letter absolving HP of responsibility and saying that her
earlier letter contained “many inaccuracies,” according to the
Wall Street Journal’s report in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cory Johnson  in San Francisco at 
 cjohnson114@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 