-- Pan American Debt Outperforms on Cnooc Deal: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-21T23:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/pan-american-bonds-outperform-region-on-cnooc-purchase-argentina-credit.html
Bonds of Pan American Energy LLC,
Argentina’s biggest oil exporter, are beating debt issued by
Latin American peers on speculation the company will bolster
production after China’s Cnooc Ltd. takes control.  Pan American’s 7.875 percent bonds due in 2021 returned 11
percent since their May sale, compared with 3.8 percent for
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Latin American  energy index . Debt with
similar maturity issued by Rio de Janeiro-based  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  and Petroleos Mexicanos of Mexico City returned
5.4 percent and 6.6 percent, respectively.  Barclays Plc says Pan American’s yields relative to U.S.
swap rates will narrow as much as 30 basis points from 377 basis
points as Cnooc completes the acquisition. State-controlled
China National Offshore Oil Corp. and its unit  Cnooc  have spent
more than $4 billion this year on oil and gas assets in
Argentina and North America to meet demand from China, the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. Cnooc and Argentina’s
 Bulgheroni family  agreed on Nov. 28 to buy the 60 percent of Pan
American they didn’t already own.  “Pan American is a great asset, it never defaulted during
the crisis and I think it will continue to be a very good
operation,”  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond analyst at Standard
Bank in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The greatest
benefit to Pan American is that its access to financing is going
to be greatly enhanced.”  Pan American is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, one
level below investment grade. Pemex and Petrobras are rated
Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade. Cnooc is rated Aa3,
seven levels above Pan American.  Narrowing Spread  The average yield of Argentine government bonds is 9.1
percent, or 210 points above debt for Buenos Aires-based Pan
American.  The yield on Pan American debt relative to U.S. Treasuries
will narrow as much as 90 basis points in “the near term,”
said Mazzoni, without being more specific. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Juan Cruz , a corporate bond analyst with
Barclays in New York, said in a report dated Dec. 7 that yields
will further compress relative to U.S. swaps.  Bridas Corp., the oil company owned by Cnooc and the
 Bulgheroni family , will pay  BP Plc  $7.06 billion for Pan
American. The transaction may be completed by the first half of
2011 and allows the Beijing-based company to expand oil
resources as demand surges in China.  Pan American, the second-largest Argentine oil producer
behind Repsol-YPF SA, controls about 18 percent of the market,
produced 993 million barrels of oil in 2009 and has interests in
11 production and 13 exploration blocks in Argentina, Bolivia
and Chile, according to its website.  Pan American’s yields have fallen 30 basis points to 7.01
percent since Sept. 22, when Citigroup Inc. issued a report
saying Cnooc was interested in purchasing the company.  ‘New Partner’  With Cnooc, Pan American gains a “new partner with fresh
capital and solid financials” in contrast to London-based BP,
said Lucas Lainez, an analyst at brokerage Puente Hnos Sociedad
de Bolsa SA in Buenos Aires, in an e-mailed response to
questions.  BP  is selling assets to pay for cleanup and compensation
after the biggest oil spill in U.S. history. The company aims to
divest as much as $30 billion in assets by the end of next year
to shore up its finances, according to BP’s website.  ‘Positive’ Deal  Pan American had 1.54 billion barrels of proven reserves,
which may last about 16 years,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an interview
after the transaction was announced.  “Cnooc’s entrance was definitely read as a positive,”
 Mariano Kruskevich , an analyst at SBS Sociedad de Bolsa SA, a
brokerage in Buenos Aires, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “There is the possibility of greater investments in
exploration and production.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 11 basis points to 503
at 5:53 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.16 cent to 14.43
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso was
little changed at 3.9753 per U.S. dollar.  The cost of protecting Argentine bonds against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 13 basis points to
618, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  No Guarantee?  The disparity in the credit ratings between Cnooc and Pan
American doesn’t mean the Latin American company’s debt will be
guaranteed by its parent, Gretchen French, an analyst at Moody’s
in New York, said in a telephone interview.  “You’re looking at an investment by Cnooc in an asset
where they’re putting in quite a bit of equity, so it’s their
call if they want to protect that investment,” French said.  Bonds issued by Petrobras, Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, are lagging behind Pan American and  Latin American
energy companies  on plans to increase debt by as much as 60
percent to $107 billion over the next four years to finance the
biggest investment plan in the oil industry.  Pemex, as Mexico’s state-owned oil company is known, is
underperforming as its debt may rise to a record $56 billion
next year to stem output declines. Pemex plans to raise as much
as $10 billion next year through bank loans or bond sales in
domestic and international markets, Chief Financial Officer
 Carlos Trevino  said Dec. 15 in an interview in Mexico City.  Pan American’s link with Cnooc now makes the oil producer
attractive, Lainez said.  “It’s positive for the company to have a Chinese partner
in terms of future expansion because it will facilitate a more
intense penetration in Asian markets at a time when the region
is growing,” said Lainez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  