-- Pemex Pipeline May Be Fixed as Soon as Dec. 21 After Blast, Official Says
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-12-21T03:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/pemex-pipeline-may-be-fixed-as-soon-as-dec-21-after-blast-official-says.html
The Petroleos Mexicanos oil pipeline
that exploded yesterday in central Mexico, killing 28 people and
damaging more than 100 homes, may be returned to service as soon
as tomorrow, company officials said.  Pemex, as the state-owned company is known, began an
investigation with federal authorities into the cause of the
blast, Deputy Refining Director Francisco Fernandez told
reporters today at a press conference in Mexico City. The
investigation will last at least three months, he said.  The company suspects the explosion may have been caused by
thieves trying to steal fuel, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel , who spoke at the same event.  “There are elements that point towards an illegal tapping,
but we won’t have a definitive cause until the affected pipeline
gets a metallurgical investigation,” said Suarez Coppel.  The 30-inch Nuevo Teapa pipeline in San Martin Texmelucan,
Puebla state exploded at 5:50 a.m. local time, causing crude to
flow into a nearby river and a cloud of smoke to blacken the
sky, the Milenio television network reported.  The company has “ruled out” imports of fuel from other
sources because of the blast, Fernandez said.  This year Pemex has detected over 600 cases of illegal
tapping from its oil pipelines, Suarez Coppel said.  The company said last year it had 5 million barrels worth
9.3 billion pesos ($750 million) stolen in 2008.  The pipeline runs from the port of Dos Bocas in Tabasco
state to the Tula refinery in Hidalgo state. The refinery has as
many as four days of supply to maintain production of as much as
280,000 barrels a day, said Fabricio Guerra, a Pemex official in
Tula.  Output from the Tula refinery, Mexico’s largest, was
269,397 barrels a day in October, according to data from
Mexico’s Energy Ministry website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 