-- Pemex May Reopen Oil Pipeline as Soon as Today As Blast Probe Starts Up
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-12-21T15:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/pemex-oil-pipeline-may-flow-as-soon-as-today-as-company-seeks-blast-cause.html
Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil producer, may reopen a pipeline as soon as today
after an explosion killed 28 people and scorched homes in the
central Mexican city.  Pemex, as Mexico’s state-owned oil company is known, and
federal authorities opened an investigation into the reason for
the blast, Deputy Refining Director Francisco Fernandez told
reporters yesterday in Mexico City. The explosion may have been
caused by thieves trying to steal fuel, Chief Executive Officer
 Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said at the same event.  “There are elements that point towards an illegal tapping,
but we won’t have a definitive cause until the affected pipeline
gets a metallurgical investigation," Suarez Coppel. The probe is
expected to last at least three months, Fernandez said.  The 30-inch Nuevo Teapa pipeline in San Martin Texmelucan,
Puebla state, exploded at 5:50 a.m. local time on Dec. 19,
causing crude to flow into a nearby river and a cloud of smoke
to blacken the sky, the Milenio television network reported.  The company has ‘‘ruled out’’ increasing imports of fuel to
help meet domestic demand because of the blast, Fernandez said.  Crude for February delivery rose 17 cents to $89.54 a
barrel at 10:17 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil
has gained 13 percent this year.  Stolen Oil  Pemex said last year it had 5 million barrels worth 9.3
billion pesos ($750 million) stolen in 2008. Pemex has detected
more than 600 cases of illegal tapping from its pipelines this
year, Suarez Coppel said.  The Teapa pipeline runs from the port of Dos Bocas in
Tabasco state to the Tula refinery, Mexico’s largest, in Hidalgo
state. The refinery, which is still receiving crude oil from a
smaller pipeline, has as many as four days of supply to maintain
output of as much as 280,000 barrels a day, said Fabricio
Guerra, a Pemex official in Tula.  Output from the Tula refinery was 269,397 barrels a day in
October, according to data from Mexico’s Energy Ministry
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Manuel Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts in Buenos Aires at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 