-- PLUS Rises to Record After Jelas Makes Takeover Bid for Toll-Road Operator
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-12-21T09:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/plus-rises-to-record-in-malaysia-after-jelas-takeover-bid-tops-rival-offer.html
PLUS Expressways Bhd. , Malaysia’s
biggest toll-road operator, rose to a record in Kuala Lumpur
stock trading after Jelas Ulung Sdn. offered 26 billion ringgit
($8.3 billion) for the company, topping a rival bid.  PLUS jumped 5.5 percent to 4.60 ringgit at the 5 p.m. close,
the largest advance in the benchmark stock index. Jelas Ulung, a
closely held special purpose vehicle formed for the bid, offered
the equivalent of 5.20 ringgit a share for the company’s assets
and liabilities, PLUS said in a statement yesterday, higher than
a joint bid of 4.60 ringgit a share by UEM Group Bhd. and the
Employees Provident Fund, or EPF.  “The competing offer is undeniably attractive,”  Bernard Ching , an analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn., wrote in a report
today. “This latest development will surely raise the prospect
for UEM and EPF to improve their takeover offer.”  A takeover of  PLUS  would give the buyer control of a
company that owns and operates 973 kilometers (605 miles) of
inter-urban toll expressways in Malaysia, stretching from the
border of Thailand in the north to the border of Singapore in
the south. PLUS  shares  have surged 41 percent this year, more
than double the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index’s 18
percent gain.  The new bid comes before a Dec. 23 vote by PLUS
shareholders on UEM Group and EPF’s offer. PLUS’s board accepted
the joint bid on Nov. 9 and planned to discuss it with
shareholders at a meeting this month. PLUS is based in Petaling
Jaya, near Kuala Lumpur.  Jelas Ulung Directors  Izzaddin Idris , the chief executive officer of UEM Group,
declined to comment when contacted by phone today.  Nik Affendi Jaafar , a spokesman for EPF, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund,
also declined to comment.  Yesterday’s PLUS statement named  Ibrahim Mohd Zain  and
 Ghazali Mat Ariff  as directors of Jelas Ulung. Ibrahim is a
director of banking group AMMB Holdings Bhd., according to
AMMB’s 2010 annual report. Ghazali is a senior partner at law
firm Ghazali Ariff & Partners and chairman of  Amalgamated
Industrial Steel Bhd. , according to the steel products
manufacturer’s website.  BOCI Asia Ltd., a unit of Bank of China Ltd., will support
the financing of Jelas Ulung’s bid, PLUS said.  Bank of China supported Jelas Ulung’s bid because of the
“status of potential shareholders,” Ibrahim said by e-mail to
Bloomberg. He declined to identify them.  No Objections?  The company’s board will “deliberate on the offer and
decide on the next course of action,” taking into consideration
the earlier bid, PLUS said in its statement.  Khazanah Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund,
is the  biggest shareholder  of PLUS with a 55 percent stake,
which is partly held through UEM Group. The EPF controls 12
percent of PLUS.  “Despite the attractive terms, it’s not certain whether
the competing offer would pull through,” ECM’s Ching said in
his report. “PLUS’s highways are considered strategic national
assets and the government would consider the track record and
financial status of the bidder apart from the basis of
valuation.”  Jelas’s Ibrahim said in the e-mail there shouldn’t be any
objection from the Malaysian government as the assets cannot be
removed to another country.  “Why should the government block it?,” he said. “As long
as the operator provides the necessary services with good
standards, why should anybody object?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  