-- Polish Drive to Exit Bull Semen, Beehive Industries Buoys Local Advisers
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-12-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/polish-drive-to-exit-bull-semen-beehive-industries-buoys-local-advisers.html
The  Polish Treasury Ministry’s
website  is advertising shares of a pig breeder and bull semen
producer, part of a plan to sell anything from honeybees to
health spas that’s providing an opportunity for local advisers.  Budoserwis ZUH Sp. z o.o., DGA SA and Jagiello Wrebiak i
Wspolnicy Sp. z o.o. rank among the top 25 arrangers of
acquisitions in Poland, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
KPMG International is the leading mergers adviser, working on
deals valued at $9.3 billion.  Poland plans to sell stakes in 300 state-owned companies in
2011, following about 400 transactions since 2007, Deputy
Treasury Minister  Adam Leszkiewicz  said in a Dec. 14 interview.
No eastern European Union country is pursuing more divestitures 
as the country seeks to end the communist legacy of state ownership 
and trim the deficit. The 8.1 billion-zloty ($2.68 billion) sale of
Warsaw-based insurer PZU SA was the second largest  initial
public offering  in Europe this year, Bloomberg data show.  “I’d be glad if we could finally sell the insemination
companies or the fishing-net producer,” Leszkiewicz said.
“We’ve managed to blow the dust off dozens of smaller companies
and offer them to investors.”  Budoserwis has this year advised the ministry on 11
completed deals valued at almost $150 million, including the
sale of six bus companies to Israel’s Egged Holding. The
Chorzow, Poland-based company was founded in 1989, the year
communism collapsed along with the Berlin Wall.  The Polish market for mergers and acquisitions more than
tripled to $17.6 billion this year, led by the 16.6 billion-
zloty takeover of Bank Zachodni WBK SA by  Banco Santander SA  of
Spain and the purchase by PGE SA of state-owned Energa SA for
7.53 billion zloty. The number of deals rose to 182 from 94 in
2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Fireproof Materials, Explosives  The government has signed agreements for 26.4 billion zloty
of sales this year. The fourth-quarter tally includes about 1
billion zloty from the sales of almost 30 smaller companies,
ranging from scrap metal traders to makers of fireproof
materials and explosives.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , Poland’s sole copper producer, was
among the most active acquirers, buying  five  companies,
including Centrozlom Wroclaw SA, which deals in scrap metal.
Other purchasers were Fortum Oyj of Finland, Biosyntec SA of
France, and Apis-Vita d.o.o. of Slovenia.  The government of Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  wants to put
as much as 55 billion zloty worth of assets into private hands
by the end of 2013. Tusk won the 2007 popular vote on promises
to free the economy from state influence. The next election is
due by late 2011.  ‘High Time’  “It’s high time they did this,” said  Janusz Jankowiak ,
the chief economist at the Polish Business Roundtable, a group
of executives and business owners that seeks to promote economic
growth. “They should clean up their portfolio as quickly as
they can, in any way possible.”  While Poland expands its program, Hungary has ended
“institutional privatization,” with the Hungarian State
Holding Company now  focused  on increasing the value of assets
that are held by the public.  The Czech Republic dissolved its National Property Fund in
2005 after completing numerous transactions. The government
still controls companies, including power producer CEZ AS, the
unprofitable CSA airline and the  Budweiser-Budvar brewery .  Poland is waiting until the end of January for bids for the
last of the four semen producers that it’s selling.  “The sale of the insemination companies is a new model for
us,” Leszkiewicz said. “We’re advertising it as broadly as we
can, because we’re offering the shares to hundreds of thousands
of employees and contractors of the companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  