-- Portugal's Bond Rating May Be Cut by Moody's on Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-12-21T13:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/portugal-bond-rating-may-be-cut-by-moody-s-on-concern-of-sluggish-growth.html
Portugal’s bond rating may be
downgraded one or two levels by Moody’s Investors Service
because of concerns that budget cuts will worsen the country’s
“sluggish” economic growth.  “Portugal’s solvency is not in question,”  Anthony Thomas ,
Moody’s London-based lead analyst for Portugal, said in a
statement today. “But the likely deterioration in debt
affordability over the medium term and ongoing concerns about
the economy’s ability to withstand fiscal consolidation and
private-sector deleveraging mean its outlook may no longer be
consistent with an A1 rating.”  The European Commission, the International Monetary Fund
and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecast that Portugal’s economy will contract next year.
Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit rating two steps to A1 on July 13.
Standard & Poor’s also said on Nov. 30 it may lower the
country’s rating, having already cut it to A- from A+ in April.  The Portuguese government plans to cut state workers’ wages
and raise taxes to convince investors it can narrow the euro
region’s fourth-biggest budget gap after Greece’s debt crisis
led to a surge in borrowing costs for high-deficit nations.
Ireland became the second euro country to seek a bailout, after
Greece, and the first to request aid from the European Financial
Stability Facility last month.  ‘Doing the Rounds’  Moody’s doesn’t know if Portugal will ask for a bailout and
doesn’t see any move to tap the European Financial Stability
Facility as “negative,”  Kathrin Muehlbronner , an analyst at
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview today. Moody’s will
evaluate the situation if Portugal does request a bailout, she
said.  “It’s not entirely a surprise,”  Orlando Green , assistant
director of capital-markets strategy at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London, said about the Moody’s
announcement today. “Moody’s, S&P have been doing the rounds.
It’s generally been negative news for the euro zone,” he said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with
 Andrea Catherwood .  Moody’s said on Dec. 15 it may cut Spain’s Aa1 credit
rating and on Dec. 16 said it placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings
on review for a possible downgrade. Ireland’s credit rating was
cut five levels by Moody’s on Dec. 17.  Widening Spreads  The  difference  in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, reached a euro-era record
of 483 basis points on Nov. 11. The spread was at 356 basis
points today. The cost of insuring Portuguese government debt
rose 6 basis points to 482, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps.  “The markets have remained open to the Portuguese
government, but it is having to pay an elevated price, which if
sustained will increase substantially its debt service costs
over time,” Moody’s Thomas said.  Portugal doesn’t face any bond redemptions until April and
has completed this year’s sales of debt. Borrowing costs rose at
a Dec. 15 sale of 500 million euros ($658 million) of three-
month bills.  The government is counting on exports such as paper and
wood products to support economic expansion as it cuts spending.
The budget forecasts GDP growth of 0.2 percent in 2011, slower
than this year’s estimated 1.3 percent pace. Portugal’s  economic
growth  has averaged less than 1 percent a year in the past
decade, one of Europe’s weakest growth rates.  “In addition to fiscal austerity, at least a moderate pace
of nominal GDP growth will be needed to stabilize and eventually
reverse the currently adverse debt trajectory,” Moody’s said in
the statement.  Contraction Forecast  The Paris-based OECD sees GDP growth of 1.5 percent this
year, with the economy contracting 0.2 percent in 2011, as
austerity measures kick in. The European Commission last month
predicted a contraction of 1 percent.  Jorg Decressin , head of the IMF’s world economic studies
division, said on Oct. 6 that the Portuguese economy may
contract 1.4 percent next year if new deficit-cutting measures
are taken into account.  Portugal’s 2011 budget includes the deepest spending cuts
in more than three decades. In September, the government said it
would trim the wage bill by 5 percent for public-sector workers
earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze hiring and raise
the value-added tax by 2 percentage points to 23 percent to help
narrow a deficit that amounted to 9.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2009.  Deficit Reduction  Portugal aims to cut its budget deficit to 7.3 percent of
GDP this year and 4.6 percent in 2011, and to reach the EU limit
of 3 percent in 2012.  The central government’s budget deficit narrowed in the 11
months through November, the first annual reduction in the
shortfall this year, the Finance Ministry said yesterday. The
gap narrowed 0.8 percent to 12.94 billion euros, as spending
rose 2.6 percent and revenue rose 4 percent.  The deficit has narrowed at a faster pace since the start
of the second half, shrinking 9.8 percent from a year earlier in
the July-November period, as spending increased 0.6 percent and
revenue gained 4.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 