-- Pound Weakens Against Euro, Dollar as Government Borrowing Reaches Record
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-21T17:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/pound-strengthens-against-dollar-as-appetite-for-riskier-assets-improves.html
The pound fell versus the euro and
dollar after the U.K.’s November budget deficit swelled to a
record, exceeding economists’ forecasts.  Sterling weakened against all but one of its 16 most
actively traded peers as a survey showed British consumer
confidence stayed at a four-month low. Net government borrowing
rose to 22.8 billion pounds ($35.4 billion), up from 16.7
billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for National
Statistics said in London. The median of 12 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey was 16.8 billion pounds.  “The fact that borrowing costs have surged does highlight
the tough task that the coalition government actually has,”
said  Simon Derrick , chief currency strategist at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. in London. The Bank of England is “going to
have to remain reasonably loose on monetary policy, and I think
that probably in the medium term undermines sterling.”  The pound weakened 0.4 percent to 84.94 pence per euro as
of 4:44 p.m. in London. Sterling depreciated 0.3 percent to
$1.5467, from $1.5513 yesterday.  The pound has lost 1.2 percent in the past week, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies.  Since the end of 2009, Britain’s currency has lost
6 percent, compared with a 10.3 percent decline by the euro and
a 1.3 percent loss by the dollar.  Government spending rose the most since February, and the
shortfall excluding government support for banks was 23.3
billion pounds. The burgeoning deficit underscores the challenge
facing Prime Minister David Cameron as his government prepares
to implement the deepest spending cuts since World War II.  Consumer Confidence  There was a  public-sector cash requirement  of 16.8 billion
pounds in November, compared with 14.8 billion pounds a year
earlier. Economists predicted 12.3 billion pounds. The central
government’s cash deficit, the measure the Treasury says most
closely indicates gilt sales, was 14.4 billion pounds. Net debt
was at 58 percent of gross domestic product, up from 50 percent
a year ago.  A separate report from researcher GfK NOP showed an index
of U.K. consumer sentiment was at minus 21, unchanged from
November, which was the lowest level since July.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s December Monetary Policy
Committee meeting are due tomorrow. The minutes will likely show
policy makers remained split in their decision to maintain the
key interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent and to hold the
asset-purchase program at 200 billion pounds.  MPC member  Adam Posen , who has called for the bank to
increase stimulus, said last week policy makers shouldn’t
“overreact” to inflation. His colleague  Andrew Sentance  has
voted to increase rates since June.  Government bonds slipped, with the 10-year gilt yield
gaining two basis points to 3.51 percent. The two-year yield
rose two basis points to 1.2 percent.  Gilts returned 6.7 percent this year, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Treasuries gained 5.7 percent and
German debt, the euro-area’s benchmark securities, returned
6 percent, the EFFAS indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 