-- ProLogis Agrees to Sell Assets to TPG for $505 Million, Details Writedowns
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-21T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/prologis-agrees-to-sell-assets-to-tpg-for-505-million-details-writedowns.html
ProLogis , the world’s largest
warehouse company, agreed to sell real estate including Los
Angeles Union Station to TPG Capital for about $505 million and
said writedowns will cut earnings by as much as $2.16 a share.  The properties, acquired in the takeover of Catellus
Development Corp. in 2005, include four shopping centers, two
office buildings, 11 mixed-use projects and two residential
development joint ventures, Denver-based ProLogis said today in
a statement.  ProLogis is selling assets to pay down debt and focus on
its industrial properties. The company agreed in October to sell
about 180 industrial properties to  Blackstone Group LP  for $1.02
billion. That sale also included stakes in three real estate
funds and a minority interest in the Hilton New Orleans
Riverside hotel.  “The Catellus assets are high-quality with good long-term
prospects, but they are not in keeping with our strategy to
concentrate our investment in core industrial properties in the
world’s major logistics corridors,”  Walter C. Rakowich , chief
executive officer of ProLogis, said in today’s statement.  ProLogis expects to record $170 million to $190 million in
writedowns related to the sale of its retail, mixed-use and
ground lease assets and other real estate investments. The
company also plans to record fourth-quarter writedowns of $640
million to $680 million for land values.  Earnings Cut  The writedowns and other items, including expenses related
to debt purchases, will cut earnings by $2.02 to $2.16 a share,
ProLogis said. The company said its guidance for 2010 funds from
operations, excluding charges, is unchanged. The company said in
October that it expects 2010 core funds from operations of 53
cents to 56 cents a share.  Funds from operations exclude depreciation and other items.
The cash-flow measure, used by real estate investment trusts,
doesn’t conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  TPG Capital is the global buyout group of TPG, an
investment company with more than $48 billion of assets under
management, according to the statement. Fort Worth, Texas-based
TPG is run by billionaire  David Bonderman .  ProLogis  shares rose 2 cents to $14.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have risen 4.2
percent this year, less than the 23 percent gain in the
Bloomberg Real Estate Investment Trust  Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  