-- Trafigura Plans to Buy Into Norilsk to Increase Access to Nickel Output
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-21T16:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/trafigura-plans-to-buy-into-norilsk-to-increase-access-to-nickel-output.html
Trafigura Beheer BV, the second-
largest industrial metals trader, said its plan to buy an 8
percent stake in Russia’s OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel will give it a
“fast-track expansion” in accessing output of the metal.  Trafigura, based in Amsterdam, is completing the purchase
of the stake in Norilsk, the world’s biggest nickel producer,
the trading company said on its  website  today.  “The intention is to create a partnership with Norilsk
that provides a fast-track expansion plan into the nickel market
by having better direct access to the production,”  Simon Collins , the trading company’s refined metals chief, said in the
statement. “Trafigura believes there are considerable synergies
between the companies.”
      Norilsk , whose largest shareholders are locked in a dispute
over control, will sell $3.5 billion of  American depositary
receipts  to raise funds for “general purposes,” the Moscow-
based company said in a  statement  yesterday. Trafigura doesn’t
plan to raise its holding to more than 10 percent, Norilsk said.  Under the deal, Trafigura may plan for Norilsk “to direct
a certain portion of nickel sales via the trading house,” said
 Dmitriy Kolomytsyn , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in Moscow.
Guido de Jongh, a Trafigura spokesman in Amsterdam, and Norilsk
spokeswoman  Maria Uvarova  in Moscow declined to comment.  Norilsk’s billionaire shareholders  Oleg Deripaska  and
 Vladimir Potanin  have bickered over influence on the board and
use of cash in a feud dating back to 2008. Norilsk last week
offered $12 billion to buy back the 25 percent stake held by
Deripaska’s  United Co. Rusal , and yesterday’s accord would
provide cash for such a deal, according to Nomura Holdings Plc.  Buying Out Rusal  “The sale of treasury stock may indicate that Norilsk is
going ahead with its plan to buy out” Rusal, said  Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst at Nomura in Moscow.  Norilsk said in August it declined an offer from Glencore
International AG, the world’s largest commodities trader, to
take over the mining company’s nickel sales. Glencore owns 8.75
percent of United Co. Rusal and sells part of its aluminum.  Rusal voiced concern at the Trafigura deal.  “We are concerned that an asset worth over $3.5 billion
was monetized without discussion and voting at the board,”
Rusal said yesterday in a statement. “Moreover, the stake was
sold to Trafigura, a company which is a direct competitor of
Norilsk Nickel for marketing and sales of its metals.”  Trafigura  had revenue of $47.3 billion last year, compared
with $106.4 billion at Barr, Switzerland-based Glencore,
according to the companies’ websites.  The sale to Trafigura may presage an “ultimate acquisition
of Rusal’s stake in Norilsk,” where Trafigura provides funding
for Norilsk’s bid, said  Erik Danemar , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Moscow. Norilsk’s Uvarova and a spokesman for
Trafigura both declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 