-- Transport Strike Cripples Downtown Athens in Renewed Protest on Wage Cuts
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2010-12-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/transport-strike-cripples-downtown-athens-in-renewed-protest-on-wage-cuts.html
Public transport in Athens will
grind to a halt today as workers protest for a second week
against wage cuts, ignoring pleas from business owners who say
the strikes are hurting sales in the Christmas shopping season.  The 24-hour strike is the fourth all-day walkout by
transport workers in protest action that began Dec. 8, causing
traffic chaos throughout the Greek capital and forcing commuters
to stay home or find alternative means of transportation.
Intercity train routes will also be canceled today, according to
an e-mailed statement from state-owned  Hellenic Railways
Organization SA .  The action is in response to a bill passed by parliament on
Dec. 15 that reduces wages at state-controlled companies, known
as DEKOs, and makes it easier for private-sector employers to
fire workers and bypass collective bargaining agreements. The
changes are part of the conditions put forward by the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund in exchange for a 110
billion-euro ($144 billion) bailout for the debt-stricken
Mediterranean country.  The  Greek Civil Servants Confederation , or ADEDY, Greece’s
largest public-sector union, and the  General Confederation of
Labor,  the country’s largest private-industry union, are also
staging a three-hour work stoppage to join a midday rally in
central Athens decrying the bill and more austerity measures in
the 2011 budget that will be decided later today. Communist
trade union  PAME  plans to march to parliament in a separate
rally.  Those taking part in the three-hour action include bank
employees, teachers, dock workers, and employees from the state-
controlled  Public Power Corp. SA  and Hellenic Railways.  Shopping Season  Business groups pleaded with transit workers to postpone
strikes until after the holiday season, saying they’re keeping
shoppers and tourists away during their busiest period.  “It is important to suspend public transport strikes to
give consumers the opportunity to visit central shopping areas
without barriers and extra expenses,” said Vasilis Korkidis,
president of  Greece’s National Confederation of Commerce , in a
Dec. 20 e-mailed statement.  Public transit workers have agreed to work most of the day
tomorrow to accommodate Christmas shoppers, according to
 Naftemporiki , an Athens-based newspaper.  The metro, used by 620,000 Athenians daily, along with
buses, trolleys and trams, will not operate all day, according
to a spokesman at the  Athens Urban Transport Organization , who
declined to be named. The metro system normally operates from
5:30 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. and is the main link between the city
center and Athens International Airport.  Today’s rallies come a week after 20,000 people marched in
central Athens during a general strike called by the private and
public-sector unions. Some protesters set cars alight and threw
fire-bombs and rocks at officers deployed outside parliament and
at the  Finance Ministry  in the center of the capital.  Police responded with tear gas and flash grenades. Former
transport minister  Kostis Hatzidakis  was attacked by protesters
and led to safety after receiving cuts to the face, television
footage showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Stoukas  in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  