-- U.K. Could Have Sought $3 Billion More for Insuring RBS Assets, NAO Finds
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/rbs-toxic-asset-fee-could-be-1-9-billion-pounds-more-nao-says.html
The U.K. Treasury could have
demanded as much as 1.9 billion pounds ($3 billion) more to
insure  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s toxic assets, the
 National Audit Office  said.  An “exit fee” of as much as 4.4 billion pounds for the
early termination of the taxpayer-funded  Asset Protection Scheme 
could be justified, the NAO said in a report published today.
Instead, RBS last year agreed to pay 2.5 billion pounds were it
to exit the program.  “The Treasury’s analysis underpinning the minimum RBS exit
fee did not include the breadth and depth of analysis we would
expect given the amounts at stake,” the  NAO  said. “The
Treasury did not consider all the risks being covered by the
taxpayer.”  The government last year agreed to insure 282 billion
pounds of  RBS ’s risky assets, while increasing its stake in the
bank to 83 percent, to bolster financial stability and boost the
bank’s capital.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender, paid 2.5 billion pounds to the government when
it ultimately decided not to join APS last year.  Lloyds could have been charged as much as 4.5 billion
pounds, though the  Treasury  decided the bank “would not have
been able to secure shareholder approval to pay a higher fee”
and to proceed with a rights offer, the NAO said.  The APS has “only been partially successful in encouraging
lending to creditworthy borrowers on the scale originally
envisaged,” the report said.  ‘Key Component’  Even so, the combined effect of the APS and capital
injections into the banks had “a beneficial impact” on
financial markets and achieved the Treasury’s aim of maintaining
financial stability, the report concluded. The APS was “a key
component in delivering value for money,” it said. The program
has no fixed end date.  RBS and  Lloyds  were 30 billion pounds short of commitments
they made to support U.K. businesses in 2009, the NAO also said
in the report.  This year, as of September 30, both banks reported they
were “on course” to meet their mortgage and business lending
commitments, the NAO said.  The NAO is charged with auditing the accounts of public
departments and reports to Parliament on the effectiveness of
public expenditure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  