-- Treasuries Fail to Recoup Loss as Commodities Signal Inflation
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-21T06:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/treasuries-fail-to-recoup-yesterday-s-loss-as-commodities-signal-inflation.html
Treasuries failed to climb back
from a loss yesterday as commodities rose to a 26-month high,
feeding speculation the Federal Reserve will be successful in
its efforts to spur inflation.  Demand for the relative safety of U.S. government
securities ebbed after Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said his
nation had taken “concrete action” to help the European Union
with its debt problems. Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said on CNBC yesterday he is concerned about the
influence of central bank actions on commodity prices.  “The Fed is trying to create inflation and inflation
expectations,” said  Tomohisa Fujiki , an interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Commodity prices seem to be picking up. Those factors will
prevent an aggressive rally.”  The benchmark 10-year note yielded 3.35 percent as of 6:49
a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 traded at 93 31/32.
Yields increased one basis point yesterday.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 commodities
climbed to 324.37 yesterday, the most since Oct. 6, 2008. Gold
and oil both rose for a third day today.  Treasuries have handed investors a 2.1 percent loss this
month, the most in a year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. BNP, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed, last week increased its forecast for 10-
year yields by March 31 to 3.25 percent from 2.4 percent.  ‘Very Concerned’  Bullard said he’s “very concerned about feedbacks to
commodity prices” from the Fed’s policy of bond buying that has
been dubbed QE2 for a second round of quantitative easing. The
policy has been “modestly successful so far,” he said.  The central bank is scheduled today to purchase $7 billion
to $9 billion of notes due from June 2016 to November 2017 and
$1 billion to $2 billion of Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities maturing from July 2012 to February 2040.  The Fed scooped up $14.6 billion of debt yesterday, the
most in a single day under this round of easing.  The euro gained for the first time in three days after
China’s  Wang  said the nation is helping European Union with its
debt problems.  China supports the International Monetary Fund’s measures
and “has taken concrete action to help some EU members counter
the sovereign-debt crisis,” Wang said at the start of the Third
EU-China High-Level Economic & Trade Dialogue in Beijing.  The currency climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3173.  Spain’s Rating  Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 15 it may lower
Spain’s credit rating, citing “substantial funding
requirements.” The company cut Ireland’s rank by five levels on
Dec. 17. Standard & Poor’s is reviewing its assessments of
Ireland, Portugal and Greece.  China probably won’t make any big changes to the way it
allocates its currency reserves, said  Satoshi Okumoto , a general
manager in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has
the equivalent of $66.8 billion in assets.  Inflation hasn’t been a problem in the U.S. so far.
Consumer prices excluding food and energy costs increased 0.8
percent in November from the same month last year, the Labor
Department said Dec. 15. The figure was 0.6 in October, the
smallest gain in data going back to 1958.  Ten-year Treasuries offer a real yield, after accounting
for costs in the economy, of 2.25 percent. The figure was 2.39
percent on Dec. 15, the most in a year.  Inflation Bets  Interest rates indicate traders are adding to bets that
inflation will pick up. The  difference  between yields on 10-year
 notes  and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, widened to 2.28 percentage points from this year’s
low of 1.47 percentage points in August. It is more than the
five-year average of 2.09 percentage points.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. the world’s biggest retailer, raised
prices on hundreds of toys before Christmas.  U.S. 10-year yields will increase to 4 percent by the end
of 2011 as the government borrows to sustain the expansion, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch economists led by  Ethan Harris  in New
York, wrote in a report Dec. 17.  “Buy stocks, sell bonds,” the economists wrote. “While
most of the developed world is starting to rein in budget
deficits, the U.S. deficit continues to grow.” President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. marketable  debt  to a record $8.75
trillion.  Yields may reach 4 percent soon, said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest interdealer broker.  “I don’t think it will be too long,” Carr wrote in a note
to clients today. “We have unparalleled monetary stimulus at
work on the globe and realistically, that’s not going to change
much in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 