-- Judges in Lawsuits Over U.S. Health-Care Overhaul Hold Industry Stocks
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-12-21T17:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/three-judges-in-health-care-lawsuits-hold-industry-stocks-center-reports.html
Three federal judges overseeing
challenges to the Obama administration’s health-care overhaul
own shares of companies in the industry, including insurers and
medical-device makers, the government watchdog group  Center for
Public Integrity  reported.  The Washington-based group based its finding on an analysis
of financial disclosure statements filed by the judges in 2009
and 2010. The judges had holdings in investment funds that owned
shares of companies such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the largest
U.S. insurer by sales, or owned shares directly in companies
such as medical-equipment makers  Covidien Plc  and  Medtronic
Inc. , the group said today.  “If a conflict arises, I will divest myself either of the
case or of the stock,” U.S. District Judge  Keith Starrett , who
is hearing a Mississippi suit challenging the constitutionality
of the health-care law, said in a phone interview. He owns
shares in  Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings , a provider of
blood and other medical tests, the Center for Public Integrity
reported.  This month, a federal judge in Richmond, Virginia,
concluded that the law signed by President  Barack Obama  in March
improperly requires Americans to maintain a minimum level of
health insurance, going beyond Congress’s powers to regulate
interstate commerce. Federal officials have appealed.  Vanguard Health  U.S. District Judge  Gladys Kessler  in Washington was one of
the other two judges highlighted by the Center for Public
Integrity. Kessler reported this year that she owns as much as
$250,000 of shares in Vanguard Health Care Fund, which lists
UnitedHealth Group as its sixth-largest holding. She also
received dividends of less than $1,000 from stock in Covidien,
according to the nonprofit group.  Kessler said she hadn’t seen the report and declined to
comment in a telephone interview today.  U.S. District Judge  Michael Schneider , based in Tyler,
Texas, reported that he owned less than $15,000 in Covidien
stock in a 2008 disclosure form filed in 2009, the Center for
Public Integrity said. He has been assigned to hear a suit
claiming that the health-care law discriminates against
physician-owned hospitals and violates the Constitution.  Schneider declined to comment on the group’s report, Linda
Pritchard, a court clerk, said today in a telephone interview.  Starrett, based in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, reported this
year that he owns stock in LabCorp and Medtronic valued at less
than $15,000 each, the Center for Public Integrity said.
Starrett said he doesn’t handle his investments and doesn’t
think Medtronic is among his holdings.  ‘Independent Adviser’  “This was done by an independent investment adviser,” the
judge said today.  Judges faced with conflicts either sell their holdings or
put them in trusts administered by others, said  Carl Tobias , a
law professor at the University of Richmond in Virginia.  “Judges’ financial holdings can create problems in high-
profile cases like this one,” Tobias said in a phone interview.
“Judges have found reasonable ways to deal with their
investments.”  The Virginia case that is being appealed by federal
officials is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 10-cv-00188,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 