-- Roubini, Galbraith Say Regulators Should Rush Servicing Rules
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-12-21T23:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/roubini-galbraith-urge-u-s-regulators-to-rush-mortgage-servicing-rules.html
A group of analysts, investors and
economists is urging federal regulators to write rules by early
next year governing how mortgage servicers handle foreclosures,
loan modifications and other activities.  The group cited an “urgent need” to develop national
standards to fight servicing fraud, which they said is slowing
the housing recovery.  “The house is burning down,”  Christopher Whalen , one of
the signers and the co-founder of Institutional Risk Analytics,
said in a telephone interview. “What we’re saying to all the
regulators is you have the legal authority to act now.”  In a letter sent today, Whalen and 51 others asked
regulators to draft rules as part of ongoing work on risk
retention, a Dodd-Frank Act measure that requires loan
originators to keep a stake in the debt they sell. The Obama
administration has until mid-April to finalize that rule.  The letter was signed by economists  Nouriel Roubini  and
 James K. Galbraith  and  Allan I. Mendelowitz , former chairman of
the Federal Housing Finance Board. It was sent to U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair , and four other regulators.  The FDIC is pushing to include servicing standards in rules
about risk retention. In Dec. 1 testimony to the Senate Banking
Committee, Bair said the rulemaking gives agencies “a unique
opportunity to better align the incentives of servicers with
those of mortgage pool investors.”  Geithner and others also have called for servicer
regulation.  Writing rules as part of the risk retention language
“would be mixing apples and oranges,” said  Tom Deutsch ,
executive director of the American Securitization Forum, a New
York Trade group.  “We’re not opposed to servicing standards,” Deutsch said
in an interview. Drafting them, however, will take time. “If
we’re going to have a debate around servicing standards, we
should have that on its own merits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 