-- Rubber Climbs to Record in Tokyo on Tire Demand, Disruptions to Production
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-21T07:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/rubber-gains-to-record-as-rain-curbs-thai-supply-china-demand-increases.html
Rubber futures climbed to a record,
taking gains this year to 50 percent, on speculation that rising
tire demand and supply disruptions from wet weather may worsen a
shortage. The cash price also surged to an all-time high.  May-delivery rubber advanced as much as 1.2 percent to
413.8 yen per kilogram ($4,944 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, and settled at 413.1 yen. This year’s jump
extends 2009’s rally, when prices more than doubled.  Auto sales in China may beat the U.S. for a third straight
year in 2011 as the world’s largest carmakers Toyota Motor Corp.,
 General Motors Co.  and  Volkswagen AG  estimate sales will grow by
as much as 15 percent. In Thailand, the northeast monsoon will
likely bring rains to southern provinces in the second half of
December, while heavy rains are expected across Indonesia,
according to local meteorological offices.  “Fundamentally, rubber will likely extend rallies,” Varut
Rungkhum, an analyst at commodity broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said
by phone from Bangkok today. There are “worries over a supply
shortage as rains may continue until early next year when the
low-production period kicks in,” Varut said.  The Thai  cash price  advanced 1.7 percent to 146.55 baht
($4.86) per kilo today, according to the  Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand . The gain was fueled by demand ahead of
New Year holidays, while supplies from Thailand, Indonesia and
Malaysia are inadequate, the institute said on its website.  Production in Thailand, the biggest grower, may plunge 28
percent in the three months to Dec. 31 from a year ago as a La
Nina weather pattern causes unusually heavy rain in the south,
the Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries has said.
The southern provinces account for 80 percent of Thai output.  Chinese Demand  Auto sales in China may reach 20 million units next year,
according to Booz & Co. and Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts.  GM ,
the biggest foreign automaker in China, expects sales to grow as
much as 15 percent, China President  Kevin Wale  said yesterday.
Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, projects China’s markets
will rise 10 to 15 percent, according to  Soh Weiming , the
company’s local executive president.  Auto demand in China may grow even as the government ends
incentives this month that helped boost sales 34 percent to 16.4
million through November. Light-vehicle sales in the U.S. may be
as much as 12.8 million units, said  Ashvin Chotai , managing
director of Intelligence Asia Automotive, a consultant.  Rubber was “also supported by high crude oil prices,” Ker
Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone
from Singapore. Costlier crude can boost natural-rubber prices
as the rival, synthetic product is made from naphtha.  Crude oil traded near the highest level in two weeks on
speculation that economic growth in the U.S. will accelerate
next year, bolstering demand. Crude for February delivery rose
as high as $89.77 a barrel in New York from $88.81 yesterday.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai gained as much as 1.2
percent to 37,760 yuan ($5,669) a ton before closing at 37,685
yuan. The contract climbed to a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  