-- Russia's Putin Mourns Dead Soccer Fan, Warns of Tighter Migration Rules
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-12-21T15:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/russia-s-putin-mourns-dead-soccer-fan-warns-of-tighter-migration-rules.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  mourned a soccer fan whose death sparked nationalist riots
near Red Square, warning of possible restrictions on migrants.  Putin led a minute’s silence for Yegor Sviridov, a 28-year-
old shot dead in a clash with migrants from Russia’s southern
Muslim provinces on Dec. 6, at a meeting today with soccer fan
club representatives, the Rossiya 24 state channel reported.  “A young man died,” Putin said. “This is a big
tragedy.” If outside ethnic groups aren’t able to respect local
customs and laws, migration rules will need to be revised in big
cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg, Putin said in
televised comments. The prime minister also visited Sviridov’s
grave and laid flowers at it, Rossiya 24 said.  Hundreds of riot police were deployed in the center of the
Russian capital on Dec. 15 to halt rival ethnic rallies,
including by demonstrators from Central Asia and the Caucasus
region. Russia has witnessed a surge in attacks on dark-skinned
migrants in recent years, with far-right Russians also holding
rallies on national holidays.  On Dec. 11, thousands of fans of Moscow’s Spartak soccer
club gathered near Red Square to protest the shooting death of
Sviridov. Young men chanting racist slogans attacked police and
passers-by at the rally. Dozens of people were hospitalized.  Putin warned that xenophobia was on the rise and urged the
soccer fan club representatives not to allow their associations
to become infiltrated by extremists.  Former Russian Prime Minister  Mikhail Kasyanov , now an
opposition politician, accuses the government of tacitly
encouraging extremist nationalist forces.  “The fact is that the authorities in previous years
virtually encouraged such developments and didn’t do anything to
minimize them, and now it all pours out in the street,”
Kasyanov said in an interview with Bloomberg News on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  