-- SEC Probes Chinese ‘Reverse Mergers’ and Their U.S. Auditors
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-12-21T19:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/sec-probes-chinese-firms-doing-reverse-mergers-and-their-u-s-auditors.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission, as part of a broader probe of China-based companies
listed on U.S. stock exchanges and their auditors, sanctioned a
California audit firm for signing off on fraudulent financial
statements made by a Chinese energy company.  Moore Stephens Wurth Frazer & Torbet LLP of Orange County
is one of several firms that have fallen under the SEC’s
scrutiny for signing the financial statements of China-based
firms accessing U.S. capital markets through so-called reverse
mergers. In a reverse merger, a closely held company acquires a
publicly traded company and can then sell shares without an
initial public offering.  The SEC has identified “hundreds” of such small companies
“where about 100 percent, not 95 percent, 100 percent of the
operations are in the People’s Republic of  China ” and the
financial statements are signed by a small U.S. auditor, Wayne Carnall, chief accountant of the SEC’s division of corporation
finance, said at a Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
meeting in April.  Frazer audits several such firms, including China Advanced
Construction Materials Group, Inc.,  China Biologic Products
Inc ., China Fire & Security Group Inc. and  China Valves
Technology Inc . Other U.S.-based auditors of China reverse
mergers include  Fountain Valley , California-based Kabani &
Company Inc., Tarzana, California-based Goldman Parks Kurland
Mohidin, LLP, and Denver-based GHP Horwath, P.C.  “You look at the size of the firm. You look at the staff
involved. And you question whether any of those people on staff
can speak Mandarin or Cantonese,” Carnall said.  On Site  While Frazer employees were on site to perform field work
for China Energy, some audit firms subcontract a local auditor
to perform work they may not be able to adequately validate.  “We’ve come across situations where an auditor may be
signing a set of financial statements, but performing very
little of the audit work,” PCAOB Chief Auditor Martin Baumann
said at the April meeting.  Frazer “did not exercise professional skepticism and due
professional care” in audits of China Energy Savings Technology
Inc., which was ordered to pay about $35 million in March 2009
for overstating revenue, the SEC said in a  statement  yesterday.
Dean Yamagata, the partner in charge of the audit, was barred
from practicing as an accountant for at least two years. Frazer
and Yamagata didn’t admit or deny the allegations.  To settle the SEC’s claims, Frazer and Yamagata agreed to
pay $129,500 and retain an independent consultant for training
in fraud detection, auditor independence and other duties
related to auditing functions.  No New Clients  The firm agreed not to accept any new issuer audit clients
with operations located in China,  Hong Kong  or  Taiwan  until the
firm has addressed the independent consultant’s recommendations.  Lawrence West, an attorney for Frazer and Yamagata at
Latham & Watkins LLP, said “both the firm and Mr. Yamagata
remain committed to conducting themselves in accordance with the
highest professional standards, and look forward to working with
the independent consultant to make sure that the firm’s policies
and procedures are state-of-the-art.”  Frazer also signed financial statements for  Rino
International Corp ., a Dalian, China-based maker of water-
treatment equipment. Rino said Nov. 22 that its financial
statements should no longer be relied on, and disclosed Dec. 2
that it was the subject of an SEC investigation.  Rino, which said there may be problems with as many as 40
percent of its sales contracts, has seen its shares drop 80
percent since Nov. 1.  The PCAOB, which was created by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  in
2002 to oversee auditors of public companies, is looking for
ways to hold U.S. auditors accountable for work they outsource
to China-based audit firms. The PCAOB is blocked from inspecting
audit firms in China.  (For a letter to the editor from Donald Pangburn of 
GHP Horwath in response to this story, please click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 