-- Senate Passes $4.3 Billion Health-Care Bill for Sept. 11 First Responders
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-22T22:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/senator-coburn-blocking-sept-11-health-care-bill-seeks-changes-to-costs.html
The U.S. Congress approved
legislation today to help rescuers and clean-up crews suffering
from illnesses linked to the wreckage caused by the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks in New York City.  The Senate passed the measure on a voice vote after
Republicans ended their opposition to it when its costs were
lowered and other changes were made. The House then approved the
bill, 206-60. It now goes to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature into law.  “The Christmas miracle we’ve been looking for has
arrived,” Senators  Charles Schumer  and  Kirsten Gillibrand , New
York Democrats, said in a statement after the Senate vote.  The bill provides for $4.3 billion in additional aid over
five years, with $1.5 billion for health-care benefits and $2.7
billion for compensation, said Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican who had been blocking the bill. The House initially
approved more than $7 billion and the Senate was considering a
$6.2 billion bill.  Coburn said the legislation would close the victims’
compensation fund in 2016 instead of 2031 and would include
workers’ compensation payments in determining benefits that
victims would receive for injuries or ailments related to the
destruction of the World Trade Center site in New York.  “Every American recognizes the heroism of the 9/11 first
responders, but it is not compassionate to help one group while
robbing future generations of opportunity,” Coburn, a
physician, said in a statement.  Compensation Fund  Supporters sought to reopen the compensation fund created
following the terrorist attacks. They argued that many of those
affected by exposure to toxic dust didn’t become ill until after
the compensation program ended.  The bill establishes more permanent funding for government
programs providing health care to those who responded to rescue
and cleanup efforts at the World Trade Center site and to others
who were in the area on Sept. 11, 2001, turning them into
benefits that don’t have to be appropriated each year by
Congress.  Since the attacks, lawmakers have provided almost $500
million for screening and treatment services to those involved
in the rescue and recovery efforts, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service.  The fund made 2,880 death and 2,680 injury awards totaling
more than $7 billion, the Congressional Budget Office said.  Excise Tax  To pay for the health care costs, the bill includes a new 2
percent excise tax on goods or services purchased from federal
contractors in countries such as China, India and Thailand that
are outside the World Trade Organization’s Agreement on
Government Procurement. Business groups, including the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, objected to the tax, which was added to the
bill this week to replace another tax proposal that business
groups also opposed.  Cal Cohen , president of the Emergency Committee for American
Trade, said he was “troubled” by the procurement tax because
it “may be challenged” and is “inconsistent with our
international obligations.” The Washington-based group
advocates policies aimed at making U.S. companies competitive in
foreign markets.  The legislation “affirms our nation’s commitment to
protecting those who protect us all,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said in a statement. “The events of that day were an
attack on America by a foreign enemy, and addressing its health
impacts is a national duty.”  The mayor, who is chairman of the foundation that will
finance a Sept. 11 Memorial Museum at Ground Zero, is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 