-- Senate Delivers Success to Obama by Clearing Russia Nuclear Arms Treaty
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-23T15:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/senate-clears-way-for-ratification-of-u-s-russia-nuclear-weapons-treaty.html
President  Barack Obama  scored a win
on the last day of the 111th Congress on a key foreign-policy
initiative after the U.S. Senate approved a treaty with Russia
that cuts nuclear arms and renews weapons inspections.  After eight days of debate, the New Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty cleared its final hurdle and was approved 71-
26, exceeding the minimum threshold of 67 votes needed to secure
its passage. Thirteen Republicans joined 56 Democrats and two
independents in the final vote held yesterday.  “Democrats and Republicans came together to approve my top
national security priority,” Obama said yesterday at a year-end
press conference at the White House. “With this treaty, our
inspectors will also be back on the ground at Russian nuclear
bases, so we will be able to trust, but verify.”  The positive outcome caps Obama’s victories in the post-
election lame-duck session. Other successes include the repeal
of a law that banned gays from serving openly in the military,
and on the economic front, an $858 billion deal to extend tax
cuts and unemployment assistance for the long-term jobless.  The timing for the ratification for New Start was critical.
A reduced Democratic majority in the chamber in January, the
result of last month’s elections, would have made the vote more
tenuous and hurt the president’s credibility abroad.  ‘Enormously Important’  “It is an enormously important measure of credibility for
the president,”  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told
reporters after the vote. “It’s critical” for any U.S.
president to be able “to sit down with leaders in another
country and to say to them, if we agree to X, Y and Z, I can
deliver.”  Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed the
accord in April as part of a push to restore relations between
the two former Cold War rivals and reduce the spread of nuclear
weapons worldwide.  The treaty, replacing an agreement that expired last
December, limits each side’s strategic warheads to no more than
1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a maximum of 800
land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  “Obama’s ambitions for nuclear reductions were pared down
at the negotiating table, but he succeeded in bringing home an
agreement that further reduced nuclear forces in a structured,
verifiable way,” said  Michael Krepon , co-founder of the Henry
L. Stimson Center in Washington, in an e-mail.  Russian Hurdle  Russia’s lower house of parliament may ratify a nuclear-
arms reduction treaty with the U.S. as early as tomorrow, said
 Boris Gryzlov , the chamber’s speaker.  The treaty also needs the approval of the upper house, the
Federation Council, which probably won’t come until after the
January holidays,  Andrei Klimov , deputy head of the Duma’s
foreign affairs committee, said yesterday. The first working day
in Russia in 2011 is Jan. 11.  With Vice President  Joe Biden  in the chair for yesterday’s
Senate vote, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  worked the
chamber, greeting former Senate colleagues and shaking hands.
She spent much of her time on the Republican side of the aisle,
talking with Mississippi Senator  Thad Cochran , a treaty
supporter, and Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , who helped
spearhead the ratification drive as the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee.  Opponents argued that the treaty limits U.S. options for
developing missile defenses, a project Russia has opposed. They
also contend that the new accord’s verification standards aren’t
strong enough and that Obama hasn’t made sufficient assurances
that the existing U.S. arsenal will be adequately maintained.  In an effort to whittle down opposition to the treaty, the
administration added $5 billion in recent weeks to its 10-year,
$80 billion plan unveiled earlier this year.  McCain Opposes  That succeeded in winning over some Republicans but not
Arizona Senators  John McCain  and  Jon Kyl , among the sternest
critics seeking to postpone the vote. Both declined to comment
on the passage of the treaty.  “This was contentious,” said Lugar, who had worked to
gather Republican support.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said New Start would improve
security. It requires lower numbers of weapons, provides a
“rigorous” inspection system and offers the flexibility the
U.S. needs to pursue missile defenses against attacks from
potential adversaries, such as Iran, he said.  Military commanders and defense and nuclear officials have
testified that the accord doesn’t limit missile-defense options
and that it improves the ability to verify Russia’s adherence to
agreed weapons thresholds.  Former President  George H.W. Bush , current and former U.S.
military commanders and Cabinet secretaries, including  Henry Kissinger  and  Colin Powell  all supported ratification.  The Senate approved the original Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty in 1992 by a vote of 93-6. Four years later, Start II won
approval, 87-4. The 2002 Moscow Treaty, which drew on the same
verification procedures as in Start, was approved 95-0.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  