-- U.S. Congress Passes Bill to Fund Government's Spending Through March 4
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-22T16:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/senate-advances-legislation-to-fund-government-through-march-4.html
The U.S. Congress approved
legislation that would keep the government funded through March
4, setting up a budget fight early next year between the
administration and Republicans.  By a 193-165 vote, the House yesterday backed a stripped-
down measure that would freeze pay for federal employees,
provide $160 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and
head off cuts in Pell grants for college tuition. The Senate
approved the bill hours earlier, 79-16.  President  Barack Obama  signed the package this morning.  Excluded from the bill were thousands of proposed pet
projects known as earmarks, as well as provisions opposed by
the White House that would have prevented a trial on U.S. soil
of  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the alleged mastermind of the Sept.
11 attacks who is being held at the U.S. detention facility at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  The 36-page bill replaces a $1.2 trillion,  1,924-page 
“omnibus” spending measure loaded with earmarks that
Republicans, under pressure from Tea Party activists who seek
significantly limited government, blocked last week.  The result is that federal agencies will go roughly
halfway through their 2011 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1,
without updated budgets.  Cuts Pledged  The temporary spending bill will make it easier for House
Republicans, who have promised to slash spending by $100
billion when they take over the chamber next year, to force
Senate Democrats to accept cuts, because legislation will be
needed to prevent the government from shutting down. Democrats
wanted a continuing resolution that lasted the duration of the
government’s 2011 fiscal year. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, didn’t have the votes for that.  The measure before the Senate includes approval of a Navy
proposal allowing it to award contracts, for up to 10 vessels
each, of the new Littoral Combat Ship to teams led by  Lockheed
Martin Corp.  and the U.S. unit of Australia’s  Austal Ltd.   The Navy needs congressional approval to proceed with
plans to buy ships from each team in a newly proposed dual-
design approach, instead of choosing one supplier as originally
announced in September.  If Congress hadn’t authorized the dual-team strategy by
Dec. 30, the Navy would have awarded the contract to one team.
Both teams submitted prices that expired Dec. 14, then agreed
last week to extend them through Dec. 30. The proposal is
opposed by Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the ranking
Republican on the Armed Services Committee who has questioned
whether having two ship designs will result in excessive long-
term maintenance costs.  Littoral Combat  Littoral Combat Ships are designed to operate closer to
coastlines than existing surface vessels, such as destroyers,
in missions such as clearing mines, hunting submarines and
providing humanitarian relief. The Navy projects buying 55
ships under the program. Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and
Marinette Marine Corp. worked together on one model, while the
other was developed by Austal’s U.S. subsidiary and  General
Dynamics Corp.   For most weapons programs, the spending measure
temporarily stops the increase in production planned for this
fiscal year, said a Pentagon spokeswoman, Navy Lieutenant
Commander Kathy Kesler.  The bill doesn’t contain language that allows the military
services to request congressional permission to shift funds
from non-weapons accounts into weapons production, so that will
preclude “new starts or rate increases,” Kesler said.  Among the biggest  plans  on hold is doubling the
construction, from one to two, of the Virginia-class submarine
made by General Dynamics and  Northrop Grumman Corp.  The
procurement request was to increase to $5.2 billion for fiscal
2011 from $4 billion in fiscal 2010.  Temporary Halt  The continuing resolution also temporarily prevents the
Pentagon from increasing from 30 to 42 the number of Lockheed
Martin F-35s it planned to put on contract. Procurement funding
is scheduled to increase to $8.4 billion this fiscal year from
$6.8 billion last year.  On a smaller scale, the budget measures delay the Army’s
planned increase -- from eight to 16 -- in purchases of
advanced  Boeing Co.  AH-64 Apache helicopters, according to
Pentagon budget documents.  The funding limits in the short term shouldn’t affect
defense stocks, said  Byron Callan , a defense markets analyst
with Capital Alpha Partners LLC.  “Most companies assumed that a continuing resolution
through early 2011 so the action today is consistent with that
view,” he said in an e-mail.  Still, earnings estimates for defense contractors will be
at risk “and that will affect stock prices” if Congress
doesn’t pass the fiscal 2011 appropriations bill by late
February, Callan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  