-- Sharp May Sell Galapagos in Europe, China to Challenge Apple IPad, Kindle
-- B y   A d a m   L e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2010-12-21T06:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/sharp-may-sell-galapagos-in-europe-china-to-challenge-apple-ipad-kindle.html
Sharp Corp. , which started selling
its Galapagos e-reader in Japan this month and will market it in
the U.S. in 2011, is targeting Europe and China next to
challenge  Apple Inc. ’s iPad and  Amazon.com Inc. ’s Kindle.  “After the U.S., we’re looking at other regions where
electronic-book reading is increasing,”  Masami Ohbatake , an
executive in charge of the company’s communications business,
said yesterday in an interview. Sharp teamed up with  Verizon
Communications Inc.  to sell the device in the U.S, he said.  Sony Corp. and Samsung Electronics Co. also aim to increase
their share of the market for e-readers, devices that allow
users to read e-books, magazines and newspapers, and can also
play video and audio files. Worldwide shipments of electronic-
reading devices may rise more than five-fold from last year to
26.5 million units by 2014, according to researcher  ISuppli
Corp . The figure excludes sales of tablet PCs such as the iPad.  “I don’t think the Galapagos will be successful,” said
 Atul Goyal , a senior analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
Singapore, who has a “sell” rating on Sharp. “I wonder how
this company will make money in this product category when they
are one of the many crowded participants, without any
competitive advantage, with an expensive price tag, and with no
brand power.”  The Galapagos 10.8-inch model sells in Japan for 54,800 yen
($655), compared with the 16-gigabyte iPad at 48,800 yen.  Galapagos Syndrome  The  name  of Sharp’s e-reader derives from “Galapagos
syndrome,” a term that refers to the idea that Japanese
technology has evolved in an isolated setting that has little in
common with the outside world, Ohbatake said.  “People might think the name is strange, but as a Japanese
company we’re proud of our technological developments,” he
said. “We wanted to show that Japanese technology is actually
being used all over the world.”  Sharp, the maker of  Aquos  televisions, in 1988 developed
the world’s first color thin film transistor liquid-crystal
display, and in 2000 marketed the first camera-equipped mobile
phone, according to its  website . The Osaka-based company is also
Japan’s biggest mobile phone maker.  ‘Good Start’  Galapagos sales in Japan are “off to a good start,”
Ohbatake said, declining to give specific figures. The palm-
sized 5.5 inch model is outselling the 10.8 inch model by about
2-to-1, probably because it’s easier to use on trains, he said.
The company targets sales of 1 million units by next year, and
Ohbatake said the device’s software, called XMDF, may help Sharp
compete in the electronic book market because it allows
publishers to lower the cost of producing electronic titles.  Sharp is in talks with content providers in the U.S.,
Ohbatake said.  Ohbatake said the Galapagos, tailored to display vertically
running Japanese script, can be easily adapted for overseas
markets. Sharp is considering selling the device, marketed as a
“media tablet” that combines e-reading functions and audio-
visual playback, in Europe and China as early as next year, he
said, without specifying when the decision will be made.  Sharp’s  shares , down 27 percent this year, rose 1.7 percent
to 853 yen as of the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
compared with a 1.5 percent gain in the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average. Apple’s shares have risen 53 percent this year,
and Seattle-based Amazon’s stock is up 36 percent.  Sony this month introduced its Reader device, and Samsung
Electronics is targeting sales of 1 million units for its Galaxy
Tab by year-end after unveiling the product in September. Apple
controlled 95 percent of the market for tablet computers in the
three months ended September, according to researcher Strategy
Analytics. The company sold about 7.46 million iPads between
April and September, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net ;
 Masatsugu Horie  in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 