-- Shariah-Compliant Hedging Derivatives Start in Malaysia: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-22T08:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/shariah-compliant-hedging-derivatives-start-in-malaysia-islamic-finance.html
Standard Chartered Plc  and Bank
Islam Malaysia Bhd. plan to offer Shariah-compliant derivatives
in Malaysia that will allow investors to hedge against interest
rates and commodity prices.  Standard Chartered, the U.K. bank that earns most of its
profit from emerging markets, will begin selling contracts in
the first quarter that provide protection from fluctuations in
the cost of items such as rice and oil, according to an e-mailed
reply to questions yesterday. Bank Islam Malaysia, the country’s
oldest Islamic lender, will offer swaps that allow two parties
to exchange different forms of payments from an underlying asset.  The lack of such Shariah products is hindering industry
growth, Badlisyah  Abdul Ghani , chief executive officer of Kuala
Lumpur-based CIMB Bank Islamic Bhd., said in an interview on Dec.
20. The market will be limited to hedging after derivatives
contributed to the global financial crisis, which resulted in
$1.8 trillion of credit losses and write downs.  “The industry has gone through a set of innovations over
the past 10 years to offer Shariah-compliant solutions and today
the industry can say we have Islamic derivatives,” Syed Alwi
Mohd Sultan, director of origination at Standard Chartered
Saadiq Bhd., the bank’s Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic banking unit,
said in a telephone interview on Dec. 15. “A wide acceptance of
the standards will bring greater convergence of the industry.”  Derivatives are contracts whose values are tied to assets
including stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events
such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  Regulatory Approval  Standard Chartered started offering its commodities-based
contracts in the Persian Gulf in March as the  International
Islamic Financial Market , a Manama, Bahrain-based agency that
sets guidelines, provided standardized legal documentation for
Shariah derivatives the same month. The U.K. bank will be the
first to provide the products in Malaysia and is awaiting
regulatory approval, according to the e-mail.  Islamic contracts can’t be traded or used as a speculative
investment under Shariah law, said  Aznan Hasan , assistant
professor at the Kuala Lumpur-based International Islamic
University of Malaysia, in an interview on Dec. 20. Standard
Chartered’s products are vetted by a Shariah panel of experts to
ensure compliance and that they are backed by a real underlying
asset, Syed Alwi said.  “Customers need hedging instruments; if you have a
customer who needs to make payment in the future for properties
the company bought overseas, they have to hedge their
currency,” said Aznan, who sits on several advisory boards
including the one at Malaysia’s central bank.  Asia-Pacific Market  Asia Pacific overtook North America as the biggest market
for derivatives in the six months through June and accounted for
38 percent of the global total, according to  data  from the
Washington-based Futures Industry Association published in
September. That compares with North America’s 33 percent market
share.  CIMB Islamic, the world’s top sukuk arranger this year, is
“exploring” Shariah-compliant credit-default swaps to
complement the bank’s Islamic profit-rate swaps, cross-currency
swaps and cross currency profit-rate swaps, Badlisyah said.  “It’s still very early days for the market but we’ve been
receiving interest for our derivatives products from
institutional investors as well as companies who need to hedge
their positions,” Badlisyah said. “Without effective risk
management, Islamic financial institutions cannot grow in a
stable and aggressive manner.”  Sukuk Returns  Malaysia, the Asian hub for Shariah-compliant finance,
accounts for more than 50 percent of the $144 billion of
outstanding Islamic bonds, or sukuk, globally, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Total sales of the securities, which pay
asset returns to comply with the religion’s ban on interest,
have dropped 24 percent to $15.3 billion this year.  Shariah-compliant bonds  returned  12.4 percent in 2010,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt
in developing markets gained 11.7 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The difference between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate shrank two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 305 on Dec. 21, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread has narrowed
163 basis points this year.  Rising Demand  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 rose two basis points to 3.10 percent today, according
to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The debt has
returned 5.8 percent since it was issued in June.  The difference in yield between the Dubai Department of
Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014 and Malaysia’s
Islamic note was little changed at 339 basis points today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap shrank 59 basis
points this month.  Demand for services complying with Shariah law is
increasing by about 15 percent a year and assets will rise to
$1.6 trillion by 2012, from around $1 trillion currently,
according to the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services
Board.  Bank Islam Malaysia plans to introduce new contracts that
will allow an exchange of profit or return rates between two
counterparties, Hizamuddin Jamalluddin, the bank’s assistant
general manager, said at a seminar for Islamic derivatives on
Dec. 14 in Kuala Lumpur. These will be in addition to its
existing Shariah-compliant hedging contracts, he said.  Record-low borrowing costs in the U.S. may rise in 2011,
providing a “timely” opportunity for banks to issue swaps-
based derivatives, Hizamuddin said.  “It is very critical that holders of sukuk have access to
hedging solutions that would enable them to counter the
challenges in a rising interest-rate environment,” he said.
“Interest rates seem to have hit rock bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  