-- Shell, Qatar Petroleum Sign Contract for $6 Billion Petrochemical Project
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-21T09:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/shell-qatar-to-sign-agreement-today-for-major-petrochemical-project.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , the largest
investor in Qatar, and state-run Qatar Petroleum agreed to
“jointly study” an estimated $6 billion petrochemicals project
in the Persian Gulf nation.  The 1.5 million-metric-ton monoethylene glycol plant may be
built by 2016 in the industrial city of Ras Laffan, Oil Minister
 Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  said today at the signing ceremony
in Doha, the capital. Other olefin derivatives would boost the
plant’s output to more than 2 million tons of finished products,
Shell said in a statement.  Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves, is
investing in petrochemical, aluminum and fertilizer factories as
it diversifies its economy away from exporting liquefied natural
gas and crude oil. The emirate aims to increase annual
petrochemicals production to at least 18 million tons by 2015-
16,  al-Attiyah  said.  “This new project will combine Shell’s experience and
technology with the ambition of the state of Qatar to create
further value from its natural gas resources,” Shell Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said in the  statement .  Qatar Petroleum signed an initial agreement with  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  in January to build a petrochemical complex that
would be the emirate’s biggest single energy-related project
since Shell’s Pearl gas-to-liquids plant was announced in 2006.
Qatar might choose a different partner, a Qatar Petroleum
official said in August.  Outlook for Exxon  Al-Attiyah declined to say if Shell’s project would replace
Exxon’s venture, and he wouldn’t comment on whether Exxon would
be involved in future projects in the country. Exxon’s planned
facility was to include a 1.6 million-ton-a-year steam cracker,
two 650,000-ton polyethylene plants and a 700,000-ton ethylene
glycol unit, and was to be completed by 2015, Exxon and Qatar
Petroleum said in January.  Qatar was in talks with Exxon, Shell and Chevron Phillips
Chemical Co. as possible partners in construction of two
facilities, Mohammed Yousef al-Mulla, head of Qatar
Petrochemical Co., said on Dec. 13.  Total SA had designs ready for a new petrochemical complex
in Qatar in the event that Exxon’s project, also budgeted at $6
billion, was canceled, two people with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  The plant with Shell may cost about $6 billion, though the
final price is yet to be determined, al-Attiyah said.  Shell’s Operations  Shell has invested about $21 billion in Qatar, the world’s
biggest LNG exporter. Its operations include a $19 billion gas-
to-liquids plant and a 30 percent stake in the Qatargas 4 LNG
project, Voser said today.  Exxon is the largest investor in Qatari plants that liquefy
gas for transport by ship, with partial ownership in 12 of the
country’s 14 LNG plants. Exxon is also an investor in a
condensate refinery. Other international oil companies invested
in Qatar include Shell,  ConocoPhillips  and  Total .  Total owns stakes in four facilities that liquefy gas and
is a shareholder in Qatar Petrochemical and Qatofin Co.’s linear
low-density polyethylene plant. Qatofin owns part of a new 1.3
million-ton-a-year ethane cracker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  