-- Simon Property Is Unlikely to Buy Capital Shopping, Barclays Capital Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-21T14:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/simon-property-is-unlikely-to-buy-capital-shopping-barclays-capital-says.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. mall owner, is unlikely to buy  Capital Shopping
Centres Group Plc  because it will take too long for rents to
rise enough to justify a price its U.K. counterpart would
accept, according to Barclays Capital.  “The economics of an acquisition appear difficult to
justify at levels that could get CSCG shareholders interested,”
real estate analysts  Ross Smotrich  and  Aaron Guy  said in a note
to clients today.  Simon made a conditional offer of 425 a pence share for
Capital Shopping on Dec. 15, valuing the U.K. company at
2.9 billion pounds ($4.6 billion). Simon attached several
conditions to its proposal, including that Capital Shopping drop
a planned cash-and-shares purchase of the Trafford Shopping
Centre in Manchester that would give seller  Peel Group  a 25
percent stake in Capital Shopping.  “If the Trafford acquisition is completed, SPG would find
itself at a material disadvantage to acquire CSCG in the medium
term,” said Smotrich, who works in New York for the investment
banking unit of  Barclays Plc , and Guy, who is based in London.
“Any future plan would become materially more expensive and
complicated, leaving Simon with few options.”  Simon wants to acquire a portfolio of malls in the U.K.
that couldn’t be replicated in a market where planning consents
for new shopping centers are hard to obtain, the analysts said.
Buying Capital Shopping would also give Simon’s tenants an
opportunity to open stores outside the U.S., the analysts said.  Another attraction of Capital Shopping for Simon, which has
a 5.1 percent stake in the company, is the potential for rent
increases at its stores. Capital Shopping’s rents are 20 percent
below the market average, according to the Barclays report.  ‘Years to Realize’  “It will ultimately be challenging for SPG to underwrite a
more aggressive firm bid given that much of the value will take
years to realize,” the analysts said.  Simon’s tactics are “eerily similar” to its unsuccessful
efforts to buy General Growth Properties Inc., Smotrich and Guy
said. They include offering financing at better terms than a
third party and making indicative offers through press releases.  Simon has until Jan. 12 to make a firm bid for Capital
Shopping or abandon its pursuit, U.K. regulators said Dec. 17.  Capital Shopping, which delayed a shareholder vote on the
Peel transaction to Jan. 26 from yesterday, has refused to allow
Simon access to its books, saying the offer “very substantially
undervalues the company and its prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 