-- Skype CEO Says New Products, Partners to Fuel Growth
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-22T17:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/skype-ceo-bates-targets-new-products-partnerships-for-growth-as-ipo-nears.html
Skype Technologies SA Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Bates  will fuel growth by adding
corporate partnerships and hiring engineers to build new
products as the company readies for an initial public offering.  Bates, who joined the Internet calling company in October
from  Cisco Systems Inc ., said in an interview Dec. 20 that
agreements with other companies will be an increasingly
important part of Skype’s development. He plans to hire as many
as 500 people next year, most of whom will be engineers, to
focus on new products and make sure that consumers have the same
experience using Skype on their phone, desktop or television.  “More and more of us are living in a world of mobility
that started off as convenience but now is becoming a richer
form of communication,” said Bates, 43, at the company’s new
 90,000-square-foot office  in Palo Alto, California. “What we
think is most powerful is not one modality -- it’s how
multiplatform you can become. Consumers want choices.”  Bates faces the challenge of building new sources of
revenue and coaxing money out of Skype’s more than 560 million
users, of which only 1.4 percent pay for the service, according
to a regulatory filing. Skype, which started as a way for
consumers to chat for free, is developing premium services such
as group video calling, pursuing corporate accounts and plans to
raise $100 million in an IPO.  “Companies like Skype have a tremendous amount of
opportunities,” said Bates. “You have to focus on the things
that matter.”  Growing Pains  The company also faces growing pains as the number of users
expands. Today, some Skype users had difficulty logging on to
the service, a matter Skype said it was investigating.  Skype, based in Luxembourg, is using the Palo Alto office
to attract Silicon Valley talent. Employees use phoneless
conference rooms to communicate with headquarters, relying on
Skype instead of traditional speakerphones.  Skype has agreements with carriers Verizon Wireless and
KDDI Corp., Japan’s second-largest mobile-phone operator. Deals
with Samsung Electronics Co., Panasonic Corp. and LG Electronics
Inc. have led to Skype software being pre-installed on 40
million high-definition televisions, Bates said.  For the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, Skype reported
revenue of $830 million and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of $170 million, according to
 Naveen Sarma , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in New York.  Estonian Roots  The company is the largest provider of international
calling, accounting for about 12 percent, according to
Washington-based research firm TeleGeography. EBay Inc., which
bought the Estonian startup in 2005, sold most of its stake last
year for about $2 billion to a group led by Menlo Park,
California-based private-equity firm Silver Lake.  Bates dropped out of his studies as a mechanical engineer
after one year at  London Southbank University . His first job was
loading time-shift punch cards into a computer in the early
1980s. His early work with computers and networking fed his
hunger to learn more and provided valuable experience watching
the industry transition from academia to the commercial realm,
he said.  Bates said he hopes to build on that experience as well as
on his insight gained from sitting on the board of YouTube, the
video site owned by  Google Inc .  “We’ve got great challenges that people want to work on,”
Bates said. “You’re going to start to see us ramping up
products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  