-- Europe Travel May Ease as Airlines, Rails See `Near-Normal' Day
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-12-22T02:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/snow-extends-european-travel-chaos-as-u-k-seeks-advice-on-harsher-winters.html
European travel may ease today as
airlines and rail operators work to return service to more-
normal levels after snow and ice grounded jets and snarled train
lines for four days.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  expects “almost regular” operations
within Germany and across Europe as the weather improves, said a
spokeswoman, Bettina Rittberger. London’s Heathrow Airport,
Europe’s busiest, managed to get both runways open by late
yesterday, and flights resumed at Paris’s two main airports.  The approach of the Christmas holiday added to the volume
of European travelers trying to move by air, rail and road as
well as to their urgency. Thousands of airline and train
passengers were marooned across Europe during a storm system
that produced Britain’s worst early snowfall in 17 years.  “We’re expecting a unique demand for tickets,” said
Berthold Huber, chief of long-distance operations for German
state-owned railway  Deutsche Bahn AG . The railroad plans to add
extra trains starting today to handle passenger loads inflated
by the region’s flight cancellations, Huber said.  The peak day for road travel will be tomorrow, according to
the Automobile Association, Britain’s biggest car-rescue
service. The company said Dec. 20 was the busiest day in its
105-year history, with more than 28,000 breakdowns.  Skies are starting to clear over the U.K., with advisories
for “heavy snow” due to lapse at 6 a.m. today for northwest
England, 9 a.m. for Wales, and 2 p.m. for the East and West
Midlands, according to the Met Office forecast. The risk of snow
and ice is expected to continue this week amid freezing
temperatures, it said.  ‘Near-normal’  The U.K.’s East Coast Line said it expected “near-normal”
service today, and French rail operations largely returned to
normal yesterday as snowstorms eased.  Dublin Airport may resume flight operations after 8 a.m.
today, following an accumulation of more than 15 centimeters of
snow yesterday, according to a statement on its website. While
Paris’s Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports were open, flight
delays remained possible, operator Aeroports de Paris said in an
e-mailed statement.  Heathrow, the world’s second-busiest airport after Atlanta
Hartsfield-Jackson, operated with only one of its two runways
until 5 p.m., forcing  British Airways Plc  to scrap 165 flights
at its main hub, according to the carrier’s website.  Even with both Heathrow runways open, British Airways said
it’s working to a schedule based on guidance from airport owner
 BAA Ltd.  that only a third of flights would be able to operate
until 6 a.m. tomorrow. Passengers should check schedules before
departing for the airport, the airline said, echoing an advisory
issued by carriers across Europe.  Delays and Cancellations  BAA Chief Executive Office Colin Matthews said in an
interview on Sky News that the company is “hoping” to run two-
thirds of Heathrow’s full schedule today.  “It’s important passengers understand that full services
can’t be restored immediately,” he said to Sky News.  Gatwick and Edinburgh airports said their runways are open
and flights are operating, though there are continuing delays
and cancellations.  Eurostar Group Ltd. said in a statement on its website that
it is planning to operate a “near normal” service today, while
warning that passengers should only go to the station if they
hold a valid ticket for travel.  No Safari  Howard Rubel, analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, had
to scrap plans for a safari in Africa with his wife over the
holiday after snow and ice forced cancellation of flight
connections in Europe from New York’s Kennedy airport and New
Jersey’s Newark.  “I’ve become an airline route expert,” Rubel said after a
24-hour attempt to complete his trip as originally planned.  He and his wife went home, checked weather reports and flew
to Florida yesterday for a vacation of golf, tennis and spas
instead of Tanzania’s wild animals.  “You learn a lot about airline operations when you hang out
at the counter for 12 hours,” Rubel said by telephone.
“Airlines have shrunk capacity so much that it’s harder to get
places now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong   kwong11@bloomberg.net  