-- South Africa in Talks With Steel Authority of India on New Mill
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-12-21T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/south-africa-in-talks-with-steel-authority-of-india-on-new-mill.html
South Africa is in talks with  Steel
Authority of India Ltd.  on building a mill to boost competition
and lower prices in an economy where ArcelorMittal’s local unit
produces almost 70 percent of the steel consumed.  “We are in talks and they are at a sensitive stage,”
Riaan Le Roux, acting deputy director general of the trade and
industry ministry, said by mobile phone today. Talks with the
second-biggest steelmaker in India began mid-year, he said.  Indian steelmakers are seeking to expand in foreign markets
as delays in mine allocations and land purchases stall projects
at home. Production in Africa’s biggest economy is dominated by
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , which has said a dispute with
its biggest supplier of iron ore may force the closing of the
company’s Saldanha mill, pushing up prices and cutting jobs.  “If it happens it would be fantastic for competition and
for steel prices in the country,” Le Roux said.  Indian Steel Ministry Secretary  Pradeep Kumar Misra  said
today the country was in talks with a state-run South African
company over building a plant able to produce 3 million to 5
million metric tons a year. He wouldn’t identify the partner.  ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit of the world’s largest
steelmaker, is in a dispute over a nine-year old supply accord
with  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  Former Kumba Chairman  Lazarus Zim  said
yesterday he will set up a steel company, and today declined to
identify the partners in a text message sent to Bloomberg News.  Motjoli Resources Ltd., a South African producer, on Aug. 6
said it plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion to fund the
construction of an iron ore mine that may produce as much as 20
million tons a year. Executive Chairman Nchakha Moloi wasn’t
available for comment when Bloomberg called his office.  Steel output in South Africa, making up half of Africa’s
production, climbed 14 percent in the year to November,
according to the Brussels-based World Steel Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  