-- Southern Sudan Renegade General's Forces Kill 20 Army Soldiers in Ambush
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2010-12-21T14:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/southern-sudan-renegade-general-s-forces-kill-20-army-soldiers-in-ambush.html
Forces loyal to renegade Southern
Sudan general George Athor ambushed troops from the south’s
army, killing 20 and wounding 50, an army spokesman said.  The attack occurred in Jonglei state on Dec. 18, three days
after a meeting between Athor and a delegation sent by Southern
Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir , to discuss an amnesty offer for
Athor and his forces, army spokesman Philip Aguer said today in
Juba, the regional capital.  “This is just a surprise to us,” Aguer said. “We are
waiting to hear the explanation on George Athor’s side.”  Athor, a former chief of staff in Southern Sudan’s army,
took up arms against the government after losing a state
election in April. While Kiir offered amnesty to Athor and his
forces in October, talks on the proposal reached a stalemate.  Oil-producing Southern Sudan is scheduled to hold a
referendum on Jan. 9 to decide whether the region will secede
from Sudan and form an independent nation. The vote is the
centerpiece of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended a 21-year civil
war between Sudan’s northern and southern regions. About 2
million people died in the conflict and 4 million fled their
homes.  Southern Sudan accounts for as much as 80 percent of
Sudan’s 490,000 barrels of daily oil production. Sudan is sub-
Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer, according to the  BP
Statistical Review of World Energy .  The attack occurred between the towns of Atar and Old
Fangak when a company of about 150 soldiers from the south’s
Sudan People’s Liberation Army was attacked by a force about
twice as big, Aguer said. While details remain unclear, he said
there is no doubt that Athor’s troops were behind the raid.  “There are no other forces in that area, only the SPLA and
Athor,” Aguer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 