-- Soybeans Rise to Five-Week High, Corn Gains on South America Crop Weather
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-21T20:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/soybeans-rise-to-five-week-high-corn-gains-on-south-america-crop-weather.html
Soybean futures rose to a five-week
high and corn gained for a fourth straight session as adverse
weather threatens crops in Argentina and Brazil, the biggest
exporters after the U.S.  Dry weather and temperatures topping 100 degrees
Fahrenheit (38 Celsius) will increase plant stress in
Argentina, the Commodity Weather Group LLC said today in a
report. While rain will prevent severe dryness in most of
Brazil, there is an increasing threat of too much moisture, the
Bethesda, Maryland-based forecaster said.  “Argentine weather is getting a little more attention
than Brazil,” said  Greg Grow , the director of agribusiness at
Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago. “Any crop problems
in South America mean more demand for U.S. supplies.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 10.5 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $13.375 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, after reaching $13.395, the highest
since Nov. 12. The most-active contract has gained 28 percent
this year on record Chinese demand for U.S. supplies.  Corn futures for March delivery advanced 2.75 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $6.0225 a bushel in Chicago, capping the first
four-day gain since late October. Earlier, the price touched
$6.04, matching yesterday’s high, which was tops for the most-
active contract since Nov. 9. The commodity has surged 45
percent in 2010.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest producer and exporter of
both crops. Brazil is the second-biggest soybean shipper,
followed by Argentina.  Argentina, Brazil  Argentina’s soybean harvest may plunge as much as 21
percent next year as drought delays planting and creates poor
growing conditions, Oil World, an oilseed-industry researcher
and publisher, said today.  Soybean output in Brazil’s southern Rio Grande do Sul
state may be 20 percent smaller because of dry conditions
related to a La Nina weather pattern, forecaster Somar
Meteorologia said yesterday. La Nina is caused by changing
temperatures in the equatorial Pacific Ocean.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 