-- Sprint Names Euteneuer Finance Chief, Replacing Brust
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-21T21:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/sprint-names-qwest-s-euteneuer-as-finance-chief-to-replace-retiring-brust.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, named Qwest Communications
International Inc. executive  Joseph Euteneuer  chief financial
officer, replacing retiring CFO  Robert Brust .  Euteneuer, 55, has been Qwest CFO since September 2008 and
previously held that post at XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc.,
Sprint said today in a statement. Brust, 67, will remain in the
post while Euteneuer helps Denver-based  Qwest  complete its
merger with CenturyLink Inc., expected in the first half.  Sprint, which competes against Verizon Wireless and AT&T
Inc., has posted  losses  for 12 consecutive quarters amid
customer defections. The company had net debt of $15.6 billion
at the end of September, down 20 percent from June 2008. Sprint
is also weighing whether to buy debt from partner Clearwire
Corp., which provides Sprint’s fourth-generation network.  “I think Euteneuer will be less conservative, be a little
more aggressive in how they use” debt,  Chris Larsen , a Piper
Jaffray & Co. analyst in New York, said in an interview. “He’ll
allow them to reduce their free cash flow to spend a little more
on the network. He may actually refinance some of the debt
instead of just paying it off.”  Euteneuer will have to help Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint manage a $5 billion project, announced this month, aimed
at upgrading the company’s network over the next three to five
years. The effort is meant to help Sprint combine the various
spectrum bands it uses into a single type of base station,
improving efficiency.  Overseeing Acquisitions  Sprint said in a filing Euteneuer will get a base salary of
$775,000, with a signing bonus of $500,000 and 125,000 shares.
Next year, he is eligible for performance-based pay with a
target of $4.5 million. Euteneuer collected $685,385 in salary
last year and Brust earned $1 million.  Brust has been Sprint’s finance chief since May 2008,
helping to oversee the purchases of IPCS Inc. and  Virgin Mobile
USA Inc.  Previously, he held the same role for seven years at
Eastman Kodak Co.  Cristi Allen , a Sprint spokeswoman, said Euteneuer wasn’t
available for comment.  Sprint  added 4 cents to $4.31 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 18 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  