-- Staffing Industry Hiring Sales Surge Even as U.S. Jobs Remain Hard to Find
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/staffing-industry-hiring-sales-surge-even-as-u-s-jobs-remain-hard-to-find.html
Waste Management Inc.  turned to a
staffing company, Seaton Corp., to recruit 5,500 permanent
employees this year, cutting annual hiring expenses for the
trash hauler by $1.9 million.  Using Seaton has been “much more scalable and flexible for
me than to have to find recruiters and get them on board, which
may take weeks, if not months,” said Brent McCombs, Waste
Management’s vice president of talent. It’s a “relatively risk-
free way” to expand.  While U.S. hiring by private companies last month was the
weakest since January at 50,000, the staffing industry is
experiencing a boom in demand as employers retool their
workforces to be more flexible and reduce expenses. That’s
helped stocks of these businesses outperform the broader market,
with the Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Human Resources &
Employment Services Index rising 47 percent since August 31,
compared with 19 percent for the S&P 500 Index.  Some employers who shrank their human-resource staffs
during the recession now lack the recruiters to ramp up hiring
even modestly, said  Tobey Sommer , a staffing analyst at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey, a unit of  SunTrust Banks Inc.  in Atlanta. He
recommends buying  Robert Half International Inc. ,  Kforce Inc. 
and  Korn/Ferry International .  “What we are seeing right now in HR departments is a
microcosm of the shift to a more flexible labor force” and
“more variable cost structure,” said Sommer, who is based in
Nashville, Tennessee.  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC
in Charlotte, North Carolina, agrees.  ‘Fundamental Change’  “There is a fundamental change under way in the hiring
habits of companies, who are not very sure about the strength of
final demand and the strength of the economy,” said Silvia, who
predicts the unemployment rate will reach 10 percent early next
year compared with  9.8 percent  in November, even as he has
raised his forecast for fourth-quarter growth to 3.5 percent
from 2.6 percent. “This certainly suggests more caution.”  Revenue from permanent job placements rose 33 percent in
the third quarter at Menlo Park, California-based  Robert Half ,
50 percent at  SFN Group Inc.  in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and 61
percent at Tampa, Florida-based Kforce, according to the
companies.  Such outsourcing may expand 40 percent overall next year,
said  Elliot Clark , chief executive officer of SharedXpertise
Media LLC, which held a trade show Dec. 7-8 in Las Vegas for
companies interested in contracting out recruiting. The event
attracted 270 attendees, up 23 percent from a year earlier, said
Clark, a former staffing-industry executive.  ‘Wheeling and Dealing’  So many people were “doing deals around the tables,” it
was difficult to get them to attend the formal meetings, he
said. “There was a lot of wheeling and dealing going on.”  Houston-based  Waste Management , which has more than 45,000
employees, cut hiring and employment-advertising costs by
consolidating recruiting through Chicago-based Seaton starting
in 2008, McCombs said. Openings have been filled in less than a
month compared with more than 50 days in 2007, thanks partly to
the new process and the weaker economy, he said.  “We have shown a massive improvement,” especially in
finding drivers, a career field with continuing strong demand,
McCombs said.  Staffing companies are gaining clients even as the
unemployment rate remains near a 26-year high. The labor market
may not return to normal for five years, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast Dec. 5
on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program.  Continuing Recovery  “The economic recovery is continuing, though at a rate
that has been insufficient to bring down unemployment,” the
Federal Open Market Committee said in its Dec. 14 statement.  Fourteen percent of U.S. employers plan to add to their
staffs in the first quarter, while 10 percent anticipate
reductions, according to a survey released this month by
Manpower Inc. While the survey shows that demand is the highest
since 2008, the pickup in hiring will be “slight,” Manpower
said.  The jobless rate is likely to average 9.4 percent in 2011
and 8.7 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month.  Some businesses that are adding employees say outside
recruiters may not be able to find people who are the best fit.
While  Intel Corp. , the world’s largest chipmaker, is testing a
“pilot program” of outsourcing, the Santa Clara, California-
based company has maintained most hiring responsibilities,
spokeswoman  Gail Dundas  said.  “Intel is a complex company with a unique culture, and we
have found the best model for us” is “retaining our internal
recruiting staff,” she said.  Hiring 500  Tarrytown, New York-based  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. 
has had a more positive experience with staffing firms. The
biotechnology company wasn’t “particularly efficient at
hiring,” so it turned to  Kenexa Corp.  to help it find 500
people this year, more than doubling its staff to 1,500 since
2008, said Ross Grossman, vice president for human resources.  “We have reduced the cost per hire by about half,”
Grossman said. Kenexa, based in Wayne, Pennsylvania, also
designed a program to help recruit scientists who “really fit
into the Regeneron culture,” where researchers are urged to
shun bureaucracy and come up with new approaches.  The ad campaign, “Five Reasons You Do Not Want to Work for
Us,” has been a hit with scientists, Grossman said. “It is
about more than cost savings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  