-- Steel Authority of India Says It's in Talks to Set Up Unit in South Africa
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2010-12-21T06:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/steel-authority-of-india-says-it-s-in-talks-to-set-up-unit-in-south-africa.html
Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the
nation’s second-largest producer, is talking with a state-run
South African company to set up a steel plant there to tap the
resources of the continent’s biggest producer of the metal.  The company is considering building a 3 million to 5
million metric ton plant if the South African government agrees
to grant iron ore and coking coal mining permits, Steel
Secretary  Pradeep Kumar Misra  said in an interview in New Delhi.  Indian steel companies, including  Tata Steel Ltd.  and
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd., are seeking fast growing foreign
markets as delays in mine allocations and land purchases hinder
projects back home. Steel production in South Africa, which
accounts for half of the continent’s output, climbed 14 percent
in the year to November, according to the Brussels-based  World
Steel Association .  “The South African government has proposed a joint venture
plant with Steel Authority and has promised iron ore and coking
coal mines for it. We are exploring that idea,” said Misra, who
accompanied Steel Authority Chairman  C.S. Verma  on a trip to the
African country last week.  Verma didn’t answer calls made to his cellphone, while a
Steel Authority spokesman declined to comment.  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd., a unit of the world’s
largest steelmaker, is the country’s biggest producer of the
material, accounting for nearly 70 percent of output.  Discussions  Besides the joint venture proposal, Steel Authority also
had discussions on the acquisition of a coking coal mine in
South Africa and possibly buying the fuel from there, Misra said.  Steel Authority’s own mines currently meet its iron ore
needs, while it depends largely on imports for coking coal, the
fuel used to run steel plant blast furnaces. The contract price
of coking coal has risen as much as 74 percent this year on
shortages and shipment delays.  The Indian steelmaker, along with four other state-run
companies, is also scouting for coking coal assets in Australia,
the U.S. and Canada.  India’s steel ministry is also in discussions about mining
manganese ore in South Africa, as the country’s largest producer,
MOIL Ltd., gears up to meet the rising demand.  “MOIL Ltd and NMDC Ltd are in talks to jointly bid for
manganese ore mines in South Africa, one of the largest
producers of the mineral,”  Dalip Singh , joint secretary at the
steel ministry, said.  India needs to secure supplies of manganese ore, a key
ingredient in steel, as it plans to increase manufacturing
capacity of the alloy by almost 67 percent to 120 million tons
by 2012. In that period, the country’s manganese ore demand is
expected to almost double to 4.5 million tons, said K.J. Singh,
chairman of MOIL Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.netmoil   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  