-- Stocks Rise in Germany for Second Day; ThyssenKrupp, Volkswagen, TUI Gain
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-21T16:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/stocks-rise-in-germany-for-second-day-thyssenkrupp-volkswagen-tui-gain.html
German stocks climbed as China said
it’s supporting efforts to ensure financial stability in the
European Union and GfK AG said Germany’s consumer confidence
will stay close to the highest level in more than three years.  ThyssenKrupp AG  followed an increase in metal prices.
Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest carmaker, and Daimler AG, the
world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars, led automobile
companies higher. GEA Group AG surged as BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research recommended buying the shares. K+S AG, TUI AG
and Pfleiderer AG advanced as the stocks were upgraded at
Bankhaus Lampe KG.  The benchmark DAX Index gained 0.9 percent to 7,077.99 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, rising for a second day. The
measure has climbed 19 percent this year as corporate profits
increased, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond-
purchase program to assist the U.S. economy’s recovery and the
European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland. The broader  HDAX
Index  also rallied 0.9 percent today.  “We’ll see a good year for equities next year,” said
 Markus Wallner , a senior equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “The economy is getting better, though the European
sovereign-debt crisis will remain a problem that will cause a
bit of volatility next year. Things are quiet at the moment as
most fund managers have closed their positions.”  German stocks continued their rally even after Moody’s
Investors Service placed Portugal’s A1 long-term and Prime-1
short-term government bond ratings on review for a possible
downgrade.  China Support  China supports the International Monetary Fund’s measures
and “has taken concrete action to help some EU members counter
the sovereign-debt crisis,” Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said at
the start of the Third EU-China High-Level Economic & Trade
Dialogue, a one-day forum in Beijing to discuss economic and
trade relations.  GfK, the Nuremberg-based market research company, said
today that its consumer sentiment index, based on a survey of
about 2,000 people, will slip to 5.4 from 5.5 in December. That
was the highest since October 2007.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany’s largest steelmaker , advanced 1.5
percent to 32 euros as aluminum, copper, lead, nickel and tin
all climbed on the London Metal Exchange.  Volkswagen preferred shares rose 2.3 percent to 129.15
euros. The carmaker will start assembling Passat sedans in
Malaysia by the end of 2011 and plans to build more models in
the southeast Asian country as the company challenge to Toyota
Motor Corp.  Daimler  added 1.5 percent to 54.66 euros, while Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG gained 2.6 percent to 64.80 euros. Automobile
shares were among the best performers in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, rising 1.8 percent as a group.  Continental, GEA  Continental AG jumped 2 percent to 60.60 euros. The
tiremaker has dropped its plan to merge with its majority
shareholder Schaeffler Group, Manager-Magazin reported, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the situation.
Continental’s management board is weighing possibilities under
which Schaeffler’s stake in the company would be reduced over
the long term, the report said.  GEA Group, whose machines milk about one-third of the
world’s dairy cows, climbed 3.1 percent to 21.56 euros as BofA
Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to “buy.”  K+S  increased 1.4 percent to 56.65 euros as Bankhaus Lampe
recommended buying shares of Europe’s biggest potash producer.  TUI rallied 5.1 percent to 10.49 euros after the German
owner of Europe’s largest travel company was raised to “hold”
from “sell” at Lampe. The bank also upgraded Pfleiderer to
“hold” from “sell.” The maker of laminate flooring surged
5.3 percent to 2.56 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 