-- U.K.'s Cable Reprimanded by Cameron, Stripped of BSkyB Role Over Comments
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-21T18:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/u-k-s-cable-reprimanded-by-cameron-stripped-of-bskyb-role-over-comments.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
was stripped of authority of media and telecommunications policy
and barred from a role in  Rupert Murdoch ’s proposed takeover of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  after he was quoted as saying
he had “declared war” on Murdoch.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a statement today the
comments were “totally unacceptable and inappropriate.”  As business secretary, Cable had the power to decide if the
acquisition of BSkyB by  News Corp.  would give Murdoch too much
power. The uproar came an hour after Cameron and his deputy,
 Nick Clegg , backed him as the  Telegraph  quoted him detailing
Cabinet infighting and declaring his possible resignation as a
“nuclear option” to bring down the government.  Both Conservative lawmakers and the opposition Labour Party
called on the 67-year-old Cable to quit.  “His increasingly erratic behaviour is not conducive to
being in the Cabinet,” Conservative lawmaker  Philip Davies  told
BSkyB’s Sky News. “You can either shoot from the hip and be on
the back benches or you can be in the government. Mr Cable seems
to want to have the best of both worlds.”  Murdoch “is trying to take over BSkyB, you probably know
that,” Cable told Daily Telegraph reporters who posed as
constituents without identifying themselves as journalists.
“For the people who know what is happening, this is a big
thing. His whole empire is now under attack.”  ‘Shocked and Dismayed’  New York-based News Corp. said it was “shocked and
dismayed” by the comments. Cable’s remarks “raise serious
questions about fairness and due process,” News Corp.
spokeswoman  Miranda Higham  said today in a telephone interview.  News Corp. shares rose 7 cents to $14.50 at 1:20 p.m. in
New York trading.  “I fully accept the decision of the Prime Minister and
Deputy Prime Minister,” Cable said in a statement. “I deeply
regret the comments I made and apologise for the embarrassment
that I have caused the Government.” A spokesman for Clegg
referred callers to Cameron’s statement.  With Cable’s reprimand, Conservative Minister for Culture,
Media and Sport  Jeremy Hunt  will take over responsibility for
media and telecom issues, including the media regulator Ofcom.  News Corp., the owner of four of the biggest-selling U.K.
newspapers, is waiting for the government to rule on the deal.
Ofcom has a Dec. 31 deadline to recommend to Cable whether to
start a Competition Commission probe on how the deal might
affect the British media landscape. The company won European
Union approval for the proposed purchase today.  Takeover Bid  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of BSkyB, asked the EU on Nov. 3 to approve its
proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for the 61
percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own. BSkyB in June
rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer as too low. The
companies are seeking regulatory approval before a new offer is
made.  Cable placed himself “in an untenable position,” Robert
Bell, a London-based antitrust lawyer with Speechly Bircham LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s exercising some sort of
quasi-judicial role in the whole process and he has to maintain
an element of fairness in his decision-making. Quite frankly,
his reported comments go contrary to that.”  Cable’s comments on Murdoch were released just after
Cameron and Clegg signaled their approval of Cable at an end-of-
year press conference. Cameron said he had a “good and
business-like relationship” with Cable, while Clegg called the
minister “an incredibly important member of the government and
an outstanding secretary of state.”  They were commenting on remarks published last night by the
Telegraph in which Cable said “there is a constant battle going
on behind the scenes” between the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats in the Cabinet.  ‘Nuclear Option’  “I have a nuclear option, it’s like fighting a war,”
Cable was cited as saying. “They know I have nuclear weapons,
but I don’t have any conventional weapons. If they push me too
far then I can walk out of the government and bring the
government down and they know that.”  Cable’s resignation would have left the Liberal Democrats
struggling to find a replacement, according to  Steven Fielding 
of the Centre for British Politics at Nottingham University.  “The Liberal Democrats don’t have much left in their
talent pool. They’re down to the dregs,” Fielding said in a
telephone interview. “They haven’t got the equivalent of Vince
Cable, who’s got credibility with the wider party and with the
public.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  