-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Stays at Four-Month Low, GfK Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/u-k-consumer-confidence-stays-at-four-month-low-as-budget-squeeze-looms.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  stayed at a
four-month low in December as Britons prepared for the biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II, GfK NOP said.  The index of sentiment was at minus 21, unchanged from
November, which was the lowest level since July, the research
group said in a statement in London today. Economists predicted
a fall to minus 22, according to the median of 14  forecasts  in a
Bloomberg News survey. A measure of the general economic
situation over the next 12 months fell one point to minus 23.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is preparing to
cut spending and raising taxes to eradicate a record  budget
deficit . Value-added tax on sales will rise to 20 percent from
17.5 percent in January, prompting many consumers to bring
forward purchases to avoid the extra charge.  Consumers’ belief it was a good time  to buy  before the VAT
increase “distorted the overall index to make it appear static
when in fact it is teetering on the brink,” GfK NOP Social
Research Managing Director  Nick Moon  said in the statement.
“The real test will come in January when festive spending
ceases and the VAT increase comes in. Then we will finally see
the full impact of how consumers are reacting to the first wave
of austerity measures.”  The gauge on the climate for making major purchases rose 10
points to minus 7, the only one of the index’s five elements to
have risen this month. A measure of Britons’ views on their
personal finances for the coming 12 months fell 1 point to minus
8, and a gauge for the last year declined 3 points to minus 16.  Officials have warned the austerity measures may hurt
Britain’s economic recovery. The Office for Budget
Responsibility, the government’s fiscal watchdog, on Nov. 29 cut
its 2011 growth forecast to 2.1 percent from 2.3 percent and its
2012 projection to 2.6 percent from 2.8 percent.  An assessment of the general economic situation in the last
12 months dropped 5 points to minus 51. GfK NOP conducted the
survey of 2,007 people from Dec. 3 to Dec. 12. The research was
carried out on behalf of the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  