-- U.S. Population Grows 9.7% as South, West Gain Most
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-21T22:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/u-s-population-grows-9-7-over-decade-as-south-west-gain-most-in-census.html
Southern and western states will
gain a net 11 seats in Congress after outpacing other regions in
population growth over the last decade, in what’s likely to
spark redistricting battles across the U.S., census data shows.  The nation’s population rose 9.7 percent, to 308,745,538 on
April 1, 2010, from 281,421,906 in 2000, the slowest pace of
growth since 1930-1940, the  U.S. Census Bureau  said today.  The gains in the South and West will come at the expense of
the Northeast and Midwest, where states will shed a total of 11
seats in the U.S. House of Representatives. That will take
electoral votes away from states  Barack Obama  carried in 2008, a
possible boost for Republicans in the 2012 presidential race.  The states will use the data to redraw political districts
now that the 435 U.S. House seats have been reallocated.  “It will set off an intense game of musical chairs,” said
 Andrew Smith , a political science professor at the University of
New Hampshire in Durham. “It’s life or death for these guys.”  Republicans will have an edge in directing the
redistricting process because they gained state offices in last
month’s elections.  The growth in the overall U.S. population, driven by an
increase in Hispanic residents, was the weakest in seven decades
as the worst recession since the Great Depression stunted
immigration.  Texas Wins Big  Texas was the biggest winner, gaining four seats, while
Ohio and New York were the biggest losers, dropping two seats
each. Another major gainer was Florida, which added two seats.  Arizona, Georgia, Nevada, South Carolina, Utah and
Washington will each add a seat, while Illinois, Iowa,
Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania will each lose one.  The state population counts mark the start of a  new look at
America  from the 2010 census. The data will be used by the
government to distribute more than $400 billion in annual
 federal funding , by businesses to identify markets, and by
social scientists to examine the changing demographics.  Today’s  release  included only population counts. More
detailed data on race, ethnicity, housing and other variables
will gradually be provided, beginning in February, for all
levels of geography, from neighborhoods to states.  Political Impact  Still, it’s the overall population shifts that will have
the most immediate political impact.  Congressional seats are  reapportioned  every decade after
completion of the census, with each district to have roughly the
same number of people. After the 2000 census, each lawmaker was
supposed to represent some 647,000 people. That number will now
grow to about 710,000, the census bureau said.  The reapportionment alters electoral vote calculations
because a state’s Electoral College vote is the sum of its House
seats, plus its two Senate seats.  It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency, and the
elections have sometimes been close, such as when  George W. Bush 
won with 271 electoral votes  in 2000 .  Of the eight states that gained at least one seat this
year, five were won by Arizona Senator  John McCain  when he was
the 2008 Republican presidential nominee. Obama carried eight of
the 10 states that lost seats, including New York and Ohio. The
only McCain-voting states in this group are Missouri and
Louisiana, which lost one of its seven seats after residents
fled from Hurricane Katrina.  Seven Fewer Votes  Obama would have had seven fewer electoral votes under the
reapportionment outlined today, said  Kimball Brace , president of
 Election Data Services Inc. , a consulting firm based in
Manassas, Virginia. In the 2000 election, he said Bush would
have had 14 more electoral votes under this new formula.  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary, told
reporters today the shifts in population don’t necessarily mean
significant gains for Republicans or losses for Democrats. He
said there are states in the Southwest and Southeast that have
swung between the two parties in recent elections.  “I don’t think it will have a huge practical impact,” he
said.  Much of the population gain for states like Texas, the
second-most-populous state, is the result of Hispanic growth.
Hispanics account for about 36 percent of the state’s
population, the new  census estimates  show.  Going for Obama  In 2008, Hispanics voted for Obama by a ratio of more than
2-to-1, according to the nonpartisan  Pew Hispanic Center  in
Washington. The role Hispanic population growth will play in the
nation’s politics won’t be fully known until the new districts
are drawn.  This redistricting marks the first time in California’s
history that it didn’t win an additional U.S. House seat. The
nation’s largest state has 53 seats.  “What this census number suggests is that the
international immigrants that we have received have been offset
by domestic migration losses to other states,” said  Hans Johnson , director of research at the nonpartisan Public Policy
Institute of California in San Francisco.  The census bureau will roll out in February and March
detailed block-level data needed to redraw the districts. That
information will be loaded into mapping software, and the states
will begin building their new districts over the following
months.  Redistricting Edge  The redistricting process often yields oddly shaped
boundaries that politicians hope will give their party the
advantage in elections. In states losing seats, there will be
battles over which incumbents will see their districts redrawn
in a politically damaging way.  Redistricting is primarily handled by state lawmakers in
some states, while others rely on independent commissions that
are meant to reduce the role of political calculations in the
process. California voters last month approved a measure
stripping the state legislature of the responsibility and giving
the assignment to a commission.  With a net gain of six seats in the November elections, the
Republicans will occupy governor’s offices in 29 states starting
next year. They also will control 25 state legislatures --
including in  Ohio , North Carolina and  Michigan  -- boosting the
party’s power in statehouses by the most since 1928, the
National Conference of State Legislatures said.  Republicans fell short in some states. In Illinois,
Democrats kept control of the governor’s office and state
legislature, even as they lost Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat.  As more seats are awarded to Sunbelt states like Texas, the
Congress that convenes in 2013 will have fewer voices from the
Northeast and Midwest.  Building New Coalitions  Charles Ballard , a  Michigan State University  economist,
said the loss of Midwestern seats should encourage
representatives of individual states to set aside their
parochial interests and begin voting as a regional bloc.  “If we could get them together, they could push a common
agenda,” he said.  New York lost ground in the House for the seventh
consecutive reapportionment, dropping from 29 seats to 27. As
recently as 1940, New York had 45 seats. In 2013, it will have
as small a House delegation as it had in 1810.  The loss of a seat in Pennsylvania marks the ninth
consecutive reapportionment where the state has lost. The gains
for Texas are the biggest in the state’s representation since it
went from six to 11 seats in the 1880 reapportionment.  Adding Seats  Florida recorded its 11th consecutive reapportionment win,
while Arizona has now added at least one seat for the sixth time
in a row. Proportionally, Iowa suffered the worst loss, as one
of its five seats was taken away.  “It’s not going to be helpful,” said  Steve Scheffler , a
member of the Republican National Committee from Iowa. “You
have one less advocate for the state’s concerns.”  Robert Groves , the census bureau’s director, said growth by
region varied widely during the decade. The Northeast grew 3.2
percent and the Midwest grew 3.9 percent, compared to 13.8
percent in the West and 14.3 percent in the South.  Nevada led states with the biggest gain in population
during the decade, at 35.1 percent, followed by Arizona with
24.6 percent, Utah at 23.8 percent, Idaho at 21.1 percent and
Texas at 20.6 percent. Michigan was the only state to lose
population, dropping 0.6 percent. The five states with the
smallest growth rates were Rhode Island, 0.4 percent; Louisiana,
1.4 percent; Ohio, 1.6 percent; New York, 2.1 percent; and West
Virginia, 2.5 percent.  “I kind of see it as a regional analogy to when people
moved to the suburbs in the 1950s,” said  William Frey , a
demographer and senior fellow at the non-partisan  Brookings
Institution  in Washington. “It’s newer and it’s less
expensive.”  The U.S. has the lowest median age of any of the Group of
Seven nations, according to United Nations’ estimates for 2010.
Youthfulness is one variable for future growth because younger
people tend to have more children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 