-- U.S. Lawmakers Top Market With Home-District Companies' Stocks, Study Says
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2010-12-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/u-s-lawmakers-top-market-with-home-district-companies-stocks-study-says.html
Even as members of Congress fail to
beat the stock market overall, they excel when buying and
selling stocks of local companies, a new study shows.  “They seem to know something that other people don’t
know,” said  Jens Hainmueller , an assistant professor of
political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  Hainmueller and Yale University post-doctoral fellow  Andrew
Eggers  discovered that when members of Congress bought the
stocks of public companies with headquarters in their districts,
they exceeded the market by more than 4 percent per year.  Overall, though, their record was poor, as
 bloombergbusinessweek.com  reports. A group of all their stocks
trailed the market by 2 percent to 3 percent per year.
Compounded over the five years of the study, that small
difference was statistically significant, the authors say.  The study reconstructed the portfolios of the 422 members
of Congress who held individual stocks from 2004 through 2008.
In all, it analyzed 48,309 transactions in 2,581 different
stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange,  NASDAQ  or the
American Stock Exchange.  Financial disclosure forms, which include stock purchases
and other investments by members of Congress, are  filed  on an
annual basis, and many of the forms are hand-written. For this
study, the  Center for Responsive Politics , a nonprofit
organization that studies money and politics, transcribed the
reports to convert them into digital form. Eggers and
Hainmueller got their data from the center and conducted their
own analysis.  Legal Stock Purchases  It is legal for members to buy stock in a company that
lobbies them, or invest based on information learned in the
halls of the Capitol. A bill to restrict such practices -- the
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or STOCK Act -- was
introduced in the House in January 2009 by Representative  Brian Baird , a Democrat from Washington state. His bill attracted only
10 co-sponsors and failed to advance out of committee, and he is
retiring this year.  The study raises questions about congressional investing,
said  Bill Allison , editorial director at the Washington-based
Sunlight Foundation, which advocates for greater government
transparency. He noted that legislators can help out local
companies by influencing tax provisions, government contracts,
appropriation earmarks and other policies. “When you think
about what members of Congress have the most power to influence,
it is companies in their district,” he said.  Timing of Investments  The study’s authors found evidence that might lessen
worries about investing by lawmakers.  For example, “they don’t seem to have great timing with
these local investments,” said Eggers. In other words, the
politicians aren’t buying local stocks just before they jump or
selling right before they fall. Rather, perhaps because they
know first-hand the most capable management teams, they are
picking the local stocks that do well over the long-term.  “They seem to be able to pick winners,” Eggers said.  The study, which is being prepared for publication,
calculated not just the performance of members’ local stocks but
also the performance of those public companies that lobbied
members’ committees and of those that indirectly contributed to
their campaigns. In both of those cases, the study found that
those holdings performed about as well as the rest of the
market.  Members of Congress don’t seem to be profiting overall from
their power and connections, at least in the stock market. From
the beginning of 2004 to the end of 2008, a portfolio of stocks
picked by senators and representatives would have lost 30
percent of its value. By contrast, an inexpensive index fund --
an investment that’s often recommended by experts -- would have
lost 20 percent in the period, which was marked by the onset of
the recession and financial crisis.  No Better Than Average  “They do no better than the average individual investor,”
Eggers says.  Various groups within Congress all chose stocks poorly:
Democrats and Republicans, senators and representatives, the
very wealthy and relatively poorer members, and members of
powerful committees. The study found little evidence that in
late 2008, as Wall Street was seized by financial crisis and
Congress debated a rescue package, members of Congress took
advantage of the situation. In fact, the authors write,
“Performance relative to the market was if anything slightly
better in 2004-2006 than in 2007-2008, suggesting that on
average members of Congress did not capitalize on the unusually
active role of the government in the economy during the latter
period.”  The 2010 election is bringing to Washington more than a
hundred new senators and representatives. As these freshmen
members of Congress hire staff and compete for committee
assignments, they might want to follow the same investing tips
often aimed at their constituents: Don’t try to outsmart the
market, and keep your fees low.  “If anything, this suggests they should take ‘Investing
101,’” Eggers says. “They would have done better if they’d
taken widely available advice and bought a stock index fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Steverman  in New York at 
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Martin Keohan at 
 mkeohan@bloomberg.net  