-- U.S. FCC Adopts Rules for Web Service by AT&T, Comcast
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-12-21T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/u-s-adopts-rules-for-internet-traffic-managed-by-at-t-comcast.html
U.S. regulators banned Internet
service providers led by  AT&T Inc.  and  Comcast Corp.  from
blocking or slowing Web content sent to homes and businesses,
while allowing mobile phone companies to put limits on traffic.  The Federal Communications Commission approved the so-
called net-neutrality rules by a vote of three to two today.
Supporters argued that Internet providers, which also own some
of the content they deliver online, may interfere with videos
and services owned by others such as  Google Inc.   The agency also affirmed that providers may charge
subscribers based on how much data they consume. The pricing
issue has become more important as companies including Netflix
Inc. stream movies and other data-hungry content over the Web.  “Today’s decision will help preserve the free and open
nature of the Internet while encouraging innovation, protecting
consumer choice and defending free speech,”  President Barack Obama  said in a statement released today by the White House.  The rules create “a strong and sensible framework” that
“protects Internet freedom and openness,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat appointed by Obama, said before the
vote. “We’re adopting a framework that will increase certainty
for businesses, investors and entrepreneurs.”  Commissioner  Meredith Atwell Baker , one of two Republicans
to vote against the regulations, called the rules an overreach.  ‘Inhibiting’ Network Evolution  “There is no factual basis to support government
intervention,” she said. “The majority’s approach will inhibit
the ability of networks to freely evolve and experiment.”  Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the Senate’s
Republican leader, called the vote “a first step in controlling
how Americans use the Internet.”  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who is to
become chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee when
Congress convenes next year, said he would work “to strike down
the FCC’s brazen effort to regulate the Internet.”  Genachowski proposed the net-neutrality rules in September
2009, and debate has expanded to involve Congress, courts and
companies. Net neutrality is the idea that cable and telephone
companies must treat all Web content equally by not interfering
with the information their subscribers access on the Web.  Google, Amazon  Google,  Amazon.com Inc.  and  Dish Network Corp.  have said
FCC rules are needed so that the telecommunications companies
that deliver their content, such as electronic maps and online
television shows, don’t favor the Internet service providers’
own online products or those of partners that pay for higher
speeds. Comcast, for example, will own movies if its purchase of
NBC Universal is approved by government officials.  Google rose $8.01 to $603.07 as of 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Amazon gained $1.46 to $184.75.  Internet carriers Comcast,  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
Verizon Wireless and  Time Warner Cable Inc.  said rules may make
it difficult to manage the growing traffic on their networks,
and would limit investment in new Internet capacity.  Comcast increased 32 cents to $22.25 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Verizon climbed 20 cents to $34.94, while AT&T dropped
6 cents to $29.07 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Verizon is “deeply concerned” with the FCC vote, which
“appears to assert broad authority for sweeping new
regulation,”  Tom Tauke , the company’s executive vice president
of public affairs, policy and communications, said in an e-
mailed statement.  ‘A Workable Balance’  Comcast Executive Vice President  David L. Cohen  said in a
statement that the rules “appear intended to strike a workable
balance between the needs of the marketplace for certainty and
everyone’s desire that Internet openness be preserved.”  The compromise passed by the agency appears to provide
certainty needed for job creation, “though a final view must
await a careful reading of the FCC’s order,”  Jim Cicconi , AT&T
senior executive vice president, said in an e-mailed statement.  Stephen Wozniak , the co-founder of  Apple Inc.  who traveled
to Washington from his home near San Francisco to attend today’s
FCC vote, told reporters after the meeting that the FCC should
have passed more restrictive rules.  For example, Internet-service providers may block online
consumers from receiving movies streamed by  Netflix , forcing
users to watch movies owned by the telecommunications and
telephone companies, Wozniak said. “Every normal person in the
United States knows this,” he said.  ‘Fail in Court’  The rules leave intact a system that lets carriers charge
more when users consume large amounts of data, which will help
Internet-service providers to upgrade and maintain networks,
said  Rebecca Arbogast , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Washington.  Subscribers who consume content that requires large amounts
of data to deliver, such as movies and online gaming, may bear
part of the burden of increased access fees, said  Craig Moffett ,
a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “The FCC does not have the legal authority to issue these
rules,”  Robert McDowell , the other Republican commissioner at
the FCC, said during the meeting today. “This new effort will
fail in court.”  The rules drew criticism from Republicans in Congress.  Texas Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , the top Republican on
the Senate Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed statement she
would ask Congress to revoke the rules, calling them “an
unprecedented power-grab by the unelected members” of the FCC.  ‘Nationalizing the Web’  “The FCC is effectively nationalizing the Web,”
Republican Representative  Marsha Blackburn  of Tennessee said in
an e-mailed news release today. She said the FCC was exhibiting
a “hysterical reaction to the hypothetical problem of anti-
competitive online behavior.”  Democrat Jay Rockefeller, a senator from West Virginia who
chairs the Commerce Committee, in a statement called the
decision “a meaningful step forward.”  Some groups said the agency didn’t go far enough.  The FCC vote was a “squandered opportunity to enact clear,
meaningful rules to safeguard the Internet’s level playing field
and protect consumers,” Craig Aaron, managing director of the
Washington-based advocacy group Free Press, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 