-- Hungarian Parliament Passes `Chilling' Media Law Over Newspaper Protests
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-12-21T09:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/hungarian-parliament-passes-chilling-media-law-over-newspaper-protests.html
Hungarian lawmakers approved a bill
that will allow a regulator staffed with the appointees of Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party to levy fines and shut down
media outlets, brushing aside protests from journalists.  The bill prompted local newspapers to run blank cover pages
to protest what they claim is an effort to curb press freedom.
Lawmakers approved the bill by a vote of 248 to 35, with 16
abstentions, today in Budapest. Orban’s Fidesz party was joined
by its junior coalition partner, the Christian Democrats, in
backing the bill. Members of the opposition party Lehet Mas a
Politika put duct tape over their mouths during the debate.  “Regulating print media can curb media freedom and free
public debate, which are indispensable elements of
democracies,” Dunja Mijatovic, the Vienna-based  Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe ’s Representative on
Freedom of the Media, said, referring to the bill in a Dec. 16
 report . “Regulating on-line media is not only technologically
impossible but it exerts a chilling, self-censoring effect on
free expression.”  Orban, who takes over the European Union’s six-month
rotating presidency next month, is extending the influence of
his Fidesz party, which won an unprecedented two-thirds majority
in Parliament in April.  The government curbed the Constitutional Court’s powers and
appointed Fidesz lawmakers as the country’s president and the
head of the independent State Audit Office. A former Fidesz
candidate for parliament was elected Chief Prosecutor last week.  ‘Prevention of Violations’  The Media Council, whose five directors were all nominated
by Fidesz, will regulate newspapers, television, radio and
Internet media. It will also have the power to issue decrees,
which only a handful of state institutions including the
government, the central bank and local councils possess.  “The system of legal consequences” puts “emphasis on the
prevention of violations of the law and the encouragement of
voluntary legal compliance,” the office of  Zoltan Kovacs , a
secretary of state in charge of government communications, said
in an e-mailed statement.  The bill will allow the newly created Media Council to fine
television and radio stations as much as 200 million forint
($957,000) for coverage deemed unbalanced, according to the
proposal posted on parliament’s  website .  Fines for daily national newspapers and Internet news
websites would be up to 25 million forint while the ceiling for
weeklies would be 10 million forint.  “Media can be forced to reveal their sources, the media
authority can search editorial offices, can copy reporters’
notes and mandate that publishers hand over confidential
business information and levy serious fines on those that
refuse,” Budapest-based daily Nepszabadsag said.  Nepszabadsag, the biggest-circulation Hungarian news daily
said it will turn to the Constitutional Court after lawmakers
approve the media law. Daily Nepszava and weeklies  Magyar
Narancs  and  Elet es Irodalom  have run blank cover pages to
protest the law.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  