-- Muni Default Risk Higher on Debt Sold for Unessential Projects, Fitch Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/municipal-bond-default-risk-greater-on-unessential-projects-fitch-says.html
U.S. municipal-bond defaults are
more likely on debt sold for nonessential projects than they
are on securities issued for schools, courts and other core
operations, Fitch Ratings said.  Fitch, based in New York and London, said a municipality
facing financial stress may be unwilling to support payments on
bonds sold for nonessential projects. In 2004, that happened in
Cicero, New York, where the City Council stopped allocating
money for debt service on $15.3 million of bonds sold three
years earlier for an ice-skating rink, Fitch said in a report to
be released today.  “It’s a very diverse market, and the vast majority of
bonds that are issued are for essential projects that have been
doing fine,”  Eric Friedland , a Fitch analyst in New York, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “The ones that we think
will cause problems in the future are the ones that are non-
essential and non-core.”  The longest recession since the Great Depression cut U.S.
cities’ general-fund revenue for the fiscal year through June by
the most since at least 1986, according to the  National League
of Cities . Still, municipal bond defaults remain rare. Only 54
of the 18,400 municipal-bond issuers rated by Moody’s Investors
Service from 1970 to 2009 defaulted, according to a  Dec. 9
report  by the Congressional Budget Office. Since 1988, only 170
local governments have filed for bankruptcy.  Harrisburg Weighs Bankruptcy  Pennsylvania’s capital of Harrisburg had contemplated
seeking bankruptcy protection this year as a way to cope with
pending debt payments, sagging tax revenue and rising costs on
an incinerator project.  In September, Bank of New York Mellon Corp. got a judge to
appoint a receiver to manage the Jefferson County, Alabama,
sewer system after a $3.2 billion debt refinancing collapsed and
drove the municipality toward insolvency.  “If a project does not function as planned, the
willingness or ability of the government to fulfill its
commitment to investors may be diminished or nonexistent,
resulting in bond default,” Friedland said in the report.
“However, among the thousands of rated municipal bonds, the
vast majority of which are of investment-grade quality, these
situations are rare.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  