-- United Continental to Cut Seats on U.S. Flights After Merger, Analyst Says
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-21T21:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/united-continental-cutting-capacity-after-merger-analyst-says.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. 
will cut capacity in cities such as Chicago and Denver in its
first network adjustments after the merger that formed the
world’s largest airline, a Hudson Securities analyst said.  The combined carrier’s available seats in the U.S. will
decline 1.9 percent in the first quarter while the rest of the
nation’s airlines collectively boost capacity about 2 percent,
Hudson’s  Daniel McKenzie  wrote today in a note to clients. He
cited APGDat scheduling data and his firm’s estimates.  For Chicago-based United, the cuts will contribute to a
quarterly profit, McKenzie said. The reductions will benefit
 Southwest Airlines Co. , the second-largest carrier in Denver
behind United, as well as  Alaska Air Group Inc.,  whose main hub
is in Seattle, and  US Airways Group Inc. , which has a hub in
Phoenix, he said.  “United Continental management appears serious about
continuing to cut unprofitable, domestic flying,” McKenzie
said. The moves will help the company post first-quarter
earnings of 20 cents a share, its first profit in that period
since 2000, according to the analyst. He recommends buying
 United Continental shares .  The carrier will trim first-quarter capacity 1.8 percent at
Chicago O’Hare, the second-busiest U.S. airport, 5.6 percent at
Denver, 9.9 percent at Phoenix, 6.9 percent at Seattle and 2.8
percent at Los Angeles, said McKenzie, who is based in Chicago.  United hasn’t announced capacity plans for the quarter,
said  Mike Trevino , a spokesman. The airline plans to increase
available seats by as much as 2 percent for all of next year,
according to an Oct. 21 forecast, he said.  Houston, LaGuardia Increases  During the first quarter, the airline plans to boost
capacity by about 3 percent at Houston, a Continental hub, and
by 12 percent at New York’s LaGuardia, where it’s competing with
 Delta Air Lines Inc.  and  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines,
according to McKenzie.  United Continental was formed in October by the merger of
United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc.
in a stock transaction valued at $3.47 billion. The combined
airline passed Delta as the world’s biggest carrier.  United Continental rose 11 cents to $24.31 at 4:05 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have
gained 88 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  