-- UPM-Kymmene Will Acquire Myllykoski, Rhein Papier as Industry Consolidates
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-12-21T06:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/upm-kymmene-will-acquire-myllykoski-rhein-papier-as-industry-consolidates.html
UPM-Kymmene Oyj , Europe’s second-
biggest papermaker, will buy Myllykoski Oyj and Rhein Papier
GmbH as the industry consolidates in response to higher
production costs and a shift in demand to digital publications.  The value of the businesses is about 900 million euros
($1.19 billion), Helsinki-based UPM said in a statement to
Finland’s stock exchange today. The transaction gives UPM seven
publication paper mills in Germany,  Finland  and the U.S.  “Combining forces and rationalizing production is
necessary for the future of the whole industry in Europe,”
 Jussi Pesonen , chief executive officer of UPM, said in the
statement. “This means both closing unprofitable production
capacity and investments in order to increase cost efficiency.”  The paper industry is facing a wave of consolidation as
consumers turn to digital books, magazines and newspapers.
Rising costs for wood, pulp and recovered paper have also hurt
manufacturers. The transaction announced today may bring more
than 100 million euros in annual so-called synergy savings, UPM
said.  The publication paper industry has suffered from “poor”
profitability for the past decade as demand growth shifts
outside Europe, UPM said. UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, on
Dec. 3 rated UPM a short-term buy on the prospect of
consolidation in the industry. UPM has gained  44 percent  this
year, giving it a market capitalization of 6.2 billion euros.  UPM said it will finance the acquisition through a targeted
share issue of 5 million new shares, equivalent to about 60
million euros. The company will also fund the deal through long-
term debt arrangements of about 800 million euros, it said. UPM
said it expects to close the deal, which is subject to approval
by regulatory authorities, in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  