-- Utah Agency's Biggest Sale in 20 Years Comes Amid Sales Slump: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/utah-s-top-rated-bond-refinancing-livens-up-slow-sales-month-muni-credit.html
Utah ’s Board of Regents, which
oversees the state’s eight public colleges and universities, is
making its biggest sale of debt in at least 20 years today as
scheduled municipal deals fall to a three-month low.  The $365 million offering of top-rated tax-exempts will
refinance existing debt, and will be backed by student-loan
repayments under the Federal Family Education Loan Program,
according to preliminary offering documents. Utah may have
difficulty attracting investors because the government program
backing it ended July 1, said  Howard Cure , director of municipal
research for Evercore Wealth Management LLC in New York.  “You may not have a lot of demand as they could lack
liquidity” in the future, Cure said. “It’s an unusual type of
program.”  States and local governments are set to borrow about $5.4
billion in the next 30 days,  the smallest slate since Sept. 3 ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About $1.8 billion is
anticipated this week, the lowest since the last week of 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  Yields on  top-rated tax-exempts due in five years  jumped
about 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, this month
through Dec. 15, before dropping 8 basis points through
yesterday, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Trading
desks are unlikely to make large purchases so close to year-end,
according to a Dec. 17 research note from  John Dillon , chief
municipal bond strategist for Morgan Stanley in Purchase, New
York.  ‘Exaggerated Volatility’  “The exaggerated volatility exhibited by the current
municipal market only magnifies this annual dynamic,” he wrote.  Utah’s tax-exempt revenue bond includes serial maturities
from three to 16 years, with the bulk coming due in November
2016 and 2017. The issue also includes $24.5 million in
securities subject to the federal alternative-minimum tax,
levied on high-income individuals and corporations.  About 3.9 million taxpayers were subject to the tax in
2008, and 6.3 million reported receiving tax-exempt income,
according to Internal Revenue Service  data.   Among the schools overseen by the board is the University
of Utah, the state’s flagship, which enrolls about 26,000
undergraduates, a 6 percent increase from 2009, according to a
Nov. 22 report by Moody’s Investors Service.  The federal education loan program enabled students to
subsidize interest costs, get graduate loans and consolidate
repayment of eligible grants. The program includes a 97 percent
federal guarantee on defaulted loans, Moody’s said Dec. 16.
Loans originated under the FFELP program have a balance of about
$930 million, offering documents show.  Biggest Issue  The tax-exempt issue is the largest deal the board of
regents has made since at least 1990, Bloomberg data show.  The board will enter into an interest-rate swap to hedge
the risk of issuing fixed-rate bonds to finance variable-rate
student loans, Moody’s said. The swap, with the Royal Bank of
Canada, will be indexed to the London interbank offered rate,
the documents show. Such contracts typically require buyers to
pay fixed rates in exchange for variable payments from the banks
arranging them.  Greg Stauffer, associate commissioner of finance and
facilities wasn’t immediately available to comment, said Joyce
Cottrell, a spokeswoman.  Treasuries Decline  Treasury prices pared advances yesterday as stocks
appreciated and the Federal Reserve concluded purchases of $14.6
billion in debt, the biggest amount in a single day under the
second round of quantitative easing. The benchmark 10-year note
yield advanced less than one basis point to 3.34 percent at 5:08
p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.  “There’s a tremendous amount of movement in this market,”
Cure said. “It’s a funny time of year to be approaching with a
big issue.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  PUERTO RICO ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY, the commonwealth’s
monopoly power utility, plans to sell $500 million in revenue-
backed Build America Bonds this week to help finance portions of
the Via Verde project, a natural gas pipeline that is scheduled
to be completed by February 2012. The power authority is rated
BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the third-lowest of
10 investment grades. UBS AG will lead banks underwriting the
securities. (Added Dec. 21)  METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, which runs New York
City’s subways, buses and commuter trains, plans to sell $350
million in Build America Bonds today to finance capital
projects. Underwriters led by Barclays Plc will market the
issue. In June, the authority’s debt was rated A+ by Fitch,
fifth-highest, and A by S&P and A2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
both sixth-highest. (Added Dec. 21)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  