-- Vertex Ends Part of Telaprevir Study for Hepatitis C
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-21T22:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/vertex-ends-part-of-telaprevir-combination-drug-study-for-hepatitis-c.html
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc .
discontinued one part of a clinical study evaluating its
hepatitis C treatments.  Vertex is halting a test of its medicine telaprevir in
combination with its other experimental therapy called VX-222,
the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company said in a statement.
Vertex will continue testing telaprevir and VX-222 in groups of
patients who will receive it with one or two drugs given as a
combination treatment. The study is the second of three phases
of clinical tests typically required for U.S. approval.  Telaprevir, which Vertex is developing with  Johnson &
Johnson  of New Brunswick, New Jersey, is the company’s most
advanced experimental drug. There are no medicines available for
hepatitis C patients who don’t respond to standard drugs.  Howard Liang , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston, estimated
telaprevir may generate $2.6 billion annually by 2013.  “This trial has provided important information regarding
telaprevir and VX-222-based combination regimens, and three of
the five treatment arms are proceeding as planned,” Robert
Kauffman, Vertex’s chief medical officer, said in the statement.  Hepatitis C often persists as a chronic condition that
causes nausea, weakness and exhaustion as it destroys the liver.
It affects about 4 million Americans and 200 million people
worldwide, according to the National Institutes of Health.  Vertex ended another two-drug arm of the study in October.  Vertex fell 1.1 percent at 5:06 p.m. New York time in
extended  trading  after gaining 76 cents, or 2.1 percent, to
$36.32 at the close of the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  