-- Virgin Blue, Air N.Z. Get Final Approval for Australia-New Zealand Tie-Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-21T05:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/virgin-blue-air-n-z-get-final-approval-for-australia-new-zealand-tie-up.html
Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  and  Air
New Zealand Ltd.  won final regulatory approval for an alliance
to help them narrow  Qantas Airways Ltd. ’s lead in corporate
travel across the Tasman Sea.  The carriers agreed to minimum capacity levels between
Australia and New Zealand and will increase seat numbers on some
routes, New Zealand Transport Minister  Steven Joyce  said in a
 statement  today. They will be allowed to coordinate prices and
schedules and share airport lounges for three years.  The tie-up aims to help the carriers compete with Qantas
and its Jetstar budget unit to win a larger share of business
and vacation travel. Air New Zealand and Virgin Blue last week
gained approval from Australia’s antitrust regulator after
meeting conditions imposed by the watchdog to allay concern the
alliance would hamper competition.  “Travellers will benefit from a wider range of travel
options and improved range of departure times, and the
continuation of competitive fares,” Joyce said.  Air New Zealand was unchanged at NZ$1.49 at the 5 p.m.
close of Wellington trading and has gained 4.2 percent since the
Australian regulator approved the tie-up. Virgin Blue, based in
Brisbane,  fell  2.2 percent to 44 Australian cents in Sydney
trading and has advanced 3.5 percent in the same period. Qantas
added 0.8 percent to A$2.59 today.  Domestic Route Access  The alliance grants Virgin Blue access to Air New Zealand
routes and lounges to better compete for corporate bookings, and
gives the Auckland-based carrier routes on the Australian
operator’s domestic network.  Qantas and Jetstar combined are the leader in the trans-
Tasman business travel market by passenger numbers, with a share
of more than 40 percent, Virgin Blue said in  application
materials  to the Australian regulator in October.  The approval will allow Virgin Blue to provide a
“competitive offering,” Chief Executive Officer  John Borghetti 
said in a statement. Air New Zealand said in a separate
statement that it’s pleased with the decision.  Pretax earnings for Virgin Blue could rise as much as A$20
million ($20 million) in 2012 from cost savings and increased
corporate bookings from the tie-up,  Julia Weng , an analyst at
Morgan Stanley in Sydney, said in a Dec. 16 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  