-- Hermes Shares Jump in Paris After LVMH Increases Holding to More Than 20%
-- B y   H e a t h e r   H a r r i s   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2010-12-22T08:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/lvmh-raises-hermes-stake-to-20-percent-defying-family-s-takeover-defense.html
Hermes International SCA  rose as
much as 5 percent in Paris trading after larger luxury-goods
rival  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  said it increased its
stake in the Birkin bag-maker to more than 20 percent.  Hermes gained as much as 7.80 euros to 164.45 euros, the
highest price since Dec. 3. LVMH said late yesterday it has
purchased more Hermes shares on the market, raising its holding
from the 17.1 percent announced in October.  The  increased stake  may boost speculation that LVMH
Chairman  Bernard Arnault  is gradually targeting a takeover of
Hermes, even as the company said again it isn’t seeking a board
seat or control. Descendants of the Hermes founding family said
Dec. 6 they are setting up a new holding company to allow family
members to sell without making their shares available to LVMH.  “Its determination looks strong,”  Pierre Lamelin , an
analyst at Cheuvreux in Paris, said of LVMH. “The first tranche
was secured through the use of equity swaps at a very compelling
price. The last tranche paid at the spot price shows that LVMH’s
long-term intentions are clear beyond the financial coup.”
Lamelin has an “outperform” rating on LVMH.  Hermes , the French maker of Kelly handbags that retail for
about 7,000 euros ($9,200), has said that the three branches of
its founding family are “fully united” in their desire to
retain control of the 173-year-old company.  Hermes hired BNP Paribas SA and Bank of America Corp. as
advisers last month to help fend off a possible LVMH takeover
bid. LVMH can’t make an offer for all of Hermes until at least
April 23, according to French regulations.  Equity Swaps  Hermes shares  were up 3.85 euros, or 2.5 percent, to 160.5
euros as of 9:13 a.m. in Paris, boosting the company’s market
value to 16.9 billion euros.  LVMH  fell 25 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to 125.20 euros, valuing it at 61.4 billion euros.  LVMH bought the 17.1 percent stake via equity swaps. The
French securities regulator is investigating whether that
transaction complied with its rules. The increased stake will
further reduce the percentage of Hermes stock that is publicly
traded, already less than 10 percent. Hermes’s family
shareholders own more than 70 percent of the company.  “Hermes can’t be taken over, especially if the family
sticks together,” said  Davide Vimercati , an analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Milan. “LMVH should be able to raise its stake
to around 25 percent, but that won’t be enough to take control.
LVMH looks as though it is positioned in Hermes for the long
term, but won’t be able to do much in the medium term.”  A Hermes spokeswoman didn’t return a call to her mobile
phone seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Harris  in London at 
 Hharris5@bloomberg.net .
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 