-- Volkswagen-DRB Venture Adds Malaysian Car Assembly in Challenge to Toyota
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2010-12-21T11:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/volkswagen-drb-venture-adds-malaysian-car-assembly-in-challenge-to-toyota.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, will start assembling Passat sedans in Malaysia by the
end of 2011 and plans to build more models in the southeast
Asian country as the company challenge to  Toyota Motor Corp.   DRB-Hicom Bhd. , a Malaysian automaker and distributor, will
build the Passat for Volkswagen at its factory in Pekan in
Pahang state, VW said today in a  statement . The companies will
invest about 1 billion ringgit ($320 million) to produce the
vehicles starting in the fourth quarter of 2011, DRB-Hicom
Managing Director  Mohd Khamil Jamil  said in a separate
statement.  “This is a building block in Volkswagen’s strategy to
become more global,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an analyst with M.M.
Warburg. “It’s clear that emerging economies will be a key
source of growth, making non-Chinese Asia an essential area for
expansion.”  Volkswagen  plans to invest 51.6 billion euros ($68 billion)
in its automotive business through 2015 in an effort to surpass
Toyota as the world’s biggest carmaker. The Wolfsburg, Germany-
based manufacturer, which also owns the Audi, Skoda, Seat and
Lamborghini brands, is building a factory in the U.S. and aims
to add 50,000 jobs globally over the next five years.  DRB-Hicom’s collaboration with Volkswagen will expand the
Malaysian manufacturer’s assembly and component-making
operations, the company said. DRB-Hicom has partnerships with
 Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz division and  Honda Motor Co.   UMW
Holdings Bhd . builds cars in Malaysia for Toyota City, Japan-
based Toyota.  Malaysian Market’s Growth  Auto deliveries in Malaysia, the third-largest economy in
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, rose 14 percent in
the first 10 months of 2010, according to the Malaysian
Automotive Association.  “Developing the market potential of the Asean region is of
major significance for the Volkswagen group’s long-term growth
strategy,”  Christian Klingler , the German manufacturer’s sales
chief, said in the statement.  The Pekan facility, which  DRB-Hicom  said will later make
VW’s Polo and Jetta models, will have an initial capacity of
“several thousand” vehicles a year by the time it reaches
full-scale production at the end of 2012, Volkswagen said. The
plant will initially assemble the VW cars for the local market
from parts produced at other factories.  VW’s investment in the project will total 120 million
euros, said Chris Adomat, a spokesman for the German company.  Shift From  Proton   The agreement with DRB-Hicom marks a shift from VW’s
unsuccessful efforts to enter Malaysia with state-controlled
Proton Holdings Bhd. Volkswagen called off the latest round of
talks with  Proton  in June. The two companies also failed to
reach an agreement in November 2007 after 12 months of
negotiations.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares  rose  as much as 1.5 percent
to 128.10 euros and were up 1.2 percent as of 12:13 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. DRB-Hicom  gained  0.5 percent to 1.94 ringgit,
the highest price since Oct. 31, 2007, as of the 4 p.m. close of
Kuala Lumpur trading.  The VW venture will allow  DRB-Hicom , which also imports
vehicles and runs a dealer network, to participate in
Volkswagen’s future plans to export vehicles to Malaysia and
other markets in the region, said the company, which is based in
Shah Alam, outside Kuala Lumpur. Under the license agreement,
DRB-Hicom will sell products to Volkswagen for distribution.  In addition to Mercedes-Benz and Honda models, DRB-Hicom
builds vehicles for  Isuzu Motors Ltd . and  Suzuki Motor Corp . as
well as Honda, Suzuki and  Yamaha Motor Co . motorcycles,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 