-- Washington Post's Kaplan Higher Education Sued for Racial Discrimination
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-21T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/washington-post-s-kaplan-higher-education-sued-for-racial-discrimination.html
Washington Post Co. ’s Kaplan Higher
Education division was sued by the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission over claims the company rejected job
applicants based on credit history, a decision which
discriminated by race.  The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in Cleveland,
alleges that Kaplan’s hiring practices have violated the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 since at least 2008. The lawsuit seeks lost
wages and benefits, and offers of employment for people who
weren’t hired.  “This practice has an unlawful discriminatory impact
because of race and is neither job-related nor justified by
business necessity,” the EEOC said in a statement.  Kaplan Higher Education enrolls 110,000 students, with
about 70,000 attending class online, and has 75 campuses
nationwide. The Chicago-based school derived 87 percent of its
revenue from federal student aid in 2009.  “We are proud of the diversity of our workforce,” Kaplan
said today in a statement. The company conducts background
checks on all job applicants, including credit histories for
those who handle financial matters, the company said.  Checks by Employers  The EEOC is reviewing the use of credit information in
employment, and held an October hearing on the issue.  “Employers need to be mindful that any hiring practice be
job-related and not screen out groups of people, even if it does
so unintentionally,” Regional Attorney Debra Lawrence, of the
EEOC’s Philadelphia district office, said in the statement.  Washington Post Co. obtained almost two-thirds of its
 third-quarter revenue  from Kaplan, the Washington-based company
said Nov. 5. The company fell $10.25, or 2.4 percent, to $421.81
at 4:07 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Kaplan also faces an investigation by the Florida attorney
general into recruiting practices at for-profit colleges. Kaplan
suspended enrollment at two of its campuses after a U.S.
Government Accountability Office investigation released Aug. 4
found that recruiters were exaggerating how much applicants
could earn from a Kaplan education.  The case is Equal Employment Opportunity Commission v.
Kaplan Higher Education Corp., 10-cv-02882, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Ohio (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York bankruptcy court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 