-- WellPoint's New York Insurance Plan Rate Increase to Face Higher Scrutiny
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-12-21T21:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/wellpoint-s-new-york-insurance-plan-rate-increase-to-face-higher-scrutiny.html
WellPoint Inc. ’s request to raise
rates as much as 28 percent on small-business health plans in
New York will face increased scrutiny because of new U.S.
regulations, the state’s top health-insurance official said.  Federal rules released today tell state regulators to view
rate-increase proposals of more than 10 percent as “initially
unreasonable,” said  Louis Felice , chief of the New York
 Insurance Department ’s health bureau, in a telephone interview.  “This will make regulators cross all the T’s before they
approve any increase over 10 percent and that’s a good thing,”
Felice said. “It will also help by making it easier to get
disclosure.”  WellPoint ’s Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield unit seeks to
raise premiums 20 percent to 28 percent for more than 216,000
people in plans at businesses with 50 or fewer employees, Felice
said. The Indianapolis-based company, the biggest U.S. health
insurer by enrollment, lost rate-increase battles this year in
California, Connecticut and Maine.  In California, the company’s  request  for an average 25
percent boost in premiums on plans for individuals was cut to 14
percent. The decision cut profit by $150 million in the state
this year, the insurer has said.  WellPoint declined to comment on the new federal rules or
on how they may affect its New York rate request, said Cynthia
Sanders, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  WellPoint Comment  In a Dec. 14 e-mail, WellPoint attributed at least 5
percent of the proposed New York increase to government
mandates, including the U.S. prohibition against lifetime caps
on policies and the ban on refusing coverage to people with pre-
existing medical conditions. The company also cited a  New York
law  requiring coverage for mental health ailments and behavioral
disorders comparable with that for physical illnesses.  About 15 percent is “entirely driven by increasing medical
costs for small employers in New York,” said  Kristin Binns , a
WellPoint spokeswoman, in the e-mail. “Empire’s medical cost
ratio for small employers remains well above the New York
minimum of 82 percent.”  Given the numbers the company submitted, it is “probable
that some increase would be warranted, but I can’t say what the
increase would ultimately be,” Felice said.  ‘Unreasonable’  The proposed U.S. rules released today define an
“unreasonable” increase as one that lowers the percentage of
premiums being spent on customers’ care below 80 percent, or
that isn’t based on evidence that health costs are rising,
according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
which issued the regulations.  The definition of what is an unreasonable rate request will
change after 2011 to a state-by-state measure based on the
history of health costs, according to the federal agency.  WellPoint  rose 46 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $56.56
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. For the
year, the  stock  is down 3 percent compared with a 13 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 index and a 1.1 percent rise
for the S&P Health Index.  Felice said he was “a little surprised” by the WellPoint
request and plans a full review of the numbers to see if they
justify “these kinds of increases.” The company withdrew an
initial application for increases of up to 51 percent after
meeting with Felice’s department.  April 1 Increase  The bulk of affected members in New York, mostly in health
maintenance organization-type plans, would face increases as of
April 1 if approved, he said. The state granted an average 15
percent rate increase effective this year on the company’s
exclusive provider organization  Prism plan  that covered about
146,000 people in 2009, according to the agency. For 2011, the
company has requested increases from 20 percent to 25 percent,
Felice said.  The state has 60 days to review a rate request and may take
another 20 days if more information is needed. WellPoint’s
increase was filed “on the last possible day” to meet its
April 1 deadline, Felice said. An insurer has to give plan
members 60 days notice before a rate increase can be applied.  WellPoint , with an enrollment of 34 million, was criticized
this past February for its California rate-increase application.
 Angela Braly , the insurer’s chief executive officer, told
Congress that the proposed rate increase of as much as 39
percent, was necessary though “unfortunate.”  ‘Publicly Justify’  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
called for WellPoint’s unit Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield to
 “publicly justify”  the rate requests. Democrats, struggling to
pass the 2010 health overhaul, used WellPoint’s increase to
rally support for the law which they said would stop insurers
from overcharging consumers.  The law also allocated $250 million for states to upgrade
their rate review process.  In Maine, WellPoint has taken the state to court on
 rejections  in 2009 and 2010. The most recent request for a 23.1
percent increase was cut by  Mila Kofman , the state’s insurance
superintendent, to 14.1 percent after she said the data provided
by the insurers didn’t support the higher request, said Tom
Sturtevant, a Maine assistant attorney general.  WellPoint’s unit insures about 2.84 million people in New
York, with 2.17 million in large group commercial plans,
according to state insurance department statistics. New York
only reviews formulas for how companies set rates for the
biggest employer-sponsored plans, Felice said.  The insurer had rates approved for its high-deductible
policies for both the first and second quarters of 6.1 percent
and 9.3 percent. Empire Blue Cross had asked for an additional
increase for these plans in the second quarter and withdrew that
on the advice of the insurance department, Felice said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 