-- Wheat Falls as Global Inventores May Be Sufficient to Meet Reduced Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-21T20:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/wheat-falls-as-global-inventores-may-be-sufficient-to-meet-reduced-demand.html
Wheat futures fell in Chicago on
speculation that global supplies will be sufficient, even as
adverse weather threatens some crops, because a surge in prices
this year may curtail demand.  Global  stockpiles  will total 176.72 million metric tons on
May 31, up from 172.51 million forecast last month, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said Dec. 10. Prices have jumped 59
percent since the end of June after drought damaged crops in
Russia and Ukraine and rains reduced output in Australia and
Canada, increasing demand for supplies from the U.S.  “World wheat supplies are more than adequate at current
prices,” said  Dale Durchholz , the senior market analyst for
AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois.  “The market overshot
the production losses.”  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 4.5 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $7.65 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the first drop in three sessions.  Prices earlier rose on speculation that dry weather
threatens to reduce yields in the southern Great Plains where
the majority of U.S. winter grain is grown.  Some fields from west Texas to Nebraska have received less
than 40 percent of normal rainfall during the past 45 days, with
dry weather expected the next 30 days, MDA EarthSat Weather in
Rockville, Maryland, said in a report today. Abundant
precipitation is needed to replenish depleted soil moisture
prior to crops emerging from dormancy in February to prevent
significant crop stress, the private forecaster said.  ‘Potential Threat’  “Dryness in the Plains is a potential threat to
production,” AgriVisor’s Durchholz said. “Final yields will be
determined by rain” from February to May, when crops begin to
develop grain, Durchholz said.  Winter varieties account for about 70 percent of all wheat
grown in the U.S. Hard-red strains, traded on the Kansas City
Board of Trade, are produced in the southern Great Plains from
Kansas to Texas and are used to make bread and flour. Soft-red
winter wheat, used in cookies and cakes, is seeded in the
eastern Midwest from Arkansas to Ohio and traded in Chicago.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  