-- Wheat Prices Rise in Kansas City as Dry Weather Threatens U.S. Winter Crop
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-21T17:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/wheat-prices-rise-in-kansas-city-as-dry-weather-threatens-u-s-winter-crop.html
Wheat futures rose to a one-week
high in Kansas City as dry weather threatens to reduce yields
from U.S. winter crops in the southern Great Plains.  Some fields from West Texas to Nebraska got less than 40
percent of the normal amount of rain the past 45 days with dry
weather expected the next 30 days, MDA EarthSat Weather in
Rockville, Maryland, said in a report today. Abundant rain will
be needed to replenish depleted soil moisture before crops
emerge from dormancy in February, the private forecaster said.  “Dry conditions remain supportive to the wheat market,”
said  Dale Durchholz , the senior analyst at AgriVisor LLC in
Bloomington, Illinois. “There will remain questions about the
crop until there is widespread rain.”  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 5.25 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $8.3125 a bushel at 11:39 a.m. on the Kansas City
Board of Trade, heading for the third straight gain. Earlier,
the price reached $8.3275, the highest for a most-active
contract since Dec. 14.  On the Chicago Board of Trade, wheat futures for March
delivery were little changed at $7.6975 a bushel. Earlier, the
price dropped as much as 0.7 percent.  Before today, futures in Chicago gained 42 percent this
year after drought damaged crops in Russia and Ukraine and rains
reduced output in Australia and Canada, increasing demand for
supplies from the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  Winter varieties account for 67 percent of wheat grown in
the U.S. Hard-red strains, traded in Kansas City, are in the
southern Great Plains from Kansas to Texas and are used to make
bread and flour. Soft-red wheat, used in cookies and cakes, is
seeded in the eastern Midwest from Arkansas to Ohio and trades
in Chicago.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  