-- Women's Earnings Will Recover Faster From Recession Than Men's, BofA Says
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-12-21T20:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-21/women-s-earnings-will-recover-faster-from-recession-than-men-s-bofa-says.html
Women’s earnings will recover faster
than men’s as the U.S. economy rebounds, which means companies
that market to females may perform well, according to a  Bank of
America Corp.  research note to clients.  Since women make the majority of household purchasing
decisions and will have increasing earnings potential in the
future, investors should consider companies such as New York-
based  AnnTaylor Stores Corp.  and  Lululemon Athletica Inc.  based
in Vancouver, said the note issued yesterday by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch economists  Neil Dutta  and  Ethan S. Harris  in New
York.  “This secular, ‘long-on-women’ theme should bode well for
companies that cater specifically to women,” wrote Dutta and
Harris.  Women will rebound from the U.S. recession before men
because females didn’t lose as many jobs as males did during the
recession, the report said. Some of the industries most affected
by the economy, such as manufacturing and construction, had more
male than female workers. The unemployment rate for women, 8.9
percent, compared with 10.6 percent for men, is the widest it’s
ever been, the report said. The overall unemployment rate was
9.8 percent in November.  Females make up the majority of the workforce in 9 of the
10 occupations that the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts
will add the most jobs over the next 8 years, the note said.  “There’s a gradual shift to a service economy, industries
like healthcare and education, which are traditionally dominated
by women,” said Harris in a telephone interview today.  More Education  More women are also graduating from college, with more than
50 percent of the bachelor’s degrees in the last decade awarded
to women, according to the report. Additional education
generally means higher earnings, Harris said.  There’s still a gender wage gap because of discrimination
and interrupted work lives for children, according to Harris.
Women working at least 35 hours a week in the first quarter of
2010 received 79 percent of the wages earned by men, according
to the Labor Department.  The gap is narrowing, with the real median income for women
rising at about a 1 percent annualized rate compared with
contraction of 1.5 percent for men over the past five years, the
note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 