-- FSA Says It's Considering Commodity-Trading Reports
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2007-06-27T16:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-27/fsa-says-it-s-considering-commodity-trading-reports-update3-.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority ,
the U.K.'s markets regulator, is considering publishing reports
on commodity trading similar to those released by the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in an attempt to improve
transparency.  
 ``It's something that we are looking into and need to speak
with people in the market first,'' Jonathan Hill, head of the
FSA's commodities group, said in an interview in London today.
``It's an area where we could potentially add value if the
market thinks it's worth doing.''  
 The CFTC's weekly Commitment of Traders report would be a
``template'' for the FSA, he said. The report provides data on
positions held by speculators such as hedge funds as well as
commercial companies that buy or sell commodity futures to
protect against swings in prices. Analysts and investors track
positions because such transactions can reflect expectations for
changes in prices.  
 The FSA said in March that it plans to give more attention
to commodity markets, which have received less regulatory
oversight than stock and bond markets. Commodity trading among
banks has increased as record prices for energy and metals last
year spurred demand for risk-management services from utilities,
airlines and manufacturers.  
 The FSA employs as many as 25 people in its commodities
group. The London-based organization regulates commodity trading
on  London 's ICE Futures exchange, the London Metal Exchange and
Euronext.liffe.  
 Trading of commodity derivatives on exchanges worldwide
rose 44 percent to 878 million contracts in 2005, International
Financial Services London, which promotes the U.K. financial-
services industry, said in July last year.  
 Futures are contracts for delivery of a security at a
specified forward date at an agreed-upon price. Derivatives are
financial instruments derived from stocks, bonds, loans,
currencies and commodities, or linked to specific events such as
changes in interest rates or the weather.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in London at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        