-- UPDATE 2-AUTOSHOW-GM sees better results, eyes more cost cuts
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 3:50pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/autoshow-gm-wagoner-idUSN0837533120070108

 

  (Recasts, adds details and background) 

  (For other stories from the Detroit Auto Show, go to
 here )  By  Kevin Krolicki  DETROIT, Jan 8 (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) is
on track to post improving results this year as it aims to cut
labor costs in contract talks with its major union and targets
retail sales gains for key brands, executives said on Monday.  GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner, speaking to reporters on
the sidelines of the North American International Auto Show,
said that the No. 1 automaker was "clearly on a trajectory that
shows improvement."  Wagoner noted that $3 billion of the recurring cost cuts
that GM made in 2006 would only begin to be reflected in the
automaker's results this year.  "I think we can continue to improve our result," he said.
"We took actions which reduced our structural costs on a
running rate by $9 billion here in North America. About $6
billion of those flowed into (2006) results, so we'll get some
plus in that area."  GM has declined to forecast results for 2007, a year in
which the automaker is expected to be challenged by Toyota
Motor Corp.( 7203.T ) for the top spot in world production.  For that reason, comments this week at the Detroit auto
show from GM executives and a briefing scheduled for analysts
and investors on Thursday are expected provide the most detail
to date on the automaker's internal projections.  "It's a crucial year, but I haven't found one that's not
crucial," Wagoner said.  Separately, GM's North American chief, Troy Clarke, told
reporters he expected three of the automaker's eight brands
would show retail sales gains in the U.S. market this year:
Buick, Saturn and Chevrolet, the company's volume leader. He
declined to comment on the outlook for GM's other brands.  For his part, Wagoner said he expected GM's Cadillac
division to post a sales gain in 2007, reversing the decline
the division saw in 2006, when its sales slipped 3 percent.  GM's overall U.S. sales fell almost 9 percent last year and
its share of the U.S. market slipped 1.7 percentage points to
24.5 percent.  GM has been struggling with weak sales, high costs and
stiff competition. Through the first three quarters of 2006, GM
had lost $3.05 billion. In full 2005, GM lost $10.6 billion.  UAW TALKS IN FOCUS  Wagoner said that while GM was not done cutting costs,
further cost savings this year would be taken up in the
automaker's upcoming round of contract talks with the United
Auto Workers union. GM's current contract with the UAW expires
in September.  "We're going to continue to work on the cost side of the
business. I think a lot of those conversations will eventually
here in the U.S. be related to the negotiations," he said.  Wagoner also said GM needed its upcoming contract with the
UAW to narrow a wage and benefit bill that the automaker and
analysts have said puts it at a major disadvantage relative to
competitors like Toyota.  But Wagoner said GM was also prepared to be flexible in
approaching issues such as the "jobs bank," a controversial
provision in the current contract that forces Detroit-based
automakers to pay nearly full wages and benefits to workers
whose positions have been eliminated.  "We're not doctrinaire in specific elements of our contract
with the UAW. What we need to do is to continue to reduce and
eventually eliminate this competitiveness gap," he said.  "The jobs bank is a minus. It it is a cost disadvantage to
us. But we've learned over the years that there's more than one
way to skin a cat and we need to be creative to work with the
union."  GM has generated some optimism among analysts in the past
year. On Sunday, it also became the first U.S. automaker to
sweep the North American Car and Truck of the Year awards.  Credit Suisse on Monday recommended a "trading buy" on GM,
increasing its price target on GM shares to $34 from $30.  The brokerage, which has a "neutral" rating on the company,
said better-than-expected pricing and product mix could result
in stronger fourth-quarter earnings.  In late afternoon trading, GM shares were up 19 cents at
$30.43 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 (Additional reporting by  Jui Chakravorty )



