-- GM product chief targets growth in downsized SUVs
-- By  Jui Chakravorty
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 2:21pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/businesspro-autoshow-gm-lutz-sidebar-dc-idUSN0836902520070108

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) product 
chief Bob Lutz on Monday said he sees the biggest opportunity 
for GM's revenue growth in downsized, "crossover" sport utility 
vehicles with almost every other category poised to slow down 
in 2007. 

  "The crossover is a very rapidly growing segment and is 
going to continue to grow in the coming years," Lutz told 
reporters on the sidelines on the North American International 
Auto Show here.  Crossovers are car-based sport-utility vehicles that are 
roomier than the typical car and more fuel-efficient than the 
traditional SUV.  They generate more profit than cars, and will be important 
to GM's line-up as truck sales take a hit from a slower 
economy, higher gas prices and a weaker housing market.  "The conventional four-door sedan is still the biggest 
segment but is shrinking. Minivans are shrinking. Full-size 
pickups appear to be stable and full-size SUVs, although a very 
large market, are slightly in decline," Lutz said.  "Small cars are a very volatile part of the market, so 
really the crossover is where the growth is," Lutz said.  Industry analysts have said they expect the segment to 
nearly double to more than 2 million units by 2010 from about 1 
million in 2006.  GM recently launched two crossovers, the Saturn Outlook and 
the GMC Acadia, and the new Buick Enclave crossover will hit 
showrooms later this year.  GM saw its 2006 U.S. auto sales fall nearly 9 percent as it 
was hurt by falling sales of big SUVs and trucks, cut back 
low-profit fleet sales to rental car companies, and stuck to a 
new strategy on pricing and lower incentives.  Lutz said he expected GM's market share in 2007 would be 
similar to last year but that retail sales would be a higher 
percentage than fleet sales.
  FRUIT BOWL AHEAD?  Lutz said the automaker is considering installing what he 
called a "fruit bowl" in cars that will boost communications: a 
padded compartment where Blackberry devices and cellphones 
could communicate with the vehicle's electronics.  GM's competitors are installing technology to allow more 
wireless communication in vehicles, with rival Ford Motor Co. 
( F.N ) unveiling a new entertainment and communication system 
called "Sync" running on software from Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ) 
that aims to bring the connectivity of a computer to the car.  The system allows drivers to make hands-free phone calls, 
listen to digital media players such as Apple Computer Inc.'s 
( AAPL.O ) iPod, and have cell phone text messages read aloud.  "I don't think there is a huge novelty in what they are 
doing," Lutz said. "We already have communication-enabled 
vehicles, we are the clear-cut market leader with OnStar."  OnStar is a communication system available on GM vehicles 
that offers services such as navigation, hands-free calling, 
and emergency assistance.