-- Home Depot changes bylaws on CEO pay
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 6:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/businesspro-homedepot-ceopay-dc-idUSN0840618620070108

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Retailer Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) said on 
Monday the company's bylaws had been changed to require that 
two-thirds of independent directors approve the compensation of 
the company chief executive. 

  Previously, the bylaws required that a majority of 
independent directors had to approve the pay of the CEO.  The change comes in the wake of last week's abrupt 
departure by mutual agreement with the board of Robert Nardelli 
as Home Depot chairman and chief executive. Home Depot said in 
a regulatory filing that its directors approved the bylaw 
change on January 4, two days after Nardelli's exit.  Nardelli, who came to Home Depot from General Electric Co. 
( GE.N ) in late 2000, had drawn heavy criticism from 
shareholders who charged his pay was hefty in light of the 
company's stock performance.  Frank Blake, the former GE executive who was named Home 
Depot's new CEO and chairman, said in an internal memo on 
Monday that Harvey Seegers, president of Home Depot Direct, and 
John Campi, senior vice president for global sourcing and 
vendor management, announced their plans to leave the No. 1 
home improvement chain to pursue other opportunities.  In the wake of the departures, Steve Skinner will lead Home 
Depot Direct, which handles online and catalog sales, and Brian 
Robbins will lead global sourcing and vendor management, the 
memo said.  Skinner and Robbins will report to Craig Menear, who was 
given responsibility for all merchandising initiatives last 
year.  The memo also said that Joe DeAngelo, who was named chief 
operating officer last week, would have expanded duties for the 
retail business. Vice presidents of global supply chain, home 
services and asset protection now report to DeAngelo, who heads 
Home Depot's supply business geared to professional 
contractors.  Carol Tome, chief financial officer, assumes leadership of 
real estate, growth initiatives, credit and other related 
functions, the memo added.  Home Depot's stock eased 30 cents to close at $39.49 on the 
New York Stock Exchange.