-- GE in $1.9 bln deal for oilfield equipment maker
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 3:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/businesspro-vetcogray-ge-dc-idUSN0729852320070108

 

 BOSTON/NEW YORK  (Reuters) - In a bid to boost its presence 
in the oil and gas sector, diversified conglomerate General 
Electric Co. ( GE.N ) said on Monday it will buy Vetco Gray, for 
$1.9 billion in cash. 

  Vetco Gray, a Houston-based oil and gas fields equipment 
supplier, is a subsidiary of Vetco International Ltd, which is 
owned by three private equity firms, Candover, 3i Group ( III.L ) 
and JP Morgan Partners.  Claudi Santiago, chief executive of Florence, Italy-based 
GE Oil & Gas, said the deal would help push revenue at the GE 
unit to $6 billion in 2007.  He said he expects Vetco Gray's key product -- equipment 
for removing oil and gas from "subsea" fields under hundreds of 
feet of water -- would prove an important growth area.  "Our theory is that the easy reservoirs have already been 
covered," Santiago said in a phone interview. "The new 
reservoirs, the new projects are going more and more in harsh 
kinds of environments and subsea projects will deliver a huge 
amount of growth."  The transaction is expected to close in early 2007, said 
GE.  Vetco Gray is expected to generate more than $1.6 billion 
in sales in 2006, GE said. The company has 5,000 employees in 
more than 30 countries, with key centers in Houston in the 
United States, Aberdeen in the United Kingdom, Stavanger and 
Oslo in Norway and Singapore, GE added.  GE is the world's second-largest company by market value, 
trailing oil company Exxon Mobil Corp. ( XOM.N )  "It continues to get them in an area that they want to be 
in, at a reasonable cost," said Peter Klein, senior portfolio 
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cleveland, which 
owns GE shares.  "What is interesting to me is that they're not paying an 
arm and a leg for it," Klein said. "It's a pretty good use of 
their capital."  Vetco Gray competes with the likes of Cameron International 
Corp. ( CAM.N ) and FMC Technologies Inc. ( FTI.N ), which also 
make equipment to extract oil and gas from underwater. In a 
note to clients, energy analyst Dan Pickering, of Pickering 
Energy Partners Inc., noted that Vetco Gray was ranked third in 
its industry, raising the possibility that GE might look to 
make further acquisitions in the sector.  "GE will certainly be a tough competitor, but is unlikely 
to do anything dumb with pricing and might continue on a 
consolidation path," Pickering wrote.  Candover, 3i and JP Morgan Partners will continue to own 
Vetco Aibel, which designs, engineers, builds and maintains oil 
and natural gas production facilities, process systems and 
related products, GE said.  Lehman Brothers Inc. advised the selling consortium, while 
JP Morgan additionally advised JP Morgan Partners on the deal.  GE shares were up 1 cent a share to $37.57 on the New York 
Stock Exchange. They gained 6.2 percent in 2006, lagging the 
13.6 percent rise of the broad Standard & Poor's 500 index.   .SPX  (Additional reporting by  Mark McSherry  and Robert MacMillan 
in New York)