-- US Air says Morgan Stanley to help finance Delta bid
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 3:44pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/businesspro-usairways-delta-dc-idUSN0836406320070108

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - US Airways Group on Monday bolstered 
the financial muscle behind its hostile bid for bankrupt Delta 
Air Lines, adding Morgan Stanley as a lead financial backer 
alongside Citigroup. 

  The move, which comes after Delta rejected US Airways' $8.7 
billion takeover offer last month, could pave the way for US 
Airways to raise its bid.  "If US Airways eventually concludes they want to up their 
bid, Morgan provides a lot more capacity to do that," said 
airline consultant Robert Mann. "I think it's a hint that 
they're looking to reinforce if they need to."  A US Airways spokesman declined to comment on the 
likelihood that the airline would raise its bid.  The addition of Morgan Stanley also comes as Delta's 
creditors become more active in deciding whether to support US 
Airways.  Gordon Bethune, the former chief executive of Continental 
Airlines Inc. who was hired last month as an industry analyst 
by Delta's official creditor committee, met on Monday with US 
Airways. He is scheduled to meet with the committee on 
Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the situation.  US Airways had a "productive meeting" with Bethune, said 
Kelly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for US Airways, without providing 
details.  "We continue to believe that (Delta's) creditors' committee 
is being well-served by his involvement in the process," she 
added.  Morgan Stanley joins Citigroup as a joint lead arranger to 
underwrite US Airways' $7.2 billion debt financing for the 
proposed deal.  US Airways said the financial terms of the proposed 
financing package had been "significantly improved," following 
the inclusion of Morgan Stanley.  Pending approval from US Airways' board of directors, the 
two banks would share funding commitments. The arrangement also 
allows US Airways to add other financial institutions to the 
syndicate group.  "These two world-class firms, combined with the possibility 
for a third firm, reinforce the financial community's 
confidence in the value creation of our proposed merger with 
Delta," US Airways Chief Financial Officer Derek Kerr said in a 
statement.  Joseph Capobianco, a mergers expert at law firm Reisman, 
Peirez & Reisman, said, "This is very, very significant because 
it shows ... (US Airways) is continuing to pursue its bid. Even 
though the Delta management may be entrenched, it is going to 
try to take its fight right to the creditors."  US Airways, the No. 7 U.S. carrier, bid for Delta in 
November.  Delta, which has been operating under bankruptcy protection 
since September 2005, last month put forth its own plan of 
reorganization, which would see it emerge as an independent 
carrier this spring. But to succeed, any plan must get the 
blessing of Delta's creditors.  Delta says its plan values the company at $9.4 billion to 
$12 billion, topping US Airways' offer. Delta Chief Executive 
Gerald Grinstein also said antitrust concerns and unionized 
labor forces presented major obstacles to a link-up with US 
Airways.  US Airways has stood by its bid, which is conditional on it 
performing due diligence. It needs support from Delta creditors 
to pressure the No. 3 U.S. carrier to open its books.  Shares of US Airways were up 6 cents at $58.35 in 
late-afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Additional reporting by  Chris Reiter  and  Paritosh Bansal )