-- Sears aims to drive sales with virtual showroom
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 2:25pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/businesspro-sears-virtualhome-dc-idUSN0519535620070108

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Retailer Sears Holdings Corp. ( SHLD.O ) 
is looking to connect with consumers in a new way and drive 
sales of home goods by opening a showroom on the online 
universe Second Life. 

  The operator of Sears and Kmart stores unveiled "Sears 
Virtual Home," a prototype showroom on Second Life, on Monday 
at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  Second Life has more than 1 million registered users and an 
established economy and currency. The equivalent of more than a 
half a million U.S. dollars change hands there daily.  At the Sears virtual showroom, customers can change cabinet 
and countertop colors in a kitchen and organize a garage by 
customizing storage products.  Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based Sears said it hopes 
consumers will eventually be able to redesign areas of their 
own homes from its online showroom by selecting washers, tools 
and furniture.  "It's about consumers being able to customize to their 
desires," said Sandra Kearney, director of 3D Internet and 
Virtual Worlds at International Business Machines Corp. 
( IBM.N ), which built and houses the Sears showroom on its 
island in Second Life.  IBM has a similar prototype virtual store with electronics 
retailer Circuit City Stores Inc. CC.N  Kearney said such stores showed how companies could 
potentially use 3D Internet to sell digital content, enhance 
customer service or conduct other business.  Sears faces fierce competition in the sale of appliances 
and other home goods from retailers in the real world including 
Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) and Lowe's Cos. ( LOW.N ).  For the third quarter ended October 28, Sears Holdings 
reported sharply higher profit on complicated derivative trades 
and cost cuts, but said same-store sales fell 4.8 percent amid 
declines in home decor and lawn and garden sales.  Sears Holdings shares were down $1.09 to $164.95 in 
afternoon trading on Nasdaq.