-- UPDATE 3-Nasdaq says Q3 data won't change its view on LSE
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 12:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/lse-nasdaq-idUSL086456420070108

 

  (Adds LSE comment, updates shares) 

 LONDON  Jan 8 (Reuters) - Nasdaq Stock Market Inc. ( NDAQ.O )
said on Monday that imminent third-quarter figures from the
London Stock Exchange ( LSE.L ) would not affect its hostile bid
for the British exchange.  The Daily Telegraph said the LSE would release third-quarter
numbers this week, almost three weeks early, as part of its
defence against the cash offer of 1,243 pence a share from the
U.S. stock market group.  The bid from Nasdaq, which already owns just under 30
percent of the LSE, values it at 2.7 billion pounds ($5.2
billion).  "The imminent announcement of LSE's 2006 financials, which
has been anticipated in press speculation, in no way changes the
fact that LSE's value case has been entirely based on current
and historical financial performance," Nasdaq said in a
statement.   "The key issue is how LSE will react to the substantial
future challenges that it will face in 2007 and beyond."  LSE shares have more than trebled over the past two years as
it has attracted -- and rejected -- a procession of suitors. The
world's stock exchanges are under pressure to consolidate as
customers push for global services and lower fees.  Nasdaq said in its statement that its offer was a realistic
one, taking into account the likelihood the LSE may have to cut
fees amid pressure from investment banks, its major users.  Nasdaq said its offer price also reflected the impact of
increased competition from dissatisfied investment banks, who
agreed late last year to create a rival trading platform.  That plan, called Project Turquoise, is being developed by a
group including Citigroup Inc. ( C.N ), Credit Suisse Group
( CSGN.VX ), and Merrill Lynch & Co. MER.N.  "The LSE would probably need to see Project Turquoise with
more clarity before they can do something about it," said Mamoun
Tazi, an analyst at Man Financial.  "In the end what you will have are fee cuts whether they
like it or not. The question would be then whether we would have
dilution of market share," he said.  LSE rejected Nasdaq's arguments, saying its presentation of
relative fee levels was "blatantly misleading" and its choice of
comparable exchanges was narrow.  Shares in the LSE -- Europe's largest equity marketplace --
closed down 0.1 percent at 1,282 pence on Monday.  Traders said the fact the shares continued to trade above
the 1,243p offer price reflected investors' expectations of a
higher offer.  "But I think that the bid will lapse, although the market
thinks differently," said one analyst who declined to be named.  The LSE is being advised by Merrill and Lehman Brothers
LEH.N. Greenhill ( GHL.N ) is advising Nasdaq.




