-- UPDATE 4-Russian oil supplies to Poland and Germany halted
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 6:39am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/poland-russia-pipeline-idUSL0880010720070108

 

   (Adds more Belarus reaction) 

  By  Douglas Busvine  and Natalia Reiter MOSCOW/WARSAW  Jan 8 (Reuters) - A Russian oil pipeline
carrying supplies across Belarus to Poland and Germany stopped
pumping overnight in a trade dispute between Moscow and Minsk
that could lead to fuel shortages across Europe.  Only last week the ex-Soviet states promised to put their
argument to one side and keep providing oil to the rest of
Europe whose refiners are heavily reliant on Russian supplies to
make winter heating oil and other products.  The feuding grew more intense on Sunday when Belarus
subpoenaed the head of Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft and
Russia demanded an end to oil transit fees imposed by Belarus.  "Oil supplies via the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline to
Poland and Germany were halted overnight. We sent a letter to
Belarus asking for explanations," said Tomasz Zakrzewski, a
spokesman for Polish pipeline operator PERN.  Germany confirmed the news. Officials said they were in the
dark as to the reason for the stoppage. Plants in east Germany
are most vulnerable, including Total's ( TOTF.PA ) Leuna refinery.  "There is no indication as to the causes. We remain in
contact and are looking into the causes," a spokesman for the
Economy Ministry told a regular government news conference.  Poland's Deputy Economy Minister Piotr Naimski told TV
channel TVN24: "As far as we know it has to do with a dispute
between the Russian Federation and Belarus over export duties on
the one hand and transport fees on the other."  Russia's alliance with Belarus has been shaken by Moscow's
reecnt decisions to impose duties on oil sales to its neighbour,
double gas prices and ban imports of Belarusian sugar.  Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko -- branded
Europe's last dictator by Washington -- fought back last week by
slapping a transit fee on Russian oil pumped via Belarus.  Russia's Interfax news agency quoted a Belarusian official
saying Ukraine had also been cut off. He added the transit of
oil may resume later on Monday.  Russian oil pipeline monopoly Transneft accused Belarus of
stealing crude from the Druzhba line and said it would do its
utmost to reroute supplies to its European customers.  Belarus rejected the charge, which was reminiscent of
accusations levelled against Ukraine in January 2005 when
Russian gas supplies to Europe were halted in a price dispute
between Moscow and Kiev.  "Transneft is at this moment doing all it can to raise
exports via alternative routes to its customers in western
Europe," Transneft head Semyon Vainshtok was quoted by RIA
Novosti news agency as saying.  
  OIL PRICES RISE  Oil prices rose as much as 30 cents on the news. At 1129 GMT
U.S. crude was up 44 cents at $56.75 a barrel.
 Russia is the world's second largest oil exporter and
supplies around a fifth of Germany's needs.  The Druzhba, or Friendship, pipeline to Central Europe is
one of the world's biggest.  Belarus trans-shipped 90 million tonnes (1.8 million barrels
per day) of Russian oil last year through the main Druzhba line
to Poland and Germany, and through a southern spur to Slovakia,
the Czech Republic and Hungary.  A spokesman for the Czech Industry and Trade Ministry said
oil flows to the Czech Republic had not been interrupted.  On Saturday, Belarus subpoenaed the head of Moscow's oil
pipeline monopoly Transneft to appear in court over
administrative charges of illegal oil transits to third states.  Russia's Economy Ministry meanwhile handed a note to the
Belarusian ambassador to Moscow, urging Minsk to scrap fees on
Russian crude transits, which it said were threatening stable
supplies to consumers in Western and Eastern Europe.  The Druzhba pipeline splits into two spurs with the bigger
one, the northern leg, going to Poland and to Germany.  The northern leg pumps crude to refineries in Poland and
Germany and for re-exports from the Polish Baltic Sea port of
Gdansk. The pipeline's southern leg travels across Ukraine to
Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.  
  For a FACTBOX on the Druzhba pipeline click on
[ID:nL08812526]  
  (additional reporting by Piotr Skolimowski and Chris Johnson
in Warsaw, Dmitri Zhadnnikov in Moscow, Andreei Makhovsky in
Minsk)

