-- UPDATE 4-RadioShack sees higher quarterly net; shares jump
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 1:10pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/radioshack-outlook-idUSN0833882920070108

 

  (Updates share price; adds byline, comment) 

  By  Nicole Maestri NEW YORK  Jan 8 (Reuters) - Struggling consumer electronics
retailer RadioShack Corp. ( RSH.N ) said on Monday it expected to
post an increase in fourth-quarter net income, helped by lower
expenses, better margins and improved inventory management, and
its shares rose nearly 11 percent.  The company's strong cash flow and a smaller sales decline
than in the third quarter "signals that the worst from a cash
flow perspective may be over," Credit Suisse analyst Gary
Balter wrote in a research note.  "For the past two years RadioShack pre-announced lower
expected fourth-quarter results heading in to Christmas," he
added. "This year it's different under new CEO Julian Day."  RadioShack profits have fallen as sales of wireless
products has faltered. The company is trying to stabilize its
business by closing stores, clearing out slow-moving inventory
and replacing it with more popular products.  It installed turnaround veteran Julian Day as chief
executive in July, to replace David Edmondson, who resigned in
February after admitting he lied about his academic record.  RadioShack's shares have fallen 23 percent in the past year
as investors wait for signs of a turnaround.  SKEPTICISM REMAINS  RadioShack expects fourth-quarter net income to show an
increase over the $51 million it reported for the year-earlier
period.  Balter said that while the retailer is moving in the right
direction, risks remain.  "While the press release reads that net income is higher,
that is comparing against net income after massive charges last
year, with the pre-charge number being $114 million," he said.
"So by no means have we seen the turn yet."  RadioShack said it saw fourth-quarter sales at stores open
at least one year, a key measure known as same-store sales,
declining about 7.8 percent.  Excluding the reclassification of sales from prepaid
wireless airtime, same-store sales fell roughly 5.5 percent.  During the five weeks between the Thanksgiving holiday and
the end of the year, RadioShack said adjusted same-store sales
were down 2.5 percent.  Investors have been waiting for Day, who inherited a
turnaround plan initiated by Edmondson, to outline his own
agenda for reviving RadioShack's business.  Jefferies & Co. analyst Timothy Allen said that despite the
positive spin RadioShack put on its preliminary figures, the
results were worse than expected.  Allen had forecast a 5 percent decline in December
same-store sales, while he said analysts on average were
recently expecting a 1 percent gain.  "Ongoing direction of the company remains uncertain aside
from taking various cost-cutting measures," he wrote.  Day said in a statement that the retailer expects "sales
challenges" in the first part of 2007.  The company cut prices sharply in the first quarter of 2006
with the introduction of Cingular wireless service and
discounting of excess seasonal toy inventory, Day said.  "It is not our intention to chase unprofitable business;
therefore, we expect a negative impact to same-store sales in
the first part of 2007," he added.  RadioShack said its estimated cash balance was about $450
million at Dec. 31, up from about $225 million a year ago.  RadioShack plans to release its fourth-quarter and
full-year financial results on or about Feb. 27, and it expects
to hold a conference call on the report with analysts and major
investors, its first since July.  At that time, Day said that rather than hold conference
calls, the retailer would instead issue a "comprehensive" press
release that describes the prior quarter's business
performance.  Shares were up $1.79, or 10.7 percent, at $18.60 in
afternoon New York Stock Exchange action after trading as high
as $19.15.
 (Additional reporting by  Martinne Geller )


