-- WRAPUP 3-Russia halts oil exports to Belarus; Europe hit
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 2:50pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/russia-pipeline-idUSL0882760320070108

 

  (Adds Merkel comments in paragraphs 13-14) 

  By  Douglas Busvine  and Natalia Reiter MOSCOW/WARSAW  Jan 8 (Reuters) - Russia, accusing Belarus of
stealing oil from a major pipeline, has shut off crude exports
to its western neighbour, halting supplies to Poland and Germany
and threatening wider disruptions in central Europe.  Russia's pipeline monopoly Transneft ( TRNF_p.RTS ) said on
Monday it was forced to act because Minsk had been siphoning off
oil illegally from the Druzhba ('Friendship') pipeline system.  The oil supply cut was reminiscent of a stand-off last year
between Russia and Ukraine that hit gas supplies to Europe. It
escalates a tit-for-tat dispute between Russia and longtime ally
Belarus, who have imposed punitive oil levies on each other.  The European Union demanded an "urgent and detailed"
explanation, a spokesman for Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs
said. Europe is heavily reliant on energy powerhouse Russia for
its oil and gas and extremely vulnerable to Russian supply cuts.  Transneft Vice-President Sergei Grigoryev told Reuters: "The
Belarussian side began taking transit oil as payment in kind for
a new duty it had illegally imposed."  "We therefore reduced transit supplies, equal to the amount
being taken. We then reached the point where we had to stop
supplies completely."  Belarus had until recently served as a loyal client state of
Russia, and the two countries have discussed launching a common
currency as a precursor to creating a political union.  But Moscow's recent decisions to impose duties on oil sales
to its neighbour, double gas prices and ban sugar imports have
led President Alexander Lukashenko to turn against his patron,
Kremlin chief Vladimir Putin.  Lukashenko -- called Europe's last dictator by the United
States -- last week slapped a $45 per tonne transit fee on
Russian oil pumped via Belarus.  Russian Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Sharonov said he saw
little chance of a de-escalation. "It looks like we are heading
into a trade war," he told Ekho Moskvy radio.  Belarussia denied any responsibility for the supply cut and
dispatched a government delegation to Moscow for urgent talks.
Russian officials ruled out any agreement to resolve the crisis
unless Belarus scraps its transit fee first.  
  RIPPLES ACROSS CENTRAL EUROPE  Poland, served by the northern branch of the Druzhba
pipeline, reported that oil shipments had stopped overnight.
Europe's biggest economy Germany later confirmed refineries in
its ex-communist east were also cut off.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her country needed
protection against problems in delivering its energy supplies,
adding that it should diversify its energy mix to reduce its
dependency on Moscow.  "This has not caused any acute threats to our energy supply.
But there have been transit problems again and again over the
past few years," Merkel said in a German television interview.
"We need legal protection, we need contract security."  Druzhba forks on Belarussian territory, and countries served
by its southern spur -- including Hungary and Slovakia -- said
they expected their supplies to dry up on Monday.  Russia is the world's second-largest oil exporter after
Saudi Arabia. Around 1.8 million barrels per day of Urals crude
flow via the Druzhba pipeline system, built in the 1960s to tie
communist eastern Europe to Soviet energy supplies.  Transneft head Semyon Vainshtok was quoted earlier by
Russian news agencies as saying that the pipeline operator was
doing all it could to reroute supplies to European customers.  
  STOCKPILES  Supplies were cut to PKN's PKNA.WA Plock refinery in
Poland, and in Germany to Total's ( TOTF.PA ) Leuna unit and the
PCK facility in Schwedt, owned by a group including Ruhr Oel
GmbH, Shell Deutschland Oil GmbH ( RDSa.L ) and AET.  German Economy Minister Michael Glos said he expected
deliveries to resume completely as soon as possible. Germany
gets 20 million tonnes a year, or one-fifth of its oil imports,
via Druzhba.  But Poland's Deputy Economy Minister Piotr Naimski said
there was no sign from either the Russian or Belarussian side as
to when Druzhba might resume operations.  German and Polish officials gave assurances that oil
refiners had ample stockpiles of crude oil to tide them over.
Poland has enough crude in storage to cover 80 days' supply,
while Total said Leuna had "abundant" reserves.  European oil markets rose, with Brent crude futures gaining
by $1.08 to $56.71 per barrel in London. But oil traders
appeared relaxed, for now at least, given ample oil in storage.  "It's a bit of a shock right now, but the market is not
responding that fast; we've got used to this kind of thing," one
fuel oil trader said.  
  For a FACTBOX on the Druzhba pipeline click on
[ID:nL08812526]  
  (additional reporting by Dmitri Zhdannikov in Moscow, Piotr
Skolimowski and Chris Johnson in Warsaw, Andrei Makhovsky in
Minsk, Noah Barkin in Berlin, Keyvan Hedvat in London)


