-- UPDATE 2-Fed's Kohn says core inflation drop not assured
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 3:13pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/08/usa-fed-kohn-idUSN0837988320070108

 

  (Adds more comments from Kohn) 

  By  Karen Jacobs ATLANTA   Jan 8 (Reuters) - The U.S. economy is poised for
moderate growth and lower inflation, but there is no guarantee
core inflation will continue to ease, Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman Donald Kohn said on Monday.  "A very gradual decline in the trend rate of (core)
inflation continues to be the most likely outcome, but that
path is still by no means assured," he said in remarks to the
Atlanta Rotary Club. A text of his remarks was distributed in
Washington.  "And in my judgment, such a decline remains critically
important to the sustained prosperity of the U.S. economy," he
added.  Kohn said a period of below-trend economic growth may ease
some pressures on tight labor and product markets. But some of
the recent easing in inflation may reflect one-time events,
such as a drop in energy prices, he added.  "It is still too early to relax our concerns about whether
the run-up in price pressures in the spring and summer of last
year is truly unwinding and whether it is unwinding rapidly
enough to forestall a pickup in inflation expectations," he
said.  It is uncertain whether housing markets, which along with
car industry weakness contributed to slower economic growth in
2006, have reached bottom, Kohn said.  "In my own judgment, housing starts may not be very far
from their trough, but the risks around this outlook still are
largely to the downside," Kohn said.  Kohn's remarks underscored that Fed worries that inflation
is too high for comfort and is not receding quickly enough
remain predominant.  Minutes of the Fed's Dec. 12 meeting released last week
showed that while worry about inflation remained center-stage,
there was some shift to a more balanced view of risks.  The Fed at that meeting elected to hold benchmark interest
rates steady at 5.25 percent for the fourth straight meeting in
an effort to help push down higher-than-desirable inflation
levels. Since that meeting, a core inflation reading was mild,
but the Labor Department reported a surprising jump in December
payrolls, raising the specter of rising wage pressure.  Kohn said in Atlanta that recent signs point to a pace of
growth that is sustainable but slower than in recent years.  "A low level of housing starts and production adjustments
in some manufacturing industries will remain a drag on growth
in output in the near term, but these effects will wane during
the first half of 2007 as excess inventories are worked off,"
he said.  "When this process is completed, the rate of economic
growth should pick up to something in the neighborhood of the
growth rate of the economy's potential," he added.  While the economy appears to be weathering the housing
downturn with few negative side-effects, and core inflation
looks set to decline, Kohn hedged his forecast with some
pessimism.  "I am a central banker to the core, so I know that
somewhere, somehow, something will go wrong," he said.  In the meantime, however, he said the unusual phenomenon of
higher yields for short-term Treasury securities than for
longer maturities, the "inverted yield curve," was not likely a
sign of economic weakness.  "Folks seem very confident that the way ahead will be a
good one, that inflation will stay low, the economy will do
well, and they're willing to move out the yield curve and not
get the compensation they usually get," he said.




