-- `Fake Lake' Canada Summit Spending Risks Harper's Reputation
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/-fake-lake-canada-summit-spending-threatening-leader-harper-s-reputation.html

          
          
             Spending to host U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and other leaders of the Group of Eight and  Group
of 20  countries next week has allowed Canada’s opposition to
attack Prime Minister  Stephen Harper’s  economic credibility just
as he planned to use the summits to bolster his popularity.  
 Canada may spend as much as C$1.2 billion ($1.17 billion)
on the summits, with the majority going to ensure the safety of
G-20 and G-8 leaders visiting Toronto and Huntsville, about 225
kilometers (140 miles) away. Opposition lawmakers have hammered
Harper’s government with  revelations  on how the money is being
spent on “fake” lakes and public toilets far from the summits.  
 The costs risk overshadowing the economic story Harper
planned to stress to both his colleagues and voters: Canada was
the last G-7 country to enter the global recession and the first
to recover, thanks in part to its having the lowest debt-to-GDP
ratio in the G-7 and the world’s soundest financial system,
according to the World Economic Forum.  
 “It’s quite clear that this is a problem for the government
and it will impact on its capacity to say, we have forthright
control over the public accounts,” said  Allan Tupper , a
political science professor at the University of British
Columbia. “Shining on the world stage is tough.”  
 Harper, who will chair the  meetings  from June 25-27,  said 
in January that “the world will turn its gaze on Canada in
2010,” and that he planned to “use these two summits to
continue playing a leadership role on issues of importance to
Canadians.”  
 Fake Lake  
 Seventy-eight percent of Canadians  surveyed  say the money
being spent isn’t justified, and 74 percent say the summits are
not important to them.  
 “People believe it’s a lot of money that shouldn’t be
spent on this,” said Mario Canseco, vice president of public
affairs with Angus Reid Public Opinion, which conducted the June
11-12 poll of 1,007 Canadians that was released June 16.
“Instead of actually becoming a nice showcase, it has been all
about the side stories.”  
 Opposition lawmakers have focused on the “fake lake,” a
C$57,000 water feature built at one of the press centers to give
reporters -- most of whom won’t get near the Huntsville summit
site -- a flavor of a typical Canadian cottage. The “fake
lake” has been  mentioned  at least 75 times in the House of
Commons and the Liberals launched an  ad campaign  to deride it.  
 “This is a disappointment to anybody who cares, as I do,
about Canada’s reputation in the world,” Liberal Party Leader
 Michael Ignatieff  said in Ottawa yesterday. Harper is “giving
summitry a bad name,” he said, because other world leaders will
think, “These G-20 summits, are they worth doing?”  
 Record Deficit  
 The spending comes after Canada ran a record C$47 billion
deficit in the fiscal year that ended March 31, according to
preliminary finance department data last month. Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  predicted in March he won’t erase the country’s
deficit until 2014.  
 Sheila Fraser , the country’s auditor general, and Kevin
Page, the  Parliamentary Budget Officer , have said they will
review the G-8 and G-20 spending.  
 Opposition parties have also accused Harper of using the
summits as an excuse to direct infrastructure funds to projects
unrelated to the summit in the constituency containing
Huntsville, which is represented by Industry Minister  Tony Clement . Ignatieff cited the example of a  public washroom  he
says is 25 kilometers from where the leaders will stay and a
 band shell  that’s 65 kilometers away.  
 Public Response  
 “People just shake their heads at the kind of expenditures
that are going on,” New Democratic Party Leader  Jack Layton 
told reporters in Ottawa yesterday. “They talk about that fake
lake -- it really bothers them.”  
 The Conservatives have fallen to their lowest level of
popularity -- 30.5 percent -- since forming government in 2006,
an EKOS poll released yesterday  showed . The survey of 2,013
Canadians taken June 9-15 also showed the Liberals have failed
to improve, declining to 26.3 percent from 26.8 percent in the
 previous  EKOS poll released June 10.  
 Harper has been able to deflect some of the criticism
because other countries have suffered worse economic declines
during the global recession and political opponents have been
unable to convince voters they could do better, said Lindsay
Meredith, a professor of marketing at Simon Fraser University in
Burnaby, British Columbia.  
 “Eventually, the Liberals are going to get it right and
eventually circumstances will be such that they will be able to
successfully position the Conservatives quite possibly as
spendthrift,” Meredith said.  
 Two summits  
 Harper has said opposition parties ignore that Canada is
hosting both the G-8 and G-20 summits instead of just the G-8,
as was the custom until now. Data compiled by the University of
Toronto’s G-8 Research Group  showed  Canada will spend about $475
million to host the G-8 summit, compared with $260 million spent
by Italy last year and $559 million spent by Japan in 2008. For
the G-20 summit, Canada will spend about $475 million, compared
with $18 million for the Pittsburgh summit and $30 million for
the London summit, both last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        