-- AIG's Benmosche Outlasts Predecessor Liddy in CEO `Hot Seat'
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/aig-s-benmosche-outlasts-predecessor-liddy-in-ceo-hot-seat-.html

          
          
             Robert Benmosche , who said the U.S.
will be repaid with interest for  American International Group
Inc. ’s bailout, is set to become the insurer’s longest-serving
chief executive officer since the firm’s near-collapse in 2008.  
 Benmosche, 66, will begin his 12th month leading New York-
based AIG in July. That is longer than predecessors  Edward Liddy , who retired after about 11 months in August 2009, and
 Robert Willumstad , who was ousted after fewer than 100 days as a
condition of the insurer’s 2008 government rescue. AIG was
bailed out after losses on derivatives tied to mortgages.  
 “Given that he survived 12 months, I’d say Benmosche
learned very quickly that this is not just another CEO job,”
said  Phillip Phan , professor at the Johns Hopkins Carey Business
School in Baltimore. “He has to create a more sustainable,
smaller operation, to move away from derivatives, and he’s
having to do it all in the public eye.”  
 Benmosche must balance the demands of regulators and
lawmakers while divesting AIG units to repay loans within the
insurer’s $182.3 billion rescue, a goal that stymied his
predecessor. Liddy, who was twice grilled by Congress over
bonuses paid during his tenure, said in a farewell letter to
staff that the job left him with “a few bruises.”  
 AIG posted more than $100 billion in net  losses  driven by
soured housing market bets in the six quarters before Benmosche,
the former CEO of  MetLife Inc. , took control of AIG. Weeks after
starting, Benmosche had to apologize for telling staff that New
York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  was “unbelievably wrong”
for drawing attention to workers who got retention bonuses.
Benmosche then drew criticism for vacationing in Croatia in his
first month at AIG.  
 ‘Taxpayer Ire’  
 “The unprecedented amount of taxpayer ire is what made the
job such a hot seat, but Benmosche didn’t let himself get pushed
around by the New York Fed,” said  Clark Troy , an analyst for
research firm Aite Group. “He has this presence and force of
will that imparts confidence.” The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York and Treasury Department have funded AIG’s rescue.  
 AIG has  climbed  about 39 percent through yesterday on the
New York Stock Exchange since Aug. 7, the last trading day
before Benmosche replaced Liddy. That compares with the 34
percent decline under Liddy and the approximately 90 percent
plunge under Willumstad, who was ousted before he could unveil a
plan to restructure AIG.  
 Under Benmosche, AIG halted the auctions of units including
a U.S. investment advisory group, a mortgage guarantor and a
pair of Japanese life insurers. The CEO told employees in August
that he would only sell businesses for adequate prices, and in
March announced deals to sell two life insurance divisions. AIG
has posted a profit in three of the previous four quarters as
investment results improved.  
 ‘You’ll Get Your Money’  
 “I’m confident you’ll get your money, plus a profit,”
Benmosche told the Congressional Oversight Panel in Washington
during a May 26 hearing to examine the AIG rescue.  
 Benmosche negotiated a $7 million annual salary compared
with $1 a year for Liddy. Benmosche has opted against holding
conference calls to discuss quarterly results with investors,
instead releasing audio  statements . The past four CEOs all
hosted calls.  
 AIG will first repay a Fed credit line with proceeds from
divesting the non-U.S. life divisions and then turn to Treasury 
obligations, he said. The company owes about $26 billion on a
Fed credit  line  and $49 billion to the Treasury.  
 Benmosche has been aided by the fact that firms including
BP Plc and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have gotten more negative
media attention and congressional criticism this year than AIG,
Troy said.  
 Goldman Sachs, BP  
 Lloyd Blankfein , CEO of Goldman Sachs, testified before a
Senate investigations panel in April after the New York-based
bank was sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission for
fraud tied to mortgage-linked assets. BP’s  Tony Hayward  was
denounced yesterday by U.S. lawmakers for failing to answer
questions about the causes of the oil well explosion in the Gulf
of Mexico that killed 11 people and caused the leaking of as
much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day.  
 AIG’s agreement to sell its main Asian unit to Prudential
Plc collapsed early this month, after the London-based insurer’s
investors balked at the $35.5 billion price. AIG could raise the
same amount in an initial public offering, the firm’s bankers
have told Treasury.  
 The agreement to sell another non-U.S. unit, American Life
Insurance Co., to MetLife for $15.5 billion is expected to be
completed by year-end, Benmosche has said.  
 Benmosche said in April that he expects to remain at AIG
for another year or two and he’ll help prepare the bailed-out
company for his departure.  
 ‘Appropriately Leveraged’  
 “Each year the demands of the job and the requirements are
different as we begin to evolve from a large, giant,
 overleveraged  company to one that is much more appropriately
leveraged and a more focused company with less businesses,”
Benmosche said in the April 1 interview.  
 Benmosche is winding down the derivatives unit that brought
the entire company to the brink of failure in 2008. The
portfolio of trades shrank to about $755 billion on March 31
from $941 billion at the end of 2009.  
 AIG was run for almost four decades through March 2005 by
 Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , who built the company into the
world’s largest insurer.  Martin Sullivan  then held the top post
for three years, until subprime-mortgage related losses led to
his replacement by Willumstad in June 2008. AIG shares dropped
by about half during Sullivan’s tenure.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AIG CEO Robert Benmosch has soon completed a year at his post. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
