-- Thailand's Exports Climb the Most in Almost Two Years, Supporting Recovery
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-06-18T09:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/thailand-s-exports-climb-the-most-in-almost-two-years-supporting-recovery.html

          
          
             Thailand’s  exports  rose the most
since July 2008 as the global recovery boosted orders, helping
to offset the economic fallout from the political unrest in
April and May.  
 Shipments jumped 42.1 percent in May from a year earlier to
$16.56 billion, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said in
Nonthaburi province on the outskirts of Bangkok today. The
median estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg News  survey 
was for a 34 percent gain. Exports surged 35.2 percent in April,
according to previously reported figures.  
 The  Bank of Thailand  said this week the impact from the
nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades has been
“limited” on the economic rebound, and that it may be the
“appropriate” time to raise interest rates. Companies
including  Stars Microelectronics Thailand Pcl  expect revenue to
increase this year on higher demand.  
 “Exports remain strong, which will help support the whole
economy,”  Thanomsri Fongarunrung , an economist at Phatra
Securities Pcl in Bangkok, said before today’s report. “The
economy in the second quarter will be affected in some
industries, particularly tourism, but shipments and local
spending should help boost growth.”  
 The government may raise its 2010 export-growth target from
the current 14 percent, after evaluating the June trade data to
gauge the impact from Europe’s debt crisis, Porntiva said today.  
 Global Recovery  
 “The export performance so far is very good,” she said.
“The global economy has recovered, including the U.S., Japan,
China” and Southeast Asia.  
 Thai  consumer confidence  rose for the first time in four
months in May on optimism the nation’s economic recovery won’t
be derailed by anti-government protests that ended last month.
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  is working on a reconciliation
plan after the demonstrations led to clashes and riots, claiming
89 lives in two months. A state of emergency is still in place
in many provinces, including Bangkok, to maintain order.  
 The tourism industry may recover within six months, based
on its performance after previous crises, and the broader
economy will improve in the third and fourth quarters, aided by
the global recovery and an easing of fiscal and monetary policy,
Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  said today in Bangkok.  
 “The need for us to use the extremely accommodative
monetary policy will be lower,” Bandid told reporters. The
central bank will assess economic data and inflation pressures
before reviewing its interest rate policy on July 14, he said.  
 Rate Increase ‘Possible’  
 The central bank on June 2 kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at 1.25 percent, the lowest level since July 2004. Still,
Assistant Governor  Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  said “it’s
possible” for Thailand to consider raising the rate at the next
meeting if the nation’s political problems and Europe’s debt
woes ease to an “appropriate level.”  
 Imports  climbed 55.1 percent in May, the sixth consecutive
month of gains, as the economic recovery boosts demand for raw
materials and consumer goods. The nation reported a trade
surplus of $2.21 billion, compared with a $266 million deficit
in April.  
 The Thai baht was little changed at 32.41 per dollar as at
12:03 p.m. local time. It has climbed 2.7 percent this year, the
third-biggest gainer in Asia.  
 Thai exports grew 34.5 percent in the first five months of
the year, the ministry said. Sales to the U.S. gained 26.7
percent in May, accelerating from 12.5 percent in April, while
shipments to Europe rose 19.3 percent, up from 15 percent.
Exports to China jumped 39.4 percent compared with a 26.9
percent increase in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        