-- Lakers Defeat Celtics 83-79 in Game Seven to Capture 16th NBA Championship
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-06-18T05:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/lakers-defeat-celtics-83-79-in-game-7-to-capture-16th-nba-championship.html

          
          
             Kobe Bryant  and the Los Angeles
Lakers celebrated another National Basketball Association title
and got a measure of revenge.  
 Bryant scored 23 points as the Lakers beat the Boston
Celtics 83-79 last night at the Staples Center in Los Angeles,
where the NBA Finals came down to a decisive Game 7 for the
third time in 22 years.  
 The Lakers erased a 13-point third-quarter deficit to claim
their second straight championship and 16th overall. They pulled
within one of Boston’s record total and avenged a loss to the
Celtics in the NBA Finals two years ago.  
 “This is by far the sweetest because it’s against them,”
Bryant said as confetti fell during the trophy presentation.
“We’ve been downplaying the rivalry between us and the Celtics
because we had to focus on what we had to do, but we understood
how bad the city wanted it.”  
 The Lakers and Celtics have had one of sports’ most
celebrated rivalries, winning 33 of the 64 NBA titles. The
Lakers had lost all four previous Game 7 meetings against the
Celtics in the NBA Finals.  
 Bryant, who was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals
for the second straight year, overcame a 6-for-24 shooting
performance by making 11 of 15 free throw attempts, including
eight in the fourth quarter.  
 It’s the fifth championship ring for Bryant, one more than
 Shaquille O’Neal,  the same tally as  Magic Johnson  -- who
accepted the trophy for the Lakers -- and one fewer than  Michael Jordan . The Lakers are the first team to win back-to-back titles
since Bryant teamed with O’Neal for three straight in Los
Angeles from 2000-02.  
 Jacksons’ 11th Title  
 It’s the record-extending 11th title for Lakers coach  Phil Jackson , who also won six in Chicago with Jordan. Jackson said
after the game he’s unsure whether he’ll return as coach next
season, saying he has to think about the decision.  
 “He knows how bad I want him back,” Bryant said. “I’ve
been open and blunt about it and told him how much I want him
back. Let’s go for it again.”  
 Boston, after losing Game 6 in Los Angeles by 22 points,
held a 40-34 halftime lead and extended its advantage to 49-36
early in the third quarter.  
 Bryant and  Pau Gasol  combined to hit 6 of 26 shots in the
opening 24 minutes, as the Lakers shot 26.5 percent as a team.  
 The Lakers fought back in the fourth quarter and took the
lead for good on a pair of Bryant free throws with 5:56
remaining. Los Angeles outscored Boston 30-22 in the final 12
minutes and Celtics coach  Doc Rivers  said the difference in the
game was the Lakers’ 23-8 edge in offensive rebounds.  
 ‘Great Defense’  
 “It was a tough game for either team to lose,” Rivers
said during a news conference. “Both teams played hard. Both
teams played great defense. I thought the lack of size at the
end of the day was the difference.”  
 Bryant grabbed 15 rebounds while Gasol finished with 19
points and 18 rebounds.  Ron Artest  added 20 points for the
Lakers and hit a 3-pointer with one minute left that put Los
Angeles up 79-73.  
 The Celtics pulled within 81-79 on a 3-pointer by  Rajon Rondo  with 16 seconds left before  Sasha Vujacic  of the Lakers
hit a pair of free throws for his only points of the game. When
Rondo missed a 3-point attempt with four seconds left, Gasol
grabbed the rebound and threw the ball down the court to run out
the clock and start the Lakers’ celebration.  
 “It wasn’t well done, but it was done,” Jackson said.
“We did it with perseverance. I thought our defense was great.
We found a way to generate some points.”  
 Boston, which beat the Lakers in six games two years ago,
was attempting to become the first visiting team in 30 years to
win Game 7 of the NBA Finals.  
 “I told my guys after the game that I couldn’t be more
proud,” Rivers said. “We’re not going be the same team next
year. Guys are just not going to be there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lakers repeat win 16th NBA championship  
                       
                         
                           Juan Ocampo/NBAE/Getty Images Mandatory 
                         
                         Kobe Bryant #24 of the Los Angeles Lakers shoots against Ray Allen #20 of the Boston Celtics in Game Seven of the 2010 NBA Finals. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kobe Bryant #24 of the Los Angeles Lakers shoots against Ray Allen #20 of the Boston Celtics in Game Seven of the 2010 NBA Finals. Photographer: Juan Ocampo/NBAE/Getty Images Mandatory  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
