-- Malaysia Inflation Quickens to One-Year High; State Subsidy Cuts Delayed
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-06-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/malaysia-inflation-quickens-to-one-year-high-state-subsidy-cuts-delayed.html

          
          
             Malaysia’s  inflation  accelerated in
May to the fastest pace in a year, as a strengthening economy
boosted food and transport costs.  
 Consumer prices climbed 1.6 percent from a year earlier
after gaining 1.5 percent in April, the Putrajaya, Malaysia-
based statistics department said in a statement today. That
matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 14
economists.  
 Asian policy makers are pulling back monetary stimulus as
the region’s growth outpaces the rest of the world, with Bank
Negara Malaysia raising  interest rates  in the past two meetings.
While the central bank has said overall inflation will be
contained this year, the government has delayed the reduction of
subsidies to ease concern higher prices will burden the poor.  
 “The moratorium on the government’s plan for a major
subsidy revamp should keep inflation moderate for the rest of
2010,”  Alvin Liew , an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in
Singapore, said before the report.  
 Malaysia will delay plans to cut state subsidies to allay
inflation fears and allow more time for public feedback,
Minister for Domestic Trade and Consumerism  Ismail Sabri Yaakob 
said in May.  
 The government may cut subsidies on essential items over a
six- to seven-year period starting with food and energy,
 Nor Mohamed Yakcop , head of the Economic Planning Unit, said
last week.  
 Food prices, which account for about 31 percent of
Malaysia’s inflation index, rose 2.5 percent in May, today’s
report showed. The cost of housing, utilities and fuels gained
0.8 percent. Transport increased 1.2 percent.  
 Inflation is forecast to average 2 percent to 2.5 percent
this year, accelerating from 0.6 percent in 2009, according to
the central bank.  
 “We think 2010 inflation would average at a rather benign
2 percent with downside risks as increases in administered
prices will likely be delayed this year,”  Kit Wei Zheng , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore, said before the
report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        