-- Anadarko Says BP's `Reckless Decisions' Led to Spill
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-06-19T00:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/anadarko-says-bp-s-reckless-decisions-and-actions-led-to-gulf-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas
oil company that owns 25 percent of the damaged well pouring
crude into the Gulf of Mexico, said  BP Plc , the well’s operator,
should pay the costs from the disaster because of the reckless
and unsafe way it drilled at the site.  
 BP didn’t monitor or react to warning signs as the Macondo
well was drilled, Chief Executive Officer  Jim Hackett  said today
in a statement. BP is responsible for damages under such
conditions, Anadarko said.  
 “BP’s behavior and actions likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct and thus affect the obligations
of the parties under the operating agreement,” Hackett said in
the statement.  
 BP said in a statement that it “strongly disagrees” with
 Anadarko ’s position. Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said
his company expects other parties that may have responsibility
for costs and liabilities to meet their obligations.  
 “These allegations will neither distract the company’s
focus on stopping the leak nor alter our commitment to restore
the Gulf Coast,” Hayward said in the statement.  
 The well is gushing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a government estimate. The leak was triggered by an
April 20 explosion at a drilling rig leased to BP by Transocean
Ltd. Costs of the spill may climb to as much as $50.8 billion if
the well is capped at the end of August, according to a June 16
research note from  ClearView Energy Partners LLC , a Washington-
based policy analysis firm.  
 Shares Fall  
 Anadarko, at today’s market close, had plunged 42 percent
in New York trading since April 20. Anadarko rose 48 cents in
after-hours trading to $43.05. BP’s American depositary receipts
dropped 23 cents after-hours to $31.53.  
 BP’s partners should be held accountable and should set
aside money to pay their share, U.S. Representative  Edward Markey  said today in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt.”  
 Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which is 70 percent-owned by
Japan’s second-biggest trading house,  Mitsui & Co. , has a 10
percent stake in the well. BP owns 65 percent.  
 Co-owners of the project entered into a written agreement
that  BP  would act as the operator and all parties would share
the costs based on their ownership interests, including expenses
to clean up any spill resulting from drilling, BP said in its
statement.  
 Rating Cut  
 The co-owners also filed documents with the U.S. government
certifying that each would be “jointly and severally liable”
along with any other responsible parties for oil spill removal
costs and damages in accordance with the Oil Pollution Act of
1990, according to BP’s statement.  
 Anadarko will consider what its remedies may be,  John Christiansen , an Anadarko spokesman, said today in an interview.
Those options may include not paying BP’s bills or litigation.
Anadarko previously said it was reviewing an invoice from BP on
spill costs.  
 Hackett said that  Anadarko  recognizes it has “obligations
under federal law related to the oil spill, but will look to BP
to continue to pay all legitimate claims as they have repeatedly
stated that they will do.”  
 Also today, Moody’s Investors Service said it downgraded
Anadarko’s long-term debt rating to non-investment grade,
dropping it to Ba1 from Baa3, with further reductions possible.  
 Hackett, in a telephone interview today, called the
decision by Moody’s “premature and unwarranted.” He said
Anadarko has a “strong financial position.”  
 Increased Risk?  
 U.S. Representatives  Henry Waxman  of California and  Bart Stupak  of Michigan said in a June 14 letter to BP that “time
after time, it appears that BP made decisions that increased the
risk of a blowout to save the company time or expense.”  
 If that happened, the lawmakers said, “BP’s carelessness
and complacency have inflicted a heavy toll on the Gulf, its
inhabitants, and the workers on the rig.”  
 In a televised address June 15, President Barack Obama
vowed he would make BP set aside however much is needed to
“compensate the workers and business owners who have been
harmed as a result of his company’s recklessness.”  
 The extent to which BP is seen as “the chief villain of
the entire world helps Anadarko,” said Jeff Rensberger, a
professor at the South Texas College of Law. A finding of
negligence requires a determination that a party to a contract
did something a reasonable person wouldn’t, while gross
negligence shows more recklessness, he said.  
 Even if BP is at fault, Rensberger said, Anadarko might
still be liable if it’s determined that abnormally hazardous
activities occurred at a project in which the company has an
interest.  
 Anadarko  also said today that it will donate to Gulf Coast
charities or civic agencies any revenue it is entitled to
receive from oil recovered in cleanup efforts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        