-- Anadarko, Mitsui Should Pay Spill Claims, Markey Says
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-19T04:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/anadarko-mitsui-should-set-aside-funds-for-bp-spill-claims-markey-says.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and  Mitsui
& Co.  should pay into a multibillion dollar fund for claims tied
to the leaking Gulf of Mexico oil well the companies co-own with
 BP Plc , U.S. Representative Edward Markey said.  
 “They cannot escape responsibility,” Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With Al Hunt,” being broadcast this
weekend. Both companies should be “contributing to any fund
that is constructed for any part of the reconstruction.”  
 BP agreed after a meeting June 16 with President  Barack Obama  to put $20 billion over four years into a fund that will
be independently administered by lawyer  Kenneth Feinberg . The
fund won’t cap  BP’s  liability for cleanup costs and economic
damage, Obama said after the White House meeting, and won’t
supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the
company.  
 Markey said BP managers “clearly are incompetent” and
faulted their “ostrich-like posture” after the April 20
explosion that killed 11 workers. Markey, chairman of the energy
and environment panel of the House Energy Committee, also said
the Obama administration should lift maritime restrictions and
let foreign-owned vessels take part in the Gulf cleanup.  
 Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, owns a 25 percent
stake in the Gulf project. Mitsui, Japan’s second-largest
trading company, owns 70 percent of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
which holds a 10 percent stake.  
 ‘Worst Has Happened’  
 Markey said BP’s partners are investors “for better or for
worse” and should be prepared to bear the costs of damages from
the well, which is spewing as much as 60,000 barrels a day.  
 “So here, yes, the worst has happened,” Markey said.
“They are part of the totality of the solution as well as what
they hoped to be a very profitable operation.”  
 Anadarko Chief Executive Officer  Jim Hackett  said yesterday
his company will look to BP to pay all claims from the spill.
London-based BP’s “reckless decisions and actions” caused the
accident and documents show it failed to heed “several critical
warning signs” during drilling, Hackett said.  
 “BP’s behavior and actions likely represent gross
negligence or willful misconduct and thus affect the obligations
of the parties,” Hackett said in a statement.  
 Hackett said revenue Anadarko is due from the oil being
collected by BP from the ruptured well will be donated to
charities along the Gulf coast.  
 BP disagreed with Anadarko’s allegations, CEO Hayward said
in a statement yesterday. the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 “How the costs and liabilities are eventually allocated
between various parties will not affect” BP’s plan to clean up
the spill and pay all legitimate claims, Hayward said.  
 “With regard to the issue of the escrow account, drawing an
immediate conclusion about the underlying matters at hand would
be premature,” a Mitsui Oil Exploration subsidiary said in a
statement.  
 Falling Shares  
 BP, majority owner of the project, won’t ask the partners
to pay into the escrow account, spokesman  Tristan Vanhegan  said
yesterday in an interview, before the Anadarko statement.  
 Anadarko shares have dropped 42 percent since the April 20
explosion that caused the spill, and Mitsui shares have declined
25 percent. Anadarko rose 97 cents, or 2.3 percent, in New York
trading yesterday. Mitsui fell 63 yen, or 5.2 percent, to 1,143
yen in Tokyo.  
 BP’s American depositary receipts, each representing six
ordinary shares, have tumbled 47 percent since the accident.
They rose 5 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $31.76 in New York trading
yesterday.  
 Markey said he would fire BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , who was slammed by lawmakers during seven hours of
testimony before a House panel two days ago.  
 Markey and members of the Energy and Commerce panel blasted
BP’s safety record and spill response, and accused Hayward of
evading their questions. Hayward said at least 23 times that he
wasn’t involved in decisions about the well, according to a
transcript of his testimony.  
 ‘Ostrich-Like Posture’  
 Asked if the U.S. should continue to do business with the
present management, Markey said, “If I had my way they would be
gone, but they are the management team right now.”  
 The U.S. should try to “extract what we can” from BP. If
the management goes “back into their ostrich-like posture, then
that is the time to say they have to go,” he said.  
 BP’s Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  told Sky News yesterday
that Hayward was no longer controlling the day-to-day operations
of the cleanup.  Bob Dudley , managing director of the oil giant,
has taken over that role, the news agency said, citing an
interview.  
 Markey said the Obama administration should consider
waiving the Jones Act, which requires ships operating in U.S.
waters to be owned and operated by U.S. companies, as part of an
“all-hands-on deck” spill response.  
 “We have to look at all parts of the world to find the
help we need to ensure that we minimize the harm that is done to
the people who live in the Gulf region,” said Markey, chairman
of the House Energy Committee’s energy and environment panel.  
 Vessel Offers  
 The Department of State said in a report yesterday it is
considering offers of vessels from the European Maritime Safety
Agency, the Netherlands, Russia, Sweden and Vietnam.  
 Markey said the Gulf disaster has highlighted the need for
a new U.S. energy policy.  
 The House in June 2009 passed climate-change legislation
that caps carbon dioxide emissions, a measure that has stalled
in the Senate.  
 Democrats including Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of California
have said they lack the 60 votes needed to move climate
legislation in the Senate.  
 Markey said energy legislation that caps carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse-gas emissions could still pass Congress if the
president used his “bully pulpit” to push the bill.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Edward Markey  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat from Massechusetts, speaks at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, June 17, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat from Massechusetts, speaks at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Thursday, June 17, 2010. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Robotti, president of Robotti & Company LLC, and John Licata, chief investment strategist with Blue Phoenix Inc., talk about prospects for Tony Hayward to remain as chief executive officer of BP Plc. 
     Robotti and Licata say they see Hayward being replaced. Licata says Hayward's "days are numbered." They speak with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Thaddeus Strobach, managing director at RBS Securities Inc., talks about his investment strategy for oil industry companies, the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. energy policy.
     Strobach speaks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
