-- Mandelblatt Said to Plan Soroban Capital Hedge Fund After Leaving TPG-Axon
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-06-18T21:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/mandelblatt-said-to-plan-soroban-capital-hedge-fund-after-leaving-tpg-axon.html

          
          
             Eric Mandelblatt , a former partner
and co-chief executive officer of TPG-Axon Capital Management LP
who left earlier this year, is starting another hedge-fund firm,
according to two people with knowledge of his plans.  
 Soroban Capital Partners LP, based in New York, will begin
operating in October and focus on equity trading, said one of
the people, who asked not to be named because the information is
private. The fund will also trade debt, the people said.  
 About 254 hedge funds started business in the first
quarter, compared with 230 in the fourth quarter of 2009,
according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. in Chicago, as the stock
market rebounded from its 12-year low of March 9, 2009. The
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  rose 73 percent from that nadir
through the end of March 2010.  
 Mandelblatt, 34, declined to comment on his new firm, named
after a Japanese abacus.  
 Gaurav Kapadia , a former partner at TPG-Axon, and  Scott Friedman , the hedge-fund firm’s head trader, are among eight
people joining Mandelbatt.  Vito Tanzi , formerly chief financial
officer at Kailix Advisors, a hedge fund that was spun off from
Blackstone Group LP in 2008, will also work at Soroban.  
 Mandelblatt previously worked at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
between 1998 and 2005, starting out as an energy analyst and
joining its principal strategies group in 2002. Mandelbatt
became chief operating officer of the unit’s U.S. business two
years later.  
 Goldman Sachs executives  Dinakar Singh  and  Hari Kumar 
started TPG-Axon in 2005. Private-equity firm Texas Pacific
Group owns a stake in the New York-based company.  
 Kumar started LionRock Capital Pte., a hedge fund based in
Singapore, last year, according to a Bloomberg News story citing
unnamed sources.  
 Hedge funds are private, lightly regulated pools of capital
whose managers can buy or sell assets, bet on falling as well as
rising asset prices and participate in profits from money
invested.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        