-- Apple Has Trouble Getting Enough IPhone Displays, Analyst Says
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-06-18T20:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/apple-has-trouble-getting-enough-iphone-4-displays-rodman-renshaw-says.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. , days after starting to
accept preorders for its latest iPhone, is having trouble
procuring enough touch screens to meet demand for the device,
according to  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw Inc.  
 The display production bottleneck has caused Apple to cut
the number of iPhones it can ship each month, previously
estimated at 4 million units, by about half, Kumar said in a
research note today. The New York-based  analyst  cited checks of
Apple’s component suppliers.  
 “Demand for the iPhone is chasing supply on a near-term
basis,” Kumar said in an interview. Similar problems caused an
initial slowdown in the production of Apple’s iPad, he said.  
 Apple logged more than 600,000 early orders for the iPhone
4 in a single day this week, a record, imposing a strain on
computer systems and prompting carrier AT&T Inc. to suspend
sales of the device before its June 24 debut. In Japan, Softbank
Corp. suspended advance sales of the iPhone as demand threatened
to exceed supply.  
 Apple is facing a “non-trivial risk” in the September
quarter as demand for the older iPhone 3GS drops faster than the
company can ramp up production on the iPhone 4, Kumar said. “If
indeed they hit an air-pocket in September, Apple will catch up
in December,” he said.  
 IPad Delay  
 Analysts said Apple had a similar production delay related
to its iPad tablet computer earlier this year. In April, the
company delayed by a month the international debut of the iPad
after shipping more than 500,000 of the devices in a week and
underestimating how quickly they would sell in the U.S.  LG
Display Co.  makes screens for the iPad and iPhone 4, Kumar said.  
 “It seemed that LG had gotten these production problems
behind it,” he said. “Now it appears that this is not the
case.”  
 Apple spokesman  Steve Dowling  and Claire Ohm, a spokeswoman
for LG Display, didn’t immediately return messages left outside
of business hours.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California,  rose  $2.20 to
$274.07 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The stock has gained 30 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        