-- Apple Biting Nokia Turns Table on Values: Chart of the Day
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-06-18T14:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/apple-biting-nokia-with-iphone-turns-table-on-market-values-chart-of-day.html

          
          
             While Apple Inc.’s iPhones are
flying off shelves, the equity market shows investors are not
taking Nokia Oyj’s calls.  
 The CHART OF THE DAY shows how Apple and Nokia market
values have switched places in 10 years. Apple’s $247 billion
market value today is about where Nokia’s was in 2000. That’s
when Apple’s main product was the Macintosh computer.  
 The switchover came in 2007, when Apple’s introduction of
the iPhone cemented a move into consumer electronics that began
with the iPod music player in 2001. The Finnish company went
from being 14 times the size of Apple in 2000 to an eighth of it
today. Also this week, it became smaller than Waterloo, Ontario-
based Research In Motion Ltd., maker of the BlackBerry.  
 “They have lost the war on the smartphone and the brand
image of the group is weak,” said  Sebastien Sztabowicz , a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, on Nokia.
“Investors are focusing on Apple and the BlackBerry.” He rates
Nokia as “reduce.”  
 Nokia this week cut its outlook for 2010 earnings for a
second time this year. While Espoo, Finland-based Nokia, the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones, is telling customers to
wait for the N8, its new flagship smartphone, demand for the
iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android devices is surging.  
 Nokia, which held on to its smartphone market share of 41
percent in the first quarter thanks to cheaper models and lower
prices, has said it plans to ship the new N8 model in the third
quarter. The customer base for Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s iPhone may top 100 million users next year, helped by
the release next week of iPhone 4, says Morgan Stanley.  
 (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        