-- Maria Sharapova Signs Multiyear Sponsorship Agreement With Danone's Evian
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-18T12:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/maria-sharapova-signs-multiyear-sponsorship-agreement-with-danone-s-evian.html

          
          
             Three-time Grand Slam champion  Maria Sharapova  signed a multiyear agreement with Groupe Danone SA’s
 Evian  water brand.  
 Evian is a sponsor of Wimbledon and the U.S. and Australian
opens, where Sharapova has collected her trio of major titles.
The brand is associated with spas and wellness, areas that
Sharapova would like to be involved in after her playing career,
Max Eisenbud, her agent at IMG Tennis, said in an interview from
Coral Gables, Florida.  
 Sharapova, 23, will be featured in a new international
campaign, said Eisenbud. He didn’t disclose financial details of
the deal.  
 “I have been drinking their products and using their face
spray for years,” Sharapova said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Evian is part of the beverage division of  Groupe Danone SA ,
the world’s biggest yogurt maker, which also owns the  Volvic 
water brand. The French company controls about 10 percent of the
world’s bottled-water market. Evian water is bottled in the
French Alpine village of Evian-les-Bains. Its  Evian Royal Resort 
is home to the  Evian Royal Spa .  
 “She is a superstar, she is famous in many countries,”
Michael Aidan, global brand director at Evian, which is sold in
152 nations, said in an interview. “She embodies a youthful
spirit that fits our brand.”  
 Highest-Paid  
 Sharapova, the world’s highest-paid female athlete, was
named the  No. 16 seed  earlier this week in the women’s draw at
Wimbledon, which starts June 21. She’ll play Ukraine’s  Kateryna
Bondarenko  in the first round. Sharapova won the tournament in
2004, the first of her Grand Slam singles titles.  
 Sharapova, who was a runner-up at a grass-court tournament
in Birmingham, England, last week, is the fourth favorite at 7-1
to win Wimbledon with U.K. bookmaker  William Hill . That means a
successful $1 bet brings in $7 plus the original stake.  
 Top seed and defending champion  Serena Williams  is the
favorite at 2-1, followed by her sister Venus at 5-2.  Justine Henin  is third at 5-1.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        