-- Markey Will Demand Oil Companies Rewrite Their Plans for Spill Responses
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-18T20:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/markey-will-demand-oil-companies-rewrite-their-plans-for-spill-responses.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Edward Markey 
will ask oil-company executives to revamp the spill-response
plans lawmakers this week said were duplications and inadequate
to deal with an environmental disaster.  
  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  ConocoPhillips ,  Chevron Corp.  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  were described as being as unprepared as  BP Plc 
to respond to spills during a House Energy Committee hearing on
June 15. BP, owner of a Gulf of Mexico well gushing as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day, and three of the companies listed
walruses among species to protect and included ineffective
equipment in the response plans submitted to regulators.  
 “There has to be a complete inspection of every facility
in the Gulf, not just BP,” Markey said today in an interview.
The executives testified “that they were unprepared to deal
with a spill.”  
 Markey, the chairman of the House Energy Committee’s energy
and environment subcommittee, said he planned to write oil
company executives as soon as today, demanding they resubmit the
plans.  
 President  Barack Obama  has declared a six-month moratorium
on deepwater drilling to let a presidential commission complete
its investigation into the Gulf spill, now the largest in U.S.
history. The ban suspended operations at 33 drilling rigs
operating in the Gulf.  
 Obama this week was urged by 17 House members from Gulf
Coast states including Representatives  Joe Barton  and  Ted Poe ,
Texas Republicans, to end the ban. “Many offshore drilling
companies will not be able to survive” the ban, according to a
lawmakers’ statement.  
 20,000 Jobs  
 An extended suspension may cost more than 20,000 jobs in
the region, the lawmakers said.  
 Markey endorsed Obama’s “pause” in drilling while a
presidential commission investigated the Gulf spill.  
 “The only thing worse than one oil rig in the bottom of
the Gulf of Mexico, would be two oil rigs in the bottom of the
Gulf of Mexico,” Markey said. “We have to make sure there are
no ticking time bombs.”  
 The spill-response plans for the five companies were “90
percent identical,” Markey said on June 15 at the start of a
hearing with the executives.  
 “The American people deserve oil safety plans that are
ironclad and not boilerplate,” Markey said.  
 Exxon Mobil Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said he
was embarrassed the company’s plan included references to
walruses, which don’t live in the Gulf.  
 He also acknowledged oil companies were not “well-
equipped” to deal with oil spills.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        