-- Asia's Currencies Have Strongest Week in Five Months as Inflows Increase
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-18T21:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/asian-currencies-set-for-best-week-in-five-months-as-stock-inflows-pick-up.html

          
          
             Asian currencies strengthened this
week, led by South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso, as signs
the global economic recovery will withstand Europe’s debt crisis
boosted demand for riskier assets.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  of shares had their biggest gains in at least five
months and the won jumped the most in a year. The Conference
Board this week said its leading indicator of China’s economy
rose by the most in 14 months and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development forecast the fastest growth for
South Korea since 2002. Thailand yesterday reported its best
export growth in almost two years.  
 “There has been optimism that the impact of Europe’s
problems on the Asian economy may be limited, supporting the
purchase of regional currencies,” said  Minori Uchida , a senior
analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s biggest bank. “Gains in stocks are also a supporting
factor.”  
 The won appreciated 3.6 percent to 1,202.65 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso climbed 1.6
percent to 45.905 and the Indian rupee was 1.4 percent stronger
at 46.1787.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, gained 1.0
percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 3.3
percent. Stocks in South Korea and Taiwan attracted about $1.9
billion from abroad, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Stock Inflows  
 Equity funds investing in Asia excluding Japan took in
money for the first time in six weeks, drawing the most since
April, according to EPFR Global, which tracks firms overseeing
$13 trillion of global assets. Emerging-market stock funds
attracted $2.5 billion, the second-highest tally this year.  
 Korean Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said yesterday
growth will likely exceed 5 percent this year and a government
report showed spending at the three biggest department stores
climbed for a 15th month in May. Gross domestic product will
increase 5.8 percent this year as exports surge and domestic
demand strengthens, the OECD said this week.  
 “The won has been doing pretty well because of the
economic fundamentals,” said  Yun Suk Cho , a currency dealer at
Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “There is a big possibility that
we will break 1,200 against the dollar next week as the markets
stabilize.”  
 Exports, Jobs  
 Thailand’s  exports  jumped 42 percent from a year earlier in
May, the most since July 2008, Commerce Minister Porntiva
Nakasai said yesterday. The Philippines on June 15 raised its
economic growth target for this year to as much as 6 percent,
from a previous goal of 3.6 percent. Taiwan will next week
report an eighth straight gain in export orders and the lowest
jobless rate since 2008, according to the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Taiwan’s dollar completed its biggest weekly gain in nine
months as an improving economy and the prospect of a trade deal
with China spurred inflows.  
 Gross domestic product rose at the fastest pace in more
than 30 years in the last quarter and China’s government said
June 13 a basic agreement has been reached with the island on
goods, services and industries chosen for initial tariff cuts in
the planned trade pact.  
 “Funds are flowing back as investors seek riskier
assets,” said Tigr Cheng, a strategist at Polaris Securities
Co. in Taipei. “People have been upbeat about the economy.”  
 The island’s currency climbed 0.8 percent this week to
NT$32.190 against the greenback, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  
 Elsewhere, the Malaysian ringgit gained 0.8 percent to
3.2500, the Singapore dollar strengthened 1.2 percent to
S$1.3864 and the Indonesian rupiah appreciated 1.2 percent to
9,096. The Thai baht rose 0.2 percent to 32.40.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South Korean won coins and bills are displayed in Seoul. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
