-- Global Stocks Rise as S&P 500 Fluctuates; Gold Hits Record
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-06-18T19:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/asia-emerging-market-stocks-currencies-rise-on-growth-gold-near-record.html

          
          
             The  MSCI World Index  of stocks rose
for the ninth day, the longest rally in 11 months, and Spanish
bonds jumped on speculation efforts to contain Europe’s debt
crisis will succeed. Treasuries fell, while gold climbed to a
record. Oil reversed losses to rebound above $77 a barrel.  
 The global index increased 0.2 percent at 3:04 p.m. in New
York. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  also climbed for a ninth day,
rising 0.2 percent to the highest level in five weeks. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index drifted between gains and losses as
the expiration of futures and options triggered price swings.
Spot gold rose as high as $1,262.50 an ounce. Spain’s 10-year
bond yield lost 18 basis points.  
 Spanish banks rallied as European leaders pledged to
publish stress tests to boost transparency in the financial
industry. Emerging-market equity and bond funds received net
inflows in the week to June 16 as concerns over European
deficits eased, boosting appetite for higher-yielding assets,
 EPFR Global  data showed.  
 “The stock gains are very comforting,” said  David Kelly ,
who helps oversee $445 billion as chief market strategist for
JPMorgan Funds in New York. “They suggest this is still a bull
market. There’s a realization that the measures put in place by
European governments and the IMF to deal with the debt issues
are sufficient to do the job. It’s likely that the global
economic recovery will be able to overcome the speed of the
European crisis.”  
 One-Month High  
 Shares of commodity producers and financial firms led gains
in the S&P 500 among 10 groups, while health-care companies had
the biggest declines. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Cisco Systems Inc.
and DuPont Co. climbed more than 1 percent for the top advances
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average higher. Both gauges are
trading near their highest levels in a month.  
 About three stocks rose for every two that fell on Europe’s
benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 .  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest
lender, rallied 3.5 percent in Madrid while smaller rival Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA climbed 5.6 percent. Spain’s IBEX
35 Index and Portugal’s PSI-20 increased 2.2 percent, the most
among western European benchmark gauges.  
 “Sentiment has changed to the positive after investors saw
that the European debt crisis hasn’t spiralled out of control,”
said  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asian equity research
at ABN Amro Private Banking.  
 Spain’s 10-year bond yield dropped to 4.59 percent and the
premium investors demand to own the debt instead of benchmark
German bunds narrowed by 26 basis points to 185 basis points.  
 Stress Tests  
 European Union leaders agreed yesterday to disclose how
banks perform on stress tests, seeking to show investors that
the financial system can withstand shocks. The decision came
after Spanish officials unexpectedly pledged to publish results
on individual banks, the first European government to do so.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said broader
regional stress tests will be published in the second half of
July “at the latest.”  
 Developing-nation stocks rose for a ninth day, the longest
stretch of gains in two months. Emerging-equity funds took in
$2.5 billion in the past week, the second-largest inflow this
year, while emerging-bond funds received $659 million, EPFR said
in a statement.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.3 percent. Softbank
Corp., the exclusive seller of the iPhone in Japan, climbed 2.7
percent in Tokyo as orders for a new model outstripped supply.
Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest gold producer gained
1.7 percent in Sydney.  
 Yen Gains  
 The yen gained for a fifth day to 90.78 per dollar, and
appreciated 0.5 percent against the euro after the nation’s
leaders pledged to reduce public debt. Japanese Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  said he would consider an opposition party proposal to
raise the consumption tax.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index
of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies dropped 21.5 basis
points to a one-month low of 522, according to Markit Group Ltd.  
 Copper pared earlier losses, slipping 0.3 percent to
$2.9155 a pound in New York after earlier sinking as much as 2.1
percent.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of commodities rose 0.3
percent, erasing an early 0.7 percent slump and extending its
five-day advance to 3.2 percent, on pace for its best week since
the beginning of April.  
 ----With assistance from  Paul Armstrong ,  Matthew Brown ,  Claudia Carpenter ,  David Merritt  and  Michael Patterson  in London.
Editor:  Michael P. Regan .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     South Korea's finance minister Yoon Jeung-Hyun. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Liam Dalton, chief executive officer of Axiom Capital Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. equities and his stock picks of Comcast Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
     Dalton speaks in an interview on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advancing for a second week for the biggest back-to-back weekly gain since November, amid speculation Europe’s efforts to contain its debt crisis are succeeding. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
