-- AstraZeneca to Pay Consumers, Insurers $103 Million in Drug-Pricing Suit
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/astrazeneca-to-pay-consumers-insurers-103-million-in-drug-pricing-suit.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, will pay $103 million to settle claims it
overcharged for some medicines in the U.S., court records show.  
 AstraZeneca ’s accord will end claims by third-party payers
who paid some of their insured’s Medicare for the Zoladex or
Pulmicort Respules products and other consumers and third-party
payers who paid cash or a co-payment for the drugs outside of
Medicare. Massachusetts plaintiffs will receive $13 million,
while those outside the state will get $90 million, according to
papers filed yesterday in federal court in Boston.  
 Consumers will receive 11 percent of the settlement while
the rest will go to insurers, according to a statement by  Hagens
Berman Sobol Shapiro LLP , the law firm that brought suit. The
proposed settlement of the  class-action suit  requires court
approval to become final. AstraZeneca, which denied wrongdoing,
said the settlement was in the company’s best interest.  
 “AstraZeneca has competed responsibly with respect to
pricing and marketing of our medicines, and we firmly believe
that we have acted at all times in accordance with the law,”
 Tony Jewell , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs will be paid one-third of the
settlement funds, according to court records.  
 The plaintiffs accused the company of illegally seeking to
boost market share by selling medicines to physicians at steep
discounts to the published average wholesale price that
consumers, pension funds and others paid, while secretly
encouraging doctors to claim full reimbursement from insurers.  
 Zoladex is used to treat prostate and breast cancer.
Pulmicort Respules is used to prevent asthma.  
 The case is In Re. Pharmaceutical Industry Average
Wholesale Price Litigation, MDL No. 1456 or 01-cv-12257, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        