-- Tauron's Polish IPO May Succeed, Without `Fireworks,' on Individual Demand
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-06-18T14:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/tauron-s-polish-ipo-may-succeed-without-fireworks-on-individual-demand.html

          
          
             Poland may overcome market turmoil
to complete the sale of Tauron Polska Energia SA, its third-
largest initial public offering since 2004, as “good” demand
from institutions is supported by retail players and a strategic
investor.  
 The government is selling about 52 percent of Tauron, its
second-largest power group, and is set to raise 5.2 billion
zloty ($1.6 billion) if it finds buyers at the top of the 0.55
zloty to 0.7 zloty a share price range. The Treasury Ministry
will announce the results of the IPO on June 22.  
 Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  doesn’t see any threat to
the IPO because of a “good” level of interest from financial
investors, he told reporters in Warsaw today.  
 Demand for Tauron will be boosted by about 120,000
individual investors who plan to buy shares, Bury says. Each of
them can subscribe for as much as 9,450 zloty of stock, and the
government will “most likely” increase their share of the
offering to 25 percent from the original 20 percent, he said.  
 Patryk Jablonowski , who helps manage more than 1 billion
euros ($1.24 billion) for Deka Investment GmbH in Frankfurt,
says Tauron shares are too expensive at the maximum price
because it doesn’t offer any discount to larger rival PGE SA,
even though its older equipment means higher investment needs.  
 “The markets are becoming rougher, with more and more
question marks appearing,” he said by phone today. “The IPO
will sell, though I don’t expect any fireworks.”  
 Poland, which aims to raise 25 billion zloty from asset
sales this year, is forging ahead with the IPO even after
Europe’s debt crisis prompted at least 34 companies, from
London-based Ferrous Resources Ltd. to Chinese wind-turbine
maker Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co., to shelve IPOs
since the beginning of May.  
 KGHM Support  
 Support is coming from state-controlled copper producer
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA , which said it plans to buy about 21
percent of the shares being sold as Poland’s biggest energy
consumer aims to hedge power costs and diversify revenue
sources.  
 “Without KGHM, even at the bottom of the range the
ministry could have trouble finding buyers among financial
investors,”  Adam Gawlik , who helps manage more than 16 billion
zloty at Warsaw-based PZU Asset Management SA, said by phone
today.  
 With KGHM and individual investors, the offer will probably
sell, Gawlik said, adding that he doesn’t expect the IPO to be
oversubscribed, due to a market situation that’s “not the
greatest.”  
 Cash Flow, Dividends  
 The utility’s stable cash flow and dividends may be
attractive for Polish pension funds, Jablonowski said.  
 Tauron’s IPO follows an 8.1 billion-zloty May offering by
Polish insurer PZU SA that was Europe’s biggest since December
2007. Its IPO attracted more than 250,000 individual investors,
while institutions signed up to buy more than nine times the
shares offered to them.  
 “Polish IPOs are mainly supported by local institutions,
for strategic reasons,”  Jeff Chowdhry , London-based head of
emerging-market equities at F&C Asset Management, which oversees
more than $147 billion worldwide, said by phone today.  
 “We don’t like the Polish market at all. It’s extremely
overvalued and not supported by growth,” he said. “Unless a
company comes to the market with very attractive valuation, we
are not going to participate in any Polish IPOs. So far this
year we haven’t seen any deal that’s attractive enough.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        