-- Australian Prosecutors Get Evidence From Montara Oil Leak Investigation
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-18T08:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/australian-prosecutors-get-evidence-from-montara-oil-leak-investigation.html

          
          
             Australia’s  National Offshore
Petroleum Safety Authority  presented evidence to prosecutors
today as part of an investigation into a 2009 oil spill off the
nation’s northwest coast.  
 Authorities are probing whether operators of the Montara
well and the West Atlas rig violated health and safety laws,
NOPSA said in a statement today. The federal government’s
Director of Public Prosecutions will consider the evidence and
determine what action to take, the safety authority said.  
 The leak from PTT Exploration & Production Pcl’s Montara
well and the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico have damaged
confidence in the oil and gas industry, Australian Resources
Minister  Martin Ferguson  said last month.  
 Roley Myers, a Perth-based spokesman for PTT, declined to
comment immediately when contacted by phone today.  
 Ferguson said he will “act promptly” after receiving the
results today of a separate investigation into the Timor Sea
incident. Australia set up the inquiry in November to study the
causes of the oil spill, evaluate the nation’s regulations,
gauge the environmental impact and make recommendations.  
 Australia must “revisit” oil and gas regulations, making
a single agency responsible for safety, the environment and well
operations, Ferguson said in an interview yesterday.  
 PTT, based in Bangkok, estimated as much as 400 barrels of
oil a day leaked into the Timor Sea between Aug. 21 and Nov. 3.
That would make it the third-biggest spill in Australian history,
based on figures compiled by the Maritime Safety Authority.  
 New oil discoveries are necessary as the nation’s reliance
on imports increases, the  Australian Petroleum Production &
Exploration Association  said in a statement today.  
 “However, the importance of security of supply is no
excuse for sub-standard safety and environmental performance,”
Chief Executive Officer  Belinda Robinson  said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        