-- Australia Minister to Act `Promptly' on Oil Spill Report; Charges Possible
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-06-18T06:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/australia-s-resources-minister-receives-montara-oil-spill-inquiry-report.html

          
          
             Australian Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said he will “act promptly” after receiving today the
results of an investigation into a 2009 oil spill off the
country’s northwest coast.  
 Ferguson will release the report after reviewing the
findings and ensuring making it public won’t prejudice any
further investigations into possible criminal offences or civil
action, he said in a statement.  
 Australia must “revisit” its regulation of oil and gas
companies, making one agency responsible for safety, the
environment and well operations, Ferguson said in an interview
yesterday. The leak from PTT Exploration & Production Pcl’s
Montara well and the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico have
damaged confidence in the industry, he said last month.  
 PTT, based in Bangkok, has estimated that as much as 400
barrels of oil a day leaked into the Timor Sea between Aug. 21
and Nov. 3. That would make it the third-biggest spill in the
nation’s history, based on figures compiled by the Australian
Maritime Safety Authority.  
 New oil discoveries are necessary as the nation’s reliance
on imports increases, the  Australian Petroleum Production &
Exploration Association  said in a statement today. “However,
the importance of security of supply is no excuse for sub-
standard safety and environmental performance,” Chief
Executive Officer  Belinda Robinson  said.  
 Australia set up the inquiry in November to probe the
causes of the Montara spill, evaluate the nation’s regulations,
study the environmental impact and make recommendations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        