-- Axon SIV to Liquidate With Auction This Month of $9.7 Billion in Holdings
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-06-18T16:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/axon-siv-to-liquidate-with-auction-this-month-of-9-7-billion-in-holdings.html

          
          
             Axon Financial Funding, one of the
structured investment vehicles that defaulted in 2007, plans to
auction its $9.7 billion of holdings this month, according to
people familiar with the plan.  
 Stone Tower Capital LLC, the New York-based asset manager
that assumed oversight of the SIV from hedge-fund firm TPG-Axon
Capital Management LP, is managing the June 30 sale of home-loan
bonds, collateralized debt obligations and other asset-backed
securities, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to share the information.  
 As subprime-mortgage losses began mounting in August 2007,
SIVs such as Axon Financial and Victoria Finance Ltd., which
liquidated last September, found investors unwilling to buy the
short-term debt they used to finance higher-yielding investments
on concern they owned assets linked to defaulting home loans.  
 Fitch cut its credit ratings on Cayman Islands-based Axon
Financial’s commercial paper and medium-term notes to “D” in
November 2007, about eight months after granting top grades to
the debt as the SIV was created. There had been a “rapid
decline” in the value of the vehicle’s investment portfolio,
Fitch said at the time, before a further worsening of markets
amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 Jim Galowski , a partner at Stone Tower, didn’t immediately
return a message left today at his office seeking comment.  
 The unraveling of the $400 billion SIV market led then-
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  to encourage banks to attempt a
joint private-sector bailout to avoid forced asset sales that
would roil markets. The proposed “SuperSiv” never happened,
leaving individual banks such as Citigroup Inc. to bail out some
SIVs they created and stranding other SIV bondholders with
devalued paper.  
 Florida Buyers  
 Legg Mason Inc. , the Baltimore-based money manager, said it
took a loss of $517 million selling $1.7 billion of Axon paper
for 30 cents on the dollar in the fourth quarter of 2008, after
acquiring SIV debt to bail out its money market funds. Other
buyers of Axon securities included Florida’s Local Government
Investment Pool, used by schools and towns like a savings
account.  
 As has happened with other SIV liquidations, bids will be
accepted on buckets of the securities being auctioned, not
individual bonds, and owners of Axon’s notes may exchange their
holdings for certain slices of its investments, the people said.
The amount of debt being auctioned totals $9.7 billion by
original balances, they said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        