-- Bank of Israel's Fischer Says Euro Crisis May Prove Currency's Credibility
-- Ryan Chilcote
-- 2010-06-18T14:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bank-of-israel-s-fischer-says-euro-crisis-may-prove-currency-s-credibility.html

          
          
             Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said the response of European authorities to the
continent’s debt crisis may help prove the “credibility” of
the euro as a global currency.  
 “If this crisis is dealt with well, as I think it is,
we’ll write the history books as saying this was a critical
stage in the development and credibility of the euro,” Fischer
said in an interview today in St. Petersburg, Russia, where he’s
attending a conference. “That it came under attack, came under
threat, and the European authorities proved to the world that
they were not going to let the currency get into severe
trouble.”  
 European governments have pledged about $1 trillion of
emergency loans and guarantees to allay investor concerns that
Greece and other members of the euro region won’t be able to
repay debts. The European Union and the International Monetary
Fund also offered  Greece  110 billion euros ($137 billion) of
loans to help the country avoid default.  
 Banking “stress tests” will help bring clarity to the
region’s financial system, and if the results are negative then
their announcement is  likely to be accompanied by measures to
address the issues, Fischer said. He said the emergency package
provided by EU authorities will give recipient countries “time
to get into programs that deal with the underlying problems.”  
 Variety of Currencies  
 Fischer also said global central banks may seek to
diversify their foreign-exchange reserves by buying a wider
variety of currencies, citing this week’s announcement by Russia
that it may start purchasing Australian and Canadian dollars for
the first time.  
 “You can do that,” Fischer said. “It will be up to
countries whether they want to move in that direction.”  
 He said the Chinese yuan probably won’t be purchased as a
reserve currency for some time.  
 “For a currency to be a reserve currency, you have to have
capital markets in which you can sell it and buy it very
easily,” Fischer said. “China’s financial markets have to
become an international financial center before that will
happen.”  
 Asked about comments by the Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Paul Krugman , who said in an interview with the Israeli
newspaper Calcalist that Israel was one of the “three big
manipulators in the foreign currency markets” along with China
and Switzerland, Fischer defended his policies.  
 “We had a problem of massive capital inflows as a result
of the global crisis which would have put us into a very serious
recession,” he said. “We dealt with it as best we could.”  
 Reserves Double  
 Fischer began buying foreign currency in March 2008 and has
since more than doubled reserves, which stood at $63.4 billion
last month, in an attempt to limit gains in the shekel and
support exports. The Israeli currency has appreciated 3.3
percent against the dollar and 16 percent against the euro in
the past year.  
 Fischer said he expects Israel’s  benchmark interest rate ,
currently 1.5 percent after four increases since August, to be
higher “a few years from now” as the global economy recovers.
He said the bank stands by its forecast of 3.7 percent  economic
growth  this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan Chilcote  in Moscow, through the London bureau at 
   rchilcote@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
