-- LeBow's Borders Stake Loses Almost 30% in First Month
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-06-18T20:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bennett-lebow-s-borders-stake-loses-almost-30-in-first-month.html

          
          
             Bennett S. LeBow ’s investment in
 Borders Group Inc.  has lost almost 30 percent since he became
the unprofitable bookseller’s  largest shareholder  a month ago.  
 LeBow, a financier known for buying and restructuring
companies such as Western Union in the 1980s, bought 11.1
million Borders shares on May 21 for $2.25 a share, compared
with a price of $1.61 at 4:15 p.m. today in New York Stock
Exchange  composite trading .  
 On the day LeBow became the company’s largest shareholder,
he was also named chairman. Six days later, on May 27, Borders
reported a quarterly loss of $64.1 million, the seventh loss in
nine three-month periods. LeBow became chief executive officer
on June 3 and interim CEO  Michael Edwards  was moved to
president, overseeing daily operations and reporting to LeBow.  
 “LeBow’s background isn’t in retail,” said  Michael Souers , an analyst for Standard & Poor’s in New York who
recommends selling Borders’ shares. “Anytime you get management
coming in from sectors that are completely different than what
they are currently doing, there is a tendency for investors to
second-guess that.”  
 LeBow bought the Borders stock in a private sale that
increased the company’s outstanding shares. He declined to
comment for this article, spokesman Jonathan Doorley said.  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for Borders, also declined to comment.  
 Sale Attempt  
 LeBow, 72, has spent the past two decades working in the
tobacco industry and is currently chairman of  Vector Group Ltd. ,
the Miami-based holding company for cigarette maker Liggett
Group LLC. In 1996, he worked with  Carl Icahn  in a failed bid to
gain control of RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp.  
 Borders put itself up for sale and borrowed $42.5 million
from Pershing Square Capital Management LP, then its largest
shareholder, in March 2008 after disclosing potential liquidity
problems. The chain ended its search without finding a buyer.
Borders also sold its stores in Australia, New Zealand and
Singapore that year to raise cash.  
 Borders Chief Financial Officer  Mark Bierley , who was also
named chief operating officer for the bookstore chain today,
declined to comment on whether the chain would eventually be put
up for sale in a telephone interview on May 27.  
 “We’re focused on the same things we’ve been focused on the
past two years, which is improving and restoring the company and
transforming the brand,” he said.  
 Borders is closing underperforming stores and investing in
its website and digital-book unit in an effort to become
profitable after four consecutive yearly losses. The chain has
been losing market share to competitors such as Amazon.com Inc.
as consumers buy more books on the Internet. Online sales
accounted for 3 percent of revenue at Borders in the quarter
through May 1, Bierley said.  
 William Ackman , Pershing’s founder, declined to comment.
Pershing owned 10.6 million shares, making it Borders’ second-
largest shareholder as of May 21. In a note to investors on June
8, Ackman said “we wish Mr. LeBow well with his new investment
in Borders and look forward to his stewardship of the company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        