-- BHP Has Capacity to Spend $20 Billion on Gulf Oil Assets, Citigroup Says
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-18T04:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bhp-has-capacity-to-spend-20-billion-on-gulf-oil-assets-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             BHP Billiton Ltd.  is capable of
spending as much as $20 billion to acquire Gulf of Mexico assets,
including BP Plc project stakes that may come up for sale after
the worst oil spill in U.S. history, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “BP is public enemy number one in the U.S. at the moment,
and if there is any forced divestment of assets, BHP is in a
strong position to be able to pick them up,”  Clarke Wilkins , an
analyst at Citigroup in Sydney, said in a phone interview today.  
 BHP, Australia’s largest oil and gas producer, may benefit
from the Gulf of Mexico fallout and be able to acquire
assets from London-based BP or smaller companies operating in
the region as tougher regulation drives up costs, he said.  
 President  Barack Obama  last month placed a moratorium on
deepwater drilling permits for six months and suspended
operations at 33 exploratory wells being drilled in the Gulf
because of the BP spill.  BHP Billiton , also the world’s biggest
mining company, faces lower-than-expected output because of the
moratorium, analysts including Wilkins have said.  
 BHP, a partner with BP in the Atlantis, Mad Dog and
Gunflint ventures, may increase its stakes in those projects, he
said. BP’s share of those assets is worth $11 billion, Wilkins
estimated in a report dated June 16. He declined to name
possible acquisition targets other than BP holdings.  
 Fiona Martin , a spokeswoman for BHP, declined to comment.  
 BHP  rose 1 percent to A$39.20 at 1:01 p.m. in Sydney
trading, and the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.5 percent.  
 ‘Enormous Things’  
 BHP’s petroleum business, led by  J. Michael Yeager , is
valued at $47 billion, with the company’s Gulf operations worth
about $16 billion, Wilkins said. BHP also started oil production
at the Pyrenees project off Western Australia earlier this year.  
 Asked about potential mergers and acquisitions, Yeager told
analysts and investors May 24 that the Melbourne-based company
has the “firepower to do enormous things.”  
 BHP has the “capacity” to make $20 billion of
acquisitions over about three years, most likely buying stakes
in projects in places such as the Gulf, Wilkins said.  
 BP will raise $10 billion this year selling assets,
focusing on oil and gas fields that aren’t central to its
operations, Chief Financial Officer  Byron Grote  said June 16.  
 The Australian oil and gas producer said last month that
the Gulf spill had caused delays in its operations and that two
drilling rigs had been diverted to help bring the BP leak under
control.  BHP  owns 44 percent of Atlantis and 23.9 percent of Mad
Dog, while BP has 56 percent and 60.5 percent, respectively.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        