-- Stem Cells From Own Eyes Restore Vision to Blinded Patients, Study Shows
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-06-18T17:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/blinded-patients-gain-sight-with-stem-cells-implanted-from-their-own-eyes.html

          
          
             Patients blinded in one or both eyes
by chemical burns regained their vision after healthy stem cells
were extracted from their eyes and reimplanted, according to a
report by Italian researchers at a scientific meeting.  
 The tissue was drawn from the  limbus , an area at the
junction of the cornea and white part of the eye. It was grown
on a fibrous tissue, then layered onto the damaged eyes. The
cells grew into healthy corneal tissue, transforming disfigured,
opaque eyes into functioning ones with normal appearance and
color, said researchers led by  Graziella Pellegrini  of the
University of Modena’s Center for Regenerative Medicine.  
 The stem-cell treatment restored sight to more than three-
quarters of the 112 patients treated, Pellegrini said yesterday
in a presentation at the  International Society for Stem Cell
Research  meeting. She estimated the work may benefit 1,000 to
2,000 patients in Europe whose eyes have been damaged by
 chemical burns  and many more in developing countries where the
use of chemicals is less regulated. Her patients were followed
for an average of three years and some for as long as a decade.  
 “The patients, they are happy, even the partial
successes,” she said in an interview at the meeting in San
Francisco. “We have a couple of patients who were blind in both
eyes. Can you imagine for these patients the change in their
quality of life?”  
 Long-Term Improvement  
 The work was praised by  Ivan Schwab , an ophthalmology
professor and stem cell researcher at the University of
California, Davis, who has treated patients in clinical trials
with a procedure based on Pellegrini’s work. While his patients
improved for a time, the benefits didn’t endure, he said in a
June 15 telephone interview. Pellegrini’s patients appear to
have long-term improvement, he said.  
 “The powerful part of her work is she has such long-term
follow-up,” Schwab said.  
 Many of the patients she treated had been blind for years
as result of tissue and blood vessels growing over damaged parts
of the eye. Some had been through failed surgeries and
alternative treatments.  
 The key to success is to be certain that when the stem
cells extracted from the limbus are grown in culture they have
the right mix of  stem cells  and the differentiated cells that
form the corneal tissue, Pellegrini said. If there are too few
stem cells in the transplant, the improvement won’t last because
there will be no reservoir to form the new corneal cells needed
with the normal recycling of cells over time, she said.  
 Success Rate  
 The procedure succeeded after a single transplant in 69
percent of cases. A second procedure was performed on some
patients, boosting the success rate to 77 percent, she said. The
procedure was deemed a partial success in 13 percent of cases
and a failure in 10 percent, she said.  
 Depending on the depth of the injury, some patients
regained sight in as little as two months, Pellegrini said.
Others with deeper injuries needed a second procedure and waited
a year before sight was restored, she said.  
 At least one  hospital  in India, Prasad Eye Hospital in
Hyperabad is doing limbus-derived stem cell transplants.  
 The applications of the work may extend to other organs,
Schwab said.  
 “This is bigger than just the surface of the eye,” he
said. “She may be making a model for how to regenerate livers
or other organs.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        