-- Boehringer's Sex-Drive Pill Isn't Beneficial, FDA Panel Says
-- Molly Peterson
-- 2010-06-18T20:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/boehringer-female-libido-booster-may-not-work-fda-staff-says.html

          
          
             Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  failed to
win a U.S. panel’s backing for its sexual desire drug
flibanserin, providing a setback for the first pill designed to
boost women’s libidos.  
 The treatment doesn’t provide enough benefits to outweigh
potential risks to women such as fainting, outside advisers to
the Food and Drug Administration said in an 11-0 vote today in
Gaithersburg, Maryland. While the FDA usually follows its
advisory panels’ recommendations, it isn’t required to do so.  
 While male sexual enhancement treatments led by  Pfizer
Inc. ’s Viagra facilitate erections by increasing blood flow to
the penis,  flibanserin  is designed to work in the brain.
Boehringer’s libido pill, first tested as an antidepressant,
lowers the level of one brain chemical, serotonin, and boosts
production of two others, dopamine and norepinephrine. The drug
failed to demonstrate a “statistically significant
improvement” in sexual desire in two U.S. trials, FDA staff
said in a June 16 review of the drug.  
 “The efficacy was not sufficiently robust to justify the
risks,” Julia Johnson, acting chairwoman of the advisory panel
and chairwoman of obstetrics and gynecology at the  University of
Massachusetts Medical School  in Worcester, Massachusetts, said
after the vote. “There’s also relatively little data on long-
term use.”  
 ‘Unmet Need’  
 Boehringer, the world’s largest closely held drugmaker,
asked the FDA to clear its pill to treat pre-menopausal women
who suffer from  hypoactive sexual desire disorder . Flibanserin
targets a “widespread and unmet medical need,” said Sabine
Luik, an executive at the Ingelheim, Germany-based company, in
testimony at the FDA panel meeting today. Boehringer is aiming
flibanserin as the first drug to heighten female desire.  
 The “totality of evidence” from research in the U.S. and
Europe shows that flibanserin provides “clinically meaningful,
statistically significant improvements” in HSDD symptoms,
Michael Sand, Boehringer’s director of general medicine, told
the panel today.  
 Hypoactive sexual desire disorder, defined as a drop in
libido that causes problems in relationships, affects about 10
percent of women from the ages of 30 to 60, said  John Thorp , a
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the  University of
North Carolina School of Medicine . It is typically treated with
therapy and with prescriptions of male hormones such as
testosterone, an unapproved use, he said.  
 Risk of Hormones  
 Taking male hormones can cause women to gain weight, grow
facial hair, and face long-term health risks, said Thorp, who
conducted Boehringer-sponsored studies of flibanserin.  
 The FDA may use a “very high safety threshold” in
deciding whether to approve flibanserin because low sexual
desire isn’t a life-threatening condition, Thorp said.  
 “Nobody’s going to die because their libido is low,”
Thorp said. “The FDA is really going to have to be convinced
about safety.”  
 Procter & Gamble Co. and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. ,
developed the testosterone patch Intrinsa, which is sold in
Europe for women whose uteruses have been removed. A U.S.
version was put on hold in 2004 after an FDA advisory panel said
the drug needed more study because existing research couldn’t
rule out heart and breast cancer risks.  Warner Chilcott Plc ,
based in Ardee, Ireland, obtained Intrinsa in its August 2009
purchase of Procter & Gamble’s global pharmaceuticals unit.  
 Clinical Trials  
 In clinical tests of 1,378 women in North America, 48
percent of patients who took flibanserin for six months reported
improved desire, compared with 30 percent with a placebo,
Boehringer reported at a May 18 meeting of the American  College
of Obstetricians  and Gynecologists in San Francisco.  
 An FDA analysis of data showed that women treated with
flibanserin increased “sexually satisfying events” by fewer
than one per month when compared with women given a placebo,
according to the agency’s staff report. The drug also was linked
to depression, anxiety, fatigue and loss of consciousness. About
15 percent of women stopped treatment because of side effects,
the agency said in its report.  
 The FDA probably will reject the drug because it’s not safe
or effective enough,  Leonore Tiefer , a clinical associate
professor of psychiatry at New York University, told the panel
during a public comment portion of the meeting. Boehringer has
been marketing flibanserin by trying to persuade regulators and
consumers that low sexual desire is a disease, she said.  
 ‘Deceptive Argument’  
 “Boehringer has told American women that a drug like
flibanserin gives them additional choices and enhances
empowerment, but this is a deceptive argument,” Tiefer said.
“Flibanserin is not a choice when it’s promoted by bad science
and half truths and when self-diagnosis checklists are passed
off as medical care.”  
 Wayne Shields, president of the  Association of Reproductive
Health Professionals , disagreed and urged the panel to back the
drug.  
 Hypoactive sexual desire disorder “is a genuine condition,
it’s not a marketing term,” Shields told the panel. “The data
and research that we have examined indicate that while
flibanserin is not appropriate for every woman, it provides a
safe and effective option for some women experiencing HSDD.”  
 Female libido drugs may create an annual market of at least
$2 billion, said  Stephen Simes , chief executive officer of
BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc., in a June 9 presentation to
investors. The Lincolnshire, Illinois-based company’s Libigel, a
topical testosterone, is in the third and final stage of tests
generally required for U.S. approval.  
 Drug Sales  
 Viagra had sales of $1.89 billion last year, including $962
million in the U.S., Pfizer said Feb. 3. Cialis generated $1.56
billion in sales last year for  Eli Lilly & Co. , including $623.3
million in the U.S., the Indianapolis-based company reported
Jan. 28.  
 “The success of Viagra, which was phenomenal, has led to
the desire to have a similar drug for women, and it’s just not
going to be forthcoming because women’s sexuality is a lot more
complicated,” said Susan Bennett, who teaches female sexual
physiology at Harvard Medical School, in a telephone interview.  
 Companies will shy away from research in female desire
drugs if Boehringer fails to win FDA approval for flibanserin,
said  Jeffrey Jensen , professor of obstetrics and gynecology at
 Oregon Health & Science University , in an interview. Women’s
desire may simply be too complex to easily treat with a pill, he
said.  
 “Do you have decreased desire because your partner’s a
creep, or because you’ve been working all day long and all you
want to do is go to sleep?” Jensen said. “Teasing out the
intricacies of human behavior, desires, wants, and very private
aspects of sexual behavior is very complicated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        