-- BOJ Members Concerned Europe's Woes Could Spread to Japan, Minutes Show
-- Mayumi Otsuma
-- 2010-06-18T00:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/boj-members-concerned-europe-s-woes-could-spread-to-japan-minutes-show.html

          
          
             Bank of Japan policy makers said
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis could pose a risk to Japan’s
economy if it increases volatility in stock and currency markets.  
 Some members said financial conditions may “tighten” if
“European financial markets became more unstable and this
resulted in an appreciation of the yen and weaker stock
prices,” according to  minutes  of the bank’s May 20-21 board
meeting published in Tokyo today.  
 The comments indicate that board members were aware of
external risks to growth even as they raised their economic
assessment at the gathering. Members also said Europe’s woes
underscored the importance of upholding investor confidence in
fiscal and monetary policy.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has lost 9 percent since the
end of April amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will undermine
the global economic recovery. The euro also tumbled to an eight-
year low against the yen this month.  
 Some members said growing sovereign risks had exerted
upward pressure on U.S. and European interbank rates. At the
same time, they acknowledged the probability of the debt crisis
“interrupting the pickup in economic activity” in the euro
zone was “small” because policy makers in the region took
action to prevent Greece’s problems from intensifying.  
 Many members said “the size of both upside and downside
risks had increased somewhat” amid instability in Europe’s
financial market and the stronger-than-expected expansion of
emerging and commodity-exporting economies.  
 Japan’s central bank this week unveiled a 3 trillion-yen
($33 billion) program aimed at encouraging lending to businesses
and stamping out deflation. Under the program, one-year loans
will be channeled through commercial lenders and can be rolled
over up to four years. Credit will be extended at the  benchmark
interest rate , which the board this week unanimously voted to
keep unchanged at 0.1 percent.  
 The central bank raised its assessment at the May meeting,
saying the economy “is starting to recover.” In April the bank
said the economy “has been picking up.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        