-- BP Spill Makes Case for Clean Energy R&D: Peter Coy
-- Peter Coy
-- 2010-06-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bp-debacle-makes-case-for-more-clean-energy-r-d-commentary-by-peter-coy.html

          
          
             BP says it’s throwing its best
people at stopping the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Nevertheless,
it took an outsider -- none other than Energy Secretary  Steven Chu , who has a Nobel Prize in physics -- to come up with the
idea of peering inside the malfunctioning blowout preventer on
the sea floor with high-energy gamma rays.  
 BP tried Chu’s idea -- after a few snickers and Incredible
Hulk jokes, according to the Washington Post -- and lo and
behold, it worked. The probe that Chu recommended was “crucial
in helping us understand what is happening inside the BOP
(blowout preventer) and informing the approach moving ahead,”
 Jane Lubchenco , head of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, reported on June 2.  
 The gamma ray incident is symptomatic of a problem that’s
bigger than London-based BP: Energy companies worldwide are far
less science-oriented than one might expect from an industry
that is heavily dependent on technology for safety and profit,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 21 issue. In the
U.S., energy companies’ spending on research, development, and
deployment amounts to just 0.3 percent of sales.  
 That’s barely more than a tenth what the auto industry
spends as a share of sales and is dwarfed by the pharmaceutical
industry, which spends almost 19 percent of sales. (American
Petroleum Institute chief economist  John Felmy  says R&D measures
understate his industry’s “overall investment for the future.”)  
 R&D Spending  
 Many economists argue that government needs to step in when
the private sector isn’t providing the socially optimal amount
of something like research. But government R&D spending on
energy has been scarce, too. It was less than 0.03 percent of
U.S. gross domestic product as of 2007, about one-third the
share in Japan. The dearth of investment in energy R&D, private
and public, helps explain why the world is still getting its
energy by punching holes in the sea floor rather than from
safer, renewable sources such as the sun and the wind.  
 In his Oval Office speech on the Gulf spill on June 15,
President  Barack Obama  cited a rapid boost in energy R&D as one
of several ideas that “have merit and deserve a fair hearing in
the months ahead.” That was a paler endorsement than some R&D
boosters hoped for. On June 11, the new American Energy
Innovation Council  called  for a gradual increase to $16 billion
in annual federal R&D energy spending, from around $5 billion
now, including more money to help commercialize out-of-the-box
ideas.  
 The seven-member council, which includes Microsoft Chairman
 Bill Gates , General Electric CEO  Jeffrey Immelt , and Silicon
Valley venture capitalist  John Doerr , said that, left unchanged,
the U.S. energy system “will condemn our children to a seriously
constrained future.”  
 Deficit Obstacle  
 The drive for more energy R&D is up against formidable
obstacles, starting with the federal budget deficit.
Representative  Ralph Hall , the ranking Republican on the House
Science and Technology Committee, tried in May to cut about
$40 billion from the $86 billion sought by House Democrats for
the America COMPETES Act, which funds all kinds of federal
research as well as math and science education.  
 “We must be mindful of our spending if America is to
continue to compete globally,” Hall said then. The House
eventually voted to reauthorize the act without Hall’s cuts,
while the Senate hasn’t yet acted. Even if Congress agrees to
authorize the full $86 billion, funding could still be cut in
the appropriations process.  
 Money isn’t the only problem. On the right, many
Republicans say the federal government should be involved only
in basic science, not steps toward commercialization. On the
left, many Democrats hope to kick-start research and investment
in green energy via measures such as carbon caps that would make
coal and oil more expensive.  
 ‘Disruptive Technologies’  
 Hanging in the balance are small, new initiatives such as
ARPA-E, a 20-employee Energy Department program that funds what
Director  Arun Majumdar  calls “really high-risk, high-reward,
disruptive technologies.” ARPA-E is modeled on DARPA, the
Pentagon’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which
helped launch the Internet and the global positioning satellite
system.  
 Like DARPA, the Energy program is free from civil-service
hiring rules, so it can bring in top scientists and engineers
for short stints. It began operations last year with a two-year
allocation of $400 million in stimulus funds. With that money
largely spent, the Obama Administration is seeking $300 million
for ARPA-E from the regular budget for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1.  
 Defying Bureaucracy  
 Defying bureaucratic convention, ARPA-E is funding an
unorthodox technique for producing ethanol from plant matter
even though it competes with another arm of the Energy
Department, the Joint BioEnergy Institute. “That’s the kind of
environment we want,” Majumdar said in a June 14 interview. “I’d
rather have the competition inside the U.S. than outside the
U.S.”  
 What looks like fruitful competition to Majumdar can look
like wasteful redundancy to a Congress that’s worried about
 deficits . He says that’s a problem. “Frankly we haven’t done a
good enough job of explaining what we’re about. It’s a new
model.”  
 The American Energy Innovation Council argues that ARPA-E
merits $1 billion a year. Majumdar, who worked under Chu at
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, says he’d be happy just
getting the requested $300 million given the big budget deficit.  
 On the other hand, other nations are finding the funds
necessary to leap ahead in fields such as lithium-ion batteries
and wind turbines. Energy’s Chu testified last year that China
is spending $9 billion a month on clean energy investments. Says
Energy Under Secretary  Kristina Johnson : “We’re competing with
some very fierce competitors that are throwing everything they
have behind being successful in this clean energy economy.”  
 ( Peter Coy ’s column will appear in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
June 21 issue. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Coy at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP tried Chu’s idea  
                       
                         
                           Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. energy secretary Steven Chu speaks to members of the media after meeting with workers at the BP Command Center in Houston. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. energy secretary Steven Chu speaks to members of the media after meeting with workers at the BP Command Center in Houston. Photographer: Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Van Jones, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and former environmental adviser to President Barack Obama, talks about the BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and the possible impact it may have on alternative energy research.
     Jones talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
