-- BP's U.S. Future Teeters as CEO, Lawmakers Clash on Oil Spill
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-06-18T15:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bp-s-u-s-future-teeters-as-ceo-hayward-lawmakers-clash-on-gulf-oil-spill.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ’s failure to set safety standards to prevent the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill may cost the company control over U.S. oil
fields, refineries and pipelines that account for more than one-
third of its sales, lawmakers and analysts said.  
 Less than 24 hours after Hayward met President  Barack Obama ’s demand to set aside $20 billion to clean up and
compensate victims of the worst oil spill in U.S. history,
lawmakers yesterday accused the BP CEO of “stonewalling.”
Hayward appeared before a House committee probing the cause of
the April 20 offshore rig explosion that killed 11 workers.  
 Citing a five-year string of accidents and deadly disasters
at BP-operated facilities, Representative  Bart Stupak  suggested
the poor safety record could justify banning the  London-based 
company from doing business in the U.S.  
 “Setting up the fund was a nice pro-active approach by BP,
but in reality it’s going to take a decade for them to recover
and regain public trust in this country,” said Jonathan Dison
of Bender Consulting, a risk management and strategy firm that
has advised BP, Chevron Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  
 At risk is BP’s standing as the biggest producer in the
U.S., built up after spending $100 billion buying Amoco Corp.
and Atlantic Richfield Co.  
 Shares Gain  
 BP rose as much as 5.5 percent in London  trading  before
falling 3.4 pence to 356.3 pence as of 4:24 p.m. local time. The
shares have lost about 45 percent of their value since the April
20 explosion and fire aboard the Deepwater Horizon rig.  
 BP’s senior unsecured ratings were cut three levels to A2,
the sixth-highest investment grade, from Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service today, which warned that further downgrades
are possible.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps protecting BP’s debt
against default for one year fell 7 basis points to 624 basis
points, prices from CMA DataVision in London show.  
 Congressman Stupak didn’t elaborate on how BP could be
banned from operating in the U.S. and whether such authority
rests with Congress, the administration, or regulatory agencies.  
 Scrutiny of BP’s operations in the U.S. intensified after a
fire killed 15 workers at its Texas refinery in 2005, and will
increase further following the rig disaster, said  John Bresland ,
chairman of the U.S.  Chemical Safety and Hazard  Investigation
Board.  
 The board added an investigation into the cause of the rig
disaster to a list of federal probes into BP, Bresland said in
an interview yesterday. The probe was requested by
Representative  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat.  
 New Investigation  
 “Our investigation will look at 2 years before the
incident, a year before it, the day before, what happened on
that day, up to the time the explosion took place,” Bresland
said.  
 BP was cited for 760 safety violations in the past half
decade by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, compared with eight each for ConocoPhillips and
Sunoco Inc., two for Citgo Petroleum Corp. and one for Exxon
Mobil Corp., Representative  John Sullivan , an Oklahoma
Republican, said during yesterday’s hearing.  
 Inspections of the company’s five U.S. plants after the
Texas refinery fire resulted in a fine of $21 million by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration for safety
violations. Last year, discovery of more violations resulted in
BP being slapped with a record fine of $87.4 million.  
 ‘Extremely Frustrated’  
 In his testimony yesterday, Hayward not only failed to
convince lawmakers he was committed to making BP safer, he may
have deepened suspicion of the company by repeatedly pleading
ignorance to events that took place under his command, said Matt
Eventoff, a partner at New Jersey communications firm, Princeton
Public Speaking.  
 “Mr. Hayward’s comments today, saying ‘I don’t know’ 66
times, evaporated any feeling of responsibility,” Eventoff
said. “Any goodwill that the company bought back yesterday
eroded today with his testimony.”  
 Questioned by the panel about BP practices that may have
led to the disaster, Hayward said it was too early in the
investigation to know the cause.  
 Stupak, a Michigan Democrat, told Hayward he and other
committee members were “extremely frustrated with your lack of
candor and inability to answer questions.” Waxman described the
CEO’s responses as “stonewalling.”  
 “I’m not stonewalling,” Hayward responded. According to a
transcript of his testimony, Hayward said at least 23 times he
was not involved in decisions.  
 ‘Laser-like Focus’  
 After taking over from  John Browne  in May 2007, Hayward,
now 53, pledged to apply a “laser-like focus” to improving
safety at the company, declaring it one of his three top
priorities along with people and performance.  
 In Nov. 2007 he said that BP already was making “great
progress” on safety. He simplified BP’s corporate structure and
cut several thousand jobs.  
 This year, at a March 2 presentation to analysts, Hayward
focused on financial performance.  
 “Our direction is clear: the unrelenting pursuit of
competitive leadership in respect of cash costs, capital
efficiency and margin quality,” he said.  
 BP is the biggest crude and gas producer in the Gulf of
Mexico. The company has amassed about 500 deep-water exploration
leases in the Gulf.  
 BP has spent about $1.6 billion on containing and cleaning
up the spill so far. The company’s spending for cleanup and
liabilities may reach $40 billion, Standard Chartered Plc
estimated last week.  
 The yield premium investors demand to hold BP’s 500 million
pounds of 4 percent bonds due 2014 decreased 1 basis point to
359 basis points, according to HSBC Holdings Plc prices on
Bloomberg. The spread on the company’s 1 billion euros of 2016
notes tightened 6 basis points to 531 basis points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at  jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ,  Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at  jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP, at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington on Thursday. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Brian Weiss reports on BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward’s testimony about the Gulf of Mexico oil spill before a House committee yesterday. Hayward was denounced by U.S. lawmakers for stonewalling as he failed to answer questions about the causes of the April 20 oil rig explosion and the subsequent well leak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Robotti, president of Robotti & Company LLC, and John Licata, chief investment strategist with Blue Phoenix Inc., talk about prospects for Tony Hayward to remain as chief executive officer of BP Plc. 
     Robotti and Licata say they see Hayward being replaced. Licata says Hayward's "days are numbered." They speak with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
