-- BP Volatility Surge Spurs Discount Note Issuance From Goldman, BNP Paribas
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-06-18T10:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bp-volatility-surge-spurs-discount-note-issuance-from-goldman-bnp-paribas.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA are issuing certificates linked to  BP Plc  that give
investors a bigger chance of making money than if they bought
the company’s stock directly.  
 The trade off on the so-called discount certificates is
that the size of any upside from an increase in BP’s share price
is limited. The notes allow investors to buy BP at below market
rates, with the extent of the discount dependent on the
 volatility  in the share price.  
 BP price volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
stock, soared to more than 90 percent this week, from about 18
percent in April before the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of
Mexico exploded, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
London-based company’s shares have slumped 44 percent to 368
pence ($5.34) since April 20.  
 “You have high volatility on the underlying, which means
that the product is cheaper to structure and is more interesting
for the customer in terms of return,” said Gregoire Toublanc,
head of German listed products distribution at BNP Paribas in
Frankfurt.  
 A discount note contains embedded derivatives that allow
banks to offer investors assets at below-market prices, but cap
gains at a pre-set level. The value of the  derivatives  increases
as volatility rises, which allows issuers to create the notes
more cheaply and offer a deeper discount to investors.  
 Goldman Sachs offered 18 series of discount certificates,
which began trading today, according to the bank’s website.
Paris-based BNP Paribas sold 30 BP-linked discount certificates
June 16 with a nominal value of 48 million euros ($59 million).
Both issues are listed on Germany’s Stuttgart and Frankfurt
stock exchanges.  
 Discounted Shares  
 One of BNP Paribas’s notes allows investors to buy BP at
the equivalent of 234 pence a share, about a 30 percent discount
to the closing price on June 16, with a cap at 320 pence. If BP
is below 320 at the note’s maturity on Dec. 17, holders get the
cash value of the shares at the prevailing rate, creating the
potential for a loss if the stock is less than 234 pence.  
 Goldman Sachs’s BP-linked notes offer different levels of
risk and return. The highest paying certificate, which matures
on Sept. 17, offers an initial entry level of 3.14 euros, or
262.4 pence, with a cap of 380 pence.  
 BP rose 14.6 pence, or 4 percent, to 374.25 at 11:12 a.m.
in London. The stock fell to a 13-year low of 337 pence June 16.  
 Societe Generale SA and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
have also issued certificates linked to BP in the last two weeks
to capitalize on increased volatility.  
 Structured notes are bank-issued securities that combine
bonds and derivatives, contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities. Banks earn fees from
issuing structured products.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Lothar Mentel, chief investment officer at Octopus Investments Ltd., talks about his investment in BP Plc and the likelihood Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward will keep his job.
     Mentel speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
