-- Brazil Bond Sale Drought Nears End as Votorantim, ABC Meet With Investors
-- Veronica Navarro Espinosa
-- 2010-06-18T16:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/brazil-bond-sale-drought-nears-end-as-votorantim-abc-meet-with-investors.html

          
          
             Banco Votorantim SA and  Banco ABC
Brasil SA  are meeting with international investors, signs that
Brazilian companies may return to capital markets for the first
time since April and end the longest sales drought in 14 months.  
 “It’s a testing of the waters,” said  Eric Ollom , chief
emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies & Co. in New York.
“Investment-grade companies are looking to access debt markets
and investors are interested in finding out more. There could be
a deal done.”  
 No Brazilian company has sold bonds overseas since Braskem
SA, Latin America’s biggest petrochemical producer, issued $400
million of notes on April 30 as credit-rating downgrades in
Greece, Spain and Portugal eroded demand for emerging-market
assets. Since May 7, Brazilian corporate dollar bond  yields  have
dropped 36 basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, to 6.43
percent from a 2 1/2-month high as concern eased that Europe’s
debt crisis will curb the global economic recovery, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.  
 Executives from Banco Votorantim, the financial services
unit of Sao Paulo-based industrial company Grupo Votorantim,
will speak with money managers in Europe and the U.S. next week,
according to people familiar with the plans. Banco ABC, a Sao
Paulo-based firm that lends to small and medium-size companies,
met with investors in Geneva on June 15.  
 Bank Loan  
 The two banks, which carry the lowest investment-grade
rating of Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, sold a combined
$800 million of debt in February and March, part of a record
$15.1 billion of Brazilian international offerings in the first
four months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Yields on Votorantim’s 4.25 percent notes due in 2013 have
fallen to 3.34 percent from 4.38 percent when they were sold on
Feb. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Banco ABC’s
7.875 percent notes due in 2020 yield 8.56 percent, up from 8.13
percent at issue on March 31.  
 Ibsen Costa Manso, a spokesman for Votorantim in Sao Paulo,
said the meetings with fund managers aren’t part of a plan to
sell bonds. “It’s part of our strategy to increase our
relationship with international investors,” Manso said.  
 A Banco ABC spokesman didn’t respond to calls and e-mails
seeking comment.  
 Grupo Votorantim said yesterday that it arranged a $1.04
billion loan with banks including Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank
AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The company said it will use
proceeds to refinance debt. The loans will mature in seven and
eight years and pay rates pegged to the London interbank offered
rate, according to a statement.  
 America Movil  
 Mexico City-based America Movil SAB, Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, sold $3.1 billion of euro and pound
bonds yesterday. The company issued 1 billion euros ($1.2
billion) of seven-year notes, the biggest part of the offering,
to yield 135 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
according to people with knowledge of the transaction.  
 “Things are improving,” said  Katia Bouazza , head of Latin
American debt capital markets for HSBC Holdings Plc in New York.
“In the second half of the year, there’s going to be more cash
to put to work.”  
 The average yield  premium  on Brazilian corporate dollar
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 316 at 12:10
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s CEMBI index. The
yield  gap  on Brazilian dollar government bonds over U.S.
Treasuries shrank eight basis point to 221, JPMorgan’s EMBI+
index shows.  
 World Cup  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against default for
five years fell three basis points to 131 yesterday, according
to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The real rose 0.4 percent today to 1.7738 per dollar. The
yield on Brazil’s overnight interest-rate futures contract due
in January rose four basis points to 11.31 percent, signaling
traders expect the central bank to raise the benchmark lending
rate to about 12.3 percent by year-end.  
 Local debt issuance has also slowed. Brazilian companies
sold no bonds in the first two weeks of June after issuing  1.4
billion reais  in May, down from an average of 6.8 billion reais
the previous two months, according to the Brazilian Association
of Financial and Capital Market Entities.  
 International sales will likely pick up next month after
the World Cup soccer tournament ends, Jefferies’s Ollom said.
Brazil is seeking a record sixth championship in the tournament
that ends July 11.  
 “The World Cup kind of makes it difficult for anyone to
focus,” Ollom said. “I’m hopeful for a good July.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        