-- Bund Yield Advances to Near Two-Week High on Eased Sovereign-Debt Concern
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-06-18T14:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/bund-yield-near-two-week-high-on-waning-concern-fiscal-crisis-will-spread.html

          
          
             German 10-year government bund
yields climbed to the highest in almost a month on waning
concern the region’s fiscal crisis will get worse.  
 The yields were headed for their biggest weekly increase
this year as equities advanced, sapping demand for the relative
safety of government debt. Concern some European lenders may
become insolvent receded after the European Union said it will
publish results of bank stress tests.  
 “Sentiment since the end of last week has improved
markedly,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Investors are putting on trades
more from a fundamental point of view.”  
 The German 10-year bund  yield  rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 2:51 p.m. in London.
The 3 percent security maturing in July 2020 fell 0.55, or 5.5
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.34.  
 The yield touched 2.74 percent earlier, the highest level
since May 20. The yield was headed for a weekly advance of 16
basis points, the most since the five days ended Dec. 25.  
 Spain’s 10-year yields slid 15 basis points to 4.66
percent, following a 13 basis points drop yesterday, while Greek
10-year yields were little changed at 9.54 percent.  
 The stress tests will be done “institution by
institution,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told reporters
at an EU summit in Brussels yesterday. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel said it was important to give “maximum transparency.”
Asked how the governments would react if the tests revealed
shortcomings, she said the EU has “taken precautions,”
including a 750 billion-euro ($928 billion) financial backstop.  
 ‘Not Worried’  
 International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said yesterday in Rome he’s “not worried” about
Spain, which he’s due to visit today.  
 Spain sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds
yesterday, reducing speculation that it will struggle to make
debt payments.  
 European shares rose for an eighth day, pushing the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index  up 0.3 percent. The euro fell 0.2 percent to
$1.2363 and depreciated 0.5 percent to 112.17 yen.  
 Spain’s Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  has cut
the budget and proposed an overhaul of the labor system as he
tries to convince investors that the economy can overcome public
and private debt loads that threaten to choke off growth.  
 The government will publish stress tests on the nation’s
financial institutions after  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the nation’s second-largest
bank, said on June 14 that capital markets were closed to most
Spanish companies and banks.  
 Stress Test Findings  
 European Central Bank Executive Board Member Jose Manuel
Gonzalez-Paramo said the central bank will ‘absolutely not”
provide banks with capital should stress tests show they need
it.  
 “That is not part of the ECB’s functions,” Gonzalez-
Paramo told reporters in Malaga, Spain, today. “It’s up to the
governments and national supervisors.”  
 European banks have a “perception problem” and conducting
stress tests on them would be “beneficial,”  Brian Coulton ,
head of European sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings in London,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros of 4 percent 2020 bonds at an
average yield of 4.864 percent yesterday, attracting offers
worth 1.89 times the securities offered, compared with 2.03 the
last time they were sold in May. It also issued 479.2 million
euros of 4.7 percent 2041 bonds at an average yield of 5.908
percent with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.45, compared with 1.38 at
the previous sale of the bonds in March.  
 ‘Main Dimensions’  
 Greece is making good on the deficit-reduction pledges it
offered to activate a 110 billion-euro package of rescue loans
that allowed the country to avoid default, EU and IMF officials
said yesterday.  
 “The program is on track on all of the main dimensions,”
Servas Deroose, deputy director general of the European
Commission’s economic and financial affairs department, told
reporters in Athens.  
 The  premium  that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
government bonds over benchmark German bunds widened 105 basis
points this week to 667 basis points after the Mediterranean
nation’s credit rating was downgraded to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service, making their bonds ineligible for some
indexes tracked by funds.  
 The  yield spread  between Spanish and German 10-year bonds
narrowed two basis points to 189 basis points over the week. The
Italian-German yield spread narrowed 20 basis points this week
to 126 basis points, while the French-German spread fell seven
points to 39 basis points.  
 ‘True Periphery’  
 “This reflects a distinction between the stronger non-core
markets and the true periphery,”  Steven Mansell , director of
interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a
research report today.  
 Spanish government bonds lost investors 3.9 percent this
year, compared with returns of 6.5 percent for German bonds and
a 16 percent loss for Greek debt, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        