-- Cablevision Seeks Leveraged Loans as Wave of Buyout Deals Comes to Market
-- Richard Bravo
-- 2010-06-18T12:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/cablevision-seeks-leveraged-loans-as-wave-of-buyout-deals-comes-to-market.html

          
          
             Cablevision Systems Corp.  announced
this week it would turn to leveraged loans to fund its $1.37
billion acquisition of Bresnan Communications Co., following at
least six other companies to the market even as high-yield bond
sales abated.  
 Gentiva Health Services Inc.  marketed a reworked $925
million loan package this week to fund its buyout of Odyssey
Healthcare Inc. and  Michael Foods Inc.  shopped $865 million in
loans to back its sale to a fund run by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   
 Acquisitions have increased this year, following rebounding
leveraged-loan prices and with buyout firms holding $484 billion
of unspent investors’ money as of this month, according to the
research firm Preqin Ltd. About $30.9 billion of new buyouts
have been announced this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, up from $6 billion in the year-ago period.  
 “Merger and acquisitions activity is slowly picking up,”
said  Andrew O’Brien , co-head of syndicated and leveraged finance
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. “The size of the financing
market versus last year has increased while the cost of
borrowing has come down.”  
 The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100  Index , which tracks
the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans,
rose for a fourth consecutive day, to 88.67 cents on the dollar
yesterday, down from 92.9 cents on April 26. Prices are up 50
percent from Dec. 17, 2008, when the index closed at 59.2 cents.  
 Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and volatility in the
markets hurt riskier asset classes last month, which widened
leveraged-loan and high-yield bond spreads in the secondary
market and forced companies to boost payouts on new deals.  
 Junk Bond Spreads  
 The extra yield investors demand to own junk-rated debt
instead of Treasuries was 6.91 percentage points yesterday, up
from a low this year of 5.42 percentage points April 26,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch  data .  
 “One of the reasons you’ve seen spreads widen out on new
issues is you’ve got a calendar building, with a couple of
bigger LBO deals in the pipeline, and you don’t have a lot of
new money coming in,” said  Elizabeth MacLean , partner and
portfolio manager of bank loans at Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey
City, New Jersey, which has $94.8 billion in assets under
management.  
 Many companies have added incentives to complete
transactions. Last week, TransUnion LLC increased the interest
rate it offered on a $950 million term loan by as much as 33
percent to 5 percentage points more than Libor and offered a
one-year soft-call protection of 101 cents on the dollar in the
event of repayment in the initial 12 months. Libor is the rate
banks charge each other for loans.  
 Mutual Fund Inflows  
 For the week ending yesterday, loan mutual funds had an
inflow of $77 million, according to Lipper FMI data. High-yield
bond funds took in $68 million. High-yield, high-risk loan
returns fell to 1.58 percent this year, as of June 16, down from
a high of 5.28 percent on April 26, according to the S&P/LSTA
Index.  
 “From the start of 2010, the secondary market has been
well-bid and the primary market was the only real place to put
money to work,” O’Brien said, referring to the sale of new
debt. “But now that more paper is available on the secondary
side, it’s become a more valid competitor to the primary
market.”  
 Cablevision, the New York-area cable-television provider,
will use loans arranged by Citigroup Inc. to finance its $1.37
billion acquisition of Purchase, New York-based Bresnan
Communications from Providence Equity Partners Inc., according
to a person familiar with the deal.  
 Bank of America Corp. will be the lead arranger on the bond
portion of the financing, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the transaction is private.  
 Cablevision Financing  
 Bank of America and Citigroup have provided commitments for
the debt financing, Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision said
June 14 in a statement.  
 The deal will be financed with about $1 billion in non-
recourse debt and an equity investment by Cablevision of less
than $400 million, according to the statement.  
 About $26 billion of U.S. leveraged loans were arranged
last month, down from $38 billion in April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield bond issuance fell to $6.8
billion last month from $33.4 billion in April.  
 “From a new-issue perspective, it’s still going to be a
very challenging market,” Lord Abbett’s MacLean said. “We
think that people will look back at the deals done in this time
frame and there will be some really good value there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        