-- L.A.-San Francisco Bullet-Train Bidding Process May Begin Late Next Year
-- Chris Cooper
-- 2010-06-18T08:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/california-may-start-bid-process-for-high-speed-train-from-l-a-by-2011.html

          
          
             California, the top recipient of
funds from President  Barack Obama ’s high-speed rail program,
expects to issue a tender for a bullet-train line linking Los
Angeles and San Francisco by late 2011.  
 The state expects bids from about 10 trainmakers and
construction may start as early as the first half of 2012,
 Quentin Kopp , a California High Speed Rail Authority board
member, said in an interview in Los Angeles yesterday. The train
will whisk passengers between the two cities, 432 miles apart,
in less than 2 hours 40 minutes, according to the state-backed
group’s  website .  
 California’s push for high-speed rail, backed by Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger , comes as the most populous U.S. state
targets cuts in congestion and greenhouse gas emissions from
cars and airplanes. The Obama administration in January awarded
$8 billion for high-speed rail projects, causing companies such
as  Alstom SA ,  Siemens AG , East Japan Railway Co.,  China South
Locomotive & Rolling Stock Corp.  to boost sales efforts.  
 “A high-speed line between Los Angeles and San Francisco
makes sense given their large populations and the distance
between them,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of
Fukoku Capital Management Inc., which manages about $8.3 billion.
“There might be some companies trying to sell their
technologies even if they don’t make a profit, so they can make
a name for themselves.”  
 When fully completed the state anticipates an 800-mile
high-speed rail network running from San Francisco to San Diego,
near the U.S.-Mexico border. The total cost for the system will
be more than $40 billion.  
 Construction From 2012  
 California won a $2.3 billion federal grant to help build
the high-speed link, which is due to enter service in 2020.
That’s in addition to a $10 billion bond sale the state approved
in 2008 to fund the rail line. The state has until September
2011 to complete an environmental review, Kopp said.  
 “Allow four months for the conclusion of proposals and
bids, and I estimate conservatively that construction will begin
by the first part of 2012,” said Kopp, who was at a  U.S. High
Speed Rail Association  conference in Los Angeles.  
 Schwarzenegger  has proposed running high-speed trains on
existing conventional tracks between Los Angeles and San Diego
as early as November to spur interest in high-speed rail. Kopp
said he doubted whether that timeframe would be met.  
 “Will that happen in the time variant in the governor’s
recent proposal?” Kopp said. “ I don’t think so,” he said
without elaboration.  
 Amtrak Trains  
 Trains operated by Amtrak, the U.S. long-distance passenger
railroad, currently don’t run directly between Los Angeles and
San Francisco. Travel between Los Angeles and Oakland, which
neighbors San Francisco, on Amtrak’s  Coast Starlight  line takes
about 12 hours or twice as long as traveling by car.  
 Air travel between Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay
Area takes about an hour.  
 “The airlines will certainly lose some of their
business,” said Fukoku Capital’s Sakurai. “If you add up the
time spent traveling to airports, security checks and delays it
makes sense to take the train.”  
 U.S. Transport Secretary  Ray LaHood  last month visited
Japan, where he tried out a JR East bullet train and rode
 Central Japan Railway Co. ’s magnetic-levitation railway. He also
encouraged Japanese trainmakers to compete for U.S. contracts
and to set up plants in the country. Japan’s Transport Minister
 Seiji Maehara  is planning a second visit to the U.S. this year
to help stoke interest in bullet trains.  
 320 kmh Train  
 JR East will introduce a bullet train next year that can
reach speeds of 320 kmh (199 miles per hour). The fastest train
in the U.S., Amtrak’s Acela Express, which is built by Alstom
and  Bombardier Inc. , is capable of running at up to 150 mph.  
 Japanese trainmakers have previously won overseas deals.
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. made the trains for Taiwan’s $15
billion high-speed line that started operating three years ago
between suburban Taipei and Kaohsiung in the south.  Hitachi Ltd. 
built high-speed trains running between London and the south-
east of the U.K.  
 China’s Ministry of Railways has teamed up with  General
Electric Co.  in a bid to win U.S. contracts. The two in November
agreed a partnership to manufacture equipment for high-speed
rail projects.  
 Japan, which started the world’s first bullet-train
services in 1964, carried 308 million people by high-speed train
in the year ended March 2009, more than triple the number of
passengers on domestic airline routes. Amtrak’s Acela Express
carried  3.4 million  passengers in fiscal 2008.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An East Japan Railway bullet train arrives at Tokyo Station. Photographer: Michael Caronna/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
