-- Calpers Asks Obama to Oppose Higher Threshold for Shareholder Proxy Access
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-06-18T01:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/calpers-urges-obama-to-oppose-higher-threshold-for-proxy-statement-access.html

          
          
             The California Public Employees
Retirement System’s investment chief urged President  Barack Obama  to oppose a proposal to curb the ability of shareholders
to list board candidates on corporate proxy statements.  
 U.S. Senate negotiators yesterday proposed limiting
investors’ rights to nominate directors for shareholder votes to
those who own at least 5 percent of a firm for two years or
longer. The plan would be part of merged House and Senate
measures to overhaul the financial industry, including
authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to let
shareholders list their board candidates on corporate proxy
statements.  
 “The institutional-investor community was shocked to hear
that the Senate supports adding a 5 percent share-ownership
threshold to the provision that clarifies the SEC’s authority to
promulgate a rule,”  Joe Dear , Calpers chief investment officer,
said in a letter to White House adviser  Valerie Jarrett . “This
will gut the proxy-access provision and is completely
unacceptable to responsible long-term investors such as
Calpers.”  
 Activist investors including  Carl Icahn  have fought to get
their nominees elected to the boards of companies they say are
underperforming. Dear said that there isn’t a single shareholder
of  Bank of America Corp.,   IBM Corp. , or  Exxon Mobil Corp.  that
owns 5 percent and that the largest 10 pension funds by assets
don’t own more than 3 percent of any of those companies.  
 Democrats have pushed to include a provision to let the SEC
make ballot-access easier for candidates promoted by shareholder
groups, hedge funds and institutional investors. Republicans
have opposed the measure.  
 Business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
oppose making it easier for investors to oust directors. The
Washington-based advocacy group, which represents more than 3
million companies, has said that labor unions will hijack board
elections to push political or social agendas detrimental to
other investors.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 MMarois@Bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        