-- California Pension Fund Buys Equity Stake in Gatwick Airport
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-06-18T20:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/calpers-said-to-buy-157-million-stake-in-u-k-s-gatwick-airport-from-gip.html

          
          
             The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension, is buying a
12.7 percent equity stake in London’s Gatwick airport as part of
the fund’s burgeoning infrastructure-financing program.  
 Global Infrastructure Partners, a buyout firm that
purchased Gatwick in 2009 from  BAA Airports Ltd. , has agreed to
sell the 106-million-pound ($157 million) stake, according to
statements from GIP and the pension fund in Sacramento,
California.  Gatwick , 28 miles south of London, is the U.K.’s
second-busiest airport, serving 34 million passengers in 2008.  
 The $5.6 billion buyout fund, backed by  Credit Suisse Group
AG  and  General Electric Co. , said in December it would sell
stakes in Gatwick this year after purchasing the airport for
1.51 billion pounds. Calpers, as the $203.6 billion pension is
known, has been adding assets to provide a hedge against
inflation including commodities, timber, inflation-linked bonds
and facilities such as power plants, airports and toll roads.  
 “We are looking for opportunities to invest directly in
high-quality infrastructure assets,”  George Diehr , head of the
Calpers investment committee, said in the statement. “We see it
as a good fit for our burgeoning infrastructure program.”  
 In March, the pension said it planned to allocate as much
as $1.3 billion this year to its infrastructure-financing
program, including putting as much as $900 million in funds that
make related investments and another $400 million directly into
such projects. Inflation-linked assets will eventually comprise
as much as 5 percent of the pension fund’s holdings.  
 Airport Sale  
 Gatwick was offered for sale last year as Britain’s
Competition Commission pondered a breakup of BAA Airports, owned
by Spanish builder  Ferrovial SA , to reduce the company’s
dominance of the U.K. market. In February, GIP said it was
selling stakes of Gatwick to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority
and to Korea’s National Pension Service. GIP said today it
intends to maintain a controlling share of the airport.  
 “We are delighted that Calpers, one of the world’s largest
and most sophisticated public pension funds, is investing
alongside GIP in Gatwick,”  Adebayo Ogunlesi , GIP’s chairman and
managing partner, said in a separate statement. “We look
forward to working with Calpers over the coming years as
partners in what we believe will be an outstanding investment
for all stakeholders.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        