-- Carney Repeats in Speech That Canada's Interest Rate Path Not Preordained
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-18T13:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/carney-repeats-in-speech-that-canada-s-interest-rate-path-not-preordained.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
today reiterated future moves to increase interest rates aren’t
“preordained” because of an uneven global recovery, and said
he wants Group of 20 leaders coming to Canada next weekend to
make progress on “radical” new rules to foster the rebound.  
 “The Bank must balance the competing influences on
Canadian activity and inflation of momentum in domestic demand
and the increasingly uneven global recovery,” Carney, 45, said
in a speech today in St. John’s, Newfoundland. “In light of the
scale and volatility of these conflicting forces, it should be
evident that no particular path for monetary policy is
preordained.”  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 became the first central bank
in the Group of Seven to raise  interest rates  since July 2008,
and signaled that further increases could be delayed. Overnight
index swap rates suggest Carney may raise his overnight target
rate again at the next decision on July 20, to 0.75 percent from
0.5 percent.  
 “It’s still the case that in Canada we need to get up to a
low range of normal rates,” said  Mark Chandler , a fixed-income
strategist at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. He predicts
quarter-point increases at the remaining four decisions this
year.  
 The Canadian dollar was little changed, trading for
C$1.0277 per U.S. dollar at 9:06 a.m. in Toronto, compared with
C$1.0282 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 97.31 U.S. cents.  
 The domestic economy has been “robust” with growth led by
consumer spending, while gains in business investment are needed
for a “balanced” recovery, Carney said. Newfoundland has been
an “exception” with strong business outlays, he said.  
 “Major capital investments over the next couple of years
in mining, public infrastructure and oil and gas will all but
guarantee a few years of very strong growth” in Newfoundland,
he said.  
 The next speech from a central bank official is by Deputy
Governor  Timothy Lane  in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on June 22.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in St. John’s, Newfoundland, at 
   gquinn1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        