-- Central Japan Commodity Exchange to Close in January on Declining Volume
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-06-18T09:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/central-japan-commodity-exchange-to-close-in-january-on-declining-volume.html

          
          
                  June 18 (Bloomberg) --The  Central Japan Commodity Exchange ,
Japan’s third-largest commodities bourse by volume, will cease
operations by the end of January 2011 because of declining
revenue amid slumping volume.  
 The Nagoya-based bourse, also known as C-COM, will suspend
trading of contracts for gold, gasoline and kerosene, it said in
a statement today. The bourse said in April that it would stop
trading rubber futures.  
 Commodity brokerages and exchanges have been under pressure
after law changes in 2005 limited small investors’ access,
shrinking volume, and as competition from overseas bourses
increased. Japan currently has four commodity exchanges, down
from seven in March 2006.  
 “There’s no option but closing,” Susumu Kuroiwa, chairman
of the exchange, told reports in Tokyo.  
 Tokyo Commodity Exchange  Inc., which runs Japan’s largest
raw materials futures bourse, said earlier this week that it has
begun negotiations to take over energy futures from C-COM. Tocom
informed C-COM that it is willing to consider taking over its
gasoline and kerosene futures as early as Oct. 12.  
 Japan’s commodity futures trading volume slumped 26 percent
in the year ended March 31, a sixth straight annual drop,
according to the  Japan Commodity Clearing House . Tocom
represented 82 percent of the volume of the four commodities
exchanges in the year ended March 31, followed by  Tokyo Grain
Exchange  Inc. with 13 percent and C-COM with 5 percent.  
 Japan wants to lay the ground work to create a unified
exchange that trades bonds, stocks, financial futures and
commodities by fiscal 2013, the government said in its medium-
term economic plan released today.  
 “The single, big exchange will help enhance reliability
and liquidity,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager of
research at Tokyo-based IDO Securities Co. “This will
eventually help lure individual and institutional investors as
well as foreign participants, increasing competitiveness against
other bourses in Asia.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Singapore at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        