-- Channel-Train Operator Eurostar Wins EU Approval of Joint Ownership Plan
-- Chris Jasper
-- 2010-06-18T12:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/channel-train-operator-eurostar-wins-eu-approval-of-joint-ownership-plan.html

          
          
             Eurostar Group Ltd., the operator of
high-speed trains through the Channel Tunnel, won conditional
approval from the European Union to adopt a single-company
structure aimed at helping it compete with new market entrants.  
 The reshaping of Eurostar, which runs trains from London to
Paris and Brussels, was cleared on condition that other rail
operators be given access to station facilities at either end of
the tunnel, the European Commission said today in a statement.  
 The original deal could have made market entry for
competitors “more difficult, and might therefore perpetuate
Eurostar’s dominant position,” the commission said.  
 Under the revamp Eurostar will be jointly controlled by
French state rail operator Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer
Français and the U.K.’s London & Continental Railways Ltd.
Eurostar has said the switch will enable a “cohesive
structure” in a more competitive environment.  
 Eurostar spokeswoman Mary Walsh said the company welcomed
the EU approval and its agreed conditions. “We’ve been
competing against the airlines for the last 15 years so we’re
used to competition,” she said in a phone interview.  
 Eurostar is bracing for competition on the Channel Tunnel
route as companies including Germany’s state-owned  Deutsche Bahn
AG  seek access after the European Union opened cross-border rail
to competition from Jan. 1. The company is also restructuring
after winter breakdowns stranded 2,000 passengers in the 30-mile
(48-kilometer) and left 90,000 more waiting at stations.  
 The owners, who plan to rename the company Eurostar
International, offered antitrust commitments to help secure
approval for the revamp, regulators said last month.  
 ‘Infrastructure Charges’  
 “In order to be able to supply alternative services, it
is important that incumbents and new operators have access to
the existing infrastructure, of course by paying infrastructure
charges,” the commission said today.  
 That would include ticket counters and passenger
information, it said, while Eurostar will also have to release
some pathways to new operators if they’re unable to obtain them
through the normal allocation procedures.  
 Eurostar is currently a venture of SNCF, the Eurostar U.K.
Ltd. unit of London & Continental and Belgium’s Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Belge, which have signed framework
agreements on the overhaul.  
 The restructuring will ease the way for a possible sale of
the British holding in Eurostar after London & Continental was
taken into government ownership in 2009. The company also owns
High Speed 1, the U.K. section of the Eurostar route which may
also be sold as Prime Minister  David Cameron  seeks to cut debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Jasper  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        