-- Chile Peso Falls, Trimming Weekly Gain, as Euro, Price of Copper Decline
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-06-18T18:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/chile-peso-falls-trimming-weekly-gain-as-euro-price-of-copper-decline.html

          
          
             Chile’s peso fell for a second day
as copper, the country’s biggest export, extended losses and the
euro declined.  
 The peso weakened 0.8 percent to 534.9 per U.S. dollar from
530.58 yesterday, reducing a weekly gain to 0.4 percent.  
 Copper fell in New York and London, heading for a weekly
decline, after data raised concerns the U.S. economic recovery
may be weaker than expected. Chile’s peso has depreciated in the
two days since the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index dropped to a 10-month low of 8, less than
half the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “It’s tracking the euro, which is weakening as well, and
commodity prices are going down, including copper,” said  Cesar Perez , an economist at Celfin Capital SA in Santiago.  
 The peso rallied earlier this week after Moody’s Investors
Service upgraded Chile’s debt and the central bank raised
interest rates to 1 percent, matching the forecasts of just 4 of
24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Eighteen analysts predicted
a quarter-point increase while two forecast no change.  
 Rates of short-dated  interest-rate swaps  increased as
traders continued to price in expectations of higher average
rates in the future. The three-month rate in pesos rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.48 percent. The six-month
rate rose 10 basis points to 2.12 percent, after the biggest
weekly gain since July 2008. The rate reflects traders’
expectations of the average annual interest rate over the life
of the contract.  
 The peso also weakened as traders put on carry trades,
borrowing in Chile to lend in countries with higher interest
rates such as Brazil, amid greater  appetite for risk  by
investors worldwide, said  Luis Morales , a currency trader at BCI
Corredor de Bolsa in Santiago. Brazil’s real strengthened 0.5
percent 1.7714 per dollar today. Brazil’s central bank raised
its benchmark interest rate this month to 10.25 percent.  
 “There are people putting on carry trades,” Morales said.
“There was a long time when there was no appetite for risk.
It’s now appearing again and that has helped the dollar
strengthen against several currencies with low interest rates.”  
 Chile’s peso strengthened through 530 per dollar yesterday
before sliding back. That’s “a strong floor and it didn’t break
though convincingly,” Morales said. “The peso will be in a
range of between 530 and 540 for a while,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        