-- Florida Family Awarded $2.5 Million Over Defective Drywall From China
-- Susannah Nesmith
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/chinese-drywall-case-yields-2-5-million-jury-verdict-for-florida-family.html

          
          
             A Florida couple suffered $2.5
million in damages as a result of defective drywall from China,
a Florida jury found yesterday, helping to set a standard for
trials throughout the U.S.  
 In the first jury trial in the U.S. over defective drywall,
a state court panel in Miami deliberated more than a day before
finding closely held Banner Supply Co. 55 percent responsible
for damage done to the home of Armin and Lisa Seifart. The jury
found a company not included in the lawsuit, Germany’s Knauf
Group, 35 percent liable.  
 Plaintiffs had sought $4.3 million for loss of enjoyment of
their home and other damages.  
 “It sets a precedent to the extent that we were able to
see what a jury thinks about this case,” said Ervin Gonzalez,
attorney for the Seifarts.  
 USG Corp.  and Knauf are among about 1,000 defendants that
may face claims they distributed defective drywall manufactured
in China. As many as 40,000 plaintiffs may bring claims, U.S.
District Judge  Eldon Fallon  of New Orleans, who is overseeing
federal drywall lawsuits nationwide, said last month.  
 The cases, part of coordinated litigation over allegedly
defective drywall, are intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in other cases against
manufacturers. More than 2,100 people in the U.S. have sued in
federal court claiming damages from drywall made in China.  
 The Seifarts bought their home in February 2008. After less
than a year they learned their problems with appliances and a
sulfur smell originated with the drywall.  
 Banner countered that the Seifarts should be reimbursed for
the cost of repairs only, urging the jury not to make an award
for loss of enjoyment or the reduction of the value to the home.  
 “We are a bit disappointed and we will weigh all of our
rights, including our appellate rights,” Banner’s attorney,
Todd Ehrenreich said after the verdict.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  
          
          


  


        