-- China Should Increase Precious Metals Holdings, Legislative Official Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T04:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/china-should-increase-precious-metals-holdings-legislative-official-says.html

          
          
             China, owner of the world’s largest
foreign currency reserves, should increase its holdings of
precious metals and oil as part of a diversification strategy, a
member of the National People’s Congress said.  
 The government should also cut overseas debt holdings and
increase equity investments, Yin Zhongqing, vice chairman of the
finance committee of the congress, said in Shanghai today at a
conference.  Foreign reserves , at $2.45 trillion as of end March,
may reach $2.8 trillion by the end of the year and the country
can’t afford to let the level rise higher, he said.  
 Gold has gained 13 percent this year as investors seek to
safeguard their wealth after the European sovereign debt crisis
roiled equity and currency markets worldwide. India and Russia
added to gold reserves last year as the metal capped its longest
winning streak since at least 1948.  
 “China should adjust the asset structure of its foreign
reserves and achieve the goals of making the investment safe,
liquid, and preserving and adding value,” Yin said.  
 The bullion hit an all-time high of $1,252.11 an ounce on
June 8 and traded at $1,244.35 at 12:15 p.m. Beijing time. The
precious metal is on course for its 10th year of gain.  
 Gold accounts for 1.6 percent of the reserves held by the
People’s Bank of China, according to the World Gold Council. The
country  increased  its reserves by 454 tons to 1,054 tons since
2003, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange said last
April.  
 Still, the relative high volatility and costs of holding
and trading gold limit the precious metal’s use for asset
allocation, the foreign exchange administration said in
its annual report on foreign currency management on June 10.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Xiao Yu  in Beijing. Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Ang Bee Lin   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Jun Luo  in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        