-- China Central Bank Says It Will Ensure Yuan Exchange Rate Stays Stable
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T13:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/china-central-bank-says-it-will-ensure-yuan-exchange-rate-stays-stable.html

          
          
             China said it will ensure the yuan
is kept stable this year as President  Hu Jintao  prepares to
attend next week’s meeting of the Group of 20 countries.  
 The nation’s central bank will keep the yuan’s exchange
rate “basically stable” at a “reasonably balanced level,”
the People’s Bank of China said in its 2009  annual report ,
posted to its website today. China will maintain the
“continuity and stability” of its monetary policy, it said.  
 Yuan forwards strengthened today by the most this year amid
calls for China to let its currency resume appreciation before
G-20 leaders meet June 26 to 27 in Toronto. Any move to revalue
the yuan, also called the renminbi, depends on the health of
China and the global economy,  Zhang Tao , director of the central
bank’s international department, said at an earlier briefing
today.  
 Economic growth globally and in China remains full of
“uncertainties,” the Chinese central bank said in its report.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the euro and the U.S.
dollar will probably affect the global recovery, it said.  
 China has held its currency at about 6.83 yuan to one U.S.
dollar since mid-2008 to help protect the nation’s exports
during the global financial crisis. The nation’s exports surged
48.5 percent last month from a year earlier, the biggest
increase in six years.  
 U.S. Lawmakers  
 U.S. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin 
said June 16 that Congress may push China to revalue the yuan if
the nation doesn’t move on its own after the G-20 summit. The
World Bank said today that a more flexible currency would give
China’s leaders greater freedom to decide monetary policy.  
 The  Chinese economy  may grow 9.5 percent this year and 8.5
percent in 2011, according to World Bank estimates. China’s
economy grew 8.7 percent last year.  
 China will continue to implement “moderately loose”
monetary policy this year, the central bank said in its report.
The monetary authority will guide financial institutions in
controlling the pace of lending to prevent large fluctuations in
credit balances, it said.  
 A record $1.4 trillion of  bank loans  extended last year to
combat the global financial crisis has spurred concerns about
the formation of asset bubbles. China’s  property prices  rose at
the second-fastest pace on record in May.  
 The central bank will curb property price surges in some
cities and adopt measures to prevent rapid price gains,
according to today’s report. The risk of consumer-price
increases is still growing, the central bank said.  
 Inflation in China accelerated in May to the quickest pace
in 19 months. A stronger yuan would help ease inflation by
lowering the cost of imports and rebalancing growth toward
consumption, the World Bank said today in its quarterly report
on China.  
 -- Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. With assistance from  Eugene Tang  in
Beijing. Editors:  John Liu ,  Tom Kohn   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7561 or
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        