-- China's One-Year Bill Yield May Fall as Policy Supports Growth, ING Says
-- Bob Chen
-- 2010-06-18T04:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/china-s-one-year-bill-yield-may-fall-as-policy-supports-growth-ing-says.html

          
          
             China’s one-year central-bank bill
 yield  will decline in the secondary market as authorities ease
monetary policy to support the economy, ING Groep NV said.  
 The yield will fall 10 basis points from 2.23 percent,
according to  Tim Condon , Singapore-based chief Asia economist at
the Netherlands’ biggest financial-services firm. The People’s
Bank of China yesterday sold one-year bills at an unchanged
yield for the first time in three weeks, damping speculation of
an imminent increase in benchmark interest rates.  
 “Policy rate hikes are off the table for 2010,” Condon
wrote in a note dated today. The bills sale was “drawing a line
in the sand on the May increase in market rates,” he said.  
 The one-year bill  yield  was 2.09 percent at yesterday’s
sale, following a combined increase of 0.17 percentage points in
the previous two weekly sales. The Commerce Ministry is more
“dovish” on monetary policy than the central bank and its voice
carries more weight, ING wrote.  
 China shouldn’t expect double-digit economic growth this
year and should return to a normalized monetary policy in the
second half of the year, Xia Bin, one of the People’s Bank
academic advisers, said at a conference in Shanghai today. An 18
percent, or 7.5 trillion yuan, rise in loan growth this year was
“reasonable,” Xia said.  
 The central bank raised reserve requirements by 50 basis
points last month, bringing the ratio to 17 percent for the
biggest banks. Growth in M2, the broadest measure of money
supply, has slid to 21 percent, the lowest in 15 months.  
 Money-market rates have also climbed as Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. prepares to raise at least $23 billion in the
world’s largest initial public offering. ING forecast that the
overnight interbank rate, now at 2.22 percent, will decline 60
basis points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronnie Koo  at 
 rkoo4@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        