-- China Sells Three, Five-Year Debt at Higher-Than-Expected Yields on Demand
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T07:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/china-sells-three-five-year-debt-at-higher-than-expected-yields-on-demand.html

          
          
             China’s finance ministry offered
higher-than-expected yields at bond auctions today as a shortage
of cash in the banking system damped demand for the 43.8 billion
yuan ($6.4 billion) of notes it was selling to raise funds for
local governments.  
 Three-year debt was sold to yield 2.77 percent, 32 basis
points more than the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of analysts and 11 basis points more than the rate on similar-
maturity bonds sold yesterday by the central bank. The yield on
five-year securities was 2.90 percent, 25 basis points more than
analysts predicted. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The 28.6 billion yuan of three-year notes sold drew bids
for 1.02 times the amount offered and the 15.2 billion yuan of
five-year debt was subscribed 1.06 times. The average ratio at
previous treasury bond auctions this year was 1.7 times.  
 “The abnormally high yields suggest the auction would have
failed if the ministry could have settled for less than the
planned sales amount,” said  Hu Hangyu , a Beijing-based fixed-
income analyst with Citic Securities Co., China’s biggest listed
brokerage. “The outcome reflected tight funding availability in
the interbank market after the central bank raised reserve
requirements again last month.”  
 China’s central bank last month ordered lenders to set
aside more funds as  reserves  for the third time this year,
boosting the reserve-requirement ratio to 17 percent for the
biggest banks. Growth in M2, the broadest measure of money
supply, slowed  to a 15-month low of 21 percent in May.  
 Liquidity Shortage  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , a measure of lending costs
between banks, rose eight basis points to 2.68 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It’s averaged 2.6 percent this month,
up from 1.9 percent in May.  
 China’s lawmakers in March approved a plan for the finance
ministry to sell a total of 200 billion yuan of bonds on behalf
of provinces for a second year to help fund infrastructure
projects. Today’s sales were the first this year.  
 “The finance ministry couldn’t afford to have its debt
sales for local governments fail as each of them has published
their financing needs and counts on the proceeds,” said  Chen Jianbo , a bond analyst at BOC International (China) Ltd. in
Beijing. “The big size of other debt offerings today also added
to the funding squeeze.”  
 The finance ministry also issued 28 billion yuan in 30-year
debt at an average yield of 4.03 percent, higher than the 4.015
percent median estimate in a separate Bloomberg News survey. The
bid-to-cover ratio was 1.41 times for the sale. The Agricultural
Development Bank of China, a government-sponsored lender of
farming projects, sold 20 billion yuan of five-year debt to
yield 3.3 percent.  
 -- Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Ven Ram   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        