-- Citigroup Looking Past Volcker May Seek $3 Billion for Funds
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-06-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/citigroup-looking-past-volcker-seeks-3-billion-for-hedge-fund-lbo-unit.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  plans to raise more
than $3 billion for its private-equity and hedge funds, even as
U.S. lawmakers consider banning banks from owning and investing
in so-called alternative funds, people with direct knowledge of
the plan said.  
 Citi Capital Advisors , which oversees about $14 billion,
may seek $1.5 billion for private equity this year and $750
million for hedge funds, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans aren’t public. An additional $1
billion is targeted next year for hedge funds, the people said.  
 “Citi must be comfortable enough that whatever happens,
even in the extreme version, they’ll be able to move ahead with
these businesses,” said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business who studies the
private-equity industry. “I don’t think any of these bills
envisioned not being able to manage someone else’s money. It’s
the bank capital that’s still an open question.”  
 The Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , seeks to avoid future bailouts by curbing
risk-taking. The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association , Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group, and the
 Financial Services Roundtable , a Washington-based trade group,
have expressed concerns that the measure restricts banks from
businesses that didn’t cause the financial crisis.  
 Lawmakers are reconciling House and Senate bills this month
to overhaul regulation of Wall Street. Citigroup’s rivals aren’t
waiting for final legislation to move forward with growth plans
for their in-house money-management funds.  
 Clients’ Interests  
 Last week, Morgan Stanley announced it had raised $4.7
billion for a new global real estate fund, including $400
million of the New York-based securities firm’s own money.  
 Citigroup has about $5 billion of its  own money  in Citi
Capital Advisors funds.  
 “Regardless of the ultimate outcome of financial reform,
our priority will always be protecting the interests of our
clients, who have selected us to be the fiduciary manager of
their assets, and ensuring the soundness of the CCA platform
moving forward,” spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  said.  
 The proposed legislation would restrict banks’ ability to
trade financial instruments such as stocks, bonds and
commodities on their own account, and bar them from owning or
sponsoring hedge funds or private-equity firms. Federal banking
agencies would have the power to exempt institutions who do such
trading on behalf of a customer or to hedge risk.  
 Seeding New Funds  
 Even if the Volcker rule becomes law, full implementation
may take as many as six years. Under the  Senate bill , a study
would have to be completed within six months of passage. Then, a
council of regulators would then have to issue recommendations
within nine months. That would be followed by a two-year phase-
in period and three potential one-year extensions on a firm-by-
firm basis.  
 Citigroup’s primary reason for investing in the funds is to
“seed” new ones, essentially floating them long enough to
build a track record that can then be marketed to investors, the
people said. Putting in its own money also helps attract
investors by signaling the bank has confidence in the  management
teams , they said.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 53, told a
Congressional panel in March that the bank is taking steps to
scale back its funds business. This year he sold off a  $12.5
billion real-estate fund  and a $4.2 billion fund of hedge funds.
Still, he considers Citi Capital Advisors to be a “core”
operation alongside trading, investment-banking, corporate cash-
management and branch banking.  
 ‘New Thrust’  
 Citi Capital Advisors is the former  Citi Alternative
Investments  unit, renamed last year after more than a dozen of
its funds with almost $80 billion of assets were shuttered or
frozen amid the global financial crisis, causing more than $3
billion of losses for Citigroup.  
 In April 2009,  John Havens , 53, head of Citigroup’s trading
and investment-banking division, tapped a pair of former Morgan
Stanley colleagues,  James O’Brien , 50, and  Jonathan Dorfman , 48,
to rebuild the alternative-investing unit. Of the 16 funds
listed in a March 2008 Citi Alternative Investments brochure, 11
have been closed, sold, renamed or merged into other funds.  
 “They basically are presenting a new thrust to the market
since the challenges of ‘07 and ‘08,’’ said  Colin Blaydon ,
director of the  Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship 
at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover, New
Hampshire. ‘‘Gathering capital at this point is something they
want to do.’’  
 Funds Marketed  
 Among six funds now being marketed is the $700 million
 Emerging Markets Special Opportunities Fund . It was started in
2000 and is led by former Salomon Smith Barney emerging-markets
co-head Mark Franklin, returning an average 12 percent a year
over the past decade, according to a Citi Capital Advisors
marketing brochure dated April.  
 Another fund is the  Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund , led
by Rajesh Kumar. Citigroup lured Kumar and his team from hedge
fund Halcyon Asset Management LLC in 2008 and agreed to seed
them with $200 million of the bank’s capital, people with direct
knowledge of the move said. The fund has gained 24 percent
annualized since its May 2008 debut, according to the April
brochure. It now stands at about $300 million, the people said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Citigroup Center stands in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Citigroup Inc. plans to raise more than $3 billion for its private-equity and hedge funds, even as U.S. lawmakers consider banning banks from owning and investing in so-called alternative funds, people with direct knowledge of the plan said. Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
