-- Fabio Capello Left Searching for `England That I Know' at Soccer World Cup
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-18T23:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/coach-fabio-capello-left-searching-for-england-team-at-soccer-s-world-cup.html

          
          
             England coach  Fabio Capello  is
looking for his team.  
 The Italian said the squad that struggled to a 0-0
draw with Algeria in Cape Town last night and was held to a
1-1 tie by the U.S. on June 12 bears little resemblance to
the squad of top-performing players he brought to South
Africa for the World Cup.  
 “This isn’t the England that I know,” Capello told
reporters after the game at Green Point stadium that left
England needing to beat Slovenia in its final Group C match
to be guaranteed advancement to the second round. “I hope
for the next game we forget these two performances and we
forget to play with fear and without confidence.”  
 England players including captain  Steven Gerrard ,
 Wayne Rooney  and  Frank Lampard  left the field to jeers from
supporters who had traveled to South Africa in hope of the
team ending a 44-year wait for another victory in a World
Cup final.  
 “They played absolute rubbish,” said Richard White,
44, a train driver from London. “I can’t believe I wasted
so much money coming here.”  
 One fan even got as far as the England team’s dressing
room. F.A. spokesman Mark Whittle said a man entered the
locker room and was ushered out by the team’s security
detail.  
 “They’ve come a long way and deserve a better
performance than that,” midfielder  Gareth Barry  told
reporters. “They wanted to see us attack teams, score
goals and win games obviously. Probably tonight we were
below par, so that’s the result you get -- boos.”  
 Rooney’s Struggles  
 England rarely showed glimpses of the form that
propelled it to the top of its qualification group. Rooney
failed to find any openings against an Algerian team 22
places below eighth-placed England in FIFA’s official
rankings. His play in the opening match with the United
States was also lackluster.  
 “Rooney didn’t play like Rooney, but he’s not the
problem,” said Capello, hired on a 6-million-pound ($8.9
million) annual salary in January 2008. “It’s incredible
the mistakes of the players,” he said. “Not controlling
the ball, missing easy passes -- this is incredible for the
level of England players.”  
 At the end of the game, Algeria’s players ran over to
acknowledge a pocket of cheering supporters as England
players trooped off the field with heads bowed.  
 “It’s a victory for us,” midfielder Ryad Boudebouz
said in an interview, comparing the result to the team’s
shock victory over Germany at the 1982 World Cup. “England
came here among the favorites and we’ve shown that we can
play against the best.”  
 Final Matches  
 Algeria, which lost 1-0 to Group C leader Slovenia in
its opening match, may qualify for the second stage if it
beats the U.S. in its last pool game on June 23. England
meets Slovenia the same day.  
 Hassan Yebda, who played in the Premier League for
Portsmouth last season, said he couldn’t understand why
England’s players haven’t managed to repeat their domestic
form in South Africa.  
 “It’s certainly a different level, but it’s not my
problem. It’s a problem for Capello,” he said.  
 Slovenia leads the group with four points, England and
the U.S. have two, and Algeria is last with one.  
 “We are still confident in our ability and we should
win on Wednesday,” said defender  Ashley Cole , who was
named man of the match. “We need to improve, everyone
knows that, and hopefully we will.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq  Panja at Green Point stadium via the London newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net ,  Mike Cohen  in
Cape Town at   mcohen21@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        