-- Cockatoo Expects Financing Deal for $3.5 Billion Coal Port in Second Half
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-18T00:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/cockatoo-expects-financing-deal-for-3-5-billion-coal-port-in-second-half.html

          
          
             Cockatoo Coal Ltd ., an Australian
coal producer, expects a funding agreement for construction of
a A$4 billion ($3.5 billion) port in Queensland state to be
completed in the second half this year.  
 “I’ve never seen an infrastructure project move on time,
there’re always constant shifts on the back of the constant
shifts in markets,” Greg Germon, investor relations manager of
Sydney-based Cockatoo Coal, said yesterday at a conference.
“We do expect financial close during the second half of this
year.”  
 Cockatoo Coal is part of an 18-member group, including  BHP
Billiton Ltd . and Xstrata Plc, formed to develop the Wiggins
Island Export Coal Terminal at the port of Gladstone. The
companies may miss the initial July deadline for the funding
agreement because of the government’s proposed mine profits tax,
the Australian newspaper reported this week, without saying
where it got the information.  
 “There are important milestones to reach prior to
achieving financial close,” Brooke Maki, a spokeswoman for the
group, said in an email.  
 Cockatoo, which started output last year after selling
shares on the Australian stock exchange in 2005, has climbed 17
percent this year.  
 Wiggins Island aims to ship a much as 70 million metric
tons of coal from 2013. The port is located 525 kilometers (326
miles) from the Queensland capital, Brisbane.  
 Cockatoo aims to secure 2 million to 3 million tons of
export capacity as part of the initial port allocation, Germon
said. This will coincide with the planned development of
Cockatoo’s Woori thermal coal project in the Surat Basin. The
project has a production target of 3 million ton to 3.5 million
tons.  
 Xstrata Project  
 The second stage of the Wiggins Island development may be
affected by Xstrata’s decision to suspend work on the proposed
A$6 billion Wandoan coal project in the Surat Basin, the
Australian reported.  
 Woori depends on approval of the Surat Basin Rail, also due
to open in 2013, Germon said. “We expect financial close for
Surat Rail in 2010 and while this project doesn’t necessarily
rely on Xstrata it is potentially subject to timing revisions.”  
 Cockatoo produced 523,000 tons of coal from the Baralaba
coal mine in the Bowen Basin, with pulverized coal used in
steelmaking making up about 60 percent of output and thermal
coal the remainder.  
 The company plans to increase output in the Bowen Basin to
3 million tons of pulverized and thermal coal as well as 3
million to 6 million tons of thermal coal from the Surat basin
over the next three to five years, Germon said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        