-- Colombia Peso Rallies on Optimism Santos Election Win to Spur Investment
-- Andrea Jaramillo
-- 2010-06-18T20:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/colombia-peso-rallies-on-optimism-santos-election-win-to-spur-investment.html

          
          
             Colombia’s peso and dollar bonds
rose for a fourth straight week on speculation former Defense
Minister  Juan Manuel Santos  will win the presidential election
this weekend, attracting record foreign direct investment.  
 The peso gained 0.8 percent this week to 1,909.60 per U.S.
dollar at 3:23 p.m. New York time and is up 7 percent this year,
the best performance among world currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to own dollar bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries has narrowed to 2.15 percentage
points today from 2.31 percentage points at the end of last
 week , according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Plus index.  
 Santos plans to boost infrastructure spending and tax
revenue while achieving annual economic growth of as much as 6
percent in two years, according to  Juan Carlos Echeverry , his
economic adviser. Santos is likely to win the second round vote
on June 20, according to a poll by Gallup Colombia published on
June 10. Investors are betting Santos will continue the policies
of President  Alvaro Uribe , said  Carola Sandy , an economist with
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York.  
 “We’re getting really bullish on Colombia,” said  Siobhan Morden , a Latin America debt strategist at RBS Securities Inc.
in Stamford, Connecticut. You consider “what the prospects can
be here and you don’t see that anywhere else in the region. It’s
exciting.”  
 Foreign Investment  
 Colombia will attract about $10 billion in foreign direct
investment this year, Trade Minister  Luis Guillermo Plata  has
said. The nation received $7.2 billion of foreign direct
investment in 2009 -- of which 80 percent went into oil, coal
and mining -- after a record $10.6 billion the previous year,
according to the central bank. Interbolsa SA, the nation’s
biggest brokerage, forecasts  investment  will jump to $11 billion
this year.  
 If elected, Santos will take over a government that’s
forecast to have a consolidated budget deficit of 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product, the highest level since 2002. Santos
aims to balance the nation’s budget by 2014, Echeverry said in a
June 10 interview.  
 After Colombia’s Conservative and Radical Change parties
endorsed Santos after the first-round vote, Santos has about 70
percent of backing in Congress, according to Sandy. Santos would
get 66.5 percent of the vote in presidential runoff, compared
with 27.4 percent for Green Party candidate  Antanas Mockus ,
according to the Gallup poll. The nationwide poll of 1,200 was
conducted June 5 to June 7 and has a margin of error of 3
percent.  
 Santos Vote  
 In the first round in May, Santos received 47 percent of
the vote compared with 21 percent for Mockus, the former mayor
of Bogota. While Santos fell short of the majority needed to
avoid a runoff, he had the widest margin of victory since the
runoff system began in 1991.  
 As Uribe’s defense minister from 2006 to 2009, Santos
oversaw some of the biggest defeats for the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, including a 2008 raid in Ecuador
that killed the Marxist rebels’ No. 2 leader, Raul Reyes.
Uribe’s security policies helped almost halve the number of
murders and slash kidnappings 93 percent by 2009, spurring
economic gains. The economy grew at its fastest pace in three
decades in 2007 and attracted a record $10.6 billion in foreign
direct investment in 2008.  
 Reigniting Growth  
 Santos, who studied economics at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the London School of Economics,
said his experience as finance minister and trade minister will
help him reignite growth after Colombia’s first recession in a
decade last year. The government expects the economy to grow 3
percent this year and 4 percent in 2011.  
 “There’s also the expectation that he will work on issues
that were left aside by Uribe” such as cutting a widening
budget deficit, Sandy said in a phone interview. “So there’s
optimism that not only will he do so but he should have quite a
bit of political capital in Congress.”  
 Colombia’s  IGBC Index  has climbed 7.7 percent this year,
beating the 6.1 percent retreat in Brazil’s Bovespa stock index
and 4.8 percent decline in the MSCI EM Latin America Index. The
rally pushed the IGBC index to 24.3 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.3 times for the Bovespa and 12.9
times for the MSCI measure.  
 “Colombia is still the hot topic in Latin America,” said
 Rupert Stebbings , general manager of Celfin Capital SA’s
Colombia unit, in a phone interview from Medellin. “It’s seen
as a very exciting story.”  
 The new government needs to address the “high”
 unemployment  rate that may be exacerbated as dollar inflows spur
job losses in the flower and textile industries as the
strengthening peso cuts exporter revenue, Stebbings said.
Colombia’s urban jobless rate jumped to a four-year high of 15.3
percent in January before falling to 12.4 percent in April.  
 Colombia is in the early stages of an oil “boom,” raising
the risk that a sudden surge of wealth that hampers expansion as
a strengthening peso erodes revenue from non-mining exporting
industries, Morgan Stanley said in a June 1 report. That type of
economic stagnation is known as “Dutch disease,” a term first
applied to an increase in income from new natural-gas fields in
the Netherlands during the 1960s.  
 Policy makers announced March 3 the central bank would buy
$20 million a day through June 30 to curb a rally they say left
the peso “misaligned.” While Banco de la Republica will end
the daily purchases this month, it will continue evaluating the
need to intervene in the market, bank chief Jose Dario Uribe
said today.  
 The peso declined 0.4 percent today, ending a nine-day
winning streak which was its longest in two years.  
 Finance Minister  Oscar Ivan Zuluaga  said this week that
Colombia is considering creating a stabilization fund where
excess oil and mining revenue is saved abroad.  
 “Politically Colombia is seen as very stable and it has
very high protection rights for investors” helping drive
foreign investment, said  Stebbings .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Colombian peso notes are arranged in Bogota, Colombia. Photographer: Scott Dalton/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
