-- Colombia May Keep Rate at Record Low 3% as Growth Isn't Fueling Inflation
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-18T15:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/colombia-may-keep-rate-at-record-low-3-as-growth-isn-t-fueling-inflation.html

          
          
             Colombia’s central bank will
probably keep its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a record
low as policy makers judge that the economy’s nascent recovery
doesn’t pose a threat of faster inflation.  
 The seven-member  board , led by bank President  Jose Dario Uribe , today will keep the  interbank rate  at 3 percent after
April’s surprise half-point cut, according to all 25 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank may also announce changes to its
program of daily dollar purchases, which expires at month-end.  
 The Finance Ministry this week raised its forecast for
economic growth this year to 3 percent from 2.5 percent. Still,
the International Monetary Fund expects Colombia’s recovery from
its first recession in a decade to lag behind its South American
neighbors. At the same time, the annual pace of consumer price
increases remains near the bottom of the central bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range.  
 “The economy is recovering faster than expected, without
generating inflationary pressure,” the bank said in the  minutes 
of its May 27 meeting.  
 Annual consumer price inflation quickened to 2.07 percent
in May, from 1.98 percent in April. Inflation will end the year
at 3.1 percent, according to the average estimate of 44
economists in a  central bank survey published June 10 .  
 “Inflation is completely under control,” said  Camila Estrada , head analyst at Helm Bank SA, who expects the bank to
hold rates until the first quarter of 2011.  
 Regional Policies, Growth  
 Colombian monetary policy is out of step with its faster-
growing neighbors  Brazil ,  Peru , and Chile, which have raised
rates in the past month to prevent their economies from
overheating.  
 The IMF is forecasting growth of 2.25 percent for the
Colombian economy this year, slower than all other regional
economies except Venezuela, which is in recession.  
 Today’s board meeting is the last before the bank’s program
of daily dollar purchases ends on June 30. On March 3, the bank
said it would buy $20 million each trading day through June, to
build reserves and limit the peso’s gains.  
 The bank is likely to extend or increase the level of
purchases, and may use today’s meeting to announce this,  Alberto Ramos , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a phone
interview from New York.  
 Peso’s Gain  
 Faster growth, the biggest  trade balance  in 21 months in
April and more government borrowing in dollars all tend to
strengthen the peso, Ramos said.  
 The Colombian peso has appreciated 9.9 percent in the last
12 months, the third-best performance against the dollar among
26 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after
Indonesia’s rupiah and Brazil’s real. At 11:14 a.m. New York
time, it traded at 1902.81 per dollar from 1902.27 yesterday.  
 “These are the levels when exporters start to complain,”
said Estrada. “The bank might say that the exchange rate is
misaligned from the level it considers appropriate.”  
 The government plans to sell $2.6 billion of bonds on
international markets in 2011, up from $800 million this year,
Finance Minister  Oscar Ivan Zuluaga  told reporters June 15. This
will increase demand for the Colombian currency when the
government repatriates the dollars raised from the bond sales.  
 Exports to Venezuela  
 Colombia’s growth is lagging other South American nations
in part because of a diplomatic dispute with Venezuela, which
caused a slump in  exports  to its second-largest trading partner
after the U.S.  
 “No other country in the region has a similar problem with
a trading partner,” said  Carola Sandy , an economist with Credit
Suisse Group AG, speaking by telephone from New York. “The pace
at which exports are falling is more than we were expecting.”  
 Exports to Venezuela fell 69 percent in April from the same
month in 2009, according the  national statistics agency . Trade
with Venezuela collapsed following a dispute in July 2009 over
the U.S. plans to strengthen its military presence in Colombia.  
 The fall in exports to Venezuela was offset by a 98 percent
 increase in exports  to the U.S. and a 172 percent in increase in
exports to China, which were mostly caused by an increase in oil
exports as crude prices recovered.  
 “Colombia is selling more oil to the U.S.,” said Sandy.
“For the industrial sector and food producers, more sales to
the U.S. don’t do anything.”  
 European Crisis, Elections  
 The financial crisis in Europe is unlikely to have a large
effect on Colombian growth unless it causes a sharp drop in the
price of oil or other commodities, said  Rupert Stebbings ,
Managing Director of the Colombian unit of Celfin Capital S.A, a
Santiago-based brokerage.  
 “Commodity prices are important for Colombia, but they’re
a lot more important for Peru and Chile, and they don’t seem to
be struggling too much,” Stebbings said.  
 Ramos estimated that there is a 5 percent chance of a
further rate cut today, if the bank sees significant risks to
the global economy and feels it can inject more stimulus without
jeopardizing its inflation target.  
 Today’s decision comes as Colombians prepare to vote in the
second round of presidential elections June 20. Former Defense
Minister  Juan Manuel Santos  is favored to defeat two-time Bogota
Mayor  Antanas Mockus  by almost 40 points, according to a Gallup
Colombia poll taken June 5-7.  
 Santos, running on the La U party ticket, won 47 percent of
in the first-round ballot May 30 versus 21 percent for Green
Party candidate Mockus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow51@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        