-- Colombia Keeps Rate at Record Low 3% as Growth Isn't Fueling Inflation
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-18T19:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/colombia-keeps-rate-at-record-low-3-as-growth-isn-t-fueling-inflation.html

          
          
             Colombia’s central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a record low as policy
makers judged that quickening economic growth doesn’t pose a
threat of higher inflation.  
 The seven-member  board , led by bank President  Jose Dario Uribe , kept the  interbank rate  at 3 percent after April’s
surprise half-point cut. Today’s decision matched the forecasts
of all 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 Colombia’s Finance Ministry this week raised its forecast
for economic growth this year to 3 percent from 2.5 percent.
Still, the International Monetary Fund expects Colombia’s
recovery from its first recession in a decade to lag behind its
South American neighbors. At the same time, the annual pace of
consumer price increases remains near the bottom of the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range.  
 “Inflation is completely under control,” said  Camila Estrada , the head analyst at Helm Bank SA. She expects policy
makers to hold rates until the first quarter of 2011.  
 Colombian monetary policy is out of step with its faster-
growing neighbors  Brazil ,  Peru , and Chile, which have raised
rates in the past month to prevent their economies from
overheating.  
 The IMF is forecasting growth of 2.25 percent for the
Colombian economy this year, slower than all other South
American economies except Venezuela, which is in recession.  
 “Information received in the last weeks indicate that the
Colombian economy is growing at a faster pace than expected
without generating inflationary pressure,” Uribe told
reporters.  
 Annual consumer price inflation quickened to 2.07 percent
in May, from 1.98 percent in April. Inflation will end the year
at 3.1 percent, according to the average estimate of 44
economists in a  central bank survey published June 10 .  
 Venezuela, Trade Flows  
 Colombia’s growth is lagging its neighbors in part because
of a diplomatic dispute with Venezuela, which caused a slump in
 exports  to its second-largest trading partner after the U.S.  
 “No other country in the region has a similar problem with
a trading partner,” said  Carola Sandy , an economist with Credit
Suisse Group AG, speaking by telephone from New York. “The pace
at which exports are falling is more than we were expecting.”  
 Exports to Venezuela fell 69 percent in April from the same
month in 2009, according the  national statistics agency . Trade
with Venezuela collapsed following a dispute in July 2009 over
the U.S. plans to strengthen its military presence in Colombia.  
 The fall in exports to Venezuela was offset by a 98 percent
 increase in exports  to the U.S. and a 172 percent in increase in
exports to China, which were mostly caused by an increase in oil
exports as crude prices recovered.  
 “Colombia is selling more oil to the U.S.,” Sandy said.
“For the industrial sector and food producers, more sales to
the U.S. don’t do anything.”  
 Europe, Election  
 The bank won’t continue buying $20 million daily in the
foreign-exchange market after June 30 and will evaluate the need
to intervene in the market, Uribe said.  
 The financial crisis in Europe is unlikely to have a large
effect on Colombian growth unless it causes a sharp drop in the
price of oil or other commodities, said  Rupert Stebbings ,
Managing Director of the Colombian unit of Celfin Capital SA, a
Santiago-based brokerage.  
 “Commodity prices are important for Colombia, but they’re
a lot more important for Peru and Chile, and they don’t seem to
be struggling too much,” Stebbings said.  
 Today’s decision came as Colombians prepare to vote in the
second round of presidential elections June 20. Former Defense
Minister  Juan Manuel Santos  is favored to defeat two-time Bogota
Mayor  Antanas Mockus  by almost 40 points, according to a Gallup
Colombia poll taken June 5-7.  
 Santos, running on the La U party ticket, won 47 percent of
in the first-round ballot May 30 versus 21 percent for Green
Party candidate Mockus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow51@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        