-- Colombia Coal Mine Rescue Operations Hampered by Toxic Gas, Burials Begin
-- Heather Walsh
-- 2010-06-18T18:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/colombia-coal-mine-rescue-operations-hampered-by-toxic-gas-burials-begin.html

          
          
             Colombian rescue workers are
attempting to disperse toxic gas that has hampered the recovery
of victims of a June 16 coal mine explosion and cave-in.  
 Nine of 18 bodies found so far were buried today in Amaga
in northwestern Colombia, according to the regional government
of Antioquia, where the San Fernando mine is located. Additional
funerals are scheduled tomorrow as rescuers search for 54 more
missing workers.  
 President  Alvaro Uribe  said his government is opening a
probe into safety at the mine that he will visit tomorrow,
according to the presidential website. Colombian regulators need
to increase oversight of the nation’s mines to avoid more
accidents, Senator  Enrique Velez , who represents the province of
Antioquia, said yesterday.  
 “Colombia needs work to catch up” on safety requirements,
 Rupert Stebbings , head of the Colombian unit of Chilean
brokerage Celfin Capital SA, said today in a telephone interview
from Medellin.  
 The likelihood of finding survivors “isn’t great” in what
may be the nation’s most deadly mine disaster since 1977,
Antioquia Governor Luis Alfredo Ramos said yesterday. At least
143 people died in a mine disaster, he told Radio W then.  
 The San Fernando mine accident occurred as workers were
preparing to end their shifts, according to the regional
government.  
 Domestic Supplies  
 The mine produces 240,000 tons a year of coal to supply the
domestic market, Mario Ballesteros, director of the Colombian
Institute of Geology and Mining, has said.  
 The mine is owned by Carbones San Fernando SA, according to
the Antioquia government’s website. The town of Amaga is dotted
with small coal mines.  
 Colombia is South America’s largest producer of coal and
the world’s fourth-largest coal exporter, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. Companies including Anglo
American Plc, BHP Billiton Plc and Glencore International AG
mine for the fuel in Colombia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Walsh  in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        