-- Costa Rica May Step Up `Interventions' in Currency Market, Bolanos Says
-- Blake Schmidt
-- 2010-06-18T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/costa-rica-may-step-up-interventions-in-currency-market-bolanos-says.html

          
          
             Costa Rica’s  central bank  may
intervene more frequently in the foreign-exchange market to
reduce swings in the currency, said bank President  Rodrigo Bolanos .  
 “We’re looking at the possibility of interventions,”
Bolanos, 59, said in a phone interview from San Jose. “We would
want to smooth fluctuations from one day to the next.”  
 Costa Rica’s colon has surged 6.9 percent this year against
the U.S. dollar, the second-best performance in the world after
the Colombian peso, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
was unchanged at 528.75 today. The colon floats within a
“crawling band” set by the central bank to maintain a stable
currency and help keep inflation in check. The bank hasn’t
bought or sold dollars to intervene since August 2009.  
 Bolanos, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Chicago , said he wants to transition the colon
from its “crawling band” to a “dirty float” by the end of
his four-year term. In the meantime, he’s evaluating whether to
buy and sell dollars more frequently to ease currency
fluctuations fueled by global market swings.  
 The  band  ranged from 500 to 634.25 yesterday, according to
the central bank’s website. The upper end of the band increases
0.2 colon each day.  
 Vice President Luis Liberman, the former head of the Bank
of Nova Scotia in Costa Rica, said May 5 the central bank should
“intervene” in the currency market to curtail volatility that
has cut profits for exporters.  
 Carry Trade  
 The currency is benefiting from the so-called carry trade,
in which investors borrow in nations with low interest rates to
buy higher-yielding assets, Liberman said.  
 “They want to reduce the volatility by intervening in the
middle of the trading band,” said  Boris Segura , a Latin America
economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut. He
was an adviser to Bolanos in 1995, during his first term as the
bank’s president.  
 The central bank is seeking to introduce a forwards market
by next month that would allow exporters to lock in exchange
rates, Bolanos said.  
 Costa Rica may need to “tighten” monetary policy to slow
inflation that may exceed the central bank’s target range of 4
percent to 6 percent for 2010, the International Monetary Fund
said June 1 in a review of the country’s performance under a 15-
month, $735 million emergency credit line.  
 Bolanos said he has no immediate plans to revise the
inflation target.  
 The central bank may increase its 2010 growth forecast to
more than 4 percent next month, up from 3.2 percent, he said.  
 Costa Rica’s $29.4 billion economy will grow 3.8 percent
this year, the second-fastest in Central America after Panama’s
estimated 5 percent expansion, the IMF said in a statement June
9. Gross domestic product shrank 1.1 percent in 2009.  
 Bolanos replaced Francisco de Paula Gutierrez, who during
his two terms changed the exchange-rate regime from a 23-year-
old system of “mini-devaluations” in 2006.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Blake Schmidt  in Granada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        