-- CVS Caremark, Walgreen Reach Agreement on Drug Plans
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-06-18T20:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/cvs-caremark-walgreen-reach-agreement-on-drug-plans-after-11-day-dispute.html

          
          
             Walgreen Co.  and  CVS Caremark Corp. ,
the largest U.S. drugstore chains, agreed to allow pharmacy-
benefits customers to keep filling prescriptions at Walgreen’s
locations, ending an 11-day dispute. Both stocks rose.  
 The companies aren’t disclosing the financial terms of the
deal, they said in a joint statement today. Walgreen said June 7
that it would stop taking part in new prescription-drug plans
managed by CVS Caremark. Two days later, CVS Caremark announced
plans to cut Walgreen out of its retail pharmacy network.  
 The accord means CVS Caremark, based in Woonsocket, Rhode
Island, will deflect complaints from customers of its pharmacy-
benefits management, or PBM, living in areas mainly served by
Walgreen, the biggest drugstore chain. Walgreen will avoid
losing almost $5 billion in annual sales.  
 “Both sides had good reasons to resolve this situation
quickly,” said  Adam Fein , president of Philadelphia-based
Pembroke Consulting Inc., a health-care distribution consulting
firm. “CVS Caremark needed to minimize damage to its PBM
business, while Walgreen faced an enormous revenue hit from the
loss of Caremark. Everyone also recognized the enormous
disruption for patients caused by a permanent split.”  
 Walgreen , based in Deerfield, Illinois, rose 82 cents, or
2.8 percent, to $30.09 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  CVS Caremark  advanced 59 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $32.43.  
 On June 9, CVS Caremark had said it would cut off Walgreen
in 30 days. The companies were wrangling over the fees  CVS
Caremark  pays to reimburse stores in its pharmacy network, with
Walgreen saying the unpredictability of repayment rates has
hindered financial planning. CVS Caremark responded that
Walgreen’s rates are comparable to those of other large chains.  
 Walgreen Pleased  
 “We are very pleased with the outcome of this mutual,
multi-year agreement that meets our business objectives,”
 Kermit Crawford , Walgreen’s executive vice president of
pharmacy, said in the statement. “The agreement makes good
business sense.”  
 The deal will help enhance network stability and lessen
disruption to patients,  Per Lofberg , president of CVS Caremark’s
pharmacy benefit management business, said in the statement.  
 The Caremark unit negotiates drug prices with manufacturers
and drugstores for company and government clients. Participants
can buy drugs through the mail or a network of stores that have
agreed to CVS Caremark’s prices, including  Walgreen ’s locations.  
 Walgreen had cited CVS Caremark’s Maintenance Choice
program as one of the reasons for its initial withdrawal from
the company’s retail pharmacy network, saying it limits patient
choice. The program makes its users fill prescriptions for long-
term illnesses through CVS Caremark’s outlets or through its
mail-order program.  
 Investigation  
 “As long as the benefit design is not changing, that’s a
win for CVS,” said  Thomas Gallucci , an analyst at New York-
based Lazard Capital Markets. “But the speed at which this got
done suggests that both sides realized they had something to
lose.”  
 Ties between the Caremark unit and CVS’s retail stores,
brought together in a 2007 merger, are under investigation by
the Federal Trade Commission and at least 24 U.S. states.  
 CVS Caremark  rejects the idea that its operation of
programs like Maintenance Choice is violating antitrust law, it
said in a statement this month.  
 The resolution may relieve Manhattan residents with CVS
Caremark drug plans because they will still be able to go
through stores owned by Walgreen. The company agreed to buy
Duane Reade Holdings Inc. this year to become the largest
drugstore chain in the five boroughs. There are 13 Walgreen
stores and 151 Duane Reade locations in Manhattan, compared with
35 for CVS Caremark.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A CVS Store  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Barry/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A person enters a CVS store and pharmacy in Newark, New Jersey. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A person enters a CVS store and pharmacy in Newark, New Jersey. Photographer: Daniel Barry/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers check out at a Walgreen's store in New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
