-- Czech President Klaus Says He'll Name a New Central Bank Governor Today
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-18T07:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/czech-president-klaus-says-he-ll-name-a-new-central-bank-governor-today.html

          
          
             Czech President  Vaclav Klaus , the
country’s most high-profile euroskeptic, will name a new central
bank governor today to replace  Zdenek Tuma , who will step down
at the end of this month.  
 Klaus will make the announcement at 1 p.m. at Prague
Castle, according to an e-mailed statement from his office in
Prague. It didn’t say who Klaus will name to replace the 49-
year-old Tuma, who announced his resignation on April 15, almost
eight months before his second six-year term was to expire.  
 With the appointment, along with the naming of three new
central bank board members when their terms end in February
2011, Klaus has a chance to reshape monetary policy as the
nation moves toward euro adoption. Tuma said he was leaving his
post early to limit the period of “uncertainty” related to
personnel changes at the bank.  
 Vice Governor  Miroslav Singer , who is one of the members
whose term ends early next year, is seen as a possible candidate
to lead the bank, the business newspaper Hospodarske Noviny
 reported  the day after Tuma announced he was stepping down. Tuma
has said several times he isn’t part of any debate on his
potential successor.  
 ‘Negative’ Consequences  
 The central bank has widely been seen by investors as
politically independent, though the president has the sole
mandate to choose board members. It has urged government
spending cuts after the worst recession in 20 years, and while
the country doesn’t have a target to adopt the euro, policy
makers have remained mostly neutral on the currency switch.  
 Klaus, who delayed signing the European Union’s Lisbon
Treaty last year and has opposed a rush into the euro area, has
said he expects no “negative economic consequences” from
Tuma’s resignation and that the central bank will perform “as
it always has.” Tuma’s replacement will be the third central
bank chief since the fall of communism in 1989.  
 An economist who studied in England, the Netherlands and
the U.S., Tuma, 49, is credited with having been quick to react
to the global financial crisis by pushing for  interest-rate  cuts
earlier than many of his peers. The Czech benchmark two-week
repurchase rate sits at a record-low 1 percent, following a
series of cuts from 3.75 percent since August 2008.  
 Tuma was appointed as vice governor at the bank in 1999 and
became the head on Dec. 1, 2000. He was re-appointed to a second
term in February 2005 by Klaus. Tuma also has worked for the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Patria
Finance in Prague.  
 Tuma will chair one more rate-setting session on June 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        