-- Czech Banks to Resist Shock, Although Some Risks Remain, Central Bank Says
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-18T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/czech-banks-to-resist-shock-although-some-risks-remain-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             The Czech banking industry, which
resisted the financial crisis without government aid, has enough
capital to handle any further economic contraction that may
occur through next year, the central bank said.  
 Shareholders may need to inject more capital in some banks
if the “most pessimistic scenario” used in the central bank’s
stress tests materializes, the Prague-based  Ceska Narodni Banka 
said today in Prague, without naming the banks it sees at risk.  
 “In none of the stress scenarios the banking sector as a
whole moves under critical levels of solvency,” the bank said
in a report. “At the same time, some institutions would sustain
losses that could require capital injections from shareholders
if the economy developed under alternative scenarios.”  
 The Czech Republic is emerging from the worst recession
since the end of communism 20 years ago as the global crisis
curbed demand for its exports, mainly cars and electronics
goods. The recovery is still fragile and risks for financial
stability remain “strong,” the central bank said in the
report.  
 Czech banks, majority owned by foreign institutions
including KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale and Erste Group Bank
AG, suffered a smaller direct impact from the economic crisis
than their peers in western Europe and some other former
communist nations, such as Hungary and the Baltic states.  
 Toxic Securities  
 Toxic securities held by Czech banks accounted for less
than 1 percent of all assets, while the banks had a liquidity
surplus and deposits exceeded loans, according to central bank
 data .  
 The most pessimistic stress test scenario, called the
“loss of confidence,” would lead to banking industry losses
representing about 2 percent of its overall assets. This
development would require a “relatively small” capital
injection totaling about 5 billion koruna ($241.5 million),
which is less than 0.15 percent of gross domestic product, the
central bank said.  
 The major threats for financial stability include a risk
of renewed recession in western Europe, the main market for
Czech exports, and a possible loss of market confidence in the
government’s ability to finance growing debt, the bank added.  
 The Czechs had smaller exposure to foreign currency loans,
which brought some Eastern European countries to verge of
default during the global credit crisis after households and
corporate sector borrowed in euros and Swiss francs when
domestic interest rates exceeded levels in western Europe.  
 The Czech economy expanded on an annual basis in the
first three months for the first time in five quarters, with GDP
growing 1.1 percent from a year earlier after a 3.2 percent
contraction in the previous quarter, the statistics
office said on June 9.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        