-- Danone Merges Russian Dairy Unit With Unimilk to Triple Sales in Region
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-18T11:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/danone-merges-russian-dairy-unit-with-unimilk-to-triple-sales-in-region.html

          
          
             Groupe Danone SA , the world’s
largest yogurt maker, will combine its Russian dairy-product
unit with OAO Unimilk to become the biggest dairy company in
that market.  
 Danone will take a controlling stake in the venture, which
will have 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in sales, the Paris-
based company said in a statement today. Danone will invest 120
million euros in Unimilk and put assets in the new business as
part of the agreement.  
 Russia will become Danone’s  second-biggest market  after the
deal, Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said on a
conference call. Food companies are expanding in Russia to tap
demand as an economic rebound leads consumers to switch to
higher-end branded products.  Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, said this week it will build a factory in Russia for
Maggi-brand items.  
 “Danone has been eyeing the eastern European market for
quite some time, and with this move, Danone now becomes the key
player in that market,” wrote  Jean-Philippe Bertschy , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich. He advises clients to buy
the stock.  
 Emerging Markets  
 The purchase, scheduled for completion in the fourth
quarter, will increase the percentage of sales  Danone  gets from
emerging markets to 46 percent from 42 percent, the company
said. It should add 0.5 percentage points to 1 percentage point
to Danone’s total annual sales growth, Terisse said.  
 “What we like is that the deal heightens Danone’s emerging
markets profile,” wrote  Andreas von Arx , an analyst at Helvea
AG in Zurich with an “accumulate” rating on the stock.  
 Consumption of dairy products in emerging markets is
rising. The French on average eat one cup a day, compared with
less than one cup every two days in Unimilk’s markets, Danone
said.  
 “The potential is huge,” said  Jean-Marie L’Home , an
analyst at Aurel, estimating sales growth of as much as 20
percent over the next four years. Danone-Unimilk will be the
biggest Russian dairy company, with its market share at
21 percent, he said.  
 Danone  rose  20 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 44.30 euros at
1:25 p.m. in Paris trading, bringing the advance this  year  to
3.4 percent.  
 Shareholders  
 Danone said it will control 57.5 percent of the new company
while current shareholders of Unimilk will have 42.5 percent.
Unimilk  shareholders  have put options giving them the right to
sell their stake to Danone by 2022.  
 Unimilk said in 2008 it would consider an initial public
offering in 2009. Danone may have bought the company to avoid
having another listed competitor on the stock market, Helvea’s
Von Arx said.  
 The accord will raise the French company’s  debt  by 1.3
billion euros and add to its earnings per share as of 2011.
Unimilk’s 2009 revenue rose 7 percent to 1 billion euros.  
 Danone doesn’t expect the purchase to affect its credit
ratings, Terisse said. Moody’s rates its long-term debt A3, the
seventh of 10 levels considered investment grade.  
 “The deal isn’t large enough to exclude future
acquisitions,” said  Barbara Ambrus , an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany.  
 Danone will inform investors whether it will start a
buyback program in the second half, and the company could
repurchase as much as 500 million euros of stock, Terisse said.  
 The new company will compete in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan
and Belarus, with a “large brand portfolio” and about 30
production sites in the region, Terisse said, adding that sales
and cost synergies will come “quickly.”  
 Danone-Unimilk’s chairman will be Andrey Beskhmelnitsky,
who is chief executive of Unimilk.  Filip Kegels , who heads
Danone Fresh Dairy Products in eastern Europe, will take charge
of operational management of the entity, according to the
statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        