-- Phil Mickelson Says He's in `Good Spot' Entering U.S. Open's Weekend Play
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-06-19T19:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/de-jonge-takes-lead-at-golf-s-u-s-open-tiger-woods-makes-first-birdie.html

          
          
             Phil Mickelson  is tied for
second place midway through golf’s U.S. Open, two strokes
behind leader  Graeme McDowell  entering the weekend.
Mickelson said he’s more concerned about where he stands
relative to par.  
 “I’m in a good spot,” Mickelson said yesterday after
firing a 5-under-par 66, the best round so far of the
tournament at Pebble Beach Golf Links in California. “I
don’t look at the leaderboard, I don’t look at other
players. I look at par.”  
 After failing to make a birdie during his first-round
75, Mickelson made a charge yesterday with five over the
first eight holes. He took 25 putts over 18 holes -- tied
for the fewest in the second round -- and is 1-under par
overall at the season’s second major championship.  
 The early highlight of today’s third round was a hole-
in-one by Thailand’s  Thongchai Jaidee  on the 181-yard, par-
3 fifth hole. The  U.S. Golf Association  said it was the
41st hole-in-one in U.S. Open history and the first since
 Peter Hedblom  had one in the third round in 2006 at Winged
Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, New York.  
 Northern Ireland’s McDowell has the lead at 3-under
par, following up his opening-round 71 with a 68 yesterday.
McDowell, who won the Wales Open two weeks ago for his
fifth European Tour title, has improved in each of his four
U.S. Open appearances and tied for 18th in 2009 at 4-over
par.  
 Mickelson, who is No. 2 in the Official World Rankings
behind  Tiger Woods , has been runner-up at the U.S. Open
five times, including a tie for second last year at
Bethpage State Park’s Black Course in New York.  
 “This is the only tournament really in professional
golf that brings out  Bobby Jones ’s old saying of, ‘playing
against Old Man Par,’” Mickelson said. “If you just can
stay around par you’re going to be in the tournament on
Sunday, and that’s kind of the goal.”  
 Woods Trails by 7  
 Woods, a three-time U.S. Open champion, is seven
strokes off the lead entering the third round, tied for
25th place at 4-over par after rounds of 74 and 72.  
 Woods had three birdies and four bogeys yesterday
after failing to make a birdie during the opening round.  
 “As we know, the U.S. Open is only going to get
tougher as the weekend goes,” Woods said. “I’m going to
have to make a few more birdies.”  
 When he won the 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, Woods
was 8-under par after 36 holes and had a six-shot lead.  
 Of the 83 players who made the cut this year by
finishing within 10 shots of the lead, only five are below
par.  
 Tied with Mickelson at 1-under are two-time U.S. Open
winner  Ernie Els  of South Africa,  Dustin Johnson  of the
U.S. and 18-year-old  Ryo Ishikawa  of Japan. Els had five
birdies yesterday to match McDowell with a second-round 68.  
 “It’s been a long time since I won one of these,”
said the 40-year-old Els, who won U.S. Opens in 1994 and
1997. “We’ve got a long way to go, but I needed a round
like today to get me back in the tournament.”  
 Even Par  
 Britain’s  Paul Casey  is even par, along with Germany’s
 Alex Cejka , Zimbabwe’s Brendon de Jonge and  Jerry Kelly  of
the U.S. South Korea’s  K.J. Choi , Britain’s  Ian Poulter  and
Denmark’s  Soren Kjeldsen  are 1 over.  
 Sixty-year-old  Tom Watson , who won the 1982 U.S. Open
at Pebble Beach, made the cut at 7-over par. Watson was
among those who qualified for the weekend thanks to a bogey
by McDowell yesterday on the 18th hole that left him 3-
under par.  
 Twenty-five players are 7 over, including two-time
U.S. Open winner  Retief Goosen ,  Sergio Garcia ,  Zach Johnson ,  Mike Weir ,  Stewart Cink  and  Stuart Appleby .  
 Among those who didn’t qualify for weekend play were
2006 U.S. Open champion  Geoff Ogilvy  of Australia and PGA
Championship winner Y.E. Yang of South Korea, who struggled
to a second-round 83 that included five bogeys, a double-
bogey and two triple-bogeys over the final nine holes.  
 Mickelson played in a group with Yang yesterday and
was putting so well he said he can’t wait to get back on
the course. The three-time Masters champion doesn’t tee off
until 3:30 p.m. local time today and said he’ll spend the
early part of the day with his family, who arrived in
Monterey, California, last night.  
 “We’ll probably do what we did at Augusta,” said
Mickelson, who in April won his third Masters title at
Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia. “Maybe go to
breakfast and play a little chess with the kids.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        