-- Japanese Teachers' Fund Mulls First Investments in REITs to Hedge Risks
-- Katsuyo Kuwako
-- 2010-06-18T00:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/teachers-fund-may-invest-in-property-trusts-for-first-time-to-hedge-risks.html

          
          
             Japan’s  Teachers’ Mutual Aid Co-
operative Society , which manages $7 billion on behalf of its
members, may invest in real estate investment trusts for the
first time to hedge risks.  
 The 45-year-old organization is re-evaluating its holdings
after Japan eased rules on real estate investments by
cooperatives, said  Toru Higuchi , a general manager of the
organization’s asset management department. Teachers’ Mutual Aid
will complete and execute the plan in 2012, he said.  
 “What used to be considered ‘safe’ investments no longer
exist,” Higuchi said in an interview in Tokyo. “When we think
about investments that can be used to hedge against risks and
offer stable return, REITs are the answer.”  
 Japanese pension funds plan to diversify after two decades
of slumping returns at home and as the nation’s population ages.
Thirty-seven percent of 69 Japanese pension funds surveyed by
JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Ltd. plan to increase
alternative investments that include real estate, according to a
survey released on April 20.  
 Thirty-three percent of pension funds that replied to the
survey said they plan to cut their holdings in domestic stocks.  
 In the year ended March 2009, 42 percent of the Teachers’
Mutual’s assets were in government and corporate bonds. It had
9.3 percent of assets in Japanese stocks, 9.8 percent in foreign
bonds and 6.2 percent in overseas stocks.  
 Outperformers  
 The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index  has a dividend yield of
6.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data, compared with 1.8
percent for the benchmark Topix index. The  REIT index  has gained
2.1 percent this year, while the Topix has dropped 2.2 percent.  
 Teachers’ Mutual, which manages 639.6 billion yen, is also
considering adding more U.S. government bonds, Higuchi said.
“Growth rates in developed countries like the U.S. are likely
to outpace Japan due to the country’s aging population,” he
said.  
 The 537,000-member organization offers teachers coverage
including medical, automobile and fire insurance. Teachers’
Mutual earned returns on assets of 0.3 percent in the year ended
March 2010 and had a loss of 0.6 percent in book value in the
previous year, according to its statements.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        