-- Lebanon Cabinet Approves First Budget in Five Years Amid Rising Deficit
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-06-18T21:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/lebanon-cabinet-approves-first-budget-in-five-years-amid-rising-deficit.html

          
          
             Lebanon’s Cabinet approved a draft
2010 budget, the first budget to be endorsed in five years by a
government, in a country marred by political differences that
have obstructed policy-making decisions.  
 The Cabinet approved the budget late yesterday evening,
Information Minister  Tariq Mitri  said.  
 Finance Minister  Raya Haffar el-Hassan  sent the draft
budget to the Cabinet in April. It calls for a 15.5 percent
increase in expenditures and forecasts a deficit of $4 billion,
or 10.7 percent of gross domestic product, compared with 8.6
percent last year.  
 The budget must now be sent to parliament for discussion.
If approved, it would become the first budget ratified since
2005 following political disagreements, a monthlong war with
Israel and internal civil strife.  
 Lebanon’s economy weathered the global financial crisis,
expanding 9 percent last year and 8.5 percent in 2008. The
pegging of the Lebanese pound to the dollar, combined with high
interest rates, helped local banks to attract more than $1.5
billion a month from abroad last year.  
 Banks kept interest rates on deposits in Lebanese pounds at
about 7 percent, while rates elsewhere in the world tumbled. The
inflow of funds enabled commercial banks to finance the fiscal
deficit while the central bank was able to reduce reserve
requirements on lending for housing, health care, education,
environmental projects and startup businesses.  
 Real Estate, Tourism  
 Real estate and tourism will help the economy to grow as
much as 8 percent this year,  Central Bank  Governor  Riad Salameh 
said in a June 9 interview.  
 Even with the economy performing ‘remarkably well,”
Lebanon’s public debt as a proportion of gross domestic product
remains among the world’s highest, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report earlier this month. Lebanon faces
challenges including financing the debt and selling or
restructuring state-owned companies, according to the fund
report.  
 Prime Minister  Saad Hariri’s  government, which was formed
in November, has to finance a public debt that reached $52
billion at the end of February, or about 147 percent of GDP.
Lebanon accumulated the debt as it rebuilt the country after a
 15-year civil war  that ended in 1990 and the conflict with
Israel in 2006.  
 The Cabinet’s approval of the budget “improves confidence
in the decision-making process even though it’s a protracted
process especially since this is the first budget in five
years,” said  Nassib Ghobril , head of research at  Byblos Bank
SAL  in Beirut.  
 Fiscal Deficit  
 “The budget is expansionary and widens the fiscal deficit,
which maintains the cycle of borrowing by the government,”
Ghobril added. “The key is in the efficiency of the spending
and then focusing on bottlenecks in the economy, such as the
infrastructure.”  
 Salameh, the Central Bank governor, said in a June 9
interview with Bloomberg News that public debt should be reduced
to 139 percent of GDP. Debt reached a peak of 180 percent of GDP
at the end of 2006.  
 Plans to sell two state-owned mobile phone operators, which
previous governments had hoped would raise as much as $7
billion, were put on hold because of an 18-month political
crisis that eased in May 2008 and later by the global credit
crisis and parliamentary elections in June of last year.
Restructuring the state-owned power company,  Electricite du
Liban , which cost the government $1.5 billion in subsidies last
year, has also been delayed.  
 Moody’s Investors Service upgraded Lebanon’s local and
foreign currency bond ratings in April to B1, four levels below
investment grade. Standard & Poor’s rates Lebanon at B, five
levels below investment grade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        