-- Lebanon Has `No Fear' of Creating Housing Bubble, Vice Central Banker Says
-- Massoud A. Derhally
-- 2010-06-18T09:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/lebanon-has-no-fear-of-creating-housing-bubble-vice-central-banker-says.html

          
          
             Growth in Lebanon’s real-estate
market, which has helped to spur economic growth, is unlikely to
create a housing bubble, the country’s  central bank  Vice
Governor  Saad Andary  said.  
 “Out of each 100 dollars spent on property acquisition,
not more than 16 to 18 dollars are financed by banks,” Andary
said in an interview in Istanbul today. “The rest is hard cash,
mainly from Lebanese from abroad. We have no fear from a housing
bubble.”  
 Real-estate transactions in Lebanon more than doubled in
value in the first quarter, to $2.1 billion, from a year
earlier,  Banque Audi SAL-Audi Saradar Group  SAL said in a report
last month. The number of transactions climbed 41 percent to
22,059, the bank said.  
 Real-estate investment in Lebanon reached $7 billion in
2009 as a result of improved political and security conditions,
Economy and Trade Minister  Mohammed Safadi  said last month.
Lebanese buyers accounted for 80 percent to 90 percent of the
market, Safadi said.  
 Lebanon’s economy weathered the global financial crisis,
expanding 9 percent last year and 8.5 percent in 2008. The
pegging of the Lebanese pound to the dollar, combined with high
interest rates, helped local banks to attract more than $1.5
billion a month from abroad.  
 Banks kept interest rates on deposits in Lebanese pounds at
about 7 percent, while rates elsewhere in the world tumbled. The
inflow of funds enabled commercial banks to finance the fiscal
deficit, estimated at 10.7 percent of gross domestic product
this year; the central bank was able to reduce reserve
requirements on lending for housing, health care, education,
environmental projects and start-up businesses.  
 Real estate and tourism will help the economy to grow as
much as 8 percent this year,  Central Bank  Governor  Riad Salameh 
said in a June 9 interview. Credit leaped by about 16 percent in
2009 and is likely to rise by a similar amount this year,
 Salameh  said in an earlier interview on Jan. 20.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seda Sezer  in Istanbul at 
 ssezer2@bloomberg.net ;
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        