-- Hedge-Fund Survival Skills to Be Tested by Increased European Regulation
-- Saijel Kishan
-- 2010-06-18T15:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/hedge-fund-survival-skills-to-be-tested-as-eu-seeks-to-increase-regulation.html

          
          
             Hedge-fund managers and investors
gathered in Monaco this week said an overhaul of the U.K.’s
financial regulator and new rules proposed by the European Union
may prove as hard to navigate as volatile financial markets.  
 “The survival instincts that many hedge-fund managers have
in markets they’re also going to have to display in facing up to
regulatory challenges,”  Rick Sopher , managing director of LCF
Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management Ltd., which has invested
in hedge funds for more than four decades, said at the  GAIM
International  conference. “They’re going to be subject to some
really rash and nasty regulation.”  
 U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said June
16 that he will abolish the Financial Services Authority and
give most of its power to the Bank of England, undoing the
regulatory system set up by Gordon Brown in 1997. European
lawmakers next month plan to release the final draft of the
Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive that would
limit borrowing by hedge funds and private-equity firms.  
 The rules will also likely restrict European investors’
access to hedge funds based outside the 27-nation nation bloc.  
 “More regulation will increase the cost of doing business
for existing managers and barriers to entry for new managers,”
said  Cedric Kohler , head of the hedge-fund advisory business at
Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie., a Geneva-based private
bank. “The industry could experience a higher proportion of
managers going out of business.”  
 Witch Hunt  
 French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel called on Europe this month to speed up curbs on
financial speculation, saying some bets against stocks and
government bonds should be banned as markets suffer a resurgence
of volatility. Germany last month banned some naked short-
selling, or betting against a security without ever being in
possession of it.  
 “The real issue is the pressure politicians put on
regulators to look for scapegoats, and clearly this is an
industry that has been scapegoated,” said  Bernard Oppetit ,
chairman of Centaurus Capital Ltd., a London-based hedge-fund
firm. “There’s an enormous witch hunt going on and pressure to
find victims. We have to be prepared for very harsh measures.”  
 Overnight changes in regulation, such as Germany’s attempt
to restrict wagers against sovereign debt, are disruptive, said
 Michael Novogratz , president and co-founder of Fortress
Investment Group LLC in New York, which manages $30.2 billion.  
 Fortress is less concerned that European governments will
have trouble repaying debt than with “the real risk that Angela
Merkel could change the rules,” Novogratz told the conference.
“It’s made all those risks higher -- you have to put them into
your calculations.”  
 Reputational Risk  
 The political climate has complicated investing in hedge
funds by institutions such as pension funds, conference speakers
said.  
 “The reputational risk, rightly or wrongly, is an issue,”
 Mike Powell , who is investing 2 billion pounds ($2.96 billion)
in as many as 30 hedge funds for the U.K.’s Universities
Superannuation Scheme Ltd., said at the conference. “If
something goes wrong in a hedge-fund portfolio, it gets a lot
more publicity.”  
 Many hedge-fund managers are starting Ucits, funds known by
the acronym for Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, because the regulatory framework is
more stable.  
 “The big trend we’re seeing in Ucits is at least partly
triggered by regulators pushing on hedge funds,” according to
Aarnout Snouck Hurgronje, a director at Paris-based AXA SA’s
fund-of-funds business, who said European investments in hedge
funds have “dried up.” “Ucits at least have the regulators
stamp of approval on it.”  
 Unwanted Distraction  
 European politicians aren’t alone in stepping up
regulations. U.S. lawmakers are proposing to require hedge funds
that manage more than $100 million to register with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, subjecting them to audits,
and to provide information on trades so authorities can assess
systemic risk. European managers may face more new regulation
than their counterparts in the U.S.  
 “I would rather invest in U.S. or Asian hedge funds than
European because they aren’t going to be subject to the
changes,” said  Marie-Claude Bernal , who runs a Boston firm that
invests for wealthy families. “European managers are going to
spend all their time worrying about new regulations.”  
 Byron Wien , vice chairman of New York-based Blackstone
Group LP’s advisory-services division, said hedge-fund returns
will suffer as managers try to cope with added regulation.  
 “The more time a manager has to spend on these issues the
more he’s distracted from his real purpose, which is making
money,” Wien said.  
 ‘Forced Purchases’  
 The regulatory changes show policy makers are frustrated
with their inability to influence financial markets and reverse
deflation that’s making it harder to pay down government debt,
said  Hugh Hendry , founder of Eclectica Asset Management, a
London-based hedge-fund firm. “The next step is to ban
speculation.”  
 Rothschild’s Sopher said he expects “once a quarter” that
regulators will try to show they’re tough on hedge funds with
aggressive and public enforcement actions, such as the FSA’s
pre-dawn raid of Moore Capital Management LLC trader Julian
Rifat’s house in March, as part of an insider-trading inquiry.
There will be more bans on short-selling and other measures
deemed politically offensive, he said.  
 “From there it’s just a short mental step to forced
purchases of government bonds for institutions and limitations
on paper gold trading,” Sopher said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Cahill  in London at 
 tcahill@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        