-- Medvedev Promotes Ruble as World Reserve Currency to Cut Dollar Dominance
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-06-19T13:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/medvedev-talks-up-russia-s-ruble-as-global-reserve-currency-of-the-future.html

          
          
             Russia wants the ruble to be one of
the world’s reserve currencies as President  Dmitry Medvedev 
renews his push to reduce the dollar’s dominance and make Moscow
a global financial hub.  
 “Only three, five years ago it seemed like a fantasy” to
create a new reserve currency, Medvedev said yesterday in a
speech in St. Petersburg, Russia. “Now we are seriously
discussing it.”  
 Medvedev, who has repeatedly called for a supranational
currency to match the dollar, said discussions with China are
continuing on broadening the global options. Russia sold U.S.
Treasuries for a fifth consecutive month in April, the U.S.
Treasury Department said June 15. The world may need as many as
six reserve currencies, Medvedev said.  
 “It’s something that’s obviously needed,” he said at the
St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. “Developing a
financial center in Moscow will considerably help to strengthen
the ruble’s position as one of the reserve currencies.”  
 Reasserting Power  
 Medvedev’s comments underline Russia’s ambition to reassert
its global power following the financial crisis.  Gross domestic
product  shrank 7.9 percent last year, the worst contraction
since the fall of communism in 1991, after the credit crunch
sent commodity prices plunging.  
 If a country wants to alter the world economic order,
including the number of reserve currencies, it must become an
international financial center, Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said in an interview yesterday.  
 “For a currency to be a reserve currency, you have to have
capital markets in which you can sell it and buy it very
easily,” Fischer said. “New reserve currencies don’t emerge by
fiat. They emerge as countries change.”  
 The ruble and the yuan may by 2015 be added to the basket
of currencies that set the value of International Monetary Fund
units called special drawing rights, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Chief Global Economist  Jim O’Neill  said. O’Neill coined the BRIC
term in 2001 to describe the four nations -- Brazil, Russia,
India and China -- that he estimates will collectively equal the
U.S. in economic size by 2020.  
 Free Float  
 The ruble “has as many reasons to be in it as the pound,”
he said today in an interview in St. Petersburg. “If Russia
really wants to be in it, it’s got to allow people to use it all
over the world.”  
 Allowing the ruble to trade freely is “very important,”
O’Neill said.  
 “Inflation targeting is key,” he said. Without a shift to
an inflation targeting regime, the ruble “isn’t going to be
part of the SDR. You can’t have it both ways, really, unless the
Chinese change the rules, which they might do by the end of this
decade. China is going to be so big.”  
 Russia may “come very close to floating the ruble” in the
course of one year to 18 months, Bank Rossii Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev  said in April. Even so, the central bank doesn’t need
to take on legal obligations to stop intervening in the currency
market, he said.  
 Yuan Flexibility  
 The People’s Bank of China today said it will allow more
yuan exchange rate flexibility and reform of the exchange-rate
mechanism as the nation’s economic recovery has “cemented”
after the global financial crisis.  
 Medvedev said he envisages a new economic hierarchy
allowing emerging-market giants such as Russia and China to
drive the global agenda as the world emerges from the first
global recession since the 1930s.  
 “We really live at a unique time, and we should use it to
build a modern, prosperous and strong Russia, a Russia that will
be a co-founder of the new world economic order,” he said.  
 The BRIC countries were net sellers of U.S. assets in
April, driven mainly by Russian divestments, Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. Senior Currency Strategist  Win Thin  said in a
June 15 note.  
 Russia may add the Australian and Canadian dollars to its
international reserves as the central bank diversifies the
world’s third-largest stockpile away from the greenback, central
bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in a June 16
interview.  
 Though Russia is “very carefully monitoring what’s
happening in the euro zone,” the emergence of the euro as a
currency to rival the dollar’s dominance helped soften the
impact of the global crisis, Medvedev said.  
 “If the world depended completely on the dollar, the
situation would have been more difficult,” Medvedev said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in St. Petersburg at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, speaking during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
