-- Medvedev to Eliminate Russian Taxes on Long-Term Capital Gains Next Year
-- Paul Abelsky
-- 2010-06-18T10:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/medvedev-to-eliminate-russian-taxes-on-long-term-capital-gains-next-year.html

          
          
             Russia will abolish taxes on capital
gains from long-term direct investments starting next year,
seeking to lure funds to reduce the economy’s energy dependence
and subdue speculative capital, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said.  
 “Such investments are critically important for modernizing
the national economy and we are ready to create institutions to
facilitate such investments,” Medvedev said at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum today. His government
will create an investment fund within a year to help draw
“strategic investors” by raising 3 rubles of private capital
for each 1 ruble of state money, the president said.  
 The world’s largest energy exporter is recovering from a
record economic  contraction  last year and seeking to wean itself
off its commodity reliance to limit swings in growth and ruble
volatility. Its dependence on energy, which accounts for about a
quarter of output, is “primitive” and “humiliating,”
Medvedev said last year.  
 Russia is aiming to make long-term holdings more attractive
for investors. The government may consider restrictions on
capital flows that would penalize investors with horizons
shorter than three years.  
 First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  this week urged
investors to be wary of Russian stocks as policy makers try to
encourage long-term investment.  
 “I’d be very cautious about stock investments in this
country,” Shuvalov said on June 16 in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Moscow. “I would welcome real investors
who can build factories, something new in this country.”  
 Speculation  
 Speculative inflows helped drive up the ruble, making
domestic products less competitive than imports and hurting
Russian producers that have ruble-denominated costs.  
 Foreign direct investment  slipped an annual 17.6 percent to
$2.6 billion in the first quarter on an uneven recovery from
Russia’s worst slump since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  
 Russia will cut the number of so-called “strategic
enterprises,” which are restricted for foreign investors, to 41
from 208, Medvedev said.  
 Modernizing the economy requires a “developed and
competitive financial system” that may turn Moscow into a
global financial hub, the Russian leader said. The government’s
plan will also help to turn the ruble into one of the world’s
reserve currencies, he said.  
 Total assets in Russia’s financial system amounted to about
$1 trillion at the end of last year, Medvedev said, adding that
the government is preparing legislative and regulatory changes
to make it more “comfortable” to conduct trading on Russian
stock exchanges.  
 “Our market is well saturated and ready for further
growth,” he said. “We see our role in working together with
our leading world economies to develop the architecture of the
world financial system, reform international financial
organization, create new standards for regulating financial
markets.’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        