-- Emerging Equities Gain Most in Three Weeks as China Unshackles Yuan Rate
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-21T07:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-ninth-day-on-outlook-for-global-economy.html

          
          
             (Corrects date of story.)  
 Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
a benchmark index to its biggest gain in three weeks, on
speculation China’s decision to end its currency peg will boost
confidence in the global economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  gained 2.1 percent to
973.73 as of 1:54 p.m. in Shanghai, set for the biggest advance
since May 27. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 2.3 percent
after the central bank said on June 19 it will make the yuan
more flexible. All developing-nation markets in Asia rallied.  
 “Stocks in the region are moving on anticipation that the
removal of the peg will be positive,” said  Eduardo Banaag , who
helps manage about $563 million at First Metro Investment Corp.
“Global markets, not only Asia, will simply follow. The removal
of the peg is a positive development.”  
 The yuan climbed 0.21 percent to 6.8120 per dollar, the
biggest gain since Dec. 30, 2008, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trading System.  
 China’s airlines are major beneficiaries of a gain in the
yuan, given their foreign-currency debt,  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman
of China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 China Southern Airlines Co. , the nation’s largest carrier
by fleet size, advanced 7.1 percent. Air China Ltd., the largest
international carrier, rose 5.5 percent.  
 China Vanke  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. gained 2.1
percent and  China Vanke Co.  rose 4 percent. Morgan Stanley
upgraded the nation’s banks and developers to “overweight,”
saying yuan appreciation in the second half will help regulators
manage inflation and reduce the need for further tightening.  
 “This is a good move for China in that it signals greater
confidence in the outlook, less risk of trade tensions with the
U.S. or Europe, an additional means to help control inflation
and it should help rebalance the economy,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors.  
 In Taiwan,  Ruentex Industries Ltd.  and Ruentex Development
Co. rose to record highs on expectations their hypermarket
business in China will benefit from higher domestic consumption.  
 Sri Trang Agro-Industry Pcl , Thailand’s biggest publicly
traded rubber producer, rose 5 percent to a record in Bangkok
after rubber prices rebounded.  
 Sterlite Industries  
 India’s Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  added 1.9
percent to the highest in more than months. Sterlite Industries
(India) Ltd., the country’s biggest copper and zinc producer,
climbed 9.3 percent after the shares were split, making them
cheaper to trade.  
 In Indonesia, the benchmark  Jakarta Composite index  rose
1.5 percent to 2,973.36 at the lunch break, exceeding its April
30 record close. The country’s credit rating outlook was raised
to positive by Moody’s Investors Service, highlighting the
strength of Asia’s emerging economies amid soaring debt burdens
in developed nations from Greece to Japan.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        