-- Emerging Bonds, Equities Get Inflows as Risk Appetite Returns, EPFR Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T02:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/emerging-bond-equity-fund-flows-jump-as-risk-appetite-revives-epfr-says.html

          
          
             Emerging-market equity funds
received the second-largest net inflows this year in the week to
June 16 as investor appetite for risk revived after concerns
eased about the impact of Europe’s debt crisis, EPFR Global said.  
 Emerging equities funds got $2.5 billion, while emerging
bond funds received $659 million, the fund tracker said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 “Sentiment towards emerging markets continued to thaw in
mid-June as investors started paying more attention to solid
macroeconomic numbers from the U.S.,” Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EFPR said. Investors also focused on “encouraging
industrial production data from the Eurozone,” it said.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , which tracks developing-
nation equity markets, has gained 11 percent since this year’s
low on May 25, as concern eased that the global economic
recovery will falter. U.S. industrial output increased last
month and Spain managed to sell 3.5 billion euros of bonds.  
 Production in the U.S. rose in May by the most since August,
Federal Reserve data released on June 16 showed, led by
increases in automobiles and utilities and showing manufacturers
are weathering the effects of the European debt crisis.  
 “I don’t think there is a double dip recession on the
cards for the U.S.,”  Michael Yoshikami , chief investment
strategist at YMCNet Advisors, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I think the recovery is in place even though it is
going to be a very slow, sluggish recovery.”  
 China’s ‘Momentum’  
 The “momentum” in China’s economy helped funds investing
in the world’s third-largest economy take in new money for a
fifth consecutive week, according to EPFR.  
 China’s exports, industrial production and retail sales
surged in May, official data released last week showed, while a
leading economic indicator compiled by the New York-based
Conference Board jumped by the most in 14 months.  
 More than half of inflows into emerging markets bond funds
went to those that invested in local-currency securities, EPFR
said.  
 Emerging-market bonds handed investors a 5 percent return
this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index , the broadest gauge of markets in 39 countries.
Treasuries climbed 4.7 percent and European debt rose 2.8
percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  
 The yield premium investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed to 3.1 percentage points on
June 16, compared with 3.4 points a week earlier, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Plus Index. The spread reached 3.55 points on
May 25, the widest since September 2009.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho ,  Lilian Karunungan ,  Garfield Reynolds ,  Maryam Nemazee . Editors:  Reinie Booysen   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        