-- EMI Names Roger Faxon as Chief Executive Officer in Rights Management Move
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-06-18T13:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/emi-names-roger-faxon-as-chief-executive-officer-in-rights-management-move.html

          
          
             EMI Group Ltd.  named  Roger Faxon  as
chief executive officer, following a strategic review of the
record company and a capital injection by shareholder Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd. to keep creditors at bay.  
 Faxon, the head of EMI’s New York-based publishing
business since 2007, will oversee the company’s recording and
publishing units just months after EMI named  Charles Allen 
executive chairman of recorded music. Allen now becomes adviser
to EMI and  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma.  
 “This is a new approach and new way of operating that
needs to happen for EMI,” Faxon said in a phone interview
today. “We’re putting teams together across the expanse of the
business to give the greatest chance for success.”  
 EMI, which is home to artists including The Beatles,  Kylie Minogue  and Coldplay, is repositioning itself as a
“comprehensive rights management company” after the 105
million-pound ($156 million) capital injection to meet loan
agreements.  Guy Hands  bought EMI at the height of the buyout
boom in 2007 and had to convince investors to put more money in
the company after breaking covenants.  
 “The group as an operating company is very successful,”
Faxon said. “The capital structure is where the issue is, but
we now have 105 million pounds committed, which is evidence of
the belief of Terra Firma.”  
 Faxon, who joined EMI in 1994, will remain based in New
York and will spend more time in London, where the recorded
music unit is headquartered.  
 He stressed that although EMI has been operating in
turbulent financial markets, the company now “has a way
forward and we will be executing it.”  
 The capital injection by Terra Firma allows EMI to meet
its debt agreements until March.  
 EMI also said  Stephen Alexander  was named chairman of
Maltby Capital, EMI’s holding company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        