-- Tenaga Nasional Says to Bid for $2.1 Billion Malaysian Power-Plant Project
-- Ranjeetha Pakiam
-- 2010-06-18T12:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/tenaga-nasional-says-to-bid-for-2-1-billion-malaysian-power-plant-project.html

          
          
             Tenaga Nasional Bhd. , Malaysia’s
state-controlled generator, will bid for a 7 billion-ringgit
($2.1 billion) government project to upgrade power plants as the
economic recovery boosts electricity demand.  
 Construction of a coal-fired plant at the utility’s
existing station in Manjung would start in early 2011 and be
completed by end-2014, Chief Executive Officer  Che Khalib Mohamad Noh  said in an interview at the company headquarters in
Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  
 The government will soon call for bids to upgrade power
plants by 2015 as the reserve margin could fall below 20 percent
if capacity isn’t raised, the Business Times said June 16,
citing Energy Minister  Peter Chin . Tenaga may have to compete
for the project with  MMC Corp. , Malaysia’s second-biggest
generator, and independent power company Jimah Energy Ventures.  
 “Tenaga definitely has the advantage, being the operator
of the whole grid line,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about
$560 million as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Bhd.
in Petaling Jaya. “It’s a question of whether the government
feels that, at the end of it, if the cost per kilowatt-hour is
cheaper coming from the other two, then let the best man win.”  
 MMC’s power unit, Malakoff Corp., has six plants with a
total capacity of 5,020 megawatts, or 25 percent of Peninsular
Malaysia’s capacity, according to its 2009 annual report. Jimah
holds a 25-year license to operate a 1,400-megawatt coal-fired
plant near Port Dickson in the southern state of Negri Sembilan.  
 If Tenaga wins the bid, it may sell bonds in mid-2011 to
help finance the project, Che Khalib said. “The usual funding
structure will be 20 percent equity and 80 percent  debt , so
probably around 4 to 5 billion ringgit kind of debt-raising”
would be needed.  
 Rising Power Demand  
 Tenaga  shares  rose 5.4 percent to 8.80 ringgit on the
Malaysian stock exchange, the highest close since May 29, 2009.
They have advanced 4.8 percent this year, beating the benchmark
index’s 3.5 percent gain.  
 The government is planning 52 infrastructure and
development projects worth 63 billion ringgit over the next five
years, including two coal-fired power plants, Prime Minister
 Najib Razak  said on June 10. The contracts will be put up for
open tender, he said.  
 The government is looking at boosting electricity
production after scrapping a plan to transmit power to the
peninsular from the Bakun hydroelectric dam in Sarawak state in
East Malaysia.  
 Power demand may rise by as much as 5 percent annually in
the next five years, in step with the government’s target of 6
percent annual economic  growth  through 2015, Che Khalib said.  
 Project Financing  
 Tenaga accounts for 50 percent of generation capacity in
Malaysia, Che Khalib said. The facility in Manjung, in the
northern state of Perak, is owned by Tenaga subsidiary TNB
Janamanjung Sdn.  
 “Janamanjung is debt-free so we can leverage on
Janamanjung to secure additional funds to fund the expansion,
but we don’t have to wait because we have our own internal
funds,” he said. “In that sense we have the advantage.”  
 Tenaga has no plans to refinance its debt and it will pay
3.5 billion ringgit of bonds maturing next year, Che Khalib said.  
 The utility buys its coal at market price and expects the
range to remain between $90 and $100 a metric ton in the next 24
months, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tenaga Nasional President Che Khalib speaks during an interview in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Che Khalib in an interview in Kuala Lumpur  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tenaga Nasional President Che Khalib in an interview in Kuala Lumpur. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tenaga Nasional President Che Khalib in an interview in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
