-- England, U.S. Each Tie Matches at World Cup; Serbia Upsets 10-Man Germany
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-18T22:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/england-u-s-each-tie-matches-at-world-cup-serbia-upsets-10-man-germany.html

          
          
             England and the U.S. each tied in
World Cup Group C games yesterday while Serbia upset 10-man
Germany 1-0 in Group D.  
 England was held to a 0-0 tie by Algeria and the U.S.
rallied in the second half to draw 2-2 with Slovenia. The
results leave all four teams with a chance to finish as one of
the top two in the group to advance to the next round.  
 “We are very lucky because we have another big chance to
go forward,” England manager  Fabio Capello  said in a news
conference in Cape Town. “This isn’t the England team I know.
These players during training are different.”  
 Landon Donovan  and Michael Bradley scored as the U.S.
erased a 2-0 halftime deficit in Johannesburg. The Americans
also had a goal from Maurice Edu disallowed in the 86th minute.  
 “Our immediate goal was to win, but we started (playing)
not to lose,” U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  told reporters. “The tie
keeps us alive and that’s the important thing.”  
 Serbia’s Milan Jovanovic scored the only goal moments after
Germany’s  Miroslav Klose  was red-carded in Port Elizabeth.
Serbia goalkeeper Vladimir Stojkovic also stopped a penalty kick
from  Lukas Podolski .  
 England managed to put just six of its 15 shots on target
at its attack continued to struggle. It’s scored just one goal
in its first two games in South Africa.  
 “We’re not happy with the performance,” captain  Steven Gerrard  said in a televised interview. “If we want to stay in
this tournament to the later stage we have to improve.”  
 Goalkeeping Changes  
 Both teams made changes after goalkeeping errors led to
scores in their opening games.  David James  replaced  Robert Green 
in the England goal and Rais Bolhi took over for Faouzi Chaouchi
for Algeria.  
 England’s  Frank Lampard  had the best scoring chance in the
first half with a low shot that Bolhi went down to stop. Lampard
then missed wide with a shot in the 88th minute and drew boos
from the England fans at Green Point Stadium.  
 “I was expecting better,” Algeria manager Rabah Saadane
told reporters. “I don’t know what happened. The England team
wasn’t up to its best level today.”  
 England complained to FIFA, the sports governing body,
after a fan entered its dressing room after the match, the
U.K.’s Press Association reported.  
 Bradley’s goal with eight minutes left capped the U.S.
rally. Donovan scored in the 48th minute to pull the U.S. within
2-1 after Valter Birsa and Zlatan Ljubijankic scored first-half
goals for Slovenia.  
 Edu appeared to have given the Americans the lead in the
86th minute, but the goal was disallowed by referee Koman
Coulibaly of Mali as players were grappling in the area.  
 “I’m assuming it was a foul somewhere because obviously it
couldn’t have been offside,” Donovan told reporters. “I don’t
know what to think of the call because I didn’t see a foul
anywhere.”  
 Group C  
 Slovenia leads Group C with four points, the U.S. and
England each have two and Algeria has one. England plays
Slovenia and the U.S. meets Algeria in the final group games on
June 23.  
 “I hope on Wednesday to see the England team,” said
Capello, who celebrated his 64th birthday yesterday.  
 Serbia handed Germany its first defeat in a World Cup group
game since 1986. The Germans are tied with Serbia and Ghana at
three points and lead Group D because of a superior goal
difference. Ghana plays Australia later today.  
 Klose was ejected after receiving his second yellow card in
the 37th minute for tripping Serbia captain  Dejan Stankovic .
Jovanovic gave his team the lead a minute later with a shot from
eight yards out.  
 Stojkovic then preserved the lead by diving to his left to
save Podolski’s penalty kick in the 60th minute after a handball
call against  Nemanja Vidic .  
 “It was a very important game for us,” Stojkovic told
reporters. “Everybody believed in this win.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        