-- Merrill Wins Dismissal of Chunilal's London Lawsuit Over Bonus Reduction
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-18T16:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/merrill-wins-dismissal-of-chunilal-s-london-lawsuit-over-bonus-reduction.html

          
          
             Merrill Lynch & Co.  won dismissal of
a lawsuit over a reduced bonus filed by its former head of Asia-
Pacific investment banking,  Damian Chunilal .  
 The dispute shouldn’t be heard in the U.K. because “there
is no good arguable case that the breach relied on in fact
occurred within the jurisdiction,” Judge Michael Burton said.  
 Chunilal, who was fired from Merrill in November 2008, less
than two months after the bank agreed to be taken over by  Bank
of America Corp. , said his bonus was reduced to 20 percent of
the year earlier level. He sued the firm in London in October
for breach of contract.  
 Merrill sought the dismissal, saying English courts didn’t
have jurisdiction over the matter. Chunilal, who worked for the
bank for 19 years, relocated to Hong Kong from London in 2004.
He was paid a bonus of $2.3 million in his last year, compared
to $11.7 million in 2007 and $13.9 million in 2006, according
court papers.  
 James Baker , a lawyer at  Teacher Stern  in London, said
Chunilal’s lawyer probably chose London because it is perceived
as more sympathetic to employees.  
 “They probably felt guaranteed a more independent and
impartial, and possibly employee-friendly, jurisdiction,” he
said. “New York is felt to be a very anti-employee
environment.”  
 Merrill’s “normal practice” was to offer fired employees
20 percent of the bonus they received the previous year,
Chunilal’s lawyer, Robin Knowles, said at a hearing last week.  
 London Decisions  
 Knowles didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
on the ruling. Chunilal didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail.  
 Knowles argued the decision to pay the reduced bonus was
made in London by the head of human resources for investment
banking, and that Chunilal’s first contract with Merrill was
governed under English law, while the second contract,
negotiated in New York, didn’t specify.  
 Except for the fact that Chunilal’s salary was paid into an
English bank account, “there are, in my judgment, no continuing
factors indicating, or certainly demonstrating with reasonable
certainty, any connection with the U.K., or with U.K. law” after
January 2004, Burton said.  
 The departure of Chunilal and that of  Jason Brand ,
president of  Asia-Pacific  operations, and  Raymundo Yu , chairman
of the region, came shortly after Merrill’s purchase by Bank of
America. The Asia-Pacific head of mergers and acquisitions,
 Kalpana Desai , also left months later.  
 The case is Damian Chunilal v. Merrill Lynch International
Inc., case no. 2009-1354, High Court of Justice (London).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        