-- ETF Speculation `Insane' for Long Term, Bogle Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-18T17:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/etf-speculation-insane-for-longer-term-investors-bogle-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Speculating through exchange-traded
funds isn’t prudent for longer-term investors, according to  John C. Bogle , who created the first index mutual fund in 1975.  
 While buying and holding a market-based ETF is an
“intelligent” strategy, speculating through ETFs may mean
trouble, Bogle, 81, said in a radio interview today with  Tom Keene  on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  
 “You’re talking about trading, speculating,” said Bogle,
founder of Vanguard Group Inc., the second-largest mutual fund
company after Fidelity Investments. “But that’s just an insane
way to invest.”  
 State Street Corp.’s  SPDR S&P 500 Trust , also known as
Spiders, has a turnover of 10,000 percent annually, compared
with a “normal” turnover of 5 percent for the average
investor, according to Bogle. Turnover is defined as the
percentage of assets bought and sold in a year.  
 The ETF was invented more than 20 years ago as a simple
mutual fund that trades on bourses like a stock. Fund providers
are now unleashing a new breed of “extreme ETFs” that use
short selling, leverage and derivatives to capture a larger
share of investor assets.  
 “I wouldn’t ban them, but I also wouldn’t let them claim
they’re actually doing what they say,” said Bogle, criticizing
three-times ETFs as not necessarily returning triple the gains
of the indexes they purport to track. “They don’t seem to
operate the way they say they operate.”  
 SEC Review  
 On March 25, the Securities and Exchange Commission
announced it was deferring approval of new ETFs that make
significant use of derivatives as the agency’s staff reviews
whether fund managers are stuffing too much leverage and
complexity into offerings aimed at individual investors.  
 Even so, the government shouldn’t shield investors from
dumb decisions, according to Bogle.  
 “Only a fool would do that kind of thing in my opinion,
but I don’t think we should have the government Big Brother
saying we’re going to protect you from your own stupidity,”
Bogle said. “That would take more government than we have
today, which is saying something.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        