-- Metro Puts `Brake Pedal' on Kaufhof Sale Plan as Debt Crisis Hurts Bidders
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-06-18T11:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/metro-puts-brake-on-sale-of-kaufhof-as-bidders-struggle-to-raise-financing.html

          
          
             Metro AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Eckhard Cordes  said he is in no rush to sell Kaufhof as bidders
struggle to secure financing for a price that reflects the
department-store chain’s improvement.  
 Metro  has held talks with possible buyers for years, Cordes
said in an interview. The European debt crisis has made him less
optimistic than he was six weeks ago that an accord will be
reached in the near term. All prospective buyers for Kaufhof,
which he values at 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) to 3 billion
euros are financial, he said.  
 “Kaufhof is undergoing a really good development, and
we’ll see a further improvement in 2010,” the 59-year-old
executive said in Berlin. “That’s not increasing our
willingness to sell at a low price. It’s us who are standing on
the brake pedal.”  
 The retailer is expanding in emerging markets including
China after reducing the company’s reliance on  Germany , where
retail sales have stagnated for the past decade. While he’s
improved profitability at Kaufhof by shutting outlets, Cordes
says the brand doesn’t have the same potential for international
expansion as Metro’s other chains, including consumer-
electronics retailer Media Markt or Cash & Carry.  
 German department stores have been losing market share as
consumers increasingly seek wider product selections at
specialty shops. Berggruen Holdings Ltd. last week agreed to buy
Karstadt AG for an undisclosed sum after its parent, Arcandor
AG, filed for bankruptcy last year.  
 Kaufhof’s  profitability  will improve in 2010 for a third
straight year, according to the executive. Kaufhof’s earnings
before interest, tax and one-time items rose to 119 million
euros last year from 115 million euros in 2008. The operating
margin on that basis widened to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent.  
 Karstadt Outlets  
 While Cordes passed on buying all the Karstadt outlets, he
would still like to bundle a “considerable” number of the
rival’s shops with Kaufhof to make a sale more appealing.  
 Cordes , a former executive at DaimlerChrysler AG, replaced
 Hans-Joachim Koerber  as Metro CEO in October 2007. Under Cordes,
Metro has sold the Extra supermarket chain and the Adler fashion
chain.  
 Metro  shares  have advanced 5.6 percent this year, while
larger competitor Carrefour SA has gained 5.3 percent. They have
lost more than a quarter of their value under Cordes, who has
forecast a “tangible” increase in full-year earnings before
interest and taxes this year.  
 Emerging Market Expansion  
 Metro  will likely open more than the 90 stores pledged for
this year, and capital expenditure will probably exceed the
targeted 1.9 billion euros, Cordes said.  
 The company will accelerate expansion in Beijing, Shanghai
and Guangzhou and is aiming for 50 Cash & Carry outlets in China
by the end of the year. The company isn’t present in Latin
America, though Cordes called Brazil “attractive.”  
 Metro isn’t interested in buying  PPR SA ’s FNAC unit as the
retailer’s concept is too different from Metro’s consumer-
electronics unit, Cordes said. PPR, the  owner  of Gucci Group, is
seeking to offload its retail assets to focus on luxury goods.  
 Separately, the company today said it plans to shut down
three Cash & Carry outlets in Germany as they can’t be made
profitable and sell another, according to  Cordes .  
 Cash & Carry Turnaround  
 The Dusseldorf-based company has introduced private-label
brands, started customer-delivery services and cut prices as
part of a turnaround strategy that targets an operating profit
of 150 million euros for the German Cash & Carry unit by 2012.  
 The situation at Metro’s 30 Makro wholesale stores in the
U.K. is ”comparable” to that in Germany, Cordes said. Metro
doesn’t plan to sell the British business, as it wouldn’t fetch
an attractive price, he said. Cordes visited rival U.K. stores
this week and found them to be doing a better job than his.  
 “The problem in both countries is the non-food business,
which we have to improve,” Cordes said. Food sales are rising
at the U.K. business, which has helped halt the slide in
operating profit there, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Eckhard Cordes, chief executive officer of Metro AG, gestures during an interview in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A man shops for cantaloupe in the Kaufhof department store at Alexanderplatz in Berlin. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
