-- Euro Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain in Year as European Debt Concerns Ease
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-18T09:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/euro-rises-to-three-week-high-versus-dollar-as-european-debt-concerns-ease.html

          
          
             The euro headed for its biggest
weekly advance against the dollar in a year as stock markets
rose amid signs Europe is emerging from its debt crisis.  
 The 16-nation currency touched a three-week high versus the
greenback as increased demand at a Spanish bond auction
yesterday spurred optimism that nations in the region can raise
sufficient funds. The pound headed for its second weekly gain
versus the dollar after a report showed Britain posted a smaller
fiscal deficit in May than economists predicted.  
 “The market will likely try to hold on to what has been
achieved in the euro this week,” said  Steven Barrow , head of
Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “But I take no confidence in the idea that markets are
ignoring the bad news out of the euro zone.”  
 The euro traded at $1.2391 as of 9:58 a.m. in London from
$1.2389 in New York yesterday, after earlier rising to $1.2417,
the highest level since May 28. The currency has advanced 2.3
percent this week, the most since the period ended May 22, 2009.
The single currency traded at 112.45 yen from 112.76 yen. The
yen climbed to 90.75 per dollar from 91.01 yesterday.  
 Spain’s Auction  
 The euro gained versus 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week after Spain sold 3 billion euros ($3.71
billion) of 10-year debt yesterday at an average yield of 4.864
percent, less than the 5.04 percent yield on the benchmark
before the sale. The MSCI World  Index  of global stocks rose 0.3
percent today, extending its run to nine consecutive days, the
longest streak since July, 2009.  
 Spain also sold 30-year debt at 5.908 percent, with a so-
called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.45, higher than the 1.38 at the
previous sale on March 18.  
 “The Spanish bond auction was better than expected,
providing a boost to risk appetite and allowing the euro-dollar
to break the $1.2350 resistance,” analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker , London-based global head of currency strategy at BNP
Paribas, wrote in a research note today, referring to a level at
which sell orders may be clustered.  
 European Union leaders yesterday agreed to disclose how
banks perform on stress tests, seeking to show investors the
financial system can withstand financial shocks. The euro will
fall back to $1.20 within a “few weeks,” Barrow said.  
 The pound rose 0.3 percent to $1.4866 and was up 2.2
percent for the week, as the 16 billion-pound ($23.8 billion)
budget shortfall in May compared with 17.4 billion pounds a year
earlier. The result was below the 18 billion-pound median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 ‘Structural Reforms’  
 Japan’s currency was poised for a second weekly gain versus
the dollar after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  pledged to
cut the world’s largest public debt. Kan said he’d consider an
opposition party proposal to raise the consumption tax.  
 “The structural reforms appear to be aimed at securing
funding sources” for Japan, said  Yuji Saito , director of the
currency department in Tokyo at Credit Agricole Corporate and
Investment Bank, a unit of France’s largest lender by branches.
“This is likely to be positive for the yen.”  
 The ruling Democratic Party of Japan, in an election
document distributed yesterday, called for cross-party talks on
raising the country’s 5 percent consumption tax. Japan pledged
in its medium-term economic plan today to reduce its corporate
tax of 40.7 percent and nurture the environment and healthcare
industries to help end two decades of economic stagnation.  
 “Unless we work on fiscal rehabilitation, an international
organization such as the International Monetary Fund could
control our fiscal management,” Kan said yesterday. “We must
rehabilitate our finances with our own power without relying on
other countries.”  
 Asian Currencies  
 Asian currencies were led higher by South Korea’s won and
the Philippine peso as signs the global economic recovery will
withstand Europe’s debt crisis boosted demand for riskier
assets.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index and the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index  of shares were headed for their biggest gains this
year. The Conference Board this week said its leading indicator
of China’s economy rose the most in 14 months. Thailand reported
its best export growth in almost two years.  
 “There has been optimism that the impact of Europe’s
problems on the Asian economy may be limited, supporting the
purchase of regional currencies,” said  Minori Uchida , a senior
analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s biggest bank. “Gains in stocks are also a supporting
factor.”  
 The won rose 0.9 percent to 1,202.65 per dollar and Indian
rupee rose 0.3 percent to 46.1556. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan index,
which tracks the region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding
the yen, gained 0.8 percent this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The euro has advanced most since May 22 2009. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Adam Cole, head of global currency strategy at RBC Capital Markets, talks about the rise in the pound since the formation of the U.K.'s coalition government.
     Cole also discusses the Europeean Union's decision to publish the results of stress tests on the region's lenders. He speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
