-- European Stocks Gain for Eighth Straight Day; BBVA, Santander Lead Advance
-- Adria Cimino
-- 2010-06-18T16:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/european-stock-index-futures-gain-telecom-italia-bp-roche-may-be-active.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced for an
eighth day, the longest stretch of gains in 11 months, as banks
rallied on speculation that stress tests will show the region’s
lenders are robust.  
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA soared 5.6 percent as El
Economista said the Spanish bank scored the second-highest
rating in stress tests of Europe’s largest lenders. Drugmakers
limited gains, with  Roche Holding AG  sliding 2.5 percent after
patients showed hypersensitivity to an experimental diabetes
treatment and Sanofi-Aventis SA dropping 3 percent on concern
one of its drugs may be linked to an increased risk of cancer.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.2 percent to 255.5 for a
fourth consecutive week of gains. The measure has climbed 10
percent from its 2010 low on May 25 as concern eased that
Europe’s debt crisis will derail the economic recovery.  
 “The publication of the stress tests is an element of
relief for the market,” said  Arielle Levi , a fund manager at
CCR Asset Management in Paris, which oversees about $12 billion.
“The banks won’t all have to have gigantic capital increases.
The market had panicked excessively.”  
 National benchmark indexes gained 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Spain’s IBEX 35 surged 2.2 percent and
France’s CAC 40 rose 0.1 percent. Germany’s DAX slipped 0.1
percent while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 was little changed.  
 Stress Tests  
 The European Union yesterday said it will publish the
results of stress tests on the region’s lenders after Spain
became the first European government to pledge to release
results on individual banks. The EU decision comes more than a
year after the U.S. released the outcome of stress tests it
carried out on 19 financial institutions. Publication helped
trigger a rally that lifted the  S&P Financials Index  36 percent
from the start of May through the end of last year.  
 BBVA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, climbed 5.6 percent to
9.36 euros, an eighth straight advance. The lender scored the
second-highest rating among Europe’s largest banks in stress
tests carried out by the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors, El Economista reported, citing a copy of the tests
to which it had access.  
 Banco Santander SA , the country’s largest bank, rose 3.5
percent to 9.35 euros as El Economista said it would remain
solvent in the worst case scenario of a financial crisis,
although profit would fall 80 percent. Santander scored the
highest rating in the stress tests of Europe’s largest banks, El
Pais reported yesterday, citing unidentified Spanish officials.  
 Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  said he
cannot confirm or deny media reports on the test results.  
 Bankinter Surges  
 Bankinter SA, a Spanish bank with two-thirds of its loan
book in mortgages, jumped 14 percent to 5.40 euros for the
biggest gain in the Stoxx 600. Banco Popular Espanol SA climbed
7.6 percent to 4.84 euros.  
 Societe Generale SA gained 3 percent to 38.23 euros.
 Frederic Oudea , chief executive officer of the French bank, said
the stress test results will “bring confidence to the market.”  
 “There has been an overreaction” in financial markets to
Europe’s debt problems, Oudea said in an interview at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum in Russia today.  
 The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  tumbled 22 percent from April 15
to June 8 on concern the sovereign-debt crisis will hurt banks’
investments and earnings.  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc  rose 10 percent to 1.11 euros amid
speculation the lender will reach agreement on the sale of its
stake in M&T Bank Corp., according to analysts including  Eamonn Hughes  at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  
 William Hill Upgrade  
 William Hill Plc, the U.K.’s largest bookmaker by number of
outlets, climbed 3.7 percent to 184.2 pence after having its
recommendation raised to  “buy”  from “neutral” at UBS AG.  
 A measure of health-care stocks fell 1 percent, the most
among the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600. Roche slid 2.5
percent to 155 Swiss francs. The Swiss drugmaker expects a delay
to taspoglutide of at least 12 to 18 months because it’s
introducing a “risk mitigation plan” to trials after patients
showed hypersensitivity to the medicine.  
 Ipsen SA , from whom Roche licensed the once-weekly shot in
2006, slumped 15 percent to 27.08 euros. Novo Nordisk A/S, whose
Victoza drug would face competition from taspoglutide, surged
4.4 percent to 510 kroner.  
 Sanofi  fell 3 percent to 49.57 euros, the most in six
weeks, amid renewed concern that the French drugmaker’s Lantus
diabetes treatment may be linked to an increased risk of cancer.  
 A study published this week in the journal Diabetes Care
linked insulin glargine, as Lantus also is known, to an
increased risk of cancer, according to a note today from Hobart
Capital Markets, a London brokerage. Sanofi said the recent
Lantus study is “unclear” and “lacks precision” and that
previous studies showed results in favor of Lantus.  
 Intercell AG  sank 3.4 percent to 17.06 euros. The Austrian
vaccine maker said that early data on whether its vaccine
against a deadly hospital bug works may be delayed to the first
or second quarter of 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adria Cimino  in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The headquarters of Roche Holding AG stand in Basel. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
