-- China Plans to Push G-20 to Focus on Europe's Debt Instead of Yuan's Value
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T12:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/europe-debt-crisis-adds-new-significance-to-g-20-summit-pboc-s-zhang-says.html

          
          
             Chinese officials said they plan to
use next week’s meeting of the Group of 20 countries in Canada
to talk about global responses to Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
while keeping discussion of the yuan’s value off the agenda.  
 The crisis has added new challenges to the world economic
recovery, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  and  Zhang Tao ,
director of the international department of China’s central
bank, said at a press conference in Beijing today. Zhang said
any move to revalue the yuan, also called the renminbi, depends
on the health of the global and domestic economies.  
 “The Chinese government is very closely watching the
economic picture at home and the state of other economies before
we decide on our economic policies, including on the renminbi
exchange rate,” Zhang said. The turmoil in Europe has “added
new significance” to the June 26-27 Toronto summit, he said.  
 Yuan forwards headed for their biggest increase this year
on speculation the currency will resume gains as U.S. lawmakers
press China to end its peg to the dollar. A stronger currency
would help China reduce inflationary pressure by lowering import
costs and rebalance the fastest-growing major economy toward
consumption, the  World Bank  said in a report today.  
 While not singling out China by name, President  Barack Obama  said in a letter to his G-20 counterparts today that
“market-determined exchange rates are essential to global
economic vitality.”  
 Pressure Builds  
 “Obviously there’s pressure building up on China to be
more flexible on the yuan,” said  Gerrard Katz , head of foreign
exchange trading at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.  
 The yuan’s 12-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.6
percent to 6.7035 per dollar as of 4:12 p.m. in Hong Kong, the
biggest increase since Dec. 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts climbed 0.8 percent this week and
reflect bets the currency will appreciate 1.8 percent from the
spot rate of 6.8275.  
 The yuan has been held at about 6.83 yuan to one U.S.
dollar since mid-2008 to help protect China’s exporters during
the global financial crisis. The U.S. Congress may vote on
legislation to push China to revalue if it doesn’t move on its
own after the summit, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman
 Sander Levin  said earlier this week.  
 ‘Sound’ Situation  
 Zhang and Zhu said China’s own economic performance, also a
consideration in whether to revalue the yuan, was strong. Zhu
said China’s fiscal situation was “sound,” with a projected
 fiscal deficit  this year of 2.8 percent of gross domestic
product and projected debt-to-GDP ratio of about 20 percent.  
 Chinese exports in May rose 48.5 percent from a year ago
and the  economy  grew 11.9 percent in the first three months of
2010 from a year earlier.  
 “We are in quite a strong economic position,” Zhu said.  
 The European Union was forced to lead a rescue package of
almost $1 trillion to damp speculation that one or more states
in the euro-area bloc would default on their debt.  
 The euro has fallen 14.6 percent this year against the
dollar. Even after the rescue measures, the extra yield
investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish bonds over German bunds
is close to its euro-era high of 2.16 percentage points.  
 At the G-20, China plans to push for greater representation
for developing countries at the International Monetary Fund,
emphasize the need to combat protectionism, raise the level of
attention for development issues and “strengthen macroeconomic
policy coordination” between countries, Vice Foreign Minister
 Cui Tiankai  told reporters at the same briefing. Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  will attend the summit, Cui said.  
 While in Canada, Hu will sign agreements on energy,
education and cultural cooperation, Cui said.  
 -- Michael Forsythe ,  Zhang Dingmin . With assistance from Nerys
Avery and  Belinda Cao  in Beijing,  Mark Drajem  in Washington and
Bob Chen in Hong Kong. Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Matthew Brooker .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
 Zhang Dingmin  in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     China's vice finance minister Zhu Guangyao. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Zeb Eckert reports on the two-day meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs that concluded on May 5 in Busan, South Korea. 
     Global policy makers are starting to clash over their individual prescriptions for recovery as Europe demands lower budget deficits while the U.S. warns against pushing exports instead of domestic demand. Bloomberg's Susan Li also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
