-- European Stocks Climb for Fourth Week as Crisis Concerns Wane; BSkyB Rises
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-06-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/european-stocks-climb-for-fourth-week-as-crisis-concerns-wane-bskyb-rises.html

          
          
             European  stocks rose for a fourth
week as concern about the region’s sovereign debt crisis waned.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Societe Generale SA
led a rally among bank shares. British Sky Broadcasting Plc
soared 19 percent after  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. offered to
buy the rest of the company for 7.8 billion pounds ($11.5
billion).  Nokia Oyj  slumped 8.6 percent after cutting its
forecasts.  BP Plc  tumbled for a record ninth week.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 2.4 percent to 255.5, the
highest closing level since May 13 and the longest streak of
weekly gains since April. The benchmark gauge has rebounded 10
percent from its 2010 low on May 25 after concern about levels
of government debt in Europe pushed the index to its  cheapest
level  relative to earnings in more than a year.  
 “Global investors are feeling more hopeful about the
outlook for Europe’s stocks,” said  Gary Baker , an equity
strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in London.
“Bad news is priced in.” He forecasts the Stoxx 600 to reach
300 by the end of 2010, a 17 percent increase from this week’s
close.  
 A Spanish bond auction June 17 eased concern that the
nation will struggle to finance looming debt maturities. Spain
sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of 10-year and 30-year
bonds, the maximum set for the auction.  
 Stress Tests  
 Britain posted a smaller fiscal  deficit  in May than
economists forecast as growth lifted tax receipts, providing a
boost for finance minister  George Osborne  before his June 22
budget.  
 European Union leaders agreed June 17 to disclose how banks
perform on stress tests, seeking to show investors that the
financial system can withstand shocks. The decision came after
Spanish officials unexpectedly pledged to publish results on
individual banks, the first European government to do so.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said broader
regional stress tests will be published in the second half of
July “at the latest.”  
 Still, the number of investors forecasting the global
economy to strengthen in the next 12 months fell, according to a
BofA Merrill Lynch survey of portfolio managers who together
manage about $606 billion. Money managers increased their
reserves of cash in June to the highest level in more than a
year and continued to reduce their holdings in global equities
to levels not seen since early 2009, the survey showed.  
 Stimulus Dose  
 “The markets are really worried about economic growth,”
said  Trevor Greetham , the head of asset allocation at Fidelity
International in London. By the end of the year “central banks
will be back peddling. We’ll need another dosing” of stimulus,
he said at a press briefing to reporters in London June 15. 
Banks posted the biggest gains among the 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx 600, climbing 6 percent. Royal Bank of Scotland,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, advanced 11 percent.
Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank by market value,
rose 13 percent.  
 BSkyB soared 19 percent. The company rejected News Corp.’s
offer of 700 pence a share and said it would be prepared to
support a bid of more than 800 pence a share. News Corp., owner
of the Fox television network, already holds a 39 percent stake.  
 Weir Group Plc  surged 22 percent as the world’s biggest
maker of pumps for the mining industry forecast second-half
profit to be “significantly” greater than last year.  
 Eiffage, Nokia  
 Eiffage SA rose 13 percent after a unit it jointly controls
said it’s buying out minority shareholders of a French toll-road
operator, shoring up the unit’s finances. This is “a highly
accretive transaction” for Eiffage, said Natixis analysts
 Gregoire Thibault  and  Rafic El Haddad , who lifted their
earnings-per-share estimates for 2010 to 2012 by 16 percent per
year on average and raised their rating on the stock to
“neutral” from “reduce.”  
 Nokia  slumped 8.6 percent. The world’s biggest maker of
mobile phones cuts its forecasts for sales and margins, hurt by
competition in high-end phones from  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and
devices based on Google Inc.’s Android software. Goldman Sachs
slashed its price estimate for the shares by 27 percent to 7.70
euros and cut its 2010 earnings estimate by 25 percent to 47
cents per share.  
 BP  declined for a ninth week, losing 8.8 percent for the
longest streak of weekly losses on record. The London-based oil
producer battling with the worst oil spill in U.S. history
abandoned a $10 billion-a-year  dividend  and created a $20
billion escrow fund to compensate victims.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        