-- Ex-RBG Resources Chairman Rastogi Ordered by U.K. Judge to Pay $44 Million
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-06-18T17:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/ex-rbg-resources-chairman-rastogi-ordered-by-u-k-judge-to-pay-44-million.html

          
          
             Former RBG Resources Plc Chairman
 Virendra Rastogi , who is serving a nine-and-a-half-year jail
sentence for a trans-Atlantic fraud, was ordered to pay 30
million pounds ($44 million) to compensate victims.  
 Rastogi, 42, defrauded  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and other banks
that provided the now-defunct metals trading company, also known
as Allied Deals Plc, with cash backed by worthless assets. The
company obtained loans used to gamble on the metal exchange, for
personal gain or to pay back other loans, the  U.K. Serious Fraud
Office  said today in a statement.  
 RBG Resources owed more than $420 million when it went into
liquidation in 2002, the SFO said. The ex-chairman gained more
than 1 billion pounds from the fraud. He used the money to buy a
flat in London’s Mayfair neighborhood, now worth 5 million
pounds. The order strips Rastogi of the last of his assets, the
office said.  
 “The defendant is a very intelligent and able man” who,
for much of his adult life, “has had absolutely no regard for
truth or honesty,” Judge James Wadsworth said in his order,
according to the SFO. “The defendant accepts that the whole of
his business success was based on deceit.”  
 Antony Brown, Rastogi’s lawyer, said his client
“absolutely does not have 30 million pounds” and is
considering whether to appeal the order.  
 ‘One Billion Pounds’  
 “Our client has had to account for one billion pounds, and
the judge has decided that 30 million remains unaccounted for,”
Brown said. “We need to spend a little time considering it.”  
 Rastogi was sentenced to prison in 2008 for the fraud,
which expanded from New York to London in 1996. It eventually
grew to involve more than 200 RBG-related companies across six
jurisdictions, many of which didn’t conduct any metals trading.  
 Narendra Rastogi , Allied’s former chief executive and
Rastogi’s brother, was sentenced to seven years in prison by a
U.S. court in 2008 for his role in the conspiracy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        