-- Mexico's Genomma Lab May Join IPC Index in August, CFO Villalobos Says
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-06-18T20:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/mexico-s-genomma-lab-may-join-ipc-index-in-august-cfo-villalobos-says.html

          
          
             Genomma Lab Internacional SAB , the
Mexican producer of over-the-counter drugs and consumer
products, may become part of the benchmark IPC index as early as
August, Chief Financial Officer  Oscar Villalobos  said.  
 Genomma is the 17th most-traded stock on the Mexico exchange
and that may allow it to join  IPC  when the gauge’s holdings are
reviewed, he said in an interview in New York today.  
 Genomma shares have tripled since an initial public
offering in June 2008 at 16 pesos a share. Earnings increased 47
percent last year and are forecast to rise 41 percent in 2010,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
Mexico City-based company is expanding by acquiring established
brands.  
 Mexican Stock Exchange spokesman  Guillermo Medina  didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail request for
comment.  
 The exchange oversees the IPC, which is a capitalization
weighted index of 33 stocks traded on the Mexican exchange,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The members include
America Movil SAB, the largest wireless carrier in Mexico, and
 Wal-Mart  de Mexico SAB, the country’s biggest retailer.  
 Genomma  rose  2.3 percent to 46.80 pesos at 4:01 p.m. New
York time. The stock is up 63 percent since Jan. 1.  
 The company said today it paid 76.6 million pesos ($6.1
million) for the rights to produce five products in Mexico and
other Latin American countries, including the foot powder
Micotex and the deodorant Ossart. Genoma is in talks to buy four
more brands, Chief Executive Officer  Rodrigo Herrera Aspra  said.  
 Genomma started operating in Brazil in January and in the
U.S. in February, focusing on the Spanish-speaking population
through a partnership with Grupo Televisa SA, the world’s
largest Spanish-language broadcaster.  
 The company’s executives are in New York to meet investors
on the second anniversary of the IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        