-- Mexico May Keep Rate at Record Low 4.5% After Inflation Slowed to Target
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-06-18T13:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/mexico-may-keep-rate-at-record-low-4-5-after-inflation-slowed-to-target.html

          
          
             Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a tenth straight
meeting today after annual inflation slowed to within policy
makers’ target range for the first time in 2010.  
 Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , will keep its overnight rate at 4.5 percent,
according to all 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank’s
decision is scheduled for 10 a.m. New York time.  
 The rebound in Mexico’s domestic spending has lagged behind
other Latin American countries such as Brazil and Chile,
limiting economic growth and checking inflation, said  Neil Shearing , an economist at London-based Capital Economics. Until
policy makers see signs of increased  consumer  demand, it’s
“simple and straightforward” for the bank to keep the  rates 
unchanged after last year’s contraction, he said.  
 “Inflationary pressures are weak, and consumer spending is
still fairly sluggish,” Shearing said. “There’s nothing to
keep policy-makers up at night.”  
 The central bank will probably keep the overnight rate
unchanged until March 2011, when it will raise by a quarter
point, according to the median estimate of analysts in a June 7
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  
 The Mexico outlook contrasts with central bank rate
increases this month in  Brazil , Latin America’s biggest economy,
as well as  Chile  and  Peru .  
 The long rate pause comes as Banco de Mexico, in each of
five monetary policy statements this year, said that the economy
was growing below its potential.  
 ‘Weak’ Spending  
 The central bank estimates Mexico’s economy will grow as
much as 5 percent this year after it  contracted  6.5 percent in
2009, its biggest slump since 1932.  
 “The reactivation of domestic spending has been weak, with
quarterly growth rates in private consumption relatively low and
still without a response from private investment,” the bank’s
five-member board wrote in its  May statement .  
 Consumer prices rose 3.92 percent last month from a year
earlier in the $1.09 trillion economy, the first time since
December the figure was within the central bank’s target range
of between 2 percent and 4 percent.  
 Prices  fell 0.63 percent in May from April as electricity
costs declined and prices decreased for vegetables and gas used
in homes. Annual inflation will end the year at 4.94 percent,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of 29
analysts published June 1.  
 Monetary Cycle  
 “It’s not necessarily true that there’s a common Latin
American monetary cycle,” said  Sergio Luna , a Mexico City-based
economist with Banamex. “That they’ve moved in a homogenous
form in the last two or three years had to do with global
events.”  
 Chile’s central bank on June 15 increased its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2008, raising it by half a
percentage point to 1 percent. Brazil’s central bank last week
raised the benchmark Selic rate 0.75 percentage point for the
second consecutive time, to 10.25 percent. Peru also raised its
benchmark lending rate by a quarter-point to 1.75 percent last
week, that bank’s second straight rate increase.  
 In Chile, retail sales surged 11.9 percent in March and
22.4 percent in April compared with last year. Brazil’s year-on-
year  retail sales  jumped 15.7 percent in March and 9.1 percent
in April. Peru doesn’t report retail sales data.  
 Retail Sales  
 In contrast, Mexican retail  sales  only rose 2.3 percent in
March from the same month a year earlier. The country’s national
statistics institute will report April retail sales today.  
 Mexico’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. That compares with Brazil’s 9
percent first-quarter GDP expansion, Peru’s 6 percent growth and
a 1 percent increase in Chile, which was ravaged by a February
earthquake.  
 Mexico’s recovery also contrasts with the rest of the region
because growth in consumer credit has been sluggish and other
countries have benefited more from a rebound in commodity
prices, said  Gray Newman , chief Latin America economist at
Morgan Stanley in New York.  
 “In most of Latin America we’re seeing super strong
growth,” Newman said. “The credit channel has been weaker in
Mexico.”  
 Bank of America forecasts that Mexico GDP will grow 4
percent this year, while Brazil’s will expand 7.3 percent and
Peru’s by 6 percent. Chile’s economy will grow 4 percent even as
first-quarter growth was damped by an 8.8-magnitude earthquake.  
 Lower Yields  
 Mexican companies including  America Movil SAB  and housing
agency  Infonavit  may soon pay the lowest yields relative to the
government in 19 months as slowing inflation bolsters demand
from pension funds.  
 The yield gap between AAA-rated debt and the 28-day
interbank lending rate, known as the TIIE, shrank to 50 basis
points, or 0.50 percentage point, last week, the least since
November 2008, said  Arnulfo Rodriguez , head of fixed-income
research at Banamex. The spread, based on an index compiled by
the bank, may narrow to 30 basis points by year-end, he said.  
 In trading today, Mexico’s peso rose 0.3 percent to 12.5544
per dollar at 9:33 a.m. New York time. It has strengthened 4.3
percent in 2010, the best performance against the dollar among
the 16 most-traded currencies.  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 was
little changed yesterday at 7.27 percent, according to Banco
Santander SA. The price of the security stayed at 124.37
centavos per peso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        