-- Mexico Keeps Rate at Record Low 4.5% With Inflation in Bank's Target Range
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-06-18T15:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/mexico-keeps-rate-at-record-low-4-5-with-inflation-in-bank-s-target-range.html

          
          
             Mexico’s central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a tenth straight meeting
as policy makers noted that domestic demand has been weak and
the peso faced volatility stemming from Europe’s debt crisis.  
 Banco de Mexico’s board, led by Governor  Agustin Carstens ,
kept its overnight rate at 4.5 percent today, matching the
forecasts of all 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 Policy makers will keep rates unchanged for the rest of the
year because inflation is under control and Europe’s debt crisis
may hurt growth in Mexico if it affects the U.S. economy, which
buys about 80 percent of Mexican exports, said  Bertrand Delgado ,
a senior economist at Roubini Global Economics LLC in New York.  
 “They’re most likely to remain on hold for quite some
time,” Delgado said. “Investment and consumption are still
sluggish and not picking up as expected. That remains a concern,
while inflation remains slowly moving to the target.”  
 Banco de Mexico will probably keep the overnight rate
unchanged until March 2011, when they will raise by a quarter
point, according to the median estimate of analysts in a June 7
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  
 “Consumption and investment in the private sector will
continue to be delayed, even though recently they’ve showed
certain improvement,” the bank said in a statement today. “The
uncertainty associated with the European crisis generated
greater volatility in the foreign exchange market.”  
 Peso’s Advance  
 The peso has begun to “stabilize” in recent days, the
bank added.  
 It rose 0.4 percent to 12.5413 per U.S. dollar at 11:35
a.m. New York time. It has gained 4.4 percent this year, the
best performance against the dollar among the 16 most-traded
currencies.  
 Mexico’s economy isn’t growing fast enough to prompt the
central bank to begin raising rates as regional peers  Brazil ,
 Chile  and  Peru  have this year, said  William Landers , who
oversees about $8 billion in Latin American stocks at BlackRock
Inc.  
 “Banco de Mexico is very comfortable,” said Landers, who
is based in Plainsboro, New Jersey. “The economy isn’t enough
to cause them to raise rates.”  
 The long rate pause comes after Banco de Mexico, in each of
the first five monetary policy statements this year, said that
the economy was growing below its potential.  
 Economy  
 The central bank estimates Mexico’s economy will grow as
much as 5 percent this year after it  contracted  6.5 percent in
2009, its biggest slump since 1932.  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 fell
1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.26 percent today,
according to Banco Santander SA. The price of the security was
124.48 centavos per peso.  
 Mexico’s domestic spending has been outpaced by other Latin
American countries such as Brazil and Chile, limiting economic
growth and checking inflation, said  Neil Shearing , an economist
at London-based Capital Economics. Until policy makers see signs
of higher  consumer  demand, it’s “simple and straightforward”
for the bank to keep the  rates  unchanged, he said.  
 “Inflationary pressures are weak, and consumer spending is
still fairly sluggish,” Shearing said. “There’s nothing to
keep policy makers up at night.”  
 Consumer Prices  
 Consumer prices rose 3.92 percent last month from a year
earlier in the $1.09 trillion economy, the first time since
December the figure was within the central bank’s target range
of 2 percent to 4 percent.  
 Prices  fell 0.63 percent in May from April as electricity
costs declined and prices decreased for vegetables and gas used
in homes. Annual inflation will end the year at 4.94 percent,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of 29
analysts published June 1.  
 “It’s not necessarily true that there’s a common Latin
American monetary cycle,” said  Sergio Luna , a Mexico City-based
economist with Banamex. “That they’ve moved in a homogenous
form in the last two or three years had to do with global
events.”  
 Chile’s central bank on June 15 increased its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2008, raising it by half a
percentage point to 1 percent. Brazil’s central bank last week
raised the benchmark Selic rate 0.75 percentage point for the
second consecutive time, to 10.25 percent. Peru also raised its
benchmark lending rate by a quarter-point to 1.75 percent last
week, that bank’s second straight rate increase.  
 In Chile, retail sales surged 11.9 percent in March and
22.4 percent in April compared with last year. Brazil’s year-on-
year  retail sales  jumped 15.7 percent in March and 9.1 percent
in April. Peru doesn’t report retail sales data.  
 In contrast, Mexican retail  sales  fell 0.1 percent in April
from the same month a year earlier.  
 Mexico’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier. That compares with Brazil’s 9
percent first-quarter GDP expansion, Peru’s 6 percent growth and
a 1 percent increase in Chile, which was ravaged by a February
earthquake.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        