-- Exxaro Holds Talks to Sell Power to Mines, Smelters From Waterberg Plant
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-06-18T15:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/exxaro-resources-plans-1-200-megawatt-south-african-coal-fired-power-plant.html

          
          
             Exxaro Resources Ltd. , South
Africa’s third-largest coal producer, is in talks with mining
companies and ferroalloy makers to supply power from a coal-
fired plant it plans to build in the north of the country.  
 “The aim is to get off-take agreements for power,”  Ernst Venter , head of business growth, said today in an interview near
Lephalale in Limpopo province near the Botswana border. Talks
are being held with energy-intensive companies, he said,
declining to be more specific.  
 A shortage of power capacity at Eskom Holdings Ltd., the
state-run utility, halted most mines in South Africa for five
days in 2008. Eskom, supplier of 95 percent of the nation’s
power, is struggling to attract the financing it needs for a 460
billion-rand ($61 billion) five-year expansion program. South
Africa is the world’s biggest supplier of platinum.  
 Exxaro, the largest supplier of coal to Eskom last year,
plans an initial 1,200-megawatt power station that may be
expanded, Venter said. The site, in the Waterberg region, may
get coal from the Thabametsi deposit where the company is
considering building a mine, he said.  
 Exxaro  fell 1.2 percent to 118.61 rand in Johannesburg
trading today, valuing the Pretoria-based company at 42.4
billion rand.  
 Coal Prices  
 Coal used in electricity plants is likely to trade at more
than $80 a metric ton for the rest of this year, Exxaro General
Manager of Coal Mxolisi Mgojo said in a separate interview.  
 The company has also held talks with potential new Asian
customers for supply contracts of about 6 to 12 months, Mgojo
said, declining to be more specific. “Asian markets will
continue to drive demand,” he said.  
 Exxaro is expanding coal output to keep pace with growing
demand from Eskom. Exxaro said today it has most of the funding
it needs for the expansion of its  Grootegeluk  coal mine to feed
the Medupi power plant being built by Eskom. The mine will
supply as much as 55,000 tons of coal a day to Medupi.  
 Exxaro plans to spend 4.5 billion rand on Grootegeluk’s
expansion by May 2012, while the total cost of the project is
9.5 billion rand, the company said today in a statement in
Lephalale.  
 Grootegeluk will be the largest coal operation in the world
after the expansion, which will raise output to 33 million tons
a year, Exxaro said in the statement.  
 The company is also studying coking-coal opportunities in
Mozambique, Mgojo said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        