-- Federer Opens Wimbledon Title Defense Against Falla; Nadal Faces Wild Card
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-18T10:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/federer-opens-wimbledon-title-defense-against-falla-nadal-faces-wild-card.html

          
          
             Grand Slam record holder  Roger
Federer  will start the defense of his  Wimbledon  tennis title
against  Alejandro Falla  of Colombia.  
 Women’s champion and top seed  Serena Williams  plays
Portuguese teenager  Michelle Larcher de Brito  in the first round
of the only grass-court major, which starts June 21 in London.  
 Federer last year became only the sixth man to win all four
majors after he triumphed at the French Open. He went on to
claim a record-breaking 15th Grand Slam singles title at
Wimbledon and took his 16th at January’s Australian Open. The
Swiss is seeking to tie  Pete Sampras ’s Open era men’s record of
seven titles at the All England Club.  
 Rafael Nadal , who was seeded second by tournament officials
even though he’s ranked No. 1 on the ATP World Tour, faces
Japanese wildcard  Kei Nishikori . The Spaniard won his fifth
French Open title earlier this month.  
 Also in Nadal’s half of the draw is Britain’s  Andy Murray ,
a semifinalist last year. Murray opens his bid to become the
first British man to win the singles title at Wimbledon since
Fred Perry in 1936 against  Jan Hajek  of the Czech Republic.  
 Third-seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia, who is in Federer’s
half, faces  Olivier Rochus  of Belgium.  Andy Roddick , who lost to
Federer in last year’s final, plays fellow American  Rajeev Ram .
Roddick is seeded to face Federer in the semifinals.  
 Five-time women’s champion and second seed  Venus Williams 
faces  Rossanna De Los Rios  of Paraguay. French Open champion
 Francesca Schiavone , who is in the same part of the draw, plays
 Vera Dushevina  of Russia.  
 Former top-ranked  Justine Henin  starts against  Anastasija
Sevastova  of Latvia. Wimbledon is the only major title to elude
Henin. Fellow Belgian Kim Clijsters, the reigning U.S. Open
champion, plays  Maria Elena Camerin  of Italy. The Belgian pair
could meet in the fourth round.  
 Former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova  of Russia, who is
in Serena Williams’s part of the draw, plays Ukraine’s  Kateryna
Bondarenko , while third seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark faces
 Tathiana Garbin  of Italy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        