-- Ferrari Designer Jason Castriota Hired by Saab Auto to Speed Turnaround
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-06-18T11:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/ferrari-designer-jason-castriota-hired-by-saab-auto-to-speed-turnaround.html

          
          
             Jason Castriota, the U.S. designer
known for creating the Ferrari P4/5 and Maserati GranTurismo,
will head Saab Automobile’s design team to help the Swedish
carmaker take on  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and Audi AG.  
 The first assignment for Castriota’s design firm is to
create an upscale version of Saab’s current 9-3 model, scheduled
for release in 2012, the 36-year-old said in an interview.
Aerodynamics will be a focus of the new design, he said.  
 “It’s absolutely vital we get this car right,” Castriota
said from New York late yesterday. “This is Saab returning to
its roots, not having to worry about being part of a much larger
machine that they were before in the GM organization.”  
 Saab, sold by General Motors Co. to Dutch supercar maker
 Spyker Cars NV  in February, aims to become profitable by 2012.
The turnaround strategy includes releasing premium models more
distinct and sporty in their design than when Saab was under GM,
according to Spyker Chief Executive officer  Victor Muller .  
 Castriota will play a major role in fashioning the new 9-3
and other models, said  Eric Geers , a spokesman for the
Trollhaettan, Sweden-based Saab.  
 “The 9-3 design as made by him is basically done, and I
can tell you it is spectacular,” Muller said by telephone,
adding that the design will be completed within weeks. “It is
truly aircraft-inspired and Swedish-clean.”  
 Benchmark Cars  
 The 9-3 was first released in 1998. The second generation,
still produced today, hit the streets in 2002. The new version
intends to challenge BMW’s 3-series and  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi A4,
Castriota said.  
 “Those are the benchmark cars,” he said by telephone.
“They’re true premium vehicles and the 9-3 also needs to be a
true premium vehicle.”  
 Castriota started his career in 2001 at luxury-car designer
 Pininfarina SpA  in Turin, Italy, where he stayed until 2008. He
then worked for Stile Bertone in Italy until September 2009.
Last December, he started his own firm, Jason Castriota Designs.
The design house has five designers and is based in New York
City and Turin.  
 “I literally started sketching Ferraris when I was about
five years old,” he said.  “For whatever reason, some kids
might kick around a soccer ball, I picked up a pencil and
started sketching cars.”  
 BMW Talks  
 Castriota will become part of the leadership at Saab and
will help “define the strategy for the new models,” he said.  
 Saab is also planning to introduce a smaller car with a
tear-drop shape inspired by the  92 model  that was in production
between 1949 and 1956. Saab is in talks with BMW about using its
Mini platform, as well as engines and gearboxes, for that model,
two people familiar with the situation said last week.  
 “A small premium car from Saab is a very important vehicle
and is something that could truly help the overall production
volume of Saab in a great way,” Castriota said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spyker Cars Victor Muller said Castriota 9-3 design 'spectacular'. Photographer: Casper Hedberg/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Customers inspect a Saab 9-3 convertible. Photographer: Mark Elias/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
