-- Fibria May Get Bids for Paper Unit as it Seeks to Salvage Investment-Grade
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-06-18T15:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/fibria-may-get-bids-for-paper-unit-as-it-seeks-to-salvage-investment-grade.html

          
          
             Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s
largest pulp maker, may receive offers for its paper business
this year as it seeks to regain investment-grade ratings, Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Aguiar  said.  
 “If we receive a good proposal, we would consider,”
offers to sell the unit, Aguiar, the former CEO of pulp maker
Aracruz Celulose SA, bought by Votorantim Celulose & Papel SA to
form Fibria last year, said yesterday in an interview in Sao
Paulo. “The core business of Fibria is pulp.”  
 The sale of the  paper business , which  accounted for 1.2
billion reais  ($670 million), or 20 percent, of the company’s
revenue last year, would help raise money needed to rid the
company of its junk bond ratings.  Suzano Papel e Celulose SA 
owns 50 percent of one of Fibria’s two paper units and has the
right of first refusal to buy out its venture partner’s stake.  
 Votorantim bailed out Aracruz after Brazil’s real plunged
23 percent in 2008 following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. , leaving the company with $2.1 billion of losses
from wrong-way currency derivatives. The acquisition left Fibria
with 15.7 billion reais of debt in March of last year.  
 Since then, Fibria pared indebtedness  30 percent to 10.9
billion reais  at the end of the first quarter and finished
paying off $3 billion related to the currency losses last month.
It now plans to use cash to pay 2.4 billion reais owed to former
Aracruz shareholders through July 2011, Investor Relations
Manager Andre Goncalves said in the same interview.  
 Reducing Debt  
 The company has sought to reduce net debt relative to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization,
or Ebitda, as it seeks to regain its investment-grade status as
early as 2012, Goncalves said. It aims to cut the  ratio  to 4 in
two years, reducing it from 5.6 at the end of March, he said.  
 Fibria rose 86 centavos, or 2.9 percent, to 30.40 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 11:01 a.m. New York time, after earlier
gaining as much as 3.1 percent, the most in a week. Before
today, the stock dropped about 24 percent this year, compared
with a 5.9 percent decline for the Bovespa stock index.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut the company’s rating three levels to
BB, two below investment grade, last year because of the
acquisition of Aracruz. S&P said April 22 it may increase the
rating in coming quarters after China-led demand allowed Fibria
to boost prices for a sixth straight month in May.  
 “The positive market environment reflects secular trends--
including strong demand from China for hardwood pulp,” S&P said
after raising the company’s rating outlook to “positive” from
“stable.” “Fibria will likely accelerate the improvement of
its financial profile, which could lead to an upward rating
action in the next few quarters.”  
 Billionaire Controller  
 A company controlled by billionaire  Joseph Safra  and a
group led by the Lorentzen family that founded Aracruz each
owned 27 percent of the pulp maker before Votorantim, which also
held 27 percent, agreed to buy out the partners. Fibria will pay
1 billion reais this month and 1.4 billion reais more next year
to the families, Goncalves said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Caminada  in Sao Paulo at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        