-- From Fluor to Costner, BP Cleanup Means Some Clean Up
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/from-fluor-to-awning-maker-to-costner-bp-oil-cleanup-means-some-clean-up.html

          
          
             Michigan’s depressed economy nearly
toppled Grand Rapids-based awning maker Prestige Products. In
April, the company’s fortunes changed when executive Brian
Rickel got a phone call from an old contact at  BP Plc .  
 It was 10 days after the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon rig
had exploded, and the company needed help containing the gush of
oil. Six weeks later, Prestige has rented a factory, filled it
with millions of dollars of new equipment, and hired 74 workers,
up from six in April. Using material similar to the vinyl in
awnings,  Prestige  is churning out 12,000 feet a day of booms,
the floating barriers that help contain oil slicks. Prestige
hopes to double its output, if it can hire 50 additional
workers.  
 “We’re in Michigan,” Rickel said in an interview. “The
economy has been horrible for everybody here. But the expertise
is here and we cashed in on it.”  
 The spill in the Gulf of Mexico will inflict billions of
dollars’ worth of damage on the economies of Louisiana, Alabama,
Mississippi and Florida by destroying fisheries, halting oil
drilling, and scaring off tourists. But for scores of businesses
-- from small fry like Prestige to construction giant Fluor
Corp. -- there’s money to be made in the aftermath of the worst
oil spill in U.S. history, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
June 21 issue.  
 Help Wanted Signs  
 It’s a dichotomy present across the Gulf region. A sign on
a shuttered seafood shop in Grand Isle, Louisiana, blames BP and
President  Barack Obama  for its woes. Nearby motels and repair
shops display Help Wanted signs for maids and mechanics to help
with the crush of cleanup activity. Local caterers are
aggressively advertising, trying to persuade BP to hire them to
feed spill-response workers gathering on the coast.  
 Rene Vegas, owner of Bridge Side Cabins & Marina, also in
Grand Isle, says his summer sport fishing season is lost due to
the fast-expanding oil slick. So, like many area businesses,
he’s shifting his focus. Vegas has begun stocking rubber boots,
hard hats and ropes to sell to cleanup crews.  
 Troy Petrovich, co-owner of T+T Boat Rentals in Buras,
Louisiana, has seen demand for his marine-related services
spike. Before the spill, “I kept calling, putting out more
phone calls” in search of oil-company customers, Petrovich
said. “Now my phone is ringing pretty steady; everybody is
looking for boats.” T+T has rented out all 10 of its boats to
oil companies and raised the daily rate to $450 from $325.  
 ‘Mop Up Oil’  
 Plenty of other companies aren’t waiting for business to
come to them. Shortly after the spill began,  MOP Environmental
Solutions Inc. , a Bath, New Hampshire-based maker of a substance
it claims absorbs up to 30 times its weight in oil, sent four
employees to the Gulf to conduct demonstrations for cleanup
officials.  
 The MOP workers came armed with fish tanks, oil and the
absorbing material in the trunks of their cars. Some of the
company’s shareholders hired a local pilot to fly around the
region with a banner reading, “We mop up oil.” After weeks of
being pestered, BP purchased its first three truckloads of the
oil-absorbent material for $155,000, MOP President Charles
Diamond said.  
 The company didn’t have to wait as long to get a full
hearing as actor  Kevin Costner . Costner’s company, Ocean Therapy
Solutions Inc., uses barge-based turbines to separate water from
oil. He first demonstrated the centrifuges to BP officials at a
technology conference 10 years ago, but wasn’t given the go-
ahead to test the gear in open water until earlier this month.
Now Ocean Therapy says it has sold 32 of the centrifuges to BP.  
 Corexit, Skimmers  
 Another beneficiary of the cleanup is  Nalco Holding Co. 
More than one million gallons of Nalco’s chemical dispersant
Corexit, which breaks up oil slicks, have been used in the Gulf.
The company sold $40 million of Corexit to BP through the week
of May 15, according to spokesman  Charlie Pajor .  
 Some faraway businesses are profiting from producing or
deploying equipment to get rid of the oil residue. The Slickbar
Products division of Finland’s Lamor Corp. sent employees to
Mississippi to help install its skimmers, which collect oil from
the water, onto shrimp boats. Its oil-boom plant in Seymour,
Connecticut, is operating at a pace not seen since the Exxon
Valdez spill in 1989.  Slickbar  has made more booms in the past
month than it had in the previous 12 months, Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Reilly said.  
 There’s activity on land as well. Irving, Texas-based  Fluor 
has a contract to supply BP with workers to clean up tar on
Alabama and Florida beaches. So far it has hired 1,200 workers
in Alabama and 2,400 in Florida, all of them off unemployment
rolls in those states, said spokesman  Brian Mershon . Fluor plans
to increase its Florida workforce to 4,100.  
 Birds, Shipwrecks  
 The  Shaw Group  Inc., a Baton Rouge-based power-plant
builder that has a $360 million contract to construct barrier
islands along the Gulf Coast, is hiring staffers to count birds
on nearby islands and map shipwrecks.  
 The cleanup rush isn’t generating just blue-collar work.
The Pensacola, Florida, law firm of Levin Papantonio Thomas
Mitchell Echsner Rafferty & Proctor has hired an airplane to fly
a banner over beaches reading “Prosecute BP” and is offering
free claims evaluations.  
 “There are probably hundreds of lawyers who are working to
generate claims on the BP spill,” said Fredric Levin, a partner
in the firm.  
 Washington’s K Street lobbying crowd also stands to benefit
as federal regulators crack down on drillers. Transocean Ltd.,
owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig, has hired former Oklahoma
congressman  Bill Brewster ’s firm,  Capitol Hill Consulting Group ,
to represent its interests, according to a regulatory filing on
May 10.  
 BP Employees  
 Litigation or legislative changes may generate years of
billings. For now, businesses in the affected area are taking
advantage of the spill work while they can. Marina owner Vegas
says he has as many as 60 BP employees and contractors staying
at his marina, which normally caters to sport fishermen and
beachgoing families.  
 “The motel is booked, the motel is doing fine,” he said.
“But when they leave in January or December, we’re in
trouble.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brian Rickel of Prestige Products stands for a photo on company's production floor in Walker, Michigan. Photographer: Adam Bird/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Employees work on oil booms in the last stages of production at Prestige Products in Walker, Michigan. Photographer: Adam Bird/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Kevin Krivoy, left, and Ivan Lopez work on oil booms for Prestige Products in Walker, Michigan. Photographer: Adam Bird/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Finished oil booms are put on a pallet and loaded onto a truck at Prestige Products in Walker, Michigan. Photographer: Adam Bird/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
