-- Fuel Oil Price Set to Drop in Japan on PetroChina Switch: Energy Markets
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-06-18T10:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/fuel-oil-price-set-to-drop-in-japan-on-petrochina-switch-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Japanese oil refiners are about to
face increasing competition in the market for fuel oil as
 PetroChina Co.  buys cheaper supplies from Venezuela and sells it
to shipping companies in Asia.  
 “PetroChina’s entrance to the northeast Asian market is
quite a bearish factor for prices in Japan,” said  Kazuto Ishida ,
a trader at Tokyo-based Hanwa Co. “Refiners in Japan will find
it more difficult to make a profit out of their bunker-fuel
business.”  
 Prices of Japanese fuel oil may decline, leading processors
such as Nippon Oil Corp. to reduce  production , Ishida said.
About 1.6 million metric tons of fuel oil, worth about $750
million, is sold by refiners at ports in China, South Korea and
Japan each month. Beijing-based PetroChina buys about 1 million
tons from Venezuela monthly.  
 Bunker fuel with a viscosity, or flow rate, of 380
centistokes traded at about $506 a metric ton in Japan, compared
with the benchmark price of $444 in  Singapore  at today’s close,
Asia’s trading hub, according to three Tokyo-based traders who
declined to be identified because of confidentiality agreements.  
 PetroChina, the world’s second-largest company by market
value, has boosted fuel-oil imports from Venezuela following
President  Hugo Chavez ’s 2006 pledge to reduce dependence on the
U.S.  Shipments  from Venezuela rose 27 percent to 1.97 million
tons in the first four months of this year, according to China’s
customs data. Not all PetroChina’s fuel oil purchases go to
China, with some cargoes being discharged in Singapore.  
 Journey Costs  
 Until now, Japan’s proximity to South Korea and China has
allowed Japanese refiners to charge shipping companies more for
their fuel than in Singapore. Traveling from Tokyo to Singapore
adds an extra 2,900 miles (4,667 kilometers), increasing costs.  
 The premium has risen to $62 from about $50 at the start of
the year and from less than $20 as recently as April 2009, as
Japanese refiners lowered  utilization rates  amid slowing demand,
the traders said. The difference may drop to $30 when PetroChina
begins fuel oil exports to Japan, one of the traders said.  
 “The vast majority of bunker fuel sold at Japanese ports
is supplied by domestic refiners, making prices vulnerable to
imported supplies,” said Ryo Furuya, Tokyo branch manager of 
OceanConnect.com Inc. , a New York-based fuel-oil broker. “The
price spread between Japan and Singapore will narrow once
PetroChina starts exporting to Japan.”  
 Qingdao Terminal  
 PetroChina opened a terminal in Qingdao, Shandong province,
in November containing four tanks with a capacity of 40,000 tons
each, double the 20,000 tons that most tanks leased by bunker
traders in Japan can hold. The facility will service ports on
the Bohai Sea as well as in Japan and Korea, the company said on
its  website  Nov. 6.  
 PetroChina, the nation’s second-largest refiner, sold about
50,000 tons of Venezuelan high-sulfur fuel oil to South Korea
for loading in mid-June at a premium of $4.5 a ton more than
Singapore assessments on a free-on-board basis at Zhoushan port
in Zhejiang province, according to a trader with knowledge of
the transaction.  
 South Korean  refiners  have switched from sellers of fuel
oil to China to buyers as plant upgrades boost output of higher-
value products such as gasoline and diesel, according to Joon
Kim, a senior trader in Seoul at O.W. Bunker South Korea. Fuel
oil is what remains after lighter oil products such as naphtha,
gasoline and jet fuel are distilled from crude.  
 ‘Short on Fuel’  
 “Korean refiners are becoming short on fuel oil to meet
their requirements for bunker sales at Korean ports,” he said.  
 Refiners have built residue fluid catalytic crackers to
process fuel oil into lighter products after the premium of
Middle Eastern light grades over heavier crudes started widening
in 2005.  
 SK Energy Co. , the nation’s biggest refiner, opened a
60,000 barrel-a-day plant at its Ulsan complex in 2008.  GS
Caltex Corp. , the second-largest, has expanded the capacity of
its No. 1 facility by 4.4 percent since 2008, and Hyundai
Oilbank Co. plans to complete a 52,000 barrel-a-day refinery at
Daesan, South Korea, next year.  
 Japanese refiners also face a slump in domestic demand.
Fuel Oil sales fell 29 percent in the fiscal year to end March,
according to the trade ministry. That compares with a 3 percent
decrease among oil-products. Companies are boosting fuel oil
exports with the  ratio of overseas sales to output  increasing to
35 percent from 33 percent in the year to March, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and trade ministry data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Fuel Oil Poised To Drop In Japan On PetroChina  
                       
                         
                           Adam Dean/Bloomberg 
                         
                         PetroChina has boosted fuel-oil imports from Venezuela following President Hugo Chavez’s 2006 pledge to reduce dependence on the U.S. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     PetroChina has boosted fuel-oil imports from Venezuela following President Hugo Chavez’s 2006 pledge to reduce dependence on the U.S. Photographer: Adam Dean/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
