-- Garanti Broker Working on Two Turkish IPOs of Total $2 Billion, CEO Says
-- Mark Bentley
-- 2010-06-18T06:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/garanti-securities-working-on-two-turkish-ipos-of-total-value-2-billion.html

          
          
             Garanti Securities, a Turkish broker
and adviser, is working on two initial public offerings with a
total value of $2 billion, Chief Executive Officer  Metin Ar 
said.  
 Garanti Securities and its clients plan to sell the shares
to investors in February, Ar said in an interview at his office
in Istanbul yesterday. The smaller IPO is of an energy company,
he said.  
 More Turkish companies are selling shares to the public
after the economy expanded 6 percent in the fourth quarter,
lagging only China among major emerging markets. The  ISE
National 100  share index rose 7.7 percent this year compared
with a loss of 3.9 percent for the benchmark  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index .  
 Ar said he prefers Turkish banks  Fortis Bank AS  and  Turkiye
Is Bankasi AS , refiner  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS  and
logistics company  Reysas Tasimacilik & Lojistik Ticaret AS  among
stocks traded in Istanbul.  
 Garanti Securities expects the ISE to rise to 66,700 points
by the end of the year, or 17 percent from yesterday’s close, Ar
said. The index climbed 0.9 percent to 56,891.01 yesterday.  
 Ar said Garanti is planning to sign an accord with an
“Italian boutique house” to cooperate in investment banking
services.  
 Sixteen companies are interested in Ankara gas company
 Baskent Dogalgaz , Ar said in a separate televised interview
today with Bloomberg HT news channel. Garanti was hired by the
Ankara municipality to advise on the sale.  
 Garanti Securities is a unit of Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS,
Turkey’s second-biggest listed bank by market value of 30.5
billion liras ($19.6 billion.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Bentley  at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        