-- Gazprom Cuts Gas Supplies to Belarus as Debt Talks Fail to Reach Agreement
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-06-21T15:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/gazprom-gives-belarus-three-days-to-pay-bill-or-face-cut-in-gas-supplies.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom  reduced gas flows to
Belarus, set to carry more than 20 percent of its Europe-bound
exports of the fuel, after talks about unpaid gas supplies and
transits failed.  
 Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, began lowering
deliveries by 15 percent at 10 a.m. today, Gazprom Chief
Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said on state television. As
much as 85 percent of daily shipments may be halted, he said.  
 Russia supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas via Belarus and
Ukraine. Gazprom threatened to cut supplies to Belarus in
January 2007, averted by a last-minute accord that more than
doubled the fuel price. Russia has also halted supplies to
Ukraine, twice disrupting deliveries to Europe twice during
freezing weather since early 2006.  
 “These cuts should not be felt as it is summer and Belarus
is not a major transit route,”  Karen Sund , founder of Oslo-
based consultant Sund Energy AS, said. Any disruption may come
as a relief to an oversupplied European market, she said.  
 Belarus pledged to settle its gas debt to Gazprom within
two weeks as it may have to borrow, Interfax said, citing First
Deputy Prime Minister  Vladimir Semashko  in Minsk, after the cut.  
 “No one will wait two weeks,” Sergei Kupriyanov, a
Gazprom spokesman, said. “It’s clear 15 percent is only the
beginning.”  
 Need to Diversify  
 Exports beyond Belarus shouldn’t be affected as Russia can
boost flows via Ukraine and Poland,  Sergei Kupriyanov , Miller’s
spokesman, told reporters in Moscow.  Pipelines  have spare
capacity on warm weather and a slump in southern European demand
since May, slowing recovery from the economic crisis, Miller
said June 19.  
 European Union officials don’t expect supply problems,
 Marlene Holzner , a spokeswoman, said in Brussels. Gas flows are
“in line with the schedule,”  Joanna Zakrzewska , a spokeswoman
for Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo, Poland’s dominant
gas company, said by phone from Warsaw.  
 The dispute proves the need for Europe to diversify its gas
sources, RWE AG, Germany’s second-largest utility, said by e-
mail. Storage is well-stocked, both RWE and E.ON AG said.  
 Supply disruptions during disputes with Ukraine in 2006 and
2009 led the EU to question Gazprom’s reliability and whether
Russia’s use of energy in relations with Ukraine’s then
government, which sought to join the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.  
 ‘Constant Contact’  
 Belarus’s debt may rise to $251 million when the May
payment comes due on June 23, from $192 million for January
through April, Kupriyanov said. Belarus, demanding Russian
prices, is paying $150 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas, compared
with more than $184 now and a planned $193 to $194 in the third
quarter, he said.  
 Gazprom owes Belarus a “comparable” debt for transit,
after the country blocked payments this year by refusing to sign
invoices, Kupriyanov said.  
 Vladimir Chekov, a spokesman for Beltransgaz, the country’s
gas pipeline company, wasn’t available for comment.  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered Miller to collect
the debt in cash. “We can’t accept anything else: not pies, not
butter, not cheese,” Medvedev said on state television.  
 Relations between Russia and Belarus are souring as a
customs union yoking the two countries and Kazakhstan falters.
Belarusian Premier  Sergei Sidorsky  boycotted a meeting with his
Russian and Kazakh counterparts,  Vladimir Putin  and  Karim Masimov , last month. Putin has said the troika will miss a
planned July 1 start date, citing Belarus’s push for subsidized
energy as a stumbling block.  
 Political Hostage  
 “Gazprom is a hostage to politics,” said  Valery Nesterov ,
a gas analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow. “The sides will come
to a quick agreement.”  
 Putin in March pledged $4.2 billion in subsidies to Belarus
this year through gas price discounts and tax-free oil. Gazprom
also paid $625 million this year for 12.5 percent of
Beltransgaz, boosting its stake to 50 percent.  
 Today, Putin ordered faster construction of gas storage in
Kaliningrad, a Russian exclave bordered by the Baltic Sea,
Poland and Lithuania, because of the dispute, Interfax said.  
 Gazprom, with partners including E.ON AG and Eni SpA, also
plans to build pipelines to Europe bypassing Ukraine and
Belarus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The company may cut supplies by up to 85 percent  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         OAO Gazprom chief executive officer Alexei Miller. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     OAO Gazprom chief executive officer Alexei Miller. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
