-- General Motors Director Kresa Said to Retire as Soon as July, Before IPO
-- David Welch
-- 2010-06-18T20:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/general-motors-director-kresa-said-to-retire-as-soon-as-july-before-ipo.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. board member  Kent Kresa , who served as interim chairman during the automaker’s
bankruptcy, will retire as a director as soon as July, said two
people with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 Kresa, who joined the board in 2003, turned 72 in March and
will not stand for re-election, said the people, who asked not
to be identified revealing internal discussions. GM added a 13th
director,  Cynthia Telles , an associate clinical professor at the
University of California at Los Angeles, in April and she will
take Kresa’s place when he retires, the people said.  
 The departure would leave four directors from the old
General Motors Corp. and eight who joined since the new GM
emerged from bankruptcy. That may help GM convince potential
investors its board has a fresh perspective as it prepares for
an initial stock sale, said  Charles Elson , director of the John
L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of
Delaware.  
 “New blood would probably make some sense,” said Elson.  
 Kathryn Marinello , another director, tendered her
resignation from GM’s board after she left her last job as
chairman and CEO of Minneapolis-based human resources firm
Ceridian Corp. in January. GM’s  corporate governance guidelines 
state that when a director’s job changes “from the position he
or she held when originally invited to join the board, the
director will tender a letter of resignation.”  
 Board Reviews  
 The board reviewed Marinello’s situation and decided to
keep her as a director, said a company spokeswoman,  Renee Rashid-Merem . Kresa’s status is under review, she said, because
directors who are 72 or older do not stand for re-election under
GM’s guidelines.  
 The board kept Marinello, 53, as a director with the
expectation that she will find a new job before GM holds an IPO
in the fourth quarter of this year or first quarter of next
year, one of the people said. If she does not, she may have her
directorship reviewed again and have to resign her seat, the
person said.  
 Directors who lose their executive jobs often stay on
boards long after leaving employment, said Elson.  
 “It’s rare that the resignation letters are even
accepted,” he said. “The value that they bring to the board is
not the job that they had. Often they do stay on.”  
 Kresa, a former chairman and CEO of Northrop Grumman Corp.,
was named GM’s interim chairman in March 2009 by President
 Barack Obama ’s Automotive Task Force after the government fired
Chairman and CEO  Rick Wagoner . Kresa helped recruit some of the
seven directors who joined when GM emerged from bankruptcy in
July.  
 Kresa didn’t immediately return a telephone message about
the matter. Marinello wasn’t available for interviews, Rashid-
Merem said.  
 GM’s equity is worth $70 billion, based on a return of
47 cents on the dollar for holders of bonds issued by GM’s
predecessor, according to  Eric Selle , a debt analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The debt will be converted to stock and warrants in
the IPO.  
 At current bond prices, GM’s implied equity value is about
$51 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Motors board member Kent Kresa  
                       
                         
                           Susan Goldman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General Motors board member Kent Kresa. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Motors board member Kent Kresa. Photographer: Susan Goldman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
