-- Germany Falls From Soccer World Cup Benchmark in 1-0 Upset Loss to Serbia
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-18T22:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/germany-falls-from-soccer-world-cup-benchmark-in-1-0-upset-loss-to-serbia.html

          
          
             After producing the most goals in
the World Cup’s opening round of games, Germany had its progress
checked in a 1-0 upset to Serbia yesterday.  
 The three-time champion started in South Africa with a 4-0
rout of Australia in the soccer tournament’s most lopsided
result so far. A red card to striker  Miroslav Klose  and  Lukas Podolski ’s missed penalty against Serbia in Port Elizabeth sent
Germany to its first loss in a World Cup group match since 1986.  
 “After the first games, for me, of all teams Germany
showed the best football, the best quality,” Serbia defender
 Branislav Ivanovic  told reporters. “Now we are strong. We were
a little bit lucky but I think we deserved to win.”  
 Serbia rebounded from a 1-0 defeat to Ghana in the opening
Group D match six days ago to boost its chances of reaching the
round of 16.  
 Germany remains atop the group because of a superior goal
difference. Serbia and Ghana, which faces Australia today, are
tied for second with three points with the top two teams
advancing to the second round. The final Group D games are
scheduled June 23.  
 “There was much disappointment after the first game,”
Serbia defender  Nemanja Vidic  told reporters. “We let ourselves
down and obviously in this game we had so much pressure. We’ve
had a great result and now everything is in our hands.”  
 Milan Jovanovic got the decisive goal in the 38th minute,
moments after Klose was ejected after tripping Serbia captain
 Dejan Stankovic , the German’s second yellow card and one of nine
in the match.  
 Yellow Cards  
 Players from both teams said Spanish referee Alberto
Undiano may have been too quick to hand out bookings.  
 “If you look at all of the yellow cards, it’s a joke,”
said Germany midfielder  Bastian Schweinsteiger .  
 Jovanovic put the ball into the net from about eight yards
after  Nikola Zigic  had headed  Milos Krasic ’s cross into his
path. Jovanovic then jumped over advertising hoardings to
celebrate with Serbian fans at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium.  
 Serbian goalkeeper Vladimir Stojkovic kept his team ahead
in the 60th minute, diving to his left to save Podolski’s
penalty after a handball against Vidic.  
 It was the first World Cup penalty Germany had missed in
regulation play since 1974, when  Uli Hoeness  failed to convert a
spot-kick against Poland.  
 “I accept responsibility,” Podolski told reporters. “I
don’t want to dwell on it.”  
 Germany coach  Joachim Loew , who has assembled his country’s
youngest World Cup squad since 1934, said the squad was
“devastated” by the defeat, though had the “resolve and the
will” to go through to the next round. Germany closes group
play against Ghana in Johannesburg in four days.  
 “I don’t think this is going to bog us down completely,”
Loew said at a news conference.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Port Elizabeth through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        