-- SEC, Goldman Agree to Extension for Firm to Reply to U.S. Suit
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-21T15:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/goldman-is-said-to-seek-extension-of-june-21-deadline-to-reply-to-sec-suit.html

          
          
             A judge today in New York signed an
order granting  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  more time to respond to
a April 16 lawsuit accusing the firm of defrauding investors
while selling mortgage-linked securities, records say.  
 U.S. District Judge  Barbara Jones  signed a request granting
Goldman an extension until July 19, according to court records.
The original deadline was June 21, court documents show. The
SEC, in the joint filing submitted to the court with Goldman,
consented to the firm’s extension of time.  
 The SEC said New York-based Goldman Sachs and one of its
employees,  Fabrice Tourre , didn’t disclose to investors the role
played by hedge fund Paulson & Co. in devising and betting
against the securities.  
 Tourre also has until July 19 to respond, according to
court documents signed by  Lorin Reisner , the SEC’s deputy
director of enforcement and  Richard Klapper , a lawyer for
Goldman Sachs.  
 The SEC alleged the firm wasn’t forthcoming about the role
that a hedge fund, Paulson & Co., played in selecting and
betting against the instrument.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, has denied the SEC’s allegations and said it will fight
the case. Company spokesman  Michael DuVally  said he couldn’t
comment.  
 According to the complaint, Goldman created and sold
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages in
early 2007, as the U.S. housing market faltered, without
disclosing that Paulson helped pick the underlying securities
and bet against the vehicles.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldman
Sachs, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        