-- Goldman-Backed Cobalt a Target After BP Oil Spill
-- James Paton
-- 2010-06-18T08:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/goldman-backed-cobalt-small-gulf-drillers-are-m-a-targets-after-bp-spill.html

          
          
             Five years ago, investors
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Carlyle Group put up
$500 million in seed money to hunt for oil in the deep waters
of the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere.  
 After the BP Plc oil spill, smaller Gulf operators such
as the Goldman startup,  Cobalt International Energy Inc. , may
be swept up in a wave of consolidation as the regulatory
landscape tilts in favor of larger firms, said  William Herbert , an analyst at Houston-based Simmons & Co.  
 Tougher rules are likely to boost costs and slow the
pace of drilling, said  Scott Van Bergh , co-head of Americas
energy and power investment banking at Bank of America Corp.
Companies may also face higher liability caps and
requirements to post some clean-up costs in advance. That may
make drilling in the Gulf feasible for only the world’s
largest energy companies, including  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Total
SA, Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Norway’s Statoil ASA and
Australian miner BHP Billiton Ltd.  
 The rules Congress enacts “are likely to favor larger
operators over smaller ones,” Van Bergh said. “People are
thinking about who will want to exit, and who will want to
become consolidators.”  
 BHP Firepower  
 Cobalt, founded in Houston in 2005 by the former
president of Unocal Corp.,  Joseph Bryant , operates in the
deep waters of the Gulf and the West African coast and went
public last year. The shares lost about 44 percent since the
spill on April 20, giving Cobalt a  market value  of about $2.8
billion.  
 Houston-based  Plains Exploration & Production Co. , with
a market value of about $3.3 billion, and Cobalt may be
targets for BHP, the world’s largest mining company,
according to a report last month by Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  
 BHP already has four operating energy projects in the
Gulf, three of which are joint ventures with BP. The
Melbourne-based company has the “firepower to do enormous
things,” J.  Michael Yeager , the chief executive officer of
BHP’s petroleum unit, said on a May 24 conference call.  
 BHP is capable of spending as much as $20 billion to
acquire Gulf assets, including BP project stakes that may come
up for sale, Citigroup Inc. Sydney-based analyst  Clarke Wilkins 
said in an interview today.  
 ‘Public Enemy’  
 “BP is public enemy number one in the U.S. at the moment,
and if there is any forced divestment of assets, BHP is in a
strong position to be able to pick them up,” Wilkins said.  
 BHP, a partner with BP in the Atlantis, Mad Dog and
Gunflint ventures, may increase its stakes in those projects, he
said. BP’s share of those assets is worth $11 billion, Wilkins
estimated in a June 16 report.  
 Amanda Buckley , a spokeswoman for BHP, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation. Cobalt spokesman  Rich Smith 
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Andrea Raphael  of
Goldman Sachs declined to comment, as did a spokesman for
Riverstone Holdings LLC, which sponsors a fund with Carlyle
that invested in Cobalt. Spokespeople for Plains didn’t
return calls.  
 The oil and gas business is one of the busier sectors in
a slumping merger market this year, accounting for $68.8
billion of deals, or about 8.4 percent of the total across
all industries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Oil
and gas deals accounted for 5.9 percent of global takeovers
during the previous decade.  
 ‘Buoyant Market’  
 Energy mergers and acquisitions may produce a “buoyant
market” in 2010, according to Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  
 Still, it may be months or years before Gulf players get
a clear enough understanding of the new regulatory
environment to do deals, said Bank of America’s Van Bergh.  
 The U.S. Justice Department has begun a probe into the
BP oil leak, and President  Barack Obama  put a six-month ban
on offshore drilling. Congress is also considering removing
the $75 million limit on economic losses from oil spills that
large companies must pay. BP agreed this week to set up a $20
billion fund to pay victims and the spill had cost it more
than $1.2 billion as of June 11.  
 “Costs will go up to operate in the region and that
could make it quite difficult for smaller companies,” said
 Peter Chilton , an investment analyst at Sydney-based
Constellation Capital Management Ltd.  
 Anadarko, Noble  
 The changing economics of deep-water drilling have
prompted investor doubts about one $2.7 billion deal struck
just before the spill.  Mariner Energy Inc. shares  dropped
about 7.7 percent since the spill amid concern an agreed sale
to Apache Corp. may unravel. Apache is committed to
completing the deal and expects to do so after getting
regulatory and shareholder approval, probably in the third
quarter, said spokesman  Bill Mintz .  
 It’s too early to say how the BP spill will affect
Total’s plans for exploration, said  Phenelope Semavoine , a
spokeswoman for Total in Paris.  Alan Jeffers  of Exxon Mobil
and Paula Almada of Petrobras declined to comment.  Ola Morten Aanestad , a Statoil spokesman, didn’t return a call for
comment.  
 “Today the industry is focused very much on the spill
itself, but we believe that many are thinking about what the
longer-term implications will be as an operator in the deep-
water Gulf,” said Bank of America’s Van Bergh.  
 Anadarko, Noble  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and Noble Energy Inc. are among
companies that may opt to sell their deep-water Gulf assets,
according to Simmons’s Herbert. Anadarko, which owns a stake
in BP’s leaking well, has  dropped 43 percent  since the spill.
Houston-based Noble, which got about 10 percent of 2009
production from the deep-water Gulf, is down 15 percent.  
 Anadarko said on June 3 it may shift capital spending to
projects outside the Gulf. The Woodlands, Texas-based company
got about a fourth of its production from the Gulf in 2009,
according to a regulatory filing. Spokesmen for Anadarko and
Noble declined to comment.  
 “The risk premium for deep-water, highly pressured
reserves has gone up,” Herbert said. “It’s not a seller’s
market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        