-- Gold to Jump to Record $1,300 as Currencies Shunned
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-06-18T07:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/gold-to-jump-to-record-1-300-as-investors-shun-euro-dollar-ikemizu-says.html

          
          
             Gold may climb to a record $1,300 an
ounce this year as investment demand shifts from the euro
and the dollar, said Bruce Ikemizu at Standard Bank Plc.  
 The U.S. and European currencies may lose their appeal as
developed economies underperform emerging markets such as China,
said Ikemizu, the head of commodity trading and managing
director at the bank’s Tokyo branch. As there is no immediate
replacement for the dollar and euro, demand for gold will grow,
he said in an interview yesterday.  
 Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,243.80 an ounce
today, near its record $1,252.11 on June 8, as the dollar
weakened on signs the U.S. recovery was slowing and on concern
the European sovereign-debt crisis will persist. “We have just
entered Act II,” billionaire investor  George Soros  said June 10,
as Europe’s fiscal woes worsen and governments are pressured to
curb budget deficits that may push the economy into recession.  
 “The U.S. will never regain its dominance in the world
economy” as growth is driven by emerging economies, said
Ikemizu, who has spent 24 years trading gold since starting his
career at Sumitomo Corp. “Gold is drawing attention” as it
will take a long time for the dollar to be replaced by another
currency in trade and investment, he added.  
 Initial U.S. jobless claims increased by 12,000 to 472,000
in the week ended June 12, according to Labor Department figures
yesterday, signaling the labor market may not be improving and
reducing prospects for a sustained recovery. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News projected the number of applications would
drop to 450,000, according to the median forecast.  
 Euro, Gold  
 The euro has slumped 14 percent against the dollar this
year on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis may spread, while gold
denominated in the U.S. currency has advanced 13 percent and is
heading for its 10th annual gain.  
 Concern over the value of the U.S. and European currencies
may spur central banks in China,  Russia  and India to add gold to
their reserves as their holdings are small, Ikemizu said.  
 “It is risky for them to depend heavily on U.S. treasuries,
given the possibility of a further decrease in the dollar,” he
said. “Gold may be their option as it is nobody’s liability.”  
 Official sector sales of gold slumped by 82 percent to 41
tons last year from 232 tons in 2008, according to    GFMS Ltd ., a
London-based research company. Central banks may turn to a net
buyer of bullion this year, Ikemizu said. In November,  India 
surprised markets with a $6.7 billion purchase from the
 International Monetary Fund ’s bullion holdings.  
 Scrap Supply  
 An increase in prices may be gradual as scrap supply will
grow, Ikemizu said. The metal may find support around $1,200 an
ounce for the rest of the year as physical buying will increase
below that level, he added.  
 Gold may drop to $1,180 an ounce this year if investment
demand slows as rising prices curb consumption by jewelry makers
and other fabricators, said  Shuji Sugata , research manager at
Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in Tokyo.  
 Platinum is expected to trade between $1,500 and $1,800 an
ounce for the remainder of the year as demand in vehicle
emission-control devices will climb, he said.  
 “Car ownership in China and India will continue to
expand,” he said. Demand for cars, sport-utility vehicles and
multipurpose vehicles increased 26 percent from a year earlier
to 1.04 million units in May on a wholesale basis, compared with
a 33 percent jump in April, the  China  Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said June 8.  
 Domestic sales of passenger cars in India rose 30.5 percent
in May from a year ago, compared with a 39.5 percent growth in
April, Society of Indian  Automobile  Manufacturers figures show.
Platinum will be supported around $1,500 an ounce as a drop
below that level will make about 80 percent of producers
unprofitable, leading to output cuts, Ikemizu said.  
 Platinum for immediate delivery lost 0.3 percent to $1,573
an ounce at 4:07 p.m. in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        