-- Golf Retailers Use Freebies to Spur Sputtering Sales
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-06-18T20:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/golfsmith-freebies-seek-to-spur-father-s-day-club-sales-as-spending-stalls.html

          
          
             Golf retailers are offering video
cameras, free lessons and contests ahead of Father’s Day and the
U.S. Open to spur demand as the highest sustained unemployment
since 1982 deters shoppers.  
 Golfsmith International Holdings Inc.  is running a
promotion to give cash back to some shoppers depending on who
wins the U.S. Open this weekend. Callaway Golf Co. is giving
Kodak PlaySport cameras to customers who buy new drivers.  
 The tournament and Father’s Day usually make June the
biggest sales month for golf companies, topping the Christmas
season. The average person in the U.S. may spend 3.8 percent
more for the June 20 holiday than last year, according to the
National Retail Federation. Fewer Americans plan to splurge on
sporting goods and leisure items for dad, opting for clothing
instead, according to the Washington-based  group .  
 “After Father’s Day, sales taper off,” said  Kristine Koerber , an analyst who covers Callaway for San Francisco-based
JMP Securities LLC. While sales have been recovering, “Callaway
was expecting a bigger lift” for the holiday, she said.  
 Koerber lowered her  rating  on Callaway to “market
perform” from “outperform” this week after the maker of Big
Bertha golf clubs forecast second-quarter earnings and sales
that fell short of analysts’ projections.  
 Callaway rose 8 cents to $6.50 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange  trading . The stock has dropped 14 percent this
year, compared with a 78 percent gain for Golfsmith as the
Austin, Texas-based company stemmed sales declines. Golfsmith,
the largest U.S. retailer of golfing merchandise, advanced 8
cents to $4 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Spending Climbs  
 The average shopper will spend $94.32 on Father’s Day in
the U.S., compared with $90.89 last year, according to the
National Retail Federation. The group projects total spending
will reach $9.8 billion, trailing purchases during the winter
holidays, Mother’s Day, Valentine’s Day and Easter.  
 Golfsmith’s Father’s Day sales may exceed last year’s
levels, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Hanaka  said in an
interview. Tomorrow will be Golfsmith’s biggest sales day of the
year, amounting to an entire week’s worth of  revenue  during an
off-peak month, he said.  
 “The Callaway results are not reflective of the total
industry,” said Hanaka, 61.  
 Callaway, based in Carlsbad, California, said this week
that second-quarter revenue will fall to as little as $295
million, trailing analysts’ projections for $325 million.  
 Tim Buckman, a spokesman for Callaway, said the company’s
Kodak promotion “offers the consumer a value proposition that
is free of the heavy discounting prevalent in 2009.”  
 U.S. Open  
 When  Phil Mickelson  won the Masters Golf Tournament in
April, 15,000 Golfsmith customers got full refunds for their
purchases of the Callaway Big Bertha Diablo Edge driver. The
promotion allowed consumers to keep the driver and get their
money back only if Mickelson finished first in the tournament.  
 “If we could always get that kind of exposure for what it
cost us, I’d do it every single month,” Hanaka said.  
 The company expects that a new campaign with golfers  Retief Goosen ,  Sergio Garcia  and  Sean O’Hair  will lead to similar
publicity. If customers correctly pick one of those three
golfers as the winner of the U.S. Open this weekend, Golfsmith
and TaylorMade, the golf-equipment maker owned by Adidas AG,
will provide refunds through an insurance policy.  
 Golfsmith  also is giving away gift cards worth up to $100,
free rounds of golf and free lessons with various purchases. The
retailer expects to sell 2 million golf balls, 4 million tees
and 150,000 golf clubs in June, its biggest sales month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Martin Hanaka, CEO of Golfsmith International Holding, holds a new GPS device made for golfers at a Golfsmith shop in Austin, Texas. Source: Golfsmith International via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
