-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrower Than Forecast as Growth Improves Tax Revenue
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-18T10:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/government-posts-smaller-than-expected-23-8-billion-budget-deficit-in-may.html

          
          
             Britain posted a smaller fiscal
deficit in May than economists forecast as growth lifted tax
receipts, providing a boost for finance minister  George Osborne 
as he puts the finishing touches to his June 22 budget.  
 The 16 billion-pound ($23.8 billion) shortfall compared
with 17.4 billion pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. The result was below the 18
billion-pound median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey .  
 Osborne is set to outline the deepest spending cuts in a
generation to tame a deficit that hit a post-World War II high
of 11 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year
through March. U.K. government bond yields have fallen since
Prime Minister  David Cameron  took office six weeks ago on
expectations his ruling coalition will step up the pace of
deficit reduction.  
 “The figures are a bit better than expected,” said Philip
Shaw, chief European economist at Investec Securities in London.
“There are signs that the figures have turned, but that doesn’t
detract from the need for the big squeeze I am sure we are going
to get next week.”  
 The 10-year gilt yield has fallen 37 basis points since May
11 and was trading at 3.515 percent as of 11:16 a.m. in London,
up 3 basis points from yesterday. The pound, which has lost 8
percent against the dollar this year, was little changed at
$1.4824.  
 Osborne is under pressure from investors and ratings
companies to deliver on his pledge to slash the deficit as the
sovereign-debt crisis in the euro region escalates.  
 Pressure for Cuts  
 “I think the risk that this economy and the U.S. faces is
that unless we get control of our debt burden we could be in
line at some point as well,” former Bank of England policy
maker  DeAnne Julius  said in a Bloomberg Television interview
June 16.  
 Current receipts rose 7.6 percent in May from a year
earlier, boosted by payments of corporation tax, income tax and
value-added tax, a 17.5 percent levy on sales of goods and
services. Government spending climbed 7.3 percent, with
expenditure on net social benefits gaining 3.7 percent.  
 In April, the deficit was 8.3 billion pounds rather than
the 10 billion pounds initially reported. The revision was
partly due to higher-than-expected receipts from a tax on banker
bonuses, the statistics office said. The levy, expected to raise
2 billion pounds, generated 2.5 billion pounds.  
 Recovery Risks  
 A measure of  cash  entering and leaving the public sector
showed a 12 billion-pound deficit in May compared with 19.1
billion pounds a year earlier. Economists predicted a 20.5
billion-pound shortfall, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Net debt climbed to 903 billion pounds, or
62.2 percent of GDP.  
 The looming deficit-cutting drive has cast a shadow over
prospects for consumer spending as the economy emerges from its
worst recession since 1945. Osborne has refused to rule out
raising the VAT rate.  
 In a foretaste of next week’s budget, Chief Secretary to
the Treasury  Danny Alexander  yesterday froze or axed projects
worth more than 10 billion pounds approved by the previous
Labour government between Jan. 1 and the May 6 general election.  
 While the independent fiscal watchdog set up by Osborne
predicts the overall deficit will be 4 percent lower over the
next five years than the Treasury forecast in March, it says the
structural hole has increased, meaning the new government has
more to fill through spending cuts and tax rises.  
 ‘Restore Confidence’  
 “The chancellor will set out his plan to tackle this
 record  deficit in next week’s budget, taking action to restore
confidence in our economy,” a Treasury spokesman said in a
statement.  
 The deficit will be little changed at 155 billion pounds in
the current fiscal year, or 10.5 percent of GDP, the Office for
Budget Responsibility said this week. In the first two months,
the shortfall was 24.3 billion pounds, down from 26.2 billion
pounds a year earlier.  
 The deficit excluding government support for the financial
sector in the last fiscal year was 154.7 billion pounds, cut
from a previously estimated 156.1 billion pounds. As a share of
GDP, the shortfall was revised to 10.99 percent from 11.1
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. posts smaller-than-expected deficit in May  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. finance minister George Osborne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. finance minister George Osborne. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
