-- Greenspan Says U.S. May Soon Reach Borrowing Limit
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-06-18T03:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/greenspan-says-u-s-nearing-limits-on-borrowing-capacity-restraint-needed.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the U.S. may soon face higher borrowing costs on
its swelling debt and called for a “tectonic shift” in fiscal
policy to contain borrowing.  
 “Perceptions of a large U.S. borrowing capacity are
misleading,” and current long-term bond yields are masking
America’s debt challenge, Greenspan wrote in an  opinion piece 
posted on the Wall Street Journal’s website. “Long-term rate
increases can emerge with unexpected suddenness,” such as the 4
percentage point surge over four months in 1979-80, he said.  
 Greenspan rebutted “misplaced” concern that reducing the
deficit would put the economic recovery in danger, entering a
debate among global policy makers about how quickly to exit from
stimulus measures adopted during the financial crisis. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this month that
while fiscal tightening is needed over the “medium term,”
governments must reinforce the recovery in private demand.  
 “The United States, and most of the rest of the developed
world, is in need of a tectonic shift in fiscal policy,” said
Greenspan, 84, who served at the Fed’s helm from 1987 to 2006.
“Incremental change will not be adequate.”  
 Rein in Debt  
 Pressure on capital markets would also be eased if the U.S.
government “contained” the sale of Treasuries, he wrote.  
 “The federal government is currently saddled with
commitments for the next three decades that it will be unable to
meet in real terms,” Greenspan said. The “very severity of the
pending crisis and growing analogies to Greece set the stage for
a serious response.”  
 Yields on U.S. Treasuries have benefitted from safe-haven
demand in recent months because of the European debt crisis, a
circumstance that may not last, said Greenspan, who now consults
for clients including Pacific Investment Management Co., which
has the world’s biggest bond fund.  
 Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes yielded 3.20 percent as of
12:11 p.m. in Tokyo today, down from the year’s high of 4.01
percent in April and compared with as high as 5.32 percent in
June 2007, before the crisis began. Yields have remained low
“despite the surge in federal debt to the public during the
past 18 months to $8.6 trillion from $5.5 trillion,” Greenspan
said.  
 The swing in demand toward American government debt and
away from euro-denominated bonds is “temporary,” he said.  
 “Our economy cannot afford a major mistake in
underestimating the corrosive momentum of this fiscal crisis,”
Greenspan said. “Our policy focus must therefore err
significantly on the side of restraint.”  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies at a hearing of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies at a hearing of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
