-- Guangzhou Automobile Applies to List in Hong Kong by Way of Introduction
-- Stanley James
-- 2010-06-18T03:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/guangzhou-automobile-applies-to-list-in-hong-kong-by-way-of-introduction.html

          
          
             Guangzhou Automobile Group Co.
applied to begin trading 2.2 billion of its shares on the Hong
Kong stock exchange’s main board on Aug. 30, pending approval,
the company said in a filing.  
 Guangzhou Auto, China’s sixth-largest automaker, is seeking
to buy out Hong Kong-traded unit  Denway Motors Ltd.  for HK$51.6
billion ($6.6 billion) in stock, listing the shares it issues.
Denway will be withdrawn after closing on Aug. 25, according to
yesterday’s filing through the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 Acquiring Denway will strengthen Guangzhou Auto’s ability
to raise money and compete with  SAIC Motor Corp.  and Dongfeng
Motor Group Co. in the world’s largest auto market, analysts
including Vivien Chan at SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd. have said.  
 “The combined companies will be better able to introduce
new models and there are possibilities of economies of scale,”
Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Chairman  Mark Mobius  wrote in an
e-mail on June 15. Templeton owns 835 million Denway shares,
about an 11 percent stake, Bloomberg data show.  
 Shareholders in Denway,  Honda Motor Co. ’s Chinese partner,
will get about 0.47 of a  Guangzhou Auto  share for each Denway
share, Guangzhou Auto said on June 8. Guangzhou Auto increased
the buyout offer by 25 percent, implying Denway is worth as much
as HK$6.87 per share, based on the valuation of closely held
Guangzhou Auto’s shares in a May 19 filing.  
 Guangzhou Auto is listing existing shares in Hong Kong by
way of introduction, so it isn’t selling shares to outside
investors or raising funds.  
 Templeton, Denway’s biggest shareholder after parent
Guangzhou Auto, said in the e-mail that it’s happy with the deal.  
 Denway is unchanged HK$3.58 at 11:13 a.m. in Hong Kong
trading, as the benchmark Hang Seng index rose 0.6 percent.
Guangzhou Auto is based in Guangzhou, Guangdong province and
Denway in Hong Kong.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        