-- India's Rupee Heads for Best Week Since January on Interest-Rate Outlook
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-18T04:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/india-s-rupee-heads-for-best-week-since-january-on-interest-rate-outlook.html

          
          
             India’s rupee headed for the best
week since January on speculation the central bank will raise
borrowing costs a third time this year to curb  inflation , making
local assets more attractive to investors seeking higher yields.  
 The currency climbed for a third day to a one-month high
after the government said this week that inflation accelerated
in May to near the fastest pace in 17 months. The  Reserve Bank
of India  may raise its benchmark rate before a scheduled July 27
policy meeting,  Chia Woon Khien , Singapore-based head of
currency and rates strategy for Asia excluding Japan at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 “The chances of an inter-meeting rate hike are very
high,” Chia said. “Because of that, the rupee will look
attractive. In this kind of global environment, anyone hiking
rates will be seen in a positive light. India is also raising
rates from a position of strength.”  
 The rupee gained 1.5 percent this week to 46.10 per dollar
as of 9:26 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It rose as high as 46.09, the strongest level since
May 19. It may be traded between 46.50 and 46.65 today,
Raghuvanshi predicted.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the currency will trade at
46.58 to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations
of 47.29 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  
 Annual wholesale-price inflation was 10.16 percent in May,
the commerce ministry said June 14, compared with an average 5.3
percent in the past decade. The central bank raised its key rate
by a quarter percentage point each in March and April to 3.75
percent.  
 Overseas  investment  in India’s bonds jumped 88 percent this
year and touched a record $14.4 billion on June 8, data from the
Securities and Exchange Board of India show.  
 The rupee also rose as the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
 Sensitive Index , a benchmark for the nation’s shares, advanced
for an eighth day, set for this year’s biggest weekly gain.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        