-- Indonesia May Export 75% of LNG From Mitsubishi's Donggi-Senoro Project
-- Bambang Djanuarto
-- 2010-06-18T04:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/indonesia-may-export-75-of-lng-from-mitsubishi-s-donggi-senoro-project.html

          
          
             Indonesia will allocate as much as
75 percent of the liquefied natural gas from the Donggi-Senoro
plant for exports, allowing Mitsubishi Corp. and  PT Medco Energi
Internasional  to proceed with construction stalled since 2008.  
 The country will retain 25 percent to 30 percent of the gas
from the project on Sulawesi Island for local buyers,  Darwin Saleh , the nation’s energy minister, said in a mobile phone text
message today. Medco, which has a 20 percent stake, rose to an
eight-month high in Jarkata trading.  
 Mitsubishi  and its partners, which also include PT
Pertamina, had wanted to export the gas to utilities in Japan,
helping the world’s second-biggest economy secure energy
supplies and compensating for cuts in shipments from existing
LNG projects in Indonesia. The Indonesian government had said
the gas should be sold at home to meet rising domestic demand.  
 “We are grateful the energy ministry has made a decision.
Now we can proceed with the project,”  Karen Agustiawan ,
president director of Pertamina, which has a 29 percent stake,
said by telephone in Jakarta.  
 Owners of LNG plants typically secure buyers for the fuel
before construction begins. Gas supplies for the plant will come
from the Senoro and Matindok fields. Medco and Pertamina hold
equal stakes in the Senoro field, while Matindok is owned by
Pertamina.  
 The 2 million-metric-ton-a-year LNG plant was scheduled to
be completed in 2014, according to the partners.  
 Medco shares rose 4.2 percent to 3,125 rupiah as of 9:35
a.m. local time, set for its highest close since Oct. 19.  
 “The project will contribute huge amount of revenue to the
Indonesian government,”  Lukman Mahfoedz , a director at Medco
said by phone. “The domestic allocation will have a multiplier
effect to local industry.  
 Korea Gas Corp.  and  Kyushu Electric Power Co.  will buy 1
million tons of LNG per year from the plant, replacing  Kansai
Electric Corp.  which backed out of the purchase agreement, Hari
Karyuliarto, head of Pertamina’s LNG business, said March 25.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        