-- Intercell Says Data on Vaccine Against Common Hospital Bug May Be Delayed
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-18T15:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/intercell-says-data-on-vaccine-against-common-hospital-bug-may-be-delayed.html

          
          
             Intercell AG  fell the most in two
weeks in Vienna trading after saying early data on whether its
vaccine against a deadly hospital bug works may be delayed to
the first or second quarter of 2011.  
 Intercell declined 60 cents, or 3.4 percent, to close at
17.06 euros, the biggest drop since June 4.  
 “The study is being conducted by  Merck & Co. , who we
partner with on this vaccine, so we can’t really influence when
it will be completed,” Gerald Strohmaier, a spokesman for
Intercell, said by telephone today. The Vienna-based company on
May 11 said it expected the interim analysis of the vaccine
against Staphylococcus aureus “during the course of 2010,”
before telling analysts on a conference call later the same day
that the data “may even slip into 2011.”  
 Staphylococcus aureus  is the most common cause of hospital-
acquired infections and accounts for about 40 percent of all
such cases, according to Intercell’s website. Hospital-acquired
infections result in an “annual cost burden of more than $20
billion in the developed world.”  
 “We believe this vaccine remains a significant opportunity
for Intercell,”  Mick Readey , an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Co.
in London, wrote in a note to investors. “We regard this as a
minor delay, which is probably explained by a slower than
expected event rate in the trial.”  
 The analysis is the data the companies will use to decide
whether to enter the last stage of clinical testing required for
regulatory approval of the vaccine, said  Ian McConnell , a
spokesman for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck. The
U.S. drugmaker disclosed the delay at a research and development
briefing on May 11, McConnell said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Naomi Kresge  in Tel Aviv at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        