-- Iran's Highest Security Panel Warns of `Retaliation' for Nuclear Sanctions
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-18T11:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/iran-highest-security-panel-warns-of-retaliation-for-nuclear-sanctions.html

          
          
             Iran’s highest security commission
called the United Nations nuclear sanctions approved June 9
“illegal” and warned of retaliation for any actions against
Iranian interests as a result of the UN move.  
 “Any measure against the legitimate interests of the
Iranian nation will prompt Iran to respond with the necessary
measures,” the Supreme National Security Council, comprising
representatives from parliament, the judiciary, the military and
the supreme leader, said today in a  statement  carried by the
state-run Islamic Republic News Agency.  
 The measures approved last week are the fourth round of
sanctions against Iran in the UN Security Council’s effort to
curb its nuclear development, which the U.S. and many of its
allies say may be intended for weapons. Iran says the work is
necessary for civilian purposes, such as power generation.  
 The UN Security Council should leave nuclear issues to the
world body’s International Atomic Energy Agency, according to
the Iranian panel’s statement. The European Union followed the
UN actions yesterday by strengthening the bloc’s sanctions
against Iran, a day after similar action by the U.S.  
 The new UN sanctions include the authority to seize cargo
suspected of being used for Iranian nuclear or missile programs,
restrictions on financial transactions and a tighter arms
embargo.  
 Gas, Oil Targeted  
 The EU penalties will hit “key sectors of the gas and oil
industry with prohibition of new investment, technical
assistance and transfers of technologies, equipment and
services,” according to a statement issued yesterday at the EU
summit in Brussels.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department invoked the UN sanctions by
targeting the Post Bank of Iran, the Islamic Republic Shipping
Lines, and the Guard Corps’ Air Force and Missile Command. The
U.S. also blacklisted Defense Minister  Ahmad Vahidi ,
Revolutionary Guard Corps Commander  Mohammad Ali Jafari  and
 Mohammad Reza Naqdi , commander of the Guard’s Basij militia.  
 The Persian Gulf country’s Supreme National Security
Council, led by President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , is in charge of
determining defense and security policies. Members include the
speaker of the parliament, the judiciary chief, two
representatives of Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , and
the ministers for defense, intelligence and foreign affairs.  
 The U.S. is the “biggest threat to the international
community,” because it is the “main culprit in production,
testing, proliferation and using nuclear weapons,” the Iranian
council said today. Referring to the spill from a  BP Plc  site in
the Gulf of Mexico, it said, “How a regime that cannot manage to
restrain an oil well gain the trust of the international
community that it can control its nuclear arsenal?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        