-- Singer Named Head of Czech Central Bank, Says He'll Only Fine-Tune Policy
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-18T12:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/miroslav-singer-named-czech-central-bank-governor-to-replace-tuma-in-july.html

          
          
             Miroslav Singer , a University of
Pittsburgh-trained economist, was named the next governor of the
Czech central bank today. He said there’s no need for major
monetary policy changes when he takes office July 1.  
 The 42-year-old Singer, who has been deputy governor since
2005, was appointed by President  Vaclav Klaus  during a ceremony
today in Prague. He will be the third head of the central bank
since the fall of communism in 1989 and replaces  Zdenek Tuma ,
who will step down at the end of the month.  
 Czech monetary policy needs only “fine-tuning” with the
benchmark two-week repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent,
Singer said after his appointment. The bank has cut the rate by
3 percentage points since June 2008.  
 “Singer’s appointment won’t change much in terms of the
monetary policy outlook,” said  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at
Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague, a unit of Erste Group. “It will
be a slight shift from Tuma’s standpoint, who was more dovish,
while now flexibility is going to dominate the policy-making
process.”  
 The Czech koruna traded at 25.762 against the euro at 2:44
p.m., versus 25.704 the previous trading day, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Klaus, who delayed signing the European Union’s Lisbon
Treaty last year and has opposed any move to quickly adopt the
euro, has the chance to reshape monetary policy with the
appointment of three more central bank board members when their
terms end in February.  
 Tuma, 49, announced his resignation on April 15, almost
eight months before his second six-year term was to expire. Tuma
said he was leaving his post early to limit the period of
“uncertainty” related to personnel changes at the bank.  
 Euro Adoption  
 The central bank has maintained its independence from
political leaders, even though the president has the sole
mandate to choose board members. It urged government spending
cuts after the worst recession in 20 years, and policy makers
have remained mostly neutral on adopting the euro.  
 Singer declined to comment on the timing for joining the
euro. The country has no target date for the currency switch,
though it is bound to make the change by its European Union
accession agreement.  
 The new governor graduated from the Economics University in
Prague and received a Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh in
1995. He worked at the Czech Academy of Sciences and was chief
economist at Expandia Finance in Prague before joining the
central bank board, according to the central bank’s website.  
 “His rhetoric is sometimes colorful, but that’s his
style,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , chief economist at Wood & Co.
in Prague. “He’s an exceptionally qualified candidate who knows
the bank and he will fiercely fight for its independence.”  
 Singer said he sees no reason to publish detailed results
of bank stress tests in countries that don’t have problem with
their lenders, the business newspaper Hospodarske Noviny
reported today. He has also spoken out against EU plans for a
bank tax designed to create a fund protecting the industry at
times of crisis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Czech president names Singer as central bank governor  
                       
                         
                           Dieter Nagl/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Miroslav Singer who will replace Zdenek Tuma as central bank governor. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Miroslav Singer who will replace Zdenek Tuma as central bank governor. Photographer: Dieter Nagl/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
