-- Israel Tells UN's Ban It May Block Gaza Aid Vessels Sailing From Lebanon
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-18T22:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/israel-tells-un-it-may-seek-to-block-gaza-aid-ships-sailing-from-lebanon.html

          
          
             Israel said in letters to the United
Nations yesterday that it may take military action to block
ships from Lebanon, possibly organized by Hezbollah, that plan
to sail to the Gaza Strip with humanitarian aid.  
 The warning came in letters from Israeli Ambassador
 Gabriela Shalev  to Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  and the
president of the UN Security Council, Ambassador  Claude Heller 
of Mexico. The Israeli government is concerned that terrorists
or arms will be smuggled on board the ships, Shalev wrote.  
 “Israel reserves its right under international law to use
all necessary means to prevent these ships from violating the
existing naval blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip,” the envoy
said.  
 The letter said that a “small number” of ships plans to
leave Lebanon, that there “exists a possible link between the
organizers of the ships in question and the terrorist group
Hezbollah,” and that some of the organizers have said they wish
to become “martyrs.”  
 Israeli officials say they must prevent shipments from
going to Gaza without first checking them for weapons that may
be used against its towns and cities, which have come under
attack from rockets. Activists who have organized flotillas to
challenge the embargo say Israel has unduly limited humanitarian
aid to Gaza residents.  
 May 31 Raid  
 Nine pro-Palestinian Turkish activists were killed in a May
31 raid on a vessel attempting to run the blockade, prompting
international criticism. Israeli officials have said its forces
came under attack as they boarded the ship, the Mavi Marmara.
There was no violence on five other boats intercepted in the
operation.  
 Israeli ministers decided June 17 to relax the blockade and
expand the import of materials “for civilian projects under
international supervision.”  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas seized full
control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 “I am encouraged that the Israeli government is reviewing
its policy, and by its recent decision to allow more goods,”
Ban told reporters today. “Nevertheless, much more is required
to really meet the needs of the people. I continue to call for a
fundamental change in the policies that apply to Gaza.”  
 Israel carried out a military operation in Gaza in December
2008 which it said was meant to stop the firing of rockets into
its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict. Since the end of the three-week
operation, some 330 rockets have been fired from Gaza into
Israel, killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army
said.  
 ‘Demonstrate Responsibility’  
 Shalev’s letter asks the government of Lebanon to
“demonstrate responsibility and prevent these boats from
departing.” Nawaf Salam, Lebanon’s ambassador to the UN, said
he forwarded the letter to Beirut and wouldn’t comment on it at
this time.  
 Hezbollah, a Shiite Muslim movement and militia, said today
it won’t take part in aid missions destined for Gaza so as to
avoid an Israeli attack on Lebanon, according to a statement
cited by the Israeli newspaper Haaretz.  
 Israel fought a monthlong war with Hezbollah in 2006, and
has accused Syria of supplying the group with Scud missiles,
allegations both Lebanon and Syria deny.  
 UN Investigation  
 Ban said he is still working to put together a panel to
investigate the May 31 flotilla raid, as the Security Council
requested. Israel hasn’t committed to cooperating with Ban’s
proposed probe, which he said would include representatives of
Turkey and Israel.  
 Israel has announced plans for its own investigation, with
international observers.  
 “While I believe they have the capacity to carry on their
domestic investigation, at the same time this investigation
should have international credibility with an international
dimension,” Ban said. “I have been telling them my proposal is
not incompatible with Israel’s national investigation. I am
going to have a component of Israel and Turkey in my
commission.”  
 Ban said he has been told by some governments that Israel’s
planned investigation “is not sufficient enough to have
international credibility.”  
 The secretary-general said he is proceeding cautiously
with naming his investigative panel because “in reality, in
practical terms, it is important to get support and cooperation
from the countries concerned, in this case the government of
Israel.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Varner  in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        