-- Italy Will Publish Results of Bank Stress Tests, BOI Governor Draghi Says
-- Sonia Sirletti
-- 2010-06-18T11:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/italy-will-publish-results-of-bank-stress-tests-boi-governor-draghi-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of Italy will publish the
results of stress tests of the nation’s banks so the public can
know the financial strength of their lenders and investors may
better understand what they are buying, the central bank’s
governor,  Mario Draghi , said.  
 “I am glad to see that gradually consensus in Europe is
maturing for having the stress tests published,” Draghi, who is
also a member of the European Central Bank’s governing council
and the head of the Financial Stability Board, said today at a
conference in Rome.  
 “It’s something that I have been supporting since the very
beginning and is something that we are going to do in Italy,”
he said.  
 European Union leaders agreed yesterday to publish the
results of stress tests on  major banks  by the end of July in
order to prop up confidence in financial institutions still
coping with the aftermath of the 2008 market meltdown.  
 “I think we have everything to gain from publishing these
results, because so far countries with good banks, countries
with good financial structure have everything to lose from
contagion,” Draghi said. “Not to disclose, not to show exactly
how things are is one of the major sources of uncertainty in
Europe right now and is one of major reasons why the overseas
investors are actually pulling their money back.”  
 Release ‘Imminent’  
 Bank of Italy Director  Fabrizio Saccomanni  said at the same
conference that the release of the stress tests is “imminent” 
and will coincide with those of other European countries.  
 Alessandro Profumo , chief executive officer of  UniCredit
SpA , Italy’s biggest bank, praised the Bank of Italy’s decision.  
 “For countries with strong banks like Italy it’s
absolutely a good thing,” Profumo told reporters at the
sidelines of the same conference in Rome. “I think it’s a good
thing for all, and certainly it’s something important for
Italy,” he said.  
 Banking shares have been among the biggest decliners in
Italy as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis fueled concern about the
value of the investments. The MSCI Italy/Financials Index has
fallen 19 percent this year, more than the 11 percent decline in
the country’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index.  
 “The publication of the stress tests may help to restore
market confidence,”  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at RMJ
Sgr in Milan, said by telephone today. “As a next step, central
banks should use and publish the same parameters to do the
tests,” he said.  
 European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet  told
reporters yesterday that he was “happy” that EU leaders
reached a consensus on stress tests and said the results will be
published in the second half of July at the latest.  
 Draghi, speaking today, also said that protectionism
“remains the wrong answer” to fight the global recession and
that euro-region governments need to better coordinate budget
policy and set stricter conditions for meeting deficit goals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        