-- James Lee Burke Foresees Devastation of His Louisiana Wetlands
-- Mike Di Paola
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/james-lee-burke-foresees-devastation-of-his-louisiana-wetlands.html

          
          
             Listening to  James Lee Burke 
reminisce about Louisiana wetlands before the oil spill is a
lush, nearly tactile experience.  
 “It was like the Garden of Eden back in those marshes
years ago,” he says of the  Atchafalaya Basin , the nation’s
largest swamp. “I thought it was the most beautiful place in
the United States. At sunrise there would be this stillness,
like the first day of Creation, and the sun looked like cotton
candy inside the cypress trees.”  
 Then the 73-year-old bestselling novelist drops the hammer.  
 “That’s all going down the drain because of what’s
occurred,” he says.  
 I spoke by telephone with the writer, who lives part of the
year in what he describes as “a little bitty town about eight
miles outside” of Missoula, Montana.  
 He spends the rest of his time in New Iberia, Louisiana,
the setting for his popular Dave Robicheaux novels. “The Tin
Roof Blowdown” made Hurricane Katrina a central character while
starkly depicting the storm’s human toll in death and
derangement.  
 Burke worked his way through college as a sort of scout for
Sinclair Oil Corp. in the 1950s. He knows from experience that
oil has already worked its way into the area’s canals, eroding a
root system vital to the integrity of the marshlands.  
 “There are 10,000 miles of extant canals that have been
cut over the decades through the Louisiana wetlands,” he says.  
 “The first time there’s a storm surge -- and it’s probably
going to happen this summer -- that oil is going to be driven
into those canals. That’s the story that’s not being covered.”  
 Work of God  
 Burke fears that sludge washing into the wetlands will
destroy the place once and for all.  
 “It is just an absolute tragedy. Very few people
understand how fragile the wetlands are,” he says. “There’s a
symbiotic relationship between everything that lives in a marsh,
and when you impair it with toxic waste and infuse it with
poison, it’s like tampering with the work of God.”  
 While Burke at one point wants to speak off the record, he
changes his mind because “there’s no point in avoiding” the
truth.  
 “This is going to remain not just the worst industrial
calamity in this country’s history, but maybe in the world’s
history, outside of acts of war. The magnitude of this is just
immeasurable.”  
 Collective Illusion  
 When BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  said he
thought the environmental impact of the disaster would be
“very, very modest,” Burke was disgusted.  
 “He was either dissembling, or he’s unknowledgeable about
his own technology and profession,” Burke says. “It’s one or
the other.”  
 As for the reaction of President  Barack Obama’s 
administration, he says, “I voted for President Obama and I
think he’s a decent and good person. I feel, however, that the
only conclusion one can make is that he did not understand the
gravity of the situation.”  
 I ask Burke if he plans to write about the spill.  
 “I don’t know. My feeling is this is a disaster that was
decades in the making. And it has to do with a larger story, one
that includes Afghanistan and Iraq and the previous
administration -- and, I think, a collective illusion about the
era into which we have entered.”  
 Energy Independence  
 He does see a glint of a silver lining.  
 “We are paying a very high price for oil, and a lot of it
is in human blood. The United States is one of the few nations
in the world that, with relative ease, could actually become
energy independent. We’re just going to have to give up some
things, but we could do it.”  
 Burke’s next novel, “The Glass Rainbow” (Simon &
Schuster) continues the Dave Robicheaux series, touches on an
oil-rig explosion and reveals how the hero’s father died. It
will be released on July 13.  
 ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Glass Rainbow"  
                       
                         
                           Simon and Schuster via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The cover jacket of "The Glass Rainbow: A Dave Robicheaux Novel." The book is the latest in a series by James Lee Burke. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The cover jacket of "The Glass Rainbow: A Dave Robicheaux Novel." The book is the latest in a series by James Lee Burke. Source: Simon and Schuster via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       James Lee Burke  
                       
                         
                           Frank Veronsky/Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Author James Lee Burke. "The Glass Rainbow" is his latest novel in the Dave Robicheaux series. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Author James Lee Burke. "The Glass Rainbow" is his latest novel in the Dave Robicheaux series. Photographer: Frank Veronsky/Simon & Schuster via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
