-- Japan's Gyohten Says Euro to Survive Crisis, Yuan Revaluation Still Likely
-- Shigeki Nozawa
-- 2010-06-18T04:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/japan-s-gyohten-says-euro-to-survive-crisis-yuan-revaluation-still-likely.html

          
          
             Europe’s “commitment” to the euro
will help the currency survive a debt crisis that drove up
borrowing costs and forced painful budget cuts in the 16-nation
region, said Toyoo Gyohten, a former currency official in Japan.  
 Europe “bought time” with a rescue package for the
trading bloc’s most-indebted members, Gyohten, 79, said
yesterday. Political leadership and fiscal tightening will be
necessary for Europe to regain the market’s trust, he said.  
 “Europeans’ commitment to their historical integration is
stronger than any of us outside the bloc can imagine,” said
Gyohten, who was a special adviser to former Finance Minister
 Hirohisa Fujii . The trading bloc will “eventually overcome any
difficulty.”  
 The European Union and International Monetary Fund
announced a rescue package last month of almost $1 trillion to
shore up the finances of the euro area’s weakest economies.  Jim Rogers , chairman of Rogers Holdings, said on June 16 he is
buying euros even as he predicts that bailouts for European
nations will destroy the currency in the next 10 to 15 years.  
 With the U.S. economy moderately recovering, “the euro’s
weakness and the dollar’s strength will remain intact over the
medium term,” said Gyohten, president of the Tokyo-based
 Institute for International Monetary Affairs .  
 If the bailout proves ineffective, the euro will see
downward pressure again, he said. Still, the currency won’t
likely hit a record low, he said. The currency traded at $1.2403
today.  
 Yuan Revaluing  
 The euro fell as much as 22 percent versus the dollar from
its peak in November amid concern the fiscal crisis that
originated in Greece will spread to other debt-laden nations in
the region. The shared currency fell to $1.1877 on June 7, the
lowest level since March 2006. It touched an all-time low of
82.30 U.S. cents in October 2000.  
 Gyohten maintained his forecast that China will let the
yuan appreciate this year even as Europe’s crisis tempers global
growth prospects.  
 “There are still high possibilities that China will move
by year-end,” he said.  
 Gyohten served as vice finance minister for international
affairs from 1986 to 1989. In 1992, he co-authored “Changing
Fortunes: The Shaping of the International Monetary Order” with
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeki Nozawa  in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        