-- Jose Saramago, Winner of Nobel Prize in Literature, Dies at 87
-- Jim Silver
-- 2010-06-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/jose-saramago-portuguese-winner-of-nobel-prize-in-literature-dies-at-87.html

          
          
             Jose Saramago , winner of the 1998
 Nobel Prize  in literature for early novels that explored
historical themes from unconventional angles and later works in
which inexplicable events threaten society’s underpinnings, has
died. He was 87.  
 The writer died earlier today at his home in Lanzarote,
Spain, after a lengthy illness, according to the  website  of the
Jose Saramago Foundation.  
 Saramago, the only Portuguese winner of the literary prize,
was 60 before he wrote most of the  novels  for which he was
honored, having worked as a car mechanic, civil servant,
production manager in a publishing company and newspaper editor
before becoming a full-time writer.  
 He joined the Portuguese Communist Party in 1969, during a
dictatorship that had outlawed the party, and was a contentious
figure in the nation’s public life.  
 After a military-led government with Communist
participation took power in 1974, Saramago the next year became
deputy director of a leading newspaper, Diario de Noticias,
where opponents on the staff said he helped impose pro-
government news coverage. He was fired after a November 1975
confrontation that reduced the Communists’ role in the
government.  
 In 1991, the government blocked the nomination of his
novel, “The Gospel According to Jesus Christ,” for a European
literary prize, calling it offensive to Catholics. In the book,
Saramago portrays a Jesus who has sex with Mary Magdalene and is
a pawn in a power struggle between God and the Devil. The
government’s decision prompted him and his wife, Spanish
journalist Pilar del Rio, to leave Portugal for Spain’s Canary
Islands, where he lived for the rest of his life.  
 ‘Ideologically Oriented’  
 In 2002, when he and other writers visited the Israeli-
occupied West Bank, he said Israel was guilty of “a crime we
put on the same plane as what happened as Auschwitz.” He later
said he chose the reference to Auschwitz to provoke a response
from Israelis.  
 When Saramago won the Nobel, the Vatican newspaper
L’Osservatore Romano said the award was “ideologically
oriented.” The Nobel committee, in awarding the prize, praised
the “rich, multifaceted” prose, the “wealth of imagination”
and the “skillfully evoked atmosphere of unreality” in
Saramago’s works.  
 His writing was marked by long sentences and paragraphs,
minimal punctuation and frequent digressions on human nature.
“Probably I’m an essay writer who, as he doesn’t know how to
write essays, writes novels instead,” he said in an interview
cited in the Guardian newspaper in 2002.  
 U.S. literary critic  Harold Bloom  called Saramago “the
most impressive living novelist, who overshadows all other
living Europeans and all Americans too.”  
 ‘Universal Themes’  
 Several of his novels in the 1980s examined periods of
Portuguese history, including “Baltasar and Blimunda,” a love
story set in the early 18th century, and “The History of the
Siege of Lisbon,” about a proofreader at a publisher who
rewrites the history of the 12th-century conquest of Lisbon.  
 His later books focused on other themes. “Blindness”
described an unnamed city hit by an epidemic of unexplained
sudden blindness, depicting the ensuing social and political
breakdown. In “The Stone Raft” Iberia literally breaks off
from the rest of Europe, and in “The Double,” Saramago
describes a man’s reaction when he learns he has an exact
physical double.  
 “He speaks about universal themes and really tackles
social problems, love, passion, science,” said Graca Almeida
Rodrigues, a retired professor of Portuguese Studies at Lisbon’s
New University. “He goes beyond the problems of Portugal and
takes on universal world problems.”  
 Unenthusiastic Reviews  
 “Blindness” attracted the interest of  Whoopi Goldberg ,
 Gael Garcia Bernal  and others who wanted to turn it into a
movie, according to a New York Times profile of Saramago. He
turned down all proposals for years before giving permission to
Canadian screenwriter  Don McKellar . The  film  opened the 2008
Cannes Film Festival, receiving mostly unenthusiastic reviews,
with Le Monde and the Times calling Brazilian director  Fernando Meirelles ’s rendition of the allegorical tale heavy-handed.  
 Jose de Sousa Saramago was born on Nov. 16, 1922, in
Azinhaga, a village 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast of
Lisbon, “in a family of landless peasants,” according to an
autobiographical  note  on the Nobel website. His father took the
family to Lisbon in 1924, though Jose spent long periods in
Azinhaga with his grandparents until he was about 13 years old.  
 Auto Mechanic  
 His parents sent him to a technical school, where he
studied for five years to be a mechanic, while studying
literature mostly on his own. After working for two years in a
car repair shop, he took a job in the government’s Social
Welfare Service.  
 He published a novel in the 1940s and wrote another that
wasn’t published, then gave up writing for 19 years, as “I had
nothing worthwhile to say,” he wrote on the Nobel site.  
 In the 1950s, Saramago, who had studied French in school,
started doing translation work and took a job as a publishing
company production manager, which gave him access to literary
circles. From 1966 to 1973, he published two books of poems and
two collections of newspaper articles.  
 In the early 1970s he was an editor at the Lisbon newspaper
Diario de Lisboa, before his tumultuous stint at the Diario de
Noticias in 1975. After his ouster there he focused full-time on
writing. In 1995 he won the Camoes Prize, Portugal’s top
literary award.  
 Feted in Portugal  
 After winning the Nobel, Saramago, though still living in
Spain, was feted in his home country. A publisher named a
literary award for young writers after him, and the city of Beja
in southern Portugal put his name on its municipal library.  
 Still, he didn’t win universal affection from the
Portuguese, many of whom hadn’t read his work, partly because of
its difficult style, Almeida Rodrigues said.  
 “The Portuguese find him somewhat arrogant,” she said.
“Portuguese who are outstanding tend to be recognized more
outside the country than at home.”  
 Saramago’s first marriage, to Ilda Reis, ended in divorce
in 1970. He remarried in 1988. He had a daughter, Violante, born
in 1947.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Silver  in Lisbon at 
 jsilver@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jose Saramago  
                       
                         
                           Pierre-Phillipe Marcou/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Portuguese writer Jose Saramago poses during the presentation of his book 'Cain' in Madrid. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Portuguese writer Jose Saramago poses during the presentation of his book 'Cain' in Madrid. Photographer: Pierre-Phillipe Marcou/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
