-- Kan's Deficit Plans May Push Bond Yields Down to 1% This Year, Daiwa Says
-- Yumi Ikeda
-- 2010-06-18T05:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/kan-s-deficit-plans-may-push-bond-yields-down-to-1-this-year-daiwa-says.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
efforts to tackle the budget deficit may send bond  yields  down
to as low as 1 percent this fiscal year, according to Daiwa
Institute of Research Ltd.  
 Kan pledged yesterday to reduce the world’s largest public
debt, saying failure to do so may undermine the country’s
sovereignty. He also said he’d consider the opposition party’s
proposal to increase the consumption tax to 10 percent.  
 “If Japan’s finances are poised to improve, the bond
market will stabilize, limiting gains in yields,” said  Yutaka Harada , senior managing director and chief economist in Tokyo at
Daiwa Institute, a unit of Japan’s second-largest brokerage.  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond dropped two basis
points today to 1.20 percent as of 2:03 p.m. in Tokyo, according
to Japan Bond Trading Co. The last time the yield was below 1
percent was in August 2003.  
 Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan didn’t mention the
consumption tax increase in its manifesto for the July 11 upper-
house elections because the opposition Liberal Democratic Party
has already made that proposal and it would not be a point of
contention, Harada said in an interview.  
 The DPJ is expected to take time preparing the tax changes
and raise the consumption tax after the next lower house
election, he said.  
 “If the economy recovers while spending is being cut, tax
revenue will increase and the budget deficit will narrow,”
Harada said. The efforts to restore Japan’s fiscal health will
enable Kan to contain new debt sales to within 44.3 trillion yen
($488 billion) next fiscal year, he said.  
 Harada said 10-year yields will range between 1 percent and
1.50 percent in the year ended March 31, 2011.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        