-- Kan Aims to Cut Company Tax Toward 25% in Strategy to Stoke Japan's Growth
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-06-18T04:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/kan-aims-to-cut-company-tax-toward-25-in-strategy-to-stoke-japan-s-growth.html

          
          
             Japan’s government pledged to cut
the nation’s tax on businesses and nurture the environment and
health care industries as part of a plan to defeat deflation
and end two decades of economic stagnation.  
 The government pledged in its medium-term economic plan
today to bring the corporate tax rate down to a level
“commensurate” with other leading nations. That rate is “about
25 percent,” Yosuke Kondo, parliamentary secretary for the
Trade Ministry, said in an embargoed briefing yesterday. Firms
in Tokyo pay a levy, including local taxes, of 40.7 percent.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  is seeking to restore Japan to 2
percent growth, end deflation and at the same time shrink the
budget deficit to contain the world’s biggest  public debt .
Kan’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan yesterday signaled in
its midterm election manifesto that sales taxes will be raised
to strengthen the finances of the world’s No. 2 economy.  
 “The most important thing is to ensure fiscal
reconstruction,”  Shogo Ishii , director of the International
Monetary Fund’s Asia-Pacific office, said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday. “Without it, a cut in corporate taxes won’t
improve public finances, sparking concerns about market
confidence.”  
 Kan yesterday vowed to curtail the debt, saying failing to
do so could threaten the nation’s sovereignty by putting an
international organization such as the IMF in charge of fiscal
management. Since taking power this month, he has been
advocating economic management centered on allocating taxes in
a way that boosts jobs and social welfare.  
 Stocks Rise  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.1 percent at 1:12 p.m.
in Tokyo. The yen climbed for a fifth day against the dollar,
trading at 90.86. Yields on Japan’s 10-year bond fell two basis
points to 1.2 percent.  
 The government released the 2 percent economic growth
target in December, and today’s plan aims to provide a road-map
for achieving it. Kan is scheduled to unveil a separate fiscal
rehabilitation strategy next week.  
 Attaining the growth goal may be challenging for a country
with an  aging population  and deflation that has discouraged
domestic demand. A 2 percent pace of expansion is four times
the Bank of Japan’s estimate of the nation’s speed limit and
almost double the 1.1 percent average rate recorded since an
asset-price bubble burst in 1990.  
 Tackle Deflation  
 The strategy aims to halt the slide in  consumer prices  by
the fiscal year ending March 2012. It seeks to avoid a surging
yen and urges the Bank of Japan to “make utmost efforts” to
end deflation.  
 “We need an appropriate response from both fiscal and
monetary sides,” the document said. “We will try to avoid
excessive yen gains and achieve economic growth that supports
both domestic as well as external demand.”  
 Kan also aims for “stable gains” in prices, targeting an
average 1 percent increase in the  gross domestic product 
deflator through fiscal 2020. The gauge of price trends fell
1.7 percent in the year ended March 31, the most in seven years.  
 The strategy focuses on stimulating growth in seven areas
including the environment and energy, health, technology and
tourism. The Bank of Japan released a 3 trillion yen ($33
billion) plan this week that aims to encourage lending in
similar areas, an effort that Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  has
said will complement the government’s growth effort.  
 Welcomed by Business  
 “We welcome the government’s growth strategy and support
Prime Minister Kan’s pursuit of a strong economy, strong fiscal
management and strong social security,” said  Tadashi Okamura ,
chairman of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  
 Koji Miyahara , president of the Japanese Shipowners’
Association, said this week that “lowering the corporate tax
rate is necessary, and we must think of this as a complement to
raising the sales tax.” The current company tax rate for Tokyo
is higher than China’s 25 percent, Seoul’s 24.2 percent and
France’s 33.3 percent, Finance Ministry data show.  
 A 10 percentage-point cut could add 1.1 percent to  GDP  in
10 years, Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute wrote on June 16.
Still, the gain in growth would only make up for 64 percent of
the decline in revenue otherwise obtained from companies,
meaning the government would need to find alternative income
sources, the Tokyo-based researcher said.  
 Economist  Hiromichi Shirakawa  said fiscal belt-tightening
will weaken economic growth and the corporate tax proposal will
be “powerless” to overcome the slowdown.  
 Limited Push  
 Cutting company levies “would have only a limited ability
to stimulate capital investment and therefore a limited ability
to push overall economic growth,” said Shirakawa, chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. He said the
growth plan will be difficult to fund without tax increases
because of the government’s commitment to restrict bond sales.  
 Kan’s Democratic Party of Japan wants cross-party talks on
raising the country’s 5 percent sales tax, according to its
platform for a July 11 upper house election released yesterday.  
 Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters today that
he will study the opposition Liberal Democratic Party’s
proposal to double the consumption levy to 10 percent, echoing
remarks made by Kan yesterday.  
 National Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  said today that
the government isn’t planning to say how much the sales tax
should be raised in the fiscal plan to be released next week.  
 The government also wants to lay the ground work to create
a unified securities trading  exchange  by fiscal 2013, today’s
document said. It will seek to double foreign direct investment
and increase employment by foreign companies to 2 million from
750,000 by 2020. It pledged to reduce the overall  unemployment
rate  to the 3 percent range “as early as possible.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), poses with a copy of his party's manifesto on Thursday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), poses with a copy of his party's manifesto on Thursday. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
