-- Kenyan Conservationists Try to Stop Power Purchase from Ethiopian Gibe Dam
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-18T09:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/kenyan-conservationists-try-to-stop-power-purchase-from-ethiopian-gibe-dam.html

          
          
             Kenyan conservationists filed a
court case against the government and  Kenya Power and Lighting
Ltd. , arguing they’ve disregarded environmental and social
concerns in deciding to buy hydroelectricity from Ethiopia.  
 The Gibe III hydropower dam, a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.86
billion) project on the Ethiopia’s Omo River, threatens
livelihoods in the region, Ikal Angelei, co-founder of  Friends
of Lake Turkana , said in a phone interview from Dublin today.
The group filed the suit on June 14 at the High Court in
Nairobi, Kenya’s capital. No court date has been set.  
 Residents and pastoral communities along the Omo River and
Kenya’s Lake Turkana which it flows into may face water
shortages, damaging fishing and farming, Angelei said.  
 “These communities are already in conflict due to a lack of
natural resources,” Angelei said. “The suit against KPLC and the
government is to try and stop their engagement until the proper
studies have been done.”  
 Kenya plans to import as much as 600 megawatts of
electricity from Ethiopia as it looks to boost energy supplies
to help spur economic growth,  Joseph Kinyua , permanent secretary
in the Finance Ministry, said on Dec. 4.  
 Conservation groups including London-based  Survival
International  and  International Rivers , based in California,
have called on the African Development Bank, the European
Investment Bank, JP Morgan Chase and other financiers not to
fund completion of the Gibe III project.  
 Italy’s  Salini Costruttori SpA  is working on the dam with
financing from the Ethiopian government. If completed, the 243-
meter-high dam will generate 1,870 megawatts of electricity,
more than doubling Ethiopia’s current power output, according to
the Ethiopian Electric Power Corp.  
 Salini has said critics of the dam “are not in possession
of adequate information or adequate competences” and that the
project will contribute toward political stability in the
region, the Rome-based company said in a March 30  statement  on
its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        