-- Korean Won Set for Biggest Weekly Gain in a Year as Recovery Spurs Inflows
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-18T01:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/korean-won-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-year-as-recovery-spurs-inflows.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won strengthened,
poised for its biggest weekly gain in 13 months, as signs the
economic recovery is gathering pace fueled overseas demand for
the nation’s assets.  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said today growth will
likely exceed 5 percent this year and a government report showed
spending at the three biggest department stores climbed for a
15th month in May. The  Kospi  index rose to a six-week high as
foreigners  pumped  money into the stock market for a sixth day,
the longest run of net purchases in two months.  
 “The won has been doing pretty well because of the
economic fundamentals,” said  Yun Suk Cho , a currency dealer at
Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “It will test 1,200 against the
dollar today, but will move slowly rather than seeing a quick
jump.”  
 The currency rose 0.5 percent to 1,207.30 per dollar as of
10 a.m. in Seoul, boosting this week’s advance to 3.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overseas investors
bought $723 million more Korean shares than they sold in the
first four days of this week, stock exchange figures show.  
 Gross domestic product will increase 5.8 percent this year
as exports surge and domestic demand strengthens, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said this
week. That would be the fastest annual expansion since 2002.
Finance Minister Yoon said June 14 that the central bank should
balance sustaining growth and curbing inflationary pressures.  
 Inflation Risk  
 South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds were little
changed. The yield on the 3.75 percent note due June 2013 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.71 percent,
according to Korea Stock Exchange. Yoon said today that
inflation may accelerate at a faster pace than previously
anticipated in the second half  of 2010.  
 Central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said last week that
policy makers will focus more on “price stability” after
keeping rates unchanged at a record-low 2 percent for a 16th
month. The Bank of Korea will raise interest rates by 50 basis
points to 2.5 percent by the end of this year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        