-- New Jersey's Morgan Hoffmann Excels at U.S. Open Until He Meets the Ocean
-- Sophie Caronello
-- 2010-06-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/new-jersey-s-morgan-hoffmann-excels-at-u-s-open-until-he-meets-the-ocean.html

          
          
             For most of his U.S. Open debut,
amateur Morgan Hoffmann was equal to the best golfers in the
world. Then he met the Pacific Ocean.  
 Hoffmann, 20, from Wyckoff, New Jersey, was tied for the
tournament lead midway through his first round yesterday at
Pebble Beach Golf Links in California. He reached 2-under par
with a birdie on the 10th hole.  
 Two straight bogeys left him at even par, before a birdie
on 15 and a bogey on 17 had him back on par starting the par-5
18th hole on the seaside course.  
 Then the trouble began. He hit his second shot off a tree
into the water. That cost him a penalty stroke. His next shot
also went into the ocean, costing him another penalty. His sixth
shot flew into a bunker. His seventh shot never made it out of
the sand. His eighth landed on the green, and he made about a
20-foot putt for a 9.  
 “I haven’t had (a 9) in a long time, but it happens, I
guess,” said Hoffmann, who won the  Phil Mickelson  Award as the
nation’s top freshman at Oklahoma State University in 2008-09.
“Eighteen is my favorite hole on the course. I was looking
forward to it all day and to finish like that, it’s
unfortunate.”  
 Hoffmann, who is ranked No. 26 in the  World Amateur Golf
Rankings , was a member of the winning 2009 U.S. Walker Cup team
and a quarterfinalist at the 2008 U.S. Amateur Open. He
qualified for the U.S. Open by tying for sixth at the Memphis
sectional on June 7.  
 He finished the day at 4-over par, tied with  Mickelson , and
smiled as he threw the ball back into the Pacific Ocean that had
suddenly become his nemesis.  
 “It’s actually going to build my confidence, because I
know that I’m putting well,” Hoffmann told reporters as he left
the course. “I just hit a couple bad shots. A couple unlucky
breaks that led to a 9.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at Pebble Beach, California, at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;  Sophie Caronello  at Pebble
Beach, California, at 
 scaronello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        