-- Newark, New Jersey, to Fire Hundreds of Workers Amid Deficit, Booker Says
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-18T14:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/newark-new-jersey-to-fire-hundreds-of-workers-amid-deficit-booker-says.html

          
          
             Newark , New Jersey’s largest city,
plans to fire hundreds of workers and seek concessions from
unionized employees to help close a $180 million budget deficit,
Mayor  Cory Booker  said.  
 The city also will seek to convert its water system into a
municipal authority, a move that would raise $50 million up
front, Booker said during his monthly call-in show on Newark
radio station  WBGO  yesterday. Other proposals include
instituting two unpaid furlough days a month beginning July 31
for the remainder of the year, he said.  
 Newark has lost a combined $121 million since 2008 in state
aid and funding from the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, Booker said. The mayor, a 41-year-old Rhodes Scholar who
won a second term last month, said he will try to negotiate cuts
in employee pensions and health benefits.  
 “The cost of holding onto the employees we have right now
is growing at a rate that we cannot keep up,” Booker said.
“There will be hundreds of layoffs and this is something that
is going to be incredibly difficult. This is not the economy you
want to be laid off in.”  
 The city of 280,000 people, where one in four residents
lives in  poverty , had the credit outlook on $500 million in
bonds outstanding cut to negative June 2 by Moody’s Investors
Service. Moody’s cited diminishing reserves and the loss of $16
million in state aid as reasons for the decision.  
 Police, Crime  
 Booker, who didn’t specify the number of layoffs, said the
city won’t hire any police officers in the coming year. The
mayor pledged to reduce crime, lure private investment and fix
city finances when he took office in 2006. In March, the city
posted its first murder-free month in 40 years.  
 Rahaman Muhammad, president of Service Employees
International Union Local 617, said he expects about 800 jobs to
be eliminated, a year after his members agreed to higher health-
care contributions and accepted furloughs. Booker has yet to
present a long-term plan for ending chronic deficits, he said.  
 Muhammad, whose union represents 500 crossing guards, water
system employees and sanitation workers, said he wants to see
money from the conversion of the water system used to train
displaced employees for other jobs and to lure small-business
owners to boost hiring.  
 “Public employees in Newark are the middle-class base,”
Muhammad said in a telephone interview. ‘I understand public-
sector jobs aren’t going to be around like they used to be. But
we have to find a mechanism to bring people into other jobs. And
that’s going to be small businesses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        