-- Norway's Statkraft to Sell Solar Business, May Cut BKK Stake, Chief Says
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-06-18T10:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/norway-s-statkraft-to-sell-solar-business-may-cut-bkk-stake-chief-says.html

          
          
             Statkraft AS, Norway’s state-owned
utility, plans to sell its solar energy unit, cut investments in
wind power and said it may reduce its ownership in power
supplier BKK AS to maintain a “satisfactory” credit rating.  
 “We’ve found it necessary to focus our strategy and reduce
our investment,” Chief Executive Officer  Christian Rynning- Toennesen  said today in a statement. “We still need a positive
clarification on capital and dividend policies going forward,
but these measures underline the group’s ability to continuously
adapt our plans to maintain a satisfactory credit rating.”  
 The Oslo-based company said in January that it may freeze
investment plans as it awaits the government’s response on a
request for as much as 8 billion kroner ($1.3 billion) in
capital as it also seeks to pay a lower dividend. The company
has paid about 90 percent, on average, of its profit to the
government in the past decade.  
 Statkraft this year opened its first solar park in Italy
with a total capacity of 3.3 megawatts and signed an agreement
with Siemens AG to develop 40 megawatts of solar capacity this
year. Statkraft owns 49.9 percent of Bergen-based BKK AS, which
had sales of about 4.1 billion kroner in 2009.  
 Statkraft is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s and Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Necessary Investments  
 “It was a heavy decision to make but it was necessary,”
Rynning-Toennesen said by telephone on selling the solar
business. “We don’t have ability to invest in the business and
want to see someone else take it over.”  
 The necessary spending is in the “billions of kroner” he
said, declining to be specific. The company will start a
dialogue with potential banks to handle the sale next week, the
chief executive said. He declined to give an estimate on how
much the business may be worth.  
 The company also has “good dialogue” with the government,
which is expected to make a decision on its capital needs and
dividend request later this year, he said.  
 Statkraft will focus on growth in flexible power generation
and market operations in Norway and the rest of western Europe
as well as international hydropower and wind energy in Norway,
Sweden and the U.K. The company also appointed three new members
to its corporate management team.  
 Hilde Bakken  was named chief of staff, Steinar Bysveen
executive vice president for generation and industrial ownership
and Oeistein Andresen executive vice president for international
hydro power, according to the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meera Bhatia  in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        