-- U.S. Said Set to Challenge Arizona Immigration Law
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-18T20:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/obama-administration-said-to-plan-challenge-to-arizona-s-immigration-law.html

          
          
             The Obama administration plans to
file a federal lawsuit challenging Arizona’s immigration law, a
U.S. official said.  
 The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
today that Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  stands by a
statement she made more than a week ago that the Justice
Department “will be bringing a lawsuit against the act.”  
 The Arizona law requires that local law enforcement
officials check the immigration status of anyone they suspect is
in the country illegally. The law, which takes effect in late
July, makes it a crime to be in Arizona without proper
documents.  
 Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
department “continues to review the law.” She declined to
elaborate or say whether Clinton’s comments are accurate.  
 Overhauling immigration law is one of President  Barack Obama ’s highest priorities. In 2007, Congress failed in an
attempt to rewrite immigration legislation for the first time in
20 years. Obama said in April that lawmakers may lack the
“appetite” to try again. Democratic leaders are focusing on
measures to improve border security before addressing the 11
million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  
 During a visit to Quito, Ecuador, on June 8, Clinton
responded to an interviewer’s question about Arizona’s law.  
 Clinton Statement  
 “President Obama has spoken out against the law because he
thinks that the federal government should be determining
immigration policy,” Clinton said. “And the Justice
Department, under his direction, will be bringing a lawsuit
against the act.”  
 “But the more important commitment that President Obama
has made is to try to introduce and pass comprehensive
immigration reform,” she said. “That is what we need. Everyone
knows it, and the president is committed to doing it.”  
 When asked whether Clinton misspoke,  Mark Toner , the
director of the State Department’s press office said, “The
secretary’s words stand for themselves.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        