-- Obama's $20 Billion BP `Shakedown' Is a Shakeup: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-06-18T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/obama-s-20-billion-bp-shakedown-is-a-shakeup-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             The numbers already astound. As much
as 60,000 barrels of oil gush from the Gulf of Mexico’s floor
each day. Some 1,300  miles  of shoreline are threatened, more if
currents carry runaway oil around Florida’s tip and up the
Atlantic coast.  
 The livelihoods of shrimpers, fishermen, restaurateurs,
hoteliers and small businesses are on hold for who knows how
long. And then there are the waterfront property owners who now
expect the white beaches and blue-green waters at their
doorsteps will turn toxic.  
 So what’s to be thought of the $20 billion  fund  BP Plc was
persuaded to set up?  
 Call it a pretty good start. A shakedown? Oh, please.  
 Texas Republican  Joe Barton  called it that at yesterday’s
House Energy subcommittee hearing, one of the few moments that
BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  wasn’t the target of
members’ wrath.  
 But how can it be a shakedown, when BP had already pledged
to pay all legitimate claims? If that was a sincere offer, then
the fund is simply an apparatus to insure that it keeps its
promise and does so fairly and more quickly.  
 It gives BP’s word credibility, something sorely lacking as
evidenced by the number of times the company has pledged to
operate safely only to host a deadly refinery explosion, a major
spill in Alaska and now this catastrophe in the Gulf.  
 Gushing Crude  
 The company still can’t say with certainty when the crude
will stop gushing,  where  it will go or how much damage will have
been done by then. But at least the folks suffering along the
Gulf know now they will be compensated for what the company’s
apparent recklessness took from them. That confidence won’t save
an oil-drenched  pelican , but it should at least ease some
anxiety.  
 We don’t know what President Barack Obama or any other
administration official said during the four-hour come-to-Jesus
meeting in the White House with BP this week. Nor can we say how
accepting BP was of the escrow account and new claims process.
No allegations of waterboarding have surfaced.  
 There are reports that BP wanted to cap the escrow account
and eventually caved. Well, good.  
 It would have been impossible to set a ceiling now, anyway,
given that oil is still pouring out at a rate no one even knows.  
 Storm Surge  
 Then there are the too-horrific-to-contemplate consequences
if a hurricane should blow through. Even a minor storm surge
would wash the crude miles deeper into low-lying wetlands.  
 If the escrow fund had been capped, no one victimized by
this disaster could have been certain they would be made whole.  
 The $20 billion dollar figure looks big but shrinks when
viewed against the harm already done and the potential for far
more.  
 Oil still lingers in Alaska from the 1989 Exxon Valdez
 spill , which now seems like a mere puddle compared to this.  
 Besides, the escrow account will pay for all sorts of
claims beyond the ones submitted in a process headed by  Kenneth Feinberg , who oversaw payouts from the Sept. 11 victim
compensation fund. It will also cover judgments and settlements
from lawsuits, which victims are still free to pursue. There are
more than 230 of those pending, many of them aiming for class-
action status.  
 Plus, the fund will pay for damages to  natural resources  as
well as local and state response costs.  
 Drilling Moratorium  
 It doesn’t include the $100 million that BP is setting
aside for oil workers laid off because of the administration’s
moratorium on offshore drilling. Nor will it go toward the $500
million BP committed for a 10-year project to study the effects
of oil and gas pollution.  
 Eventual fines or penalties, which are bound to be
substantial, will have to come out of some other pocket, too.  
 For a shakedown, this one came with  terms  that aren’t
especially difficult. It isn’t as if BP has to find $20 billion
in cash by next Tuesday, or even within the next 12 months.  
 A mere $5 billion is required each year for the next four.
That is less than the canceled  dividends , projected at $7.5
billion for the last three quarters of this year.  
 In case the annual contributions run short, BP is setting
aside $20 billion in U.S. assets initially.  
 This will turn out to be the best thing to happen to BP
since the Deepwater Horizon exploded on April 20. Investors
showed they like it by pushing the share  price  up in the wake of
the announcement.  
 It is also the first credible piece of good news for the
people and businesses of the Gulf of Mexico in two months. If BP
had to be shaken down to produce it, then shame on BP.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        