-- Obama's High-Speed Train Plan Faces Freight Railroads, Passenger Tension
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-06-18T18:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/obama-s-high-speed-train-plan-faces-freight-railroads-passenger-tension.html

          
          
             The Obama administration, working to
get high-speed passenger rail service running in the U.S., is
facing passenger advocates that want dedicated tracks and
freight railroads wary of sharing their lines.  
 The Federal Railroad Administration “is anticipating that
a lot of this will take place on the freight” lines, said Andy
Kunz, president and chief executive officer of the Washington-
based  US High Speed Rail Association , speaking in an interview
at the organization’s conference in Los Angeles yesterday. “We
disagree with the federal government on that. We don’t think
that’s a smart policy and have been advocating for that not to
happen.”  
 In January, President  Barack Obama  announced the awarding
of $8 billion in economic stimulus money to jump-start the
building of high-speed rail corridors. Most passenger trains in
the U.S. use freight tracks owned by companies including
Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp., bought by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  this year.  
 The freight railroads were “shocked” last month, when the
Federal Railroad Administration issued guidelines that included
penalties for failing to meet on-time performance standards for
passenger traffic on their lines, said  Patti Reilly , a
spokeswoman for the Association of American Railroads.   
  Union Pacific Corp.  was among freight railroads that balked
at the guidance, published May 12, Union Pacific Chief Executive
Officer  James Young  said in a June 15 interview at Bloomberg’s
New York office.  
 “There’s not a lot of incentive in terms of putting high-
speed rail on freight railroads,” said Young, whose company has
the most locomotives of all U.S. freight railroads.  
 Warren Flatau , a spokesman for the Federal Railroad
Administration, had no immediate comment.  
 ‘Cheap Route’  
 Among the 31 states awarded grants to develop high-speed
passenger rail, California and Florida, the two top recipients,
plan to have dedicated tracks for passenger service.  
 “We really need to think big, and not try to go the cheap
route,” said Kunz, of the US High Speed Rail Association.
“Putting it on the freight network is the cheap route.”  
 Young and executives from the other six largest railroads
that operate in the U.S. met June 9 with Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood  about their concerns on the guidelines for
agreements between states, freight railroads and passenger-
service operators.  
 A line owned by Omaha, Nebraska-based  Union Pacific  that
runs between Chicago and St. Louis may be the first to host
high-speed passenger service funded by the stimulus package,
Young said.  
 The May guidance led the railroad to “basically stop” the
project on that line, he said.  
 Railroad Leverage  
 “The railroads are not without leverage,”  Ken Orski , a
transportation-policy consultant based in Potomac, Maryland,
said in a June 16 report. “They know that achieving progress
with the high-speed rail program -- one of President Obama’s
signature initiatives -- ranks high on the administration’s list
of priorities.”  
 Ensuring safety, including through sufficient spacing
between trains, on crowded lines will be a concern, Young said.
In 2008, a Union Pacific freight train and a Metrolink commuter
train collided head-on, killing 25 people in Los Angeles. A
Metrolink engineer, who was sending and receiving text messages
on his mobile phone seconds before the crash, was blamed by the
National Transportation Safety Board for the crash.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        