-- Obama Says G-20 in Toronto to `Safeguard and Strengthen' Economic Rebound
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-18T14:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/obama-tells-g-20-nations-to-safeguard-and-strengthen-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  urged the
Group of 20 nations to “safeguard and strengthen” the global
economic recovery with continued stimulus, setting up a possible
split at next week’s leaders’ summit as European governments
push to cut budget deficits.  
 “We worked exceptionally hard to restore growth; we cannot
let it falter or lose strength now,” Obama said in a letter to
his G-20 counterparts dated June 16, which was released by the
White House today. “This means that we should reaffirm our
unity of purpose to provide the policy support necessary to keep
economic growth strong.”  
 Obama leaves Washington for the three-day summit on June
25. He first attends a one-day meeting in the resort region of
Muskoka, Ontario, of G8 leaders -- which include Japan, Canada,
Britain, France, Italy, Germany and Russia --  before the G-20
meeting begins on June 26 in Toronto.  
 While Obama endorsed restoring order to public finances in
the “medium-term,” his focus on growth is at odds with that of
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s preference for budget cuts
amid Europe’s debt crisis. Each strategy carries risks.
Continued stimulus risks bondholder revolt over rising debt
burdens, while spending cutbacks could tip the global economy
back into recession.  
 Germany’s Deficit  
 “It is essential that we have a self-sustaining recovery
that creates the good jobs that our people need,” Obama said.
“In fact, should confidence in the strength of our recoveries
diminish, we should be prepared to respond again as quickly and
as forcefully as needed to avert a slowdown in economic
activity.”  
 Merkel, the head of Europe’s largest economy, said June 11
she expects to have a “hard time” at the summit and that she
will respond that “there is no alternative” to cutting the
fiscal deficit.  
 Germany’s Cabinet this month backed budget cuts worth more
than 80 billion euros through 2014, while French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  this week raised the retirement age and
increased taxes. The governments of the U.K. and Japan will
unveil fiscal consolidation plans next week.  
 Obama meantime is urging Congress to act on measures to
boost lending and give tax breaks to small businesses to
encourage employment.  
 Stimulus  
 The White House is pushing an election-year, $55 billion
jobs bill in the U.S. Senate, adding to last year’s $862 billion
stimulus package, reflecting the president’s position that
“policy support is necessary” to maintain a path toward U.S.
and global economic recovery.  
 “This is not the time to take our foot off the accelerator
here,” Vice President  Joe Biden  said at the White House
yesterday, as the administration continues searching for jobs-
bill votes amid rising Senate concern over a record U.S. deficit
of almost $1.6 trillion projected this year.  
 “I am committed to the restoration of fiscal
sustainability in the United States and believe that all G-20
countries should put in place credible and growth-friendly plans
to restore sustainable public finances,” Obama said. “We must
be flexible in adjusting the pace of consolidation and learn
from the consequential mistakes of the past when stimulus was
too quickly withdrawn and resulted in renewed economic hardships
and recession.”  
 ‘Wrong Turn’  
 The International Monetary Fund calculates the G-20
nations’ budget shortfalls will average 6.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year, up from 0.9 percent in 2007. At the
same time, unemployment in the U.S. remains near 10 percent
after last year’s recession.  
 Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  said today in his New York
Times column that Europe’s focus on fiscal discipline signals
“economic policy around the world has taken a major wrong turn,
and that the odds of a prolonged slump are rising by the day.”  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , who is hosting the
G-20 summit, said world leaders need to be ensuring they “stay
the course” with stimulus plans, while being mindful of rising
deficits, according to an essay written for the Toronto-based G-
8 Research Group that was published today.  
 Obama said he is concerned by “significant weaknesses”
across the G-20 economies, which amount to about 85 percent of
global gross domestic product. Without singling out countries,
he said some nations remain “heavily” reliant on exports for
power and, in a swipe at China, he called market-determined
exchange rates “essential to global economic vitality.”  
 China’s Currency  
 Chinese officials said in Beijing today that they plan to
use the Toronto talks to discuss responses to Europe’s sovereign
debt turmoil while keeping the yuan’s value off the agenda. The
yuan has been held at about 6.83 yuan to one U.S. dollar since
mid-2008 to help protect China’s exporters, drawing threats of
tariffs from among U.S. lawmakers.  
 Obama doesn’t mention China in the letter but maintains his
position that China’s currency value should be determined by the
market. “I also want to underscore that market-determined
exchange rates are essential to global economic vitality,” he
said.  
 Obama is facing domestic pressure from his own party to
lean on China to raise the value of its currency. Lawmakers such
as House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Sander Levin  and New
York Senator  Charles Schumer , both Democrats, say a weak
currency gives Chinese exporters an unfair advantage over their
U.S. competitors and costs U.S. jobs.  
 Framework  
 Levin said yesterday that the value must be increased by
the end of the summit. After the G-20 meeting, “if China does
not act and the administration does not respond promptly
thereafter, the Congress will act,” Levin said yesterday at a
hearing.  
 At next week’s summit, governments will also focus on plans
to increase the quality and quantity of capital at banks,
increase oversight of derivatives markets and create a framework
for winding down large global firms, Obama said.  
 “To support the recovery and strengthen the ability of our
financial systems to deliver needed credit, we must maintain the
momentum of financial repair,” he said.  
 Obama said world leaders can’t lose sight of the need to
make sure our financial institutions have the capital needed to
“withstand future stresses,” and that tougher regulation of
derivatives markets is needed to “mitigate the potential for
systemic risk and market abuse.”  
 The G-20 leaders begin their two day meeting in Toronto on
June 26. The group is formed of Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan,
South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey,
the U.S., U.K. and EU.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomnerg.net 
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at = 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at the K. Neal International Trucks Inc. factory in Hyattsville, Maryland. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
