-- Hog Futures Rise as Low Pork Price May Spur Grocer Demand; Cattle Decline
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-18T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/hog-futures-rise-as-low-pork-price-may-spur-grocer-demand-cattle-decline.html

          
          
             Hog futures rose for the fourth time
this week as U.S. pork prices rebounded from their lowest level
since April, signaling grocer demand may be increasing. Cattle
fluctuated.  
 Wholesale pork  rose 1.8 percent yesterday to 82.78 cents a
pound, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. The price of
hogs for  immediate delivery  to slaughterhouses jumped yesterday
to the highest level since May 21.  
 “Supplies will tighten up some over the next several
weeks, and we’ve taken a good bit off of the market,” said  Ryan Turner  a risk-management consultant with FCStone Group Inc. in
Kansas City, Missouri. “So it’s both a seasonal trend, and
we’re catching a little corrective bounce higher.”  
 Hog futures for August settlement climbed 0.6 cent, or 0.7
percent, to 82.75 cents a pound at 11:57 a.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. A close at that price would result in a 3
percent gain for the week, the biggest weekly increase for a
most-active contract since early April.  
 Cattle futures swung between gains and losses before a USDA
feedlot inventory report scheduled to be released at 3 p.m.
today in Washington.  
 Four months of profit for U.S. feedlots may have resulted
in a 23 percent jump in purchases of young  cattle  in May from a
year earlier, according to the average estimate of 12 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “Today is looking to be a quiet, lackluster day, because
we’re all looking for this afternoon’s report,” Turner said.
“Placements are going to be big in the May report across
feedlot country, with a lot of animals coming in. Feed yards are
making money, and they’re trying to replace animals as fast as
they can.”  
 Cattle futures for August delivery rose 0.025 cent to 88.65
cents a pound on the CME, after falling as much as 0.5 percent.
The most-active contract headed toward the first weekly gain in
six weeks. Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement increased
0.15 cent, or 0.1 percent, to $1.103 a pound.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        