-- Offshore Drillers Required to Give Information on Blowout Risk, U.S. Says
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/oil-drillers-must-outline-blowout-scenario-when-seeking-permits-u-s-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. will require oil-and-gas
drillers in offshore waters to provide information about the
possibility of a well blowout when seeking permits, the Interior
Department said, reversing a Bush administration policy.  
 Companies must estimate the amount of oil that might gush
from an undersea well if systems designed to cap the flow fail
in an emergency, the department said yesterday in a statement.
The directive follows the April explosion and sinking of
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig leased by  BP Plc  in the Gulf of
Mexico that unleashed an oil spill the company has yet to stop.  
 “The BP oil spill has laid bare fundamental shortcomings
in the oil and gas industry’s ability to prevent and stop
catastrophic blowouts,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.
“This is basic information that applicants should be able to
provide; it should not delay permitting of appropriate shallow
water drilling.”  
 Deepwater drilling in the Gulf has been suspended for six
months while a presidential commission investigates the BP
spill. BP has been faulted for not anticipating the failure of
the well’s blowout preventer, a device that is the last line of
defense if other safeguards fail.  
 Representative  Edward Markey , chairman of the energy and
environment panel of the House Energy Committee, said yesterday
that he will ask oil-company executives to revamp the oil-spill
response plans that lawmakers this week said were duplications
and inadequate to deal with an environmental disaster.  
 Salazar said applications to explore and drill must include
plans to stop a leaking well from the surface and to drill a
relief well. Companies also must estimate the time required to
get a rig to the site and complete the relief well.  
 ‘Blowout Scenario’  
 Salazar’s “Blowout Scenario” directive reverses a policy
adopted in 2003 during the Bush administration that exempted
many offshore operators in the Gulf from providing information
about a well blowout, according to the statement.  
 Markey said his request to the companies for new spill
plans was prompted by disclosures during the June 15 hearing
with the executives.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  ConocoPhillips ,  Chevron Corp.  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc  were described as being as unprepared as  BP  to
respond to spills during a House Energy Committee hearing. BP
and three of the companies listed walruses among species to
protect and included ineffective equipment in the response plans
submitted to regulators.  
 The spill-response plans for the five companies were “90
percent identical,” Markey said at the hearing.  
 “The American people deserve oil safety plans that are
ironclad and not boilerplate,” Markey said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        