-- Honda Targets Low-Volume U.S. `Halo' Sales Hit With its Hybrid CR-Z Coupe
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-06-18T20:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/honda-targets-low-volume-u-s-halo-sales-hit-with-its-hybrid-cr-z-coupe.html

          
          
             Honda Motor Co. ’s gasoline-electric
cars haven’t rivaled  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Prius in sales so it’s
trying a different tactic with the  CR-Z coupe  by aiming to carve
out a U.S. niche for a low-priced, sporty hybrid.  
 Honda, Japan’s second-largest automaker, is targeting sales
of just 15,000 units a year of the CR-Z, which goes on sale in
August with a starting price of less than $20,000. Instead of
targeting Prius’ volume or 50 miles-per-gallon rating for fuel
economy, the two-seater is intended to be a “fun” hybrid, said
 John Mendel , Honda’s U.S. sales chief.  
 “It has the potential to be a kind of halo vehicle, not
because of the volume it will do but because of the volume it
doesn’t do,” Mendel said in an interview in Santa Rosa,
California, on June 9. “Nothing sells like a shortage.”  
 The CR-Z joins Honda’s lineup as the Tokyo-based company
looks to accelerate growth in its biggest market amid a sluggish
U.S. recovery. Sales of Honda and Acura models rose 13 percent
this year through May, trailing an industrywide 17 percent gain
and improvements of 30 percent and 23 percent for Asia-based
competitors  Nissan Motor Co.  and Hyundai Motor Co.  
 The coupe has a 1.5-liter engine and will be available with
a continuously variable transmission or a 6-speed manual, a
rarity among hybrids, Honda said. The company expects average
fuel economy of at least 37 mpg for the automatic version in
city and highway driving, and 34 mpg for the manual. The car’s
most expensive version, an EX model with a navigation system,
will retail for less than $24,000, Mendel said.  
 Should demand exceed Honda’s annual goal, “there’s some
room” to increase supply, he said, without elaborating.  
 Not ‘Overly Ambitious’  
 U.S. hybrid sales grew 8.3 percent in 2010’s first five
months to 108,636 units, with Toyota’s Prius accounting for 51
percent of the volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Demand for the fuel-saving models cooled as gasoline costs
remained stable during the past year and below 2008’s surge,
said  Jessica Caldwell , senior analyst for industry researcher
Edmunds.com.  
 Honda’s annual target for CR-Z “doesn’t seem overly
ambitious,” said Caldwell, who is based in Santa Monica,
California. “There are also a lot more hybrid models, but
there’s also more competition from new types of small cars that
cost less and offer fuel economy that’s almost as good.”  
 Gasoline cost an average of $2.72 a gallon across the U.S.
yesterday, just 3.4 cents more than a year earlier, according to
 AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report  website. Prices peaked at $4.11 a
gallon in July 2008.  
 ‘Marrying Two Concepts’  
 With the CR-Z, Honda “is marrying two concepts that don’t
really go together: hybrid and sport,” Caldwell said. “Drivers
who want sporty vehicles don’t usually go for hybrids and vice
versa.”  
 The CR-Z, already on sale in Japan and Europe, is derived
from the underpinnings used in Honda’s Insight hatchback, and
has an identical nickel-metal-hydride battery pack and hybrid
components. The Insight, released last year, sold only about a
third of Honda’s initial 90,000-unit U.S. goal. This year, the
Insight is averaging monthly sales of just 1,750 units.  
 Like the Insight, the CR-Z has software that coaches
drivers to improve fuel economy, with a display light around the
center gauge that changes from green to blue depending on how
efficiently the car is driven. It can also be shifted into
“Econ” driving mode to further boost fuel economy or “Sport”
mode to enhance performance by drawing more heavily on the
battery pack and engine.  
 The CR-Z will be promoted as “fun and clean,” said  Steve Center , Honda’s U.S. marketing chief, in an interview in Santa
Rosa last week. “People expect ‘green’ from Honda. Right now
we’ve got a bit of a fun deficit because we don’t have the
 S2000 ,” a roadster discontinued last year, Center said.  
 Honda’s U.S. operations are based in Torrance, California.  
 The company’s  American depositary receipts  fell 33 cents,
or 1.1 percent, to $29.75 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. They have declined 12 percent this
year. Honda shares dropped 46 yen, or 1.7 percent, to 2,690 yen
today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        