-- Honda's Deadline Passes at China Parts Factory Without Word on Wage Deal
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T10:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/honda-s-deadline-passes-at-china-parts-factory-without-word-on-wage-deal.html

          
          
             A  Honda Motor Co.  supplier in China
didn’t post a wage offer to workers that had been expected by 3
p.m. today, three employees said, signaling a strike at the lock
factory may resume.  
 Management at the  Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co.  plant in
Zhongshan, Guangdong province, had not displayed an offer as of
4:30 p.m. local time, said Yin Qiuying and two other workers who
asked to be identified only by their surnames, Luo and Huang,
for fear of repercussions from management. Employees, who began
a strike June 9 and suspended it June 15, have threatened to
walk out again if they don’t receive a satisfactory offer.  
 “We’ve been waiting around,” said Zhou Yunying, a worker
at the plant from Guangxi. About 10 representatives are still
negotiating in a room at the factory, she said. “We still don’t
know the result. No one told us anything.”  
 The strike at Honda Lock is the  third  at Honda’s suppliers
in China in the past month. The previous walkouts disrupted the
Tokyo-based carmaker’s production in China and forced it to
raise wages, underscoring growing pressure for higher pay as the
supply of low-cost labor shrinks in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  
 Toyota Strike  
 Employees at a Toyota Motor Corp. supplier in China also
went on strike yesterday. The  Toyoda Gosei Co.  plant in the
northern city of Tianjin has been partially shut since yesterday,
and talks with employees are ongoing, said Shingo Handa, a
spokesman for the company, based in Japan’s Aichi prefecture.
Toyota’s car production in China hasn’t been affected, said
 Ririko Takeuchi , a Tokyo-based spokesman for the automaker.  
 Workers at another Toyota supplier in China, Tianjin Star
Light Rubber and Plastic Co., also struck briefly on June 15,
Toyoda Gosei’s Handa said. The strike was resolved when the
company offered workers a pay increase, said Zhu Hai Feng, a
spokesman for the company in Tianjin. He declined to elaborate.  
 Toyota  fell  1.7 percent to close at 3,240 yen in Tokyo
trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little
changed. Toyoda Gosei declined 0.4 percent and Honda dropped 1.7
percent.  
 Yoshiyuki Kuroda , a spokesman for Honda Motor, said the
company was still awaiting word on the outcome of talks at Honda
Lock. Spokespeople for Honda Lock, which is wholly owned by the
carmaker, couldn’t immediately be reached to confirm whether an
agreement with workers had been made.  
 Foxconn Raises  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment, said by phone from Shenzhen.  
 Taiwanese electronics maker  Foxconn Technology Group  said
this month it will double salaries for its lowest-paid workers
after at least 10 Chinese employees killed themselves this year.  
 “In the short term, a rise in wages is negative, but it’s
positive in the medium- and long-term,” said  Hideo Arimura , who
helps oversee $2.2 billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “If wages rise, people will spend more, benefiting the
companies eventually.”  
 A factory owned by Xiaotian (Zhongshan) Industrial Co., a
maker of gas stoves and electric fans 3 kilometers (1.9 miles)
from Honda Lock’s plant, promised workers a monthly increase of
at least 250 yuan, excluding overtime, last week.  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said June 9 it
will spend 520 million euros ($622 million) to add a new plant
in Guangdong as the country’s car demand booms. The new factory,
set to open in 2013, will join similar plants in the area built
by other global automakers, including Toyota and  Nissan Motor Co.   
 Some factories in China are losing as many as 25 percent of
their workers a month, reflecting increased competition among
employers to hire staff, said Ian Spaulding, Hong Kong-based
managing director at Infact Global Partners, which advises
factory owners on China work practices.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages this year, the Shenzhen city government said on its
website last Wednesday. In Shenzhen, which raised minimum wages
an average of 15.8 percent, the government said higher pay will
help companies recruit workers and will boost consumption.  
 -- Takako Iwatani ,  Mark Lee ,  Liza Lin ,  Stephanie Wong ,  Naoko Fujimura ,  Yuki Hagiwara . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Terje Langeland   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        