-- Hong Kong Settlement of Trade in Yuan More Than Doubles, HKMA's Chan Says
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-06-18T08:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/hong-kong-settlement-of-trade-in-yuan-more-than-doubles-hkma-s-chan-says.html

          
          
             Yuan settlement of trade between
Hong Kong and China more than doubled to 7.2 billion yuan ($1.05
billion) in May, compared with as much as 3 billion yuan in both
March and April, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said.  
 Settling of transactions using China’s currency improved
after the HKMA explained settlement rules,  Norman Chan , chief
executive of the city’s defacto central bank, told a press
briefing. The regulator and the People’s Bank of China plan in
July to adjust rules on banking to allow people to buy yuan-
denominated funds and insurance products, he said.  
 China approved use of yuan to settle cross-border trade
with Hong Kong in June 2009, part of a drive to broaden the use
of the currency and reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. The
State Council approved the expansion of a trial for cross-border
yuan settlement to 20 provinces, the Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing the People’s Bank.  
 The expansion won’t pose threat to Hong Kong, Chan said.
Instead, it will boost trade settled in yuan in the city, he
said.  
 Chan said in October, when he began work as the head of the
HKMA, that he wanted to consolidate Hong Kong’s status as an
international finance center and expand the city’s role in
helping China promote the yuan’s use for commerce and investment
abroad.  
 China has effectively pegged the yuan against the dollar
since July 2008 to help exporters whether the global financial
crisis. In the previous three years, it strengthened 21 percent
against the dollar.  
 Five institutions, including two international issuers,
will sell yuan bonds “very soon,” said  Peter Pang , deputy chief
executive at the HKMA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Chen  in Hong Kong at 
 bchen45@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        