-- Mongolia Seeks Investors for $10 Billion Mine Building Boom in Gobi Desert
-- Hanny Wan
-- 2010-06-18T06:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/mongolia-seeks-investors-for-10-billion-desert-building-boom.html

          
          
             Mongolia is seeking investors for a
$10 billion desert industrial complex that will meet rising
Asian demand for coal and copper from some of the world’s
largest untapped mineral resources.  
 A copper smelter, oil refinery, power plants and chemical
coking facilities are planned at Sainshand in the Gobi desert to
do value-added processing for the Tavan Tolgoi coking coal
deposit and Oyu Tolgoi copper mine, said  Ganbat Chuluunkhuu , a
government adviser and former Wall Street financier with
 Commerzbank AG .  
 The Mongolian government wants investors to fund as much as
40 percent of the project that will build 1,000-kilometers (650
miles) of railroads through south Gobi and eastern Mongolia,
connecting Tavan Tolgoi to China and Russia, Chuluunkhuu said in
an interview in the capital city Ulan Bator.  
 “Mongolia can become the Kuwait of central Asia,”
Chuluunkhuu said yesterday. “All the resources are there, and
all the buyers are there. The only missing part is to get
everybody organized, prepare all the documentation that meets
international practice. It’s doable.”  
 Tavan Tolgoi holds about 6 billion metric tons of coal in
the deserts of southern Mongolia, making it one of the world’s
largest unexploited reserves of the fuel.  
 Rio Tinto Group  and Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. are developing Oyu
Tolgoi, which London-based Rio has called the world’s largest
copper resource. It may operate for as long as 30 years and
generate between $30 billion and $50 billion in revenue,
Mongolian President  Tsakhia Elbegdorj  said in September.  
 Economic Growth  
 Mongolia, a landlocked country sandwiched between China and
Russia, is seeking investors as part of a national development
strategy that aims to grow its economy by 14 percent between
2007 and 2015, bringing gross domestic product per capita for
the nation’s 2.7 million people to $5,000 from the current
$1,900.  
 That would raise GDP per capita to above the level of
countries including Thailand, Maldives, and China, assuming the
same growth rate for other Asian nations, according to
Chuluunkhuu, adviser to the Ministry of Road, Transportation,
Construction and Urban Development of Mongolia.  
 Mongolia targets another 12 percent economic growth from
2016 to 2021, and GDP per capita of $12,000, surpassing Malaysia,
and putting it in the same league as South Korea and Taiwan,
Chuluunkhuu said.  
 The  World Bank  estimated the value of Mongolia’s GDP in
2008 was just $5.3 billion. Mongolia is rated B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, four levels below investment grade and on par
with Fiji and Papua New Guinea. Standard & Poor’s rates the
nation BB-, the third-highest non-investment ranking.  
 Foreign Investors  
 Mongolia plans to fund 60 percent to 70 percent of the
project through debt financing, and seeks foreign and local
equity sponsors, including private equity, pension funds and
institutional investors for the remaining 30 percent to 40
percent, according to Chuluunkhuu.  
 About 40 percent of the funds will finance the
infrastructure part of the plan, and the rest will be used for
industrial facilities.  
 Five railways will be built. One will connect Tavan Tolgoi,
Sainshand, to an existing railroad to Russia, while another four
will run through China.  
 “If we don’t get international investors, the project
can’t start off,” Chuluunkhuu said.  
 Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  Chief Marketing Officer
 Lawrence Fok , who was in Ulan Bator for a forum on corporate
capital raising this week, says Mongolia can be attractive to
investors.  
 China Story  
 Mongolia has “the story about China’s economic growth and
its increasing demand for resources,” Fok said in an interview.
“Mongolia and other resource-rich countries share the same
characteristics of having a small population and massive
resources, which would benefit from China’s economic growth and
its rising demand for resources.  
 Mongolia is seeking bids from engineering and construction
companies to do “master planning” for the industrial complex
and railroads as the project’s management consultants, he said.
A tender notice will be published by June 25, and final
proposals are due by July 30. Selection of the project manager
will be completed by Aug. 20.  
 Viability Test  
 If the project’s master plan, expected to be completed by
April 2011, proves to be economically viable, the government
wants to start construction in the second half of next year,
Chuluunkhuu said. Building will take two to three years, with
production estimated to begin in 2014, starting to generate
economic benefits from 2017, he said.  
 Chuluunkhuu, a Mongolian native who was invited by the
government to return to his country for the project from Wall
Street in July 2009, worked for six years in structured
commodity and project financing with Commerzbank AG in New York.  
 Mongolia is trying to reduce its reliance on mining, which
now accounts for about 65 percent of its GDP. Without
industrialization, it is estimated mining will make up 95
percent of the nation’s economy by 2021, as compared with 63
percent if the expansion plan goes ahead, the adviser to the
minister said.  
 Apart from saving the Mongolian economy from the risk of
being overly dependent on mining and subject to fluctuations in
 commodity prices , the industrialization also will create about
78,000 jobs between 2010 and 2021, according to Chuluunkhuu.
Foreign workers will be needed at the initial stage.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Ulaanbaatar via Hong Kong newsroom at
   hwan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        