-- Ousted Kyrgyz Leader's Backers May Be Behind Ethnic Violence, Clinton Says
-- William Varner
-- 2010-06-18T21:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/ousted-kyrgyz-leader-s-backers-may-be-behind-ethnic-violence-clinton-says.html

          
          
             Supporters of ousted President
 Kurmanbek Bakiyev  may be behind deadly ethnic violence in
Kyrgyzstan, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today.  
 “It would be premature for people to conclude what the
source of this violence is, but there are a number of factors
contributing,” Clinton said in an appearance at the State
Department in Washington.  
 “The ouster of President Bakiyev left behind his
loyalists, who are against the interim government,” Clinton
said.  
 The U.S. and UN are seeking the cause of the unrest in the
Central Asian nation, Clinton said. Uzbeks are barricaded in
their neighborhoods in the Kyrgyz city of Osh, which was at the
center of rioting and ethnic violence that left at least 189
dead and displaced about 300,000 in the south of the country.  
 The former Soviet republic first erupted in violence this
April when Bakiyev was forced out and replaced by an interim
government led by  Rosa Otunbayeva . Many Kyrgyz in the south
supported Bakiyev, who comes from the region.  
 A United Nations envoy said an investigation should take
place. “We are looking at what happened, but I think a proper
investigation should take place as part of reconciliation, as a
confidence-building measure,” Miroslav Jenca, the  UN  envoy to
Central Asia, said in a news conference by telephone from
Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.  
 Hatred, Tensions  
 “There is a lot of hatred, a lot of tensions, a lot of
emotions,” Jenca said. “One of the major challenges is a
proper reconciliation process.”  
 Jenca was sent by UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  to
Kyrgyzstan to coordinate the international response with the
European Union, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe and countries in the region, according to UN spokesman
Martin Nesirky.  
 “Many people think some international presence will be
needed,” he said. Nesirky said the UN was discussing these
issues with partners and how to address them. “There are a lot
of challenges as far as policing is concerned,” Nesirky said.  
 “An international presence requires consultations with
countries in the region and organizations that would be able to
ensure such a presence,” he said.  
 Constitutional Referendum  
 Clinton said the U.S. is working with “many partners” to
support Otunbayeva’s interim government, which had scheduled a
constitutional referendum next week. “Some have argued that one
of the potential reasons for the violence is to prevent the
referendum on the constitution from taking place,” Clinton
said.  
 “It’s difficult to tell how much arises from ethnic
differences and how much was instigated by whom and for what
purpose,” Clinton said. “The situation is much more complex
than any short description could possibly capture,” Clinton
said.  
 Clinton added that she had spoken “at length” with
Otunbayeva yesterday.  
 Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian
Affairs, Robert Blake, and the Assistant Secretary of State for
Human Rights,  Michael Posner , are in the region this week. Blake
has had talks with Otunbayeva and was in Bishkek today, Clinton
said. Blake traveled to the border between Kyrgyzstan and
Uzbekistan to evaluate the humanitarian situation there.  
 “We are trying to do everything we can to deal with the
very serious humanitarian crisis because of the violence and the
displacement of people from their homes,” Clinton said.  
 The International Committee of the Red Cross is providing
food and water in the area, and is assessing the needs of about
100,000 refugees who have gathered close to the Kyrgyz-Uzbek
border, according to a statement posted on the Geneva-based
group’s website.  
 The U.S. has  committed  $32 million to relief efforts,
reconstruction and community stabilization in the country,
according to a State Department fact sheet. Additional efforts
will be announced soon, the department said.  
 The UN is seeking $71 million to provide food, water,
medicine and shelter for 1 million people over the next six
months. The UN will release $8 million from its Central
Emergency Response Fund to go toward the appeal.  
 Donors have so far pledged $36 million for aid to
Kyrgysztan, which is separate from the UN appeal. A UN appeal
for Uzbekistan will be announced next week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        