-- Toyota R&D Unit, Hitachi Join Japan Study Into Making Algae Motor Fuel
-- Shigeru Sato
-- 2010-06-18T06:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/toyota-r-d-unit-hitachi-join-japan-study-into-making-algae-motor-fuel.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. ’s research and
development unit, Hitachi Ltd. and more than 40 other Japanese
companies and institutions have joined a national study into
algae’s potential for producing biofuel and chemicals.  
 Autoparts maker Denso Corp., refiners  Nippon Oil Corp.  and
Idemitsu Kosan Co. and soy sauce maker Kikkoman Corp. will also
join the study led by Tsukuba University into producing motor
fuel, cosmetics and food from the microorganisms, according to a
joint statement released at Tsukuba City near Tokyo today.  
 Japan abandoned a $132 million algae project in the 1990s,
when oil prices dropped below $10 a barrel and climate change
took a back seat to promoting economic growth during the
country’s “Lost Decade.” Now oil majors led by Exxon Mobil
Corp. are turning to the experimental technology as pressure
grows to find less-polluting alternatives to crude oil.  
 “A tug of war may begin among industrial nations for a new
way of making algae-derived fuel in the years ahead,”  Hidetoshi Shioda , a senior energy analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in
Tokyo, said before the announcement. “Japan may need strong
political leadership to compete for algae-oil hegemony.”  
 At least 75 developers globally are studying algae, which
has the potential to generate more energy per hectare than any
other crop used for making fuel, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance report in February. The technology has attracted
the U.S. Department of Energy and companies including Exxon
Mobil Corp., which plans to spend as much as $600 million on
research over five years.  
 Denso , which is more than 20 percent-owned by Toyota, has
joined Keio University to research  pseudochoricystis  algae,
organisms that live in ponds and hot springs and produce
starches containing a diesel component, Denso said on its
website.  
 The  KAITEKI institute , a research unit of Mitsubishi
Chemical Holdings Corp.,  joined  the University of California,
Los Angeles, to develop a way to produce ethanol using
microalgae and carbon dioxide, the institute said on May 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        