-- Toyota, Prudential Lead Most Company Bonds in 7 Weeks on Renewed Optimism
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-06-18T09:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/toyota-prudential-lead-most-company-bonds-in-7-weeks-on-renewed-optimism.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
largest automaker, and  Prudential Financial Inc.  led the most
U.S. corporate bond sales in seven weeks amid signs industrial
production may help the economy weather Europe’s deficit crisis.  
 Borrowers issued $15.6 billion of debt this week, 61
percent more than the prior period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Toyota’s finance unit offered $2 billion of 5- and
10-year notes in its first such sale in the U.S. in four years,
and Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, the second-largest U.S.
life insurer, sold $1 billion of 10- and 30-year bonds.  
 Issuance climbed for a second week amid investor optimism
that the U.S. economic recovery may be sustained by growing
industrial production, said  Brian Cogliandro , managing director
and head of U.S. syndicate at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA.
Manufacturing output rose 1.2 percent last month after a 0.7
percent gain in April, a Federal Reserve report in Washington
showed June 16. The median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 82
economists anticipated a 0.9 percent rise.  
 “The economic backdrop is good as long as you can get out
of the way of these crises of the last week or two,” Cogliandro
said in a telephone interview from New York. “We’re not coming
in everyday and having another landmine.”  
 The extra interest investors demand to own investment-grade
U.S. corporate bonds instead of Treasuries fell 4 basis points
to 209 basis points, the lowest since June 7, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields declined 7 basis
points to 4.51 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 European Deficits  
 Spreads increased to 213 basis points on June 11, the
widest this year, as concern grew that European countries
including Greece would fail to contain their deficits, causing
global economic growth to slow.  
 European Union officials last month agreed on an
unprecedented 750 billion euro ($928 billion) rescue package for
distressed nations after a separate 110 billion euro lifeline
for Greece failed to contain the debt crisis and shore up the
euro.  
 The region’s finance ministers last week set the structure
of a 440 billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility, the
main part of the bailout plan.  
 Following the rescue package announcement “we recommended
that investors start adding back exposure” to corporate credit,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Mikhail Foux  wrote this week in a
report. “Most likely we have seen the near-term bottom, though
given the continued sovereign volatility, it is hard to be
overly confident.”  
 Jobless Claims  
 The number of Americans seeking jobless benefits last week
rose to a one-month high, indicating firings are staying
elevated even as the U.S. economy grows.  
 While the recovery in employment “hasn’t been great, it
hasn’t been terrible either,” Cogliandro said. “There’s a
little bit of guarded optimism that maybe the jobs market is
starting to heal, and that obviously can be the next step of
progress forward in the economy.”  
 Prudential Financial sold $650 million of 10-year, 5.375
percent debt at a spread of 220 basis points and $350 million of
30-year, 6.625 percent notes at a 245 basis-point spread,
Bloomberg data show. Prudential’s market capitalization ranks
behind MetLife Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer.  
 Companies issued $14.6 billion of investment-grade bonds
this week, a 75 percent increase and the most since the week
ended April 16, Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘Window Is Opening’  
 “A window is opening in the primary market,” said Tom
Farina, who helps manage $188 billion of assets at Deutsche
Insurance Asset Management in New York. “The investment-grade
issuance calendar has been building.”  
 Toyota’s finance unit issued $1.25 billion of five-year,
3.2 percent notes at a 120 basis point spread, and $750 million
of 10-year, 4.5 percent debt with a spread of 130 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  
 High-yield issuers sold $1 billion of debt this week, a 25
percent decline from the previous period, Bloomberg data show.  
 TitleMax Holdings LLC, the retail loan company that filed
for Chapter 11 protection last April, sold $250 million of five-
year, 13.25 percent senior secured notes at a yield of 13.5
percent, Bloomberg data show. The company is based in Savannah.  
 Junk bond spreads narrowed 36 basis points to 691 basis
points, the tightest since May 28, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Yields fell to 9.11 percent from 9.48 percent.  
 High-yield, or junk, rated debt is graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc is among borrowers seeking to sell bonds,
Bloomberg data show. The company plans to sell $300 million of
perpetual securities that are callable after 5.5 years,
according to a person familiar with the sale who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        