-- Toyota Shuts China Plant as Workers at Honda Affiliate Return
-- Yuki Hagiwara
-- 2010-06-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/toyota-shuts-china-plant-honda-hit-by-fourth-affiliate-strike-in-china.html

          
          
             Labor unrest in China spread to
 Toyota Motor Corp.  last week, forcing the Japanese automaker to
stop production even as strikers at a  Honda Motor Co.  supplier
agreed to return to work with a promise of higher pay.  
 Walkouts spread through foreign-owned factories this month,
with demands for higher pay underscoring China’s shrinking
supply of low-cost labor. Strikes disrupted Honda’s production
in the nation, forcing the Tokyo-based carmaker to raise wages
at three suppliers and seeking to avert further work stoppages.  
 Workers at the Guangdong province plant of Honda affiliate
Nihon Plast Co. agreed to return to work as talks continued on
June 18, said Takayuki Fujii, a Beijing-based Honda spokesman.
Staff at Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co., who agreed to pay
increases according to Fujii, said they aren’t satisfied.  
 “We’re not happy but what more can we do?” said a 21-
year-old woman who identified herself by the surname Hu. “I’m
quite angry. We spent so much time on strike, and we don’t even
get 300 yuan more.”  
 A worker surnamed Luo said monthly pay was increased by
200 yuan ($29.30) plus an 80-yuan allowance, compared with
their request for 450 yuan more. Luo said employees would
probably join if someone decided to start another strike
because dissatisfaction is so high.  
 ‘Copycat Strikes’  
 Toyota closed its Tianjin factory June 18 after a strike
at supplier Toyoda Gosei Co. in the city, said  Mieko Iwasaki , a
spokeswoman for the carmaker.  Niu Yu , a Toyota spokesman in
China, said the Tianjin FAW Toyota Motor Co. plant that shut
down is normally closed on Saturday and Sunday.  
 A Toyoda Gosei Co. plant in Tianjin has been partially
shut since workers went on strike June 17, said Shingo Handa, a
spokesman for the affiliate, based in Japan’s Aichi prefecture.  
 “When strikes are successful, you do see replica strikes,
copycat strikes,” said  Geoffrey Crothall , a spokesman for Hong
Kong-based advocacy group China Labour Bulletin. “I expect
you’ll see more strikes in the coming weeks.”  
 Nihon Plast, based in Shizuoka, Japan, is 21 percent owned
by Honda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
also supplies Japanese carmakers Nissan Motor Co. and Suzuki
Motor Corp., according to its  website . It makes air bags and
handles for Honda and Nissan, according to Kyodo News, which
reported the strike earlier.  
 Nihon Plast’s Zhongshan factory makes steering wheels for
all models from Nissan’s Chinese venture, Dongfeng Nissan
Passenger Vehicle Co. Established in 2003, it’s 85 percent
owned by Nihon Plast and 15 percent by Osaka, Japan-based
 Itochu Corp ., and has 502 employees, according to the website.  
 Nissan Unaffected  
 Nissan’s production in China hasn’t been affected because
the company has a sufficient stock of parts, said Yoshihisa Jun,
a spokesman in China for the Yokohama-based carmaker.  
 Auto assembly plants in Guangzhou and Hubei province run
by Dongfeng Nissan were set to resume yesterday, said Akihiro
Nakanishi, a Guangzhou-based spokesman for the company.  
 Workers at another Toyota supplier in China, Tianjin Star
Light Rubber and Plastic Co., also walked out briefly on June
15, Toyoda Gosei’s Handa said. The issue was resolved when the
company offered a pay increase, said Zhu Hai Feng, a spokesman
for the company in Tianjin. He declined to elaborate.  
 Toyota, based in the central Japan city of Toyota, fell
1.7 percent to close at 3,240 yen in Tokyo trading on June 18,
while the benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  was little changed.
Toyoda Gosei declined 0.4 percent and Honda dropped 1.7 percent.  
 Reduced Migration  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment, said by phone from Shenzhen.  
 A factory owned by Xiaotian (Zhongshan) Industrial Co., a
maker of gas stoves and electric fans located 3 kilometers (1.9
miles) from Honda Lock’s plant, promised workers a monthly
increase of at least 250 yuan, excluding overtime.  
 Some factories in China are losing as many as 25 percent
of their workers a month, reflecting increased competition
among employers to hire staff, said Ian Spaulding, Hong Kong-
based managing director at Infact Global Partners, which
advises factory owners on China work practices.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages this year, the Shenzhen city government said on its
 website . In Shenzhen, which raised minimum wages an average of
15.8 percent, the government said higher pay will help
companies recruit workers and will boost consumption.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan on Friday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Workers leave the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory after finishing their shift in Zhongshan on Friday. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
