-- Toyota Supplier China Plant Partially Shut by Strike
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T08:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/toyota-affiliate-toyoda-gosei-says-workers-on-strike-at-factory-in-tianjin.html

          
          
             Workers at a  Toyota Motor Corp. 
affiliate in China went on strike, adding to a series of
assembly-line walkouts that underscore pressure for higher wages
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  
 The  Toyoda Gosei Co.  plant in the northern city of Tianjin
has been partially shut since yesterday and talks with employees
are ongoing, said Shingo Handa, a spokesman for the company,
based in Japan’s Aichi prefecture. Toyota’s car production in
China hasn’t been affected, said  Ririko Takeuchi , a Tokyo-based
spokesman for the automaker.  
 The stoppage comes as a  Honda Motor Co.  unit seeks to
prevent workers at a parts factory in the region from resuming a
strike. The carmaker said it hasn’t received word yet on whether
an agreement was reached by a 3 p.m. deadline for wage
negotiations, set by management and workers.  Honda  raised pay 24
percent to end an earlier dispute as two previous strikes in
China disrupted output, fanning demands for higher pay at rivals.  
 “The Honda situation could be the start of a wave, as
pent-up demand for wage increases surfaces and migrant workers,
for example, become more assertive,” said Andrew Thompson, co-
head of the automotive practice for KPMG in Shanghai. The
pressure for higher pay will continue “as China’s economy
continues to boom and people’s aspirations grow,” he said.  
 Deadline  
 Employees at another Toyoda Gosei company in China, Tianjin
Star Light Rubber and Plastic Co., also struck briefly on June
15, Handa said. The strike was resolved when the company offered
workers a pay increase, said Zhu Hai Feng, a Shanghai-based
Toyoda Gosei spokesman, without elaborating.  
 Toyota  fell  1.7 percent to close at 3,240 yen in Tokyo
trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little
changed. Toyoda Gosei declined 0.4 percent and  Honda  dropped 1.7
percent.  
 Management and union leaders at Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co.,
a supplier to Honda in Zhongshan, Guangdong, aimed to reach a
wage agreement today to prevent workers from striking for a
second time at the facility.  
 Yoshiyuki Kuroda , a spokesman for Honda Motor, said the
company was still awaiting word on the outcome of the talks.
Spokespeople for  Honda Lock  couldn’t immediately be reached to
confirm whether an agreement with workers had been made by the 3
p.m. deadline.  
 ‘Plenty of Factories’  
 “I would definitely get another job if I am not happy with
the pay increase,” Du Jun, a 20-year-old worker at the white-
walled Honda Lock factory, said before the deadline. “There are
plenty of factories around here I can get a job from,” said Du,
who moved to the region from his parents’ farm in Guangxi
province last year.  
 The Honda Lock strike has yet to affect Honda Motor’s car
 production  in the country, the automaker has said.  
 Higher investment and improved wages in western China are
deterring workers from migrating, pushing up pay in more
industrialized regions like Guangdong in the south, David
Abrahamson, project manager at the China Center for Labor and
Environment, said by phone from Shenzhen.  
 Taiwanese electronics maker  Foxconn Technology Group  said
this month it will double salaries for its lowest-paid workers
after at least 10 Chinese employees killed themselves this year.  
 “In the short term, a rise in wages is negative, but it’s
positive in the medium- and long-term,” said  Hideo Arimura , who
helps oversee $2.2 billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo. “If wages rise, people will spend more, benefiting the
companies eventually.”  
 Gas Stoves  
 A factory owned by Xiaotian (Zhongshan) Industrial Co., a
maker of gas stoves and electric fans 3 kilometers (1.9 miles)
from Honda Lock’s plant, promised workers a monthly increase of
at least 250 yuan, excluding overtime, last week.  
 Xiaotian Industrial decided to boost pay because “living
 costs  are higher now and it should help relieve some pressure on
labor shortages,” said Ms. Ou, a hiring manager at the Xiaotian
factory in Zhongshan, who declined to give her full name. The
company decided to raise wages before walkouts at Honda Lock and
two other Honda suppliers in the past month, she said.  
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, said June 9 it
will spend 520 million euros ($622 million) to add a new plant
in Guangdong as the country’s car demand booms. The new factory,
set to open in 2013, will join similar plants in the area built
by other global automakers such as Toyota and  Nissan Motor Co.   
 Some factories in China are losing as many as 25 percent of
their workers a month, reflecting increased competition among
employers to hire staff, said Ian Spaulding, Hong Kong-based
managing director at Infact Global Partners, which advises
factory owners on China work practices.  
 More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages this year, the Shenzhen city government said on its
website last Wednesday. In Shenzhen, which raised minimum wages
an average of 15.8 percent, the government said higher pay will
help companies recruit workers and will boost consumption.  
 -- Takako Iwatani ,  Akiko Ikeda ,  Mark Lee ,  Liza Lin , Stephanie
Wong,  Naoko Fujimura ,  Yuki Hagiwara . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Terje Langeland   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Honda Lock Co. factory stands in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
