-- Pfizer Faces Trials in 200 Suits Over Hormone-Drugs
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-06-18T20:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/pfizer-faces-trial-over-hormone-drug-as-200-cases-sent-back-to-home-courts.html

          
          
             Pfizer Inc.  faces a Texas trial over
its hormone-replacement drugs after a court overseeing lawsuits
over the medicines sent 200 cases back to their home courts.  
 A judge in Galveston, Texas, last week set a May 2011 trial
date for Karen Zahn’s claims against Pfizer’s Wyeth unit. Zahn
says in her suit that the Prempro menopause drug helped cause
her breast cancer. It’s one of the first of more than 8,000
lawsuits over the medicine consolidated in federal court in
Arkansas to be returned for trial, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  
 U.S. District Judge  William Wilson  in Little Rock,
Arkansas, is supervising pretrial proceedings in the cases
against Wyeth and  Pharmacia & Upjohn , another Pfizer unit. He
returned the 200 cases to their courts in March and told lawyers
to get another 400 ready to be sent back later this year.  
 “Pfizer is now going to have to gear up and hire lawyers
all over the country to try these cases,” said  Carl Tobias , a
professor at the  University of Richmond  law school who teaches
classes on mass-tort law. “That makes things more expensive and
may provide some incentive to settle.”  
 More than 6 million women took the menopause drugs to treat
symptoms such as hot flashes and mood swings before a 2002 study
highlighted their links to cancer. Wyeth’s sales of the
medicines, which are still on the market, topped $2 billion
before the  Women’s Health Initiative  study concluded they posed
an increased breast-cancer risk.  
 Menopause Medicines  
 Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with Upjohn’s progestin-laden
 Provera , to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth later combined the two
hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  
 Officials of New York-based Pfizer said while Wilson has
sent back some cases, he refused plaintiffs’ requests to send
back all the suits at one time.  
 “No decision has been made about how many additional cases
will be remanded or when,” Pfizer spokesman  Chris Loder  said in
an e-mailed statement. It also isn’t clear how many of the
remanded cases will go to trial, he added.  
 For example, plaintiffs May 25 dismissed a case filed by
Linda Cardwell that Wilson sent back to a federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, Loder noted.  
 Both sides still must exchange case-specific information on
the remanded claims, Loder said. Pfizer lawyers also may ask
judges to throw some cases out.  
 Wilson is overseeing cases as part of the  multidistrict 
litigation system, which allows suits filed in courts around the
U.S. to be consolidated before a single judge for pretrial
hearings.  
 Saving on Expenses  
 Once pretrial information exchanges are done, the cases are
sent back to the courts where they were originally filed for
trial. Consolidation cuts down on expenses for both sides.  
 Such consolidations often lead to so-called global
settlements of litigations over drugs. In 2000, Wyeth agreed to
a $3.76 billion accord to resolve suits over its fen-phen diet
combination after the cases were consolidated before a federal
judge in  Philadelphia .  
 Loder refused to comment on whether Pfizer will seek to
settle the remaining Prempro cases before Wilson. The company
faces at least 8,000 Prempro claims, Wyeth officials said in a
2009 regulatory filing.  
 “Pfizer will continue to vigorously defend its hormone
therapy medicines,” he said in a statement. “We do not comment
on the number of cases pending, nor do we comment on our legal
strategy.”  
 13,000 Cases  
 Zoe Littlepage , a lawyer for women suing over the menopause
drugs, said she expects to have many of the 200 cases set for
trial within the next 12 months. She estimates there may be more
than 13,000 Prempro cases pending before Wilson and state court
judges in Philadelphia.  
 “Most of the hard work has been done on these cases, and
it’s time for women to get their days in court,” she said.  
 Littlepage represents Zahn, a retired school receptionist
from Manvel, Texas. The 57-year-old woman took Prempro for
almost three years starting in January 1999. She was diagnosed
with breast cancer in November 2002.  
 U.S. District Judge  Kenneth Hoyt  in Houston on June 9 set
the trial of Zahn’s suit in Galveston for next May 16,
Littlepage said.  
 Wyeth has lost seven out of the 11 jury trials over the
menopause drugs. The drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown
out at the post-trial stage and or had awards reduced.  
 3,000 Cases Dismissed  
 Pfizer also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases at
either the pretrial stage or after the cases have been set for
trials, Loder said.  
 A judge in Philadelphia refused last month to throw out a
$9.4 million jury award to a woman who blamed Prempro for her
breast cancer. The case is on appeal.  
 Pfizer, the world’s  largest drugmaker , completed its $68
billion  purchase  of Wyeth last year. It acquired Upjohn in 2003
as part of a $54 billion buyout of  Pharmacia Corp.   
 Upjohn has lost all three cases juries have considered over
Provera. A Pennsylvania judge ruled last month the Pfizer unit
deserved a new trial in a 2007 case that ended with a $1.5
million jury award.  
 The case is In Re Prempro Products, 03-CV-015070-WRW, U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas (Little
Rock).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        