-- Philips, Qualcomm, Amazon, Pfizer, The Brewsters: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-18T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/philips-qualcomm-amazon-pfizer-the-brewsters-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Royal Philips Electronics NV ,
Europe’s biggest consumer-electronics maker, sued  Palm Inc.  for
patent royalties on the industry standard for storing compressed
images.  
 Philips  filed a complaint June 15 in federal court in San
Francisco, claiming certain Palm Treo model mobile-phones and
Palm Zire personal digital assistants infringe a patent that’s
related to the JPEG standard for images. The patent expired in
2007 and U.S. patent law lets Philips seek royalties from 2004,
 Bjorn Teuwsen , a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips.  
 “We have tried to come to a license agreement with Palm
for some years,” Teuwsen said in an e-mail. “We were left with
no other option than to start patent litigation against Palm.”  
 Sunnyvale, California-based Palm is being  bought  by
Hewlett-Packard Co. for $1.2 billion.  Lynn Fox , a spokeswoman
for Palm, didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 Philips is represented by  Victoria Q. Smith ,  Alan Grimaldi ,
 Brian Rosenthal  and  Brian Andrea  of Washington’s  Howrey LLP .  
 The case is U.S. Philips Corp. v. Palm Inc., 10cv2623, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  
 Qualcomm Faces Complaint to EU Over Antitrust Breach  
 Qualcomm Inc.  is facing a new complaint over claims it
breached European Union antitrust rules related to patent
royalty demands, less than a year after the EU’s executive
agency dropped a similar investigation into the company.  
 Icera Inc., a maker of wireless chips, has lodged a
complaint with the European Commission, Qualcomm said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The complaint “alleges that
Qualcomm has engaged in anticompetitive activity,” the company
said, adding that “matters are at a very preliminary stage and
we are currently reviewing the allegations.”  
 The Brussels-based commission, the antitrust agency for the
27-nation EU, in November dropped a four-year probe into the
company that started after competitors complained the chipmaker
was charging excessive royalties on patents. Qualcomm, the
world’s biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, said the
latest complaint is similar to previous ones.  
 “We believe the new allegations to be equally meritless”
as the ones made in previous complaints, the San Diego-based
company said. “Qualcomm will cooperate fully with the
commission, as we have done in the past.”  
 Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the commission’s antitrust
unit, said the regulator had received a complaint. “We’re
looking into it and are in a fact-finding stage,” she said in
an interview in Brussels.  
 Sally Doherty, a spokeswoman for Bristol, England-based
Icera, declined to immediately comment.  
 Amazon Gets New U.S. Patent For Internet-based Social Networking  
 Amazon.com Inc. , the world’s largest online retailer, is
getting into the social-networking space, if a newly issued
patent is any indication.  
 The Seattle-based company’s patent 7,739,139, issued June
15, is for a computer-based social-network system.  
 The mechanism described in the patent sounds much like some
of the features of Palo Alto, California’s Facebook Inc.’s
social networking system, including the ability for users to
identify contacts of their contacts, automatic notification of
personal-information updated by their contacts, and the ability
of users to identify others by their affiliation with schools or
other organizations.  
 The technology covered by the patent contains privacy
features enabling users to “selectively establish contact
relationships or connections with other users, and to grant
permissions for such other users to view personal information of
the use.”  
 Amazon applied for the patent in May 2008, and was assisted
in the application process by  Knobbe, Martens, Olson & Bear LLP 
of Irvine, California.  
 Pfizer Sues Mylan Over Infringement of Three Patents  
 Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, alleged that
 Mylan Inc. , the biggest U.S. generic pharmaceuticals maker,
infringed three patents for  Sutent , a drug used to treat
cancerous tumors of the digestive tract and kidneys.  
 Pfizer’s lawsuit contends Mylan violated its patent rights
by filing an application with the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to market copies of Sutent before the patents
expire, according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “Sutent has annual sales of about $1 billion” and
“Pfizer will suffer irreparable injury” unless the
infringement is stopped, the company’s lawyers said in court
papers.  
 In April, New York-based Pfizer said it halted a study of
Sutent as a treatment for advanced liver cancer after observing
complications in test patients. The company said it will
continue studying Sutent’s use to fight other types of cancer.  
 Mylan, based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, reported  sales  of
$5.09 billion last year.  
 Michael Laffin , a spokesman for Mylan, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 In dispute are patents 6,573,293; 7,125,905; and 7,211,600.  
 The case is Pfizer Inc. v. Mylan Inc., 10CV528, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Trademark  
 Mattel Persuades Court Its ‘iXL’ Mark Doesn’t Infringe Quia’s  
 Mattel Inc. , the largest toymaker in the world, can
continue to use “iXL” for its “multi-tech, six-in-one smart
device for preschoolers”, a federal judge ruled.  
 Quia Corp. sued Mattel May 3 in federal court in San
Francisco, claiming the toymaker infringed its “IXL”
trademark. The suit stems from advertisements by Mattel and
Fisher-Price for a “multi-tech, six-in-one smart device for
preschoolers” that is marketed as “iXL.”  
 The San Mateo, California-based Quia, a maker of
educational software, said it feared its IXL product will be
drowned out or diminished because of the “significant Web
presence and financial prowess” of Mattel, and its “robust
corporate customers” such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,  Toys “R”
Us Inc.  and  Target Corp.   
 U.S. District Judge Jeremy Fogel wasn’t convinced by Quia’s
complaint. In an 18-page order issued June 15, he said the
typical purchaser of Mattel’s toy and the cost of Quia’s
software meant that care would be taken in the purchase and
consumers were unlikely to confuse the two products.  
 He did order that El Segundo, California-based Mattel use a
disclaimer on its packaging saying its IXL Learning System and
related software “bear no relationship” to the Quia Corp. and
its products.  
 Quia was represented by  J. Michael Keyes  and  Kathryn Mary
Wheble  of  K&L Gates LLP  of Pittsburgh.  
 Mattel’s lawyers were  Bobby A. Ghajar ,  Peter Edward Moll ,
and  Robert Nathan Phillips  from Washington-based  Howrey LLP .  
 The case is Quia Corp. v. Mattel Inc., 5:10-cv-01902-JF,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  
 Chinese Producers Dominate $8.2 Billion EU Counterfeit Market  
 Chinese producers, with the aid of organized criminal
networks, control the $8.2 billion European market for designer-
clothes knockoffs, fake electronics and uninspected airplane
parts, the United Nations says.  
 Customs officials can’t keep up with shipments of bogus
products from China that have followed a surge in European
imports from Asia in the last decade, said  Antonio Maria Costa ,
director of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime.  
 “We see a relatively fixed portion of trade being
illegitimate, piggyback riding on the legitimate trade,” he
said in a June 10 interview in Vienna. “You have a gigantic
trade market exploding” and the absence of global regulation
“inevitably brings along the emergence of this counterfeit
market.”  
 European criminal gangs are helping to distribute phony
Chinese goods, according to the UN, which yesterday released a
300-page study on international organized crime. The report
comes while the European Union considers broadening duties on
Chinese goods because of alleged state subsidies.  
 “There are a dramatic number of counterfeits in
manufacturing,” Costa said. “When we climb on a plane, there
is a risk that some of parts have been pirated and therefore
don’t meet specifications.”  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said in 2007 that the international trade in counterfeit goods
is worth about $176 billion, accounting for around 2 percent of
global trade. Chinese producers have 55 percent, the United Arab
Emirates has 12 percent and Taiwanese manufacturers have 10
percent of the European market in fake products, according to
the UN report.  
 The EU and China have discussed restricting shipments of
phony goods to Europe in the past. Chinese customs authorities
seized $490 million worth of counterfeit items last year, up
from $221 million in 2008.  
 In Europe, customs officials seize an average of more than
130 counterfeit shipments a day, the vast majority of which come
from China, the UN reported. The 27-nation bloc imported 769
billion euros ($930 billion) of Chinese goods in 2008, according
to  Eurostat , the EU’s statistics office.  
 While the $8.2 billion illicit market pales in comparison
with the total market for legitimate trade between China and
Europe, the figure is more than four times larger than French
luxury-maker  Hermes International SCA ’s 1.9 billion euros of
revenue last year.  
 Copyright  
 Brewsters Sued for Infringement by Ex-Guns n Roses Manager  
 Alan Niven , a songwriter who once managed Guns n Roses and
Great White, sued an Australian performing group for copyright
infringement.  
 He claims Richard and John Brewster, members of Australia’s
‘The Angels,’ and the  Brewster Brothers Trio  are using his music
without authorization and compensation.  
 In a complaint filed in Los Angeles federal court June 14,
the songwriter said he had originally contracted with the
Brewsters for IP rights to some of his work for half the monies
they generated.  
 He claims “it was clear” that the parties to the
agreement intended he receive half of all the revenue from the
Brewsters’ use of his work. The Brewsters “never intended to
perform under the contract,”  and “deliberately attempted to
take advantage” of him, he claimed.  
 Niven terminated the Brewsters’ rights to use of his
material in 2006.  
 In March 2007, he says he received an e-mail from the
Brewster Brothers’ manager telling him that despite his having
written “some fabulous lyrics” in the past, “you can’t string
a coherent sentence together” and “you’re over the hill ole
bud.”  
 The  Brewsters  continued to use Niven’s materials, including
several of his songs on their album “Wounded Healer,” he said.  
 He asked the court to order the Brewsters to quit using his
material, and for an award of “all profits” they made through
the use of his work. He’s also seeking destruction of any
infringing material in their possession, money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  
 Niven also asked for the court to order the Brewsters to
issue him a public apology, and to return several of his guitars
in their possession.  
 He is represented by  Mark Karish  and  Alfred Eric Bjorgum  of
Los Angeles-based  Karish & Bjorgum PC .  
 The case is Alan Niven v. Richard Brewster, 2:10-cv-04376-
GAF-PJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        