-- Pick n Pay Shareholders Say Chairman's $400,000 Fee Sets `Bad Precedent'
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-06-18T13:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/pick-n-pay-shareholders-say-chairman-s-400-000-fee-sets-bad-precedent-.html

          
          
             Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. ’s proposal
to pay Chairman  Gareth Ackerman  3 million rand ($397,000) in the
year through February 2011 was criticized by two investors, who
said the fee was out of line with that paid by other South
African retailers.  
 “It sets a bad precedent,” shareholder  Theo Botha  said in
an interview in Cape Town today, after the company’s annual
meeting. “It’s very difficult to justify. It racks up
chairmen’s fees in South Africa. I don’t think that’s a good
thing.”  
 Pick n Pay’s  shares  have advanced 38 percent in the past
year, lagging behind the 55 percent gain posted by Cape Town-
based  Shoprite Holdings Ltd.,  which paid its chairman  Christo Wiese  160,000 rand in the year through June 2009.  
 “Remuneration must be aligned to performance,” Chris
Logan, chief investment officer at Cape Town-based Opportune
Investments (Pty) Ltd., said at the meeting.  
 The Ackerman family  controls  Pick n Pay through its
majority stake in holding company Pick n Pay Holdings Ltd.
Ackerman was appointed chairman on March 1, succeeding his
father  Raymond , who founded the retailer in 1967.  
 Criticism of the chairman’s compensation amounted to
“nitpicking” and was misplaced, Raymond Ackerman said. “If
anything it should be higher.”  
 Consideration  
 The fee was given “very careful consideration” and was
appropriate, given that Ackerman was expected to spend about 80
percent of his working hours at the company, said  Hugh Herman ,
chairman of its remuneration committee.  
 Gareth Ackerman defended Pick n Pay’s ownership structure,
saying it was run in the interests of all shareholders.  
 “I’d like to make it abundantly clear the pyramid
structure is not going to change,” he said. “Family control
has enabled us to take the long view when devising strategy,
considering plans for expansion and assessing the risk of future
investment.”  
 The chairman also backed a decision to award stock options
to staff at a 5 percent discount to the market price, a practice
Logan said was prejudicial to other shareholders.  
 “Offering  shares  to our people at a discount enables them
to share in the company’s success, broadens our shareholder base
and benefits those who deserve it and have served us well,” he
said.  
 Raymond Ackerman said that, since starting Pick n Pay, he
had personally donated more than 300 million rand to charity and
retired staff.  
 For Related News and Information:
South African retail: TNI SAFRI CONS <GO>
Top regional news: TOP AFRICA <GO>
Graph of rand: ZAR <Crncy> GP <GO>
Top consumer news: NI CONTOP BN <GO>  
          
          


  


        