-- Pillsbury Winthrop Firm Hires Corporate Attorney Group From Nixon Peabody
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-06-18T14:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/pillsbury-winthrop-hiring-at-least-20-corporate-lawyers-from-nixon-peabody.html

          
          
             Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman 
LLP  plans to hire as many as 20 corporate attorneys from  
Nixon Peabody LLP , at least the third group to leave that 
law firm since May 1.  
 The attorneys, who are joining Pillsbury Winthrop’s New
York office, include  Mats G. Carlston , former head of the global
finance practice at Boston-based Nixon Peabody. Carlston will
lead the leveraged-finance group at his new firm.  
 Others in the group specialize in private-equity,
municipal-finance and distressed-investing law. Seven have
agreed to move, and others are negotiating, according to
Pillsbury’s chairman.  
 “This is significant for us because it’s very strategic,”
 James M. Rishwain Jr.,  the chairman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “The financial-institutions practice is
one of Pillsbury’s core strengths. This group enhances our
capabilities in that area.”  
 DLA Piper LLP announced in May that four partners from
Nixon Peabody were joining the 3,500-lawyer firm to direct a
sports transactional practice. DLA hired three more partners
from the firm two weeks later.  
 The group joining Pillsbury, a 700-lawyer firm with 14
offices, currently includes five partners and two counsel, and
the number probably will reach 15 to 20 including associates,
Rishwain said. Counsel and associates are salaried attorneys.  
 Shared Culture  
 “You do not see too many opportunities where practice
groups move from firm to firm,” he said. “They share our
values, our culture and our approach.”  
 The group also has common clients with Pillsbury, including
BNP Paribas SA, Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp.,
Rishwain said.  
 Allison McClain, a spokeswoman for Nixon Peabody, didn’t
immediately return a voice message today seeking comment.  
 Rishwain said he canceled a flight from New York to Los
Angeles several months ago so he and Carlston could talk the
next morning. The recruiting effort started over breakfast at
the W hotel in Midtown Manhattan.  
 Nixon Peabody has 800 attorneys in 17 cities, according to
the firm’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York
at   ckolker@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        