-- Poland Unlikely to Raise Interest Rates, May Alter Stance, Zielinska Says
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-06-18T13:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/poland-unlikely-to-raise-interest-rates-may-alter-stance-zielinska-says.html

          
          
             Poland’s central bank is unlikely to
raise interest rates this year though it may tighten its
informal monetary policy stance in the autumn, said policy maker
 Anna Zielinska-Glebocka .  
 “There is still no demand and wage pressure in the
economy, sentiment is picking up relatively slowly so at the
moment I can’t see any need for rate hikes,” which are unlikely
this year, she said in a phone interview today. “We may,
though, consider restricting the policy bias but rather in the
autumn as the summer season is not a good time for this.”  
 The central bank has left the  benchmark seven-day rate  at a
record-low 3.5 percent since June last year as the economic
slowdown forced companies to cut jobs and scale back pay
increases, taming inflationary pressures. The so-called policy
bias, dropped last year, typically indicated the direction of
future rate movements, with a restrictive stance denoting that
any change would most likely be toward raising rates.  
 Recovering demand and rising  export  orders may help  growth 
accelerate to 3 percent this year from 1.8 percent in 2009, the
government forecasts.  
 Economic Reports  
 Wages and corporate employment reports for May, released
yesterday, showed an improving labor market. Companies added new
jobs for the first time in 15 months and employment rose an
annual 0.5 percent.  Industrial output  expanded an annual 14
percent in May, the statistics office said today, compared with
the 7.9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “This is a strong signal of the recovery, though mostly
limited to a single sector but it confirms that economic growth
is gaining momentum,” Zielinska-Glebocka said. “It’s also much
too early to speculate whether we can see any pressure on prices
from the labor market as the relation of unit labor costs to
productivity is still at a low level.”  
 One of the key factors for future rate decisions will be
the zloty exchange rate and its possible volatility, as well as
fuel prices, she said.  
 The currency lost 3.8 percent against the euro in May after
reaching the highest intraday level since December 2008 on April
7. Two days later, the central bank bought foreign currency on
the market for the first time since the zloty became a free-
floating currency.  
 Today, the zloty traded at 4.0732 to the euro by 3:43 p.m.
in Warsaw, strengthening from yesterday’s 4.075.  
 ‘Below Potential’  
 Zielinska-Glebocka expects the economy will grow about 3.5
percent this year, though such a rate is still “below
potential” and the output gap remains wide, she said.  
 While policy makers expect the government to tighten
“fiscal policy,” it hasn’t been loosened to such an extent
that it could “generate inflationary pressure,” she said.  
 The bank expects annual inflation to remain below the 2.5
percent target through this year after slowing in May to 2.2
percent. Some policy makers, including  Adam Glapinski , have
called for rate increases to prevent price growth in 2011 as
falling unemployment and rising wages may boost demand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        