-- Porsche CEO Macht Said to Be Winterkorn's Pick as Production Chief for VW
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-06-18T16:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/porsche-ceo-macht-said-to-be-favored-as-next-volkswagen-production-chief.html

          
          
             Porsche AG  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Macht  is the favored candidate to succeed  Jochem Heizmann  as production chief at  Volkswagen AG , according to two
people familiar with the matter.  
 Macht, 49, is Volkswagen CEO  Martin Winterkorn ’s choice to
replace Heizmann because of his decade-long experience in
running production at Porsche before he was named to head the
sports-car maker a year ago, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the discussions are confidential. A final
decision hasn’t been made, they said.  
 Matthias Mueller , VW’s chief product strategist, is the
frontrunner to succeed Macht as Porsche CEO, the people said.
Expanding the line-up of luxury cars is the Stuttgart, Germany-
based company’s top priority to reach a target of doubling
deliveries to 150,000 vehicles in the medium term.  
 Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen and Porsche are in
talks to carve out future model strategy and share platforms as
they seek to complete a merger next year. Porsche SE, the
sports-car maker’s holding company, today improved its full-year
forecast after sales beat analysts’ estimates as the new
Panamera sedan attracted buyers.  
 Volkswagen spokesman  Stefan Ohletz  declined to comment, as
did Porsche’s  Albrecht Bamler .  
 Macht joined Porsche in 1990 from a research institute
where he focused on helping German companies reorganize. In
1993, he was chosen to run a program set up to optimize
production by more closely linking suppliers to the process,
according to one of Porsche’s Web sites.  
 Toyota Methods  
 A year later, he began running a new subsidiary, Porsche
Consulting, which focused on bringing production methods used by
 Toyota Motor Corp.  to Porsche. Macht told the Detroit Free Press
in 1999 that he brought in former Toyota engineers to Porsche’s
main factory, who helped him reshuffle the operations over the
complaints of the factory’s German managers.  
 By the mid-1990s Porsche was profitable again and Macht was
rewarded for his role with a promotion to production chief in
1998, where he remained until he became CEO last July.  
 Porsche  rose  46 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close at 35.06
euros in Frankfurt. Volkswagen  added  55 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to 75.57 euros.  
 Heizmann, a member of VW’s executive board since February
2007, will quit to take on a new role tightening cooperation
between truckmakers  Scania AB  and  MAN SE , two people familiar
with the matter said in April.  
 Other possible management changes now being discussed at
Volkswagen involve Porsche’s development chief,  Wolfgang Duerheimer , who might be replaced by  Wolfgang Hatz , head of
engine development at Volkswagen, one of the people said.  
 VW, Europe’s biggest carmaker, aims to overtake Toyota as
the world’s largest automaker and bought a 19.9 percent stake in
Suzuki Motor Corp. in January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wendelin Wiedeking, former chief executive officer of Porsche SE, right, hugs Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, during speeches by the company's executives in Stuttgart, on July 23, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Michael Macht  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, speaks in Stuttgart, Germany, on Thursday, July 23, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Macht, chief executive officer of Porsche SE, speaks in Stuttgart, Germany, on Thursday, July 23, 2009. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
