-- Pound Posts a Second Weekly Gain Versus Dollar as Mortgage Approvals Rise
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-06-18T16:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/pound-reaches-one-month-high-versus-dollar-before-mortgage-approval-report.html

          
          
             The pound posted a gain against the
dollar for a second week and  gilts  declined as economic data
showed the number of home loans advanced and the budget deficit
shrank, increasing optimism that the economy is recovering.  
 Sterling pared a weekly loss against the euro as the FTSE
100 Index of stocks advanced for an eighth day in London. The
Bank of England said lenders granted 51,000 loans to buy homes,
compared with 50,000 forecast by economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to
outline spending cuts in an emergency budget next week.  
 “Some positive data we are seeing are providing some
support for sterling in the near term,” said  Ian Stannard , a
senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “But
our view is that the pound is looking vulnerable and the recent
rebound is going to be short-lived. The fiscal tightening by the
government is going to hurt growth.”  
 The pound rose 1.7 percent from last week to $1.4792 as of
4:50 p.m. in London, after earlier reached $1.4886, the highest
level since May 13. It rose 1.7 percent from last week. The
currency fell 0.4 percent from last week against the euro to
83.59 pence.  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt declined six basis points to
3.54 percent. The 4.75 percent security maturing in March 2020
fell 0.54, or 5.4 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,488) face amount,
to 109.88. The two-year note yield advanced four basis points to
0.88 percent.  
 Gilts have underperformed German debt this year, handing
investors a 4.9 percent return, compared with 6.5 percent for
German bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 Budget, Mortgage  
 U.K. 10-year government bonds posted their first weekly
loss in three after data this week showed inflation, while
slowing in May, exceeded the government’s 3 percent upper limit.
The Bank of England last week left its 200 billion-pound bond
stimulus unchanged and held the key interest rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent.  
 Gilts stayed lower after a report showed the nation posted
a smaller fiscal  deficit  than economists forecast last month as
growth lifted tax receipts. The 16 billion-pound shortfall in
May compared with 17.4 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office
for National Statistics said in London today.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will outline
spending cuts on June 22 to tame a budget deficit that swelled
to 11 percent of gross domestic product last fiscal year.  
 Mortgage approvals rose to 51,000 last month from 48,000 in
April, according to a sample from the central bank’s panel of
six major lenders released today.  
 Credit Conditions  
 “Looking forward, lenders expected mortgage market
activity to remain broadly flat in the coming months,” the Bank
of England said. “Demand for housing, especially among first-
time buyers, continued to be constrained by tight credit
conditions.”  
 The pound rose 0.7 percent this week to 134.3 yen. Sterling
may extend gains versus the yen to reach a one-month high of 137
yen, according to analysts at Ueda Harlow Ltd. in Tokyo, citing
trading patterns.  
 An ichimoku chart for the British currency shows bullish
signals including a short-term conversion line crossing a
longer-term baseline, said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a senior analyst at
the online currency-trading company. The chart is used to
predict a currency’s direction through analyzing the midpoints
of historical highs and lows.  
 “In the short term, the pound is gaining technically
driven momentum to head higher,” Yamauchi said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The pound gained against the dollar as mortgage approvals rise. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
