-- Prince Charles's Design Protest Not `Fatal' to Project, Qatari Diar Said
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-18T13:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/prince-charles-s-design-protest-not-fatal-to-project-qatari-diar-said.html

          
          
             The real-estate investment arm of
Qatar’s sovereign-wealth fund considered ignoring opposition
from  Prince Charles  over its plan for a London luxury apartment
complex, saying the heir to England’s throne had failed to stop
other developments he didn’t like.  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. executive John Ward
said in an April 2009 internal e-mail that London had approved
other developers’ designs for the  Shard  skyscraper -- which will
be the city’s tallest -- and the  One New Change  office complex
near St. Paul’s Cathedral, over the prince’s objections to their
modern appearances, according to documents revealed at a court
hearing this week in London.  
 The Prince of Wales’s “track record on public
pronouncements on building design is not always one-way
traffic,” Ward said in the e-mail. “His public views are not
always fatal.”  
 Qatari Diar withdrew its site plan application for the
landmark  Chelsea Barracks  in June 2009, claiming it would likely
be rejected. Its U.K. developer, CPC Group Ltd., sued claiming
that Qatari Diar was obliged to submit the plan or pay costs.
The developer argues the plan could have been approved and was
wrongfully abandoned to appease Prince Charles.  
 The breach-of-contract case went to trial last month, with
CPC, controlled by real-estate entrepreneur  Christian Candy ,
seeking 81 million pounds ($120 million) it says it would have
received if the complex had been built.  
 Upsetting the Prince  
 The e-mails showed the emir of Qatar,  Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani , wanted the Chelsea Barracks plan scrapped to
avoid upsetting the prince, CPC lawyer  Anthony Stephen Grabiner 
has said in court.  
 The e-mail from Ward is among dozens of messages revealed
after last month’s trial because Qatari Diar’s lawyers failed to
search a server in London. Grabiner told Judge  Peter Smith  at a
June 14 hearing they prove Qatari Diar trial witnesses lied
while testifying.  
 Qatari Diar spokeswoman Georgiana Gibbs declined to comment
when reached by phone today.  
 A joint venture of CPC and Qatari Diar paid 959 million
pounds for Chelsea Barracks in January 2008. In November of that
year, Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s stake for an initial payment
of about 38 million pounds and agreed to make 81 million pounds
in deferred payments, CPC said. Candy was retained for project
management, design and marketing.  
 The Chelsea Barracks development was planned to include
mixed-use buildings of between five and 13 stories, comprising
638 residential units, as well as hotel space, a community
center, retail units and restaurants, court papers show.  
 The case is CPC Group Ltd. v. Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Company, case no. 4260/09, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division (London).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        