-- Provincial Bonds to Outperform Corporate Debt Amid Recovery: Canada Credit
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-06-18T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/provincial-bonds-to-outperform-corporate-debt-amid-recovery-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Provincial bond returns are pulling
further ahead of corporate debt as Canada’s regional economies
benefit from a faster-than-forecast  recovery  from the global
recession.  
 Ontario and British Columbia, buoyed by economic growth in
Canada of 6.1 percent in the first quarter, are among provinces
that may post smaller-than-forecast budget deficits as tax
revenue rises, said  Warren Lovely , CIBC World Markets’ head of
government debt research.  
 “We would expect every single province to enjoy economic
growth that is brisker than is forecast in their 2010 budgets,”
Toronto-based Lovely said in a phone interview.  
 Ontario , Canada’s most-populous province, has seen a
“dramatic re-acceleration” of its economy, while British
Columbia may have GDP growth of 3.3 percent, compared with the
2.2 percent  forecast  by the government, he said. “You can also
expect stronger-than-planned generation of revenue.”  
 Since May 1, debt sold by Canadian provinces has posted a
total return of 1.77 percent as investors sought safety from
financial turmoil in Europe. That outpaced the 0.73 percent
return from Canadian corporate debt during the period, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 For the remainder of the year, returns on investments in
corporate debt may lag behind those on provincials as companies
suffer from reduced stimulus spending and credit markets digest
increased supplies of debt sold by Canadian banks,  Joanna Zapior 
in Toronto, CIBC’s chief of corporate debt research, said in an
interview.  
 Trading Places  
 “Provincial and corporate borrowers are effectively
trading places,” Lovely and Zapior said in a report published
June 15.  
 CIBC World Markets is a unit of Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, the country’s fifth-biggest bank.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, CSS FSCC Partnership, a
special-purpose vehicle, sold C$190.3 million ($185 million) of
6.92 percent notes maturing in July 2042 at 315 basis points
more than comparable Canadian government debt.  
 Calgary-based Enbridge Income Fund sold C$100 million of 5
percent coupon notes maturing in June 2017, according to
Bloomberg data. The Regional Municipality of York sold C$200
million of 10-year, 4.5 percent notes at 118 basis points more
than Canadian government debt.  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  gives a speech today in
St. John’s, Newfoundland. He’s expected to repeat comments he
made June 16 in a speech in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island,
when he said the uneven global recovery and prospects of renewed
weakness in Europe mean future increases in the central bank’s
benchmark interest rate aren’t “preordained.”  
 Rising Rates  
 “The bank must balance the competing influences on
Canadian activity and inflation of momentum in domestic demand
and the increasingly uneven global recovery,” Carney, 45, said
in the speech two days ago.  
 The Bank of Canada on June 1 became the first central bank
in the Group of Seven nations to raise  interest rates  since July
2008, and signaled that further increases could be delayed.  
 Returns on Canadian corporate debt soared more than 15
percent last year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, as
global credit markets thawed. Provincial debt returned 3.7
percent, reflecting declining government creditworthiness as
budget deficits swelled and economic growth contracted.  
 “Fiscal belt-tightening and a gradual elimination of
deficits will be supportive of provincial credit fundamentals,”
Lovely and Zapior wrote in reports. “But the slower growth that
results will pose a challenge for a corporate sector that
currently looks rich to provincials.”  
 CIBC forecasts Canada’s GDP to expand by 3.3 percent this
year, compared with a 2.5 percent contraction in 2009. The
country’s growth will slow to 2.5 percent in 2011, according to
the bank.  
 CIBC also forecasts provincial debt issuance to rise to
C$78 billion this year, from about C$77 billion in 2009 and C$53
billion in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        