-- Qataris Raise Bet on London Real Estate to Protect Gas Wealth
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-06-18T11:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/qatar-takes-advantage-of-weakening-pound-to-buy-priciest-london-properties.html

          
          
             Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund has
been buying up some of the highest quality properties in London,
as the Persian Gulf country takes advantage of lower prices and
the pound’s weakness to invest its gas wealth.  
 Barwa Real Estate Co., controlled by the fund, yesterday
agreed to buy Park House for 250 million pounds ($370 million).
The office and retail project is the biggest development in
about 40 years on London’s Oxford Street. The fund also bought
London’s Harrods department store last month and in 2009 became
the largest investor in  Songbird  Estates Plc, which owns most of
the Canary Wharf office estate. Another unit of the fund
acquired the U.S. embassy building in London last year.  
 “If you can get prestige assets at a bargain price, why
not?” said  Fadi Moussalli , regional director for Middle East
and North Africa at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. “Qataris are shrewd
buyers and are opportunistically looking for deals.”  
 Qatar, the world’s largest producer of liquefied natural
gas, is investing in property globally after increased
production and higher prices boosted state wealth. Declines in
real estate values and the pound have made U.K. assets more
affordable for dollar-pegged investors such as the Qatar
Investment Authority.  
 The QIA now wants to buy the 76 percent of Songbird that it
doesn’t already own, the London-based Times reported today,
without saying where it got the information. Qatar Holding LLC,
a unit of the fund, bought 24 percent of Songbird in October.
The other shareholders include China’s sovereign wealth fund and
New York’s Simon Glick. A London-based spokesman for Qatar
Holding, who asked not to be identified, declined to comment.  
 Songbird hasn’t had a further approach from the Qataris, a
spokesman for the U.K. company who declined to be identified
said by telephone today. The stock jumped as much as 15 percent.  
 The Shard  
 In 2008, Barwa and other Qatari investors purchased 80
percent of the Shard, an 80-story tower being built near
London’s river Thames. They sold their stake last year to the
Qatar Central Bank. The owners bought out the building’s only
office tenant this week in anticipation that rents will almost
double from the agreed rate when the skyscraper is completed.  
 The wealth fund, which owns 45 percent of Barwa, is also in
talks to buy about 33 percent of London’s Savoy Hotel and is one
of the bidders for the Grosvenor House Hotel, the Times said
yesterday. Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. bought the
U.S. embassy building on Grosvenor Square in November.  
 “The U.K. has been and remains an important market for
Qatari Diar and QIA,” John Watts, a spokesman for Qatari Diar,
said by phone yesterday from the capital, Doha. He wouldn’t
comment on possible bids for the Savoy or Grosvenor House.  
 Oxford Street  
 Park House on Oxford Street, which Barwa is buying from
London-based Land Securities Group Plc, will include 165,000
square feet (15,000 square meters) of office space, 90,000
square feet of shops and 39 homes, Land Securities said.  
 The sale price was based on the company’s estimates that
the office space will be leased at 90 pounds a square foot and
the retail space at 500 pounds a square foot, said London-based
Credit Suisse AG analyst  Steve Bramley-Jackson , who has a
“neutral” rating on Land Securities.  
 Qatar’s “primary objective is not to maximize the return,
but park the money somewhere safely and make an acceptable
return,” said Matthew Richardson, head of European Real Estate
research at Fidelity International. “Tomorrow, if they put that
asset back on the market, they’d get a buyer for it.”  
 The transaction means that Barwa rather than Land
Securities, Britain’s largest real estate investment trust, will
pay for Park House’s construction and will have to find tenants.
The U.K. company will act as development manager responsible for
completing the building.  
 Property ‘Powerhouse’  
 Qatari funds are likely to be the “powerhouse” of global
real estate investment this year, Jones Lang LaSalle said in a
June 14 report.  
 “The return of the Qataris on the global real estate scene
has been marked by an aggressive and bold investment strategy,”
analysts including  Craig Plumb  said in the report. “As
relatively young entities, Qatar-based institutions have shown a
hunger for high-profile acquisitions and an eagerness to leave
their footprint on the global map.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .
 Chris Bourke  in London at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Harrods department store sign is seen on the Knightsbridge store in London. Photographer:  Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
