-- RBS Is Said to Negotiate Indian Unit Sale to HSBC, as Disposals Accelerate
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-06-18T11:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/rbs-is-said-to-negotiate-indian-unit-sale-to-hsbc-as-disposals-accelerate.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is
in talks to sell its Indian commercial and retail unit to  HSBC
Holdings Plc  as Britain’s biggest government-owned bank
accelerates international asset disposals, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation.  
 The sides may agree a deal as early as next month, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. The unit has about 1.3 million customers, 1,800
employees and 28 branches, according to the Edinburgh-based
bank’s  website .  
 Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  is selling assets
acquired by his predecessor,  Fred Goodwin,  who spent $100
billion and expanded the bank’s operations into more than 54
countries. The bank has announced the sale of four overseas
units this week after agreeing to sales in Argentina,
Kazakhstan, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates.  
 “Goodwin seemed to be expanding for the sake of it,” said
 Bruce Packard , a London-based analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd.
“Hester is now pursuing the right strategy in trying to slim
down the bank.”  
 Banco Santander SA , Spain’s biggest bank, offered as much
as 1.7 billion pounds ($2.52 billion) to buy more than 300 RBS
branches in the U.K., according to a person with knowledge of
the plans said today.  
 RBS is “making excellent progress in reducing the size of
our balance sheet, making the bank safer,” it said in an e-
mailed statement. “Since the announcement of our strategic plan
in February 2009 and the creation of our non-core division, we
have exited or sold more than 20 businesses.”  
 Assets Decline  
 The bank’s assets ballooned to more than 2.2 trillion
pounds, about 1 1/2 times Britain’s annual economic production
at its peak in 2008. Following the world’s biggest bank bailout
in 2008, assets fell to 1.58 trillion pounds at the end of
March.  
 HSBC, Europe’s largest bank, yesterday agreed to buy the
RBS Kazakh retail unit for as much as $52 million in cash as it
bolsters its presence in countries trading with China.  
 A spokesman for London-based  HSBC  declined to comment on
talks about a possible purchase of the RBS India unit. At the
moment, the bank has 2 million customers and 35,000 employees in
50 branches across India.  
 HSBC was previously in talks to acquire RBS assets in
India, China and Malaysia, one of the people familiar said. The
discussions broke down last year following objections from
Indian regulators, the person said. RBS is still looking to sell
the Chinese unit and may close the Malaysian business, according
to the second person.  
 ‘Most Complicated’  
 The bank is undergoing the most complicated restructuring
of any company in history, CEO Hester said last month. RBS has
identified 258 billion pounds of non-core assets to sell or run
down by 2013, it said in its annual  report  in March.  
 RBS is also in discussions to sell its investment banking
operations in Chile and Uzbekistan, one of the people said. The
units each employ about 80 people.  
 Already agreed RBS unit sales include assets in Singapore,
Taiwan, Indonesia, Hong Kong, the Philippines and Vietnam to
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , as well as the
divestment of its Colombian investment-banking business to Bank
of Nova Scotia in March.  
 RBS is withdrawing from 16 countries and scaling back in a
further 21. The bank said it will remain in 17 “core
countries,” including the U.S., Australia, China, France,
Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Spain.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The RBS logo hangs outside the headquarters of the Royal Bank of Scotland in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
