-- Treasuries Head for Weekly Gain on Lower Inflation Prospects, Jobs Concern
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-06-18T10:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/treasuries-head-for-weekly-gain-on-signs-of-struggling-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             Treasuries headed for a weekly
advance on speculation subdued inflation will persuade the
 Federal Reserve  to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record
low, supporting demand for government securities.  
 Ten-year yields may decline to the lowest this year after
reports showed a drop in consumer prices and an increase in
jobless claims, according to  Andrew Roberts , head of European
rates strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London.
Ten-year notes maintained their weekly gain today even as the
MSCI World Index of  shares  advanced for a ninth straight day.  
 “Economic data are coming in weaker, which supports the
argument for the rally in bonds to continue strongly from
here,” Roberts said. “Ten-year yields may fall below 3 percent
more quickly than most people imagine.”  
 The 10-year yield has fallen five basis points this week to
3.19 percent as of 6:30 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. It touched 3.18 percent yesterday, the lowest since
June 10.  
 The yield fell less than one basis point today after rising
earlier to 3.21 percent. The 3.5 percent security due May 2020
rose 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 102 21/32.  
 The consumer price index declined 0.2 percent in May, the
biggest drop since December 2008, figures from the Labor
Department showed yesterday. Prices fell 0.1 percent in April.
Initial claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly increased
by 12,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 12. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast a decline to 450,000.  
 Inflation Expectations  
 The yield spread between Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, or  TIPS , and conventional bonds show money managers
expect the consumer price index to increase an average 2.03
percent annually in the next 10 years, down from 2.41 percent at
the end of 2009. The figure was as low as 1.83 percent on May
21, the least since Oct. 9.  
 “The Fed isn’t going to tighten any time soon,”  Adam Carr , an economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., wrote in a
note to clients. “A ‘healthy’ dose of unanticipated inflation
is the target here.”  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 78 percent
chance the Fed will either maintain or reduce interest rates by
its December meeting, up from a 62 percent probability a month
ago. Policy makers lowered the benchmark  target rate  for
overnight loans between banks to a range of zero to 0.25 percent
in December 2008 to reduce borrowing costs and help stimulate
the economy.  
 European Crisis  
 Ten-year notes climbed in the week amid speculation
governments are struggling to contain Europe’s debt crisis after
Greece’s credit rating was lowered to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service. The 10-year  note yield  fell almost one percentage point
between April 5 and May 25 when it reached 3.06 percent, the
lowest since April 2009.  
 The  notes  slipped earlier today after a U.S. report
yesterday showed leading indicators climbed last month. Spain
sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of bonds yesterday, a sign
the country may be able to raise money without help from
organisations such as the International Monetary Fund.  
 “Most of the economic data show a gradual recovery of the
U.S.,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , an investment manager in Tokyo for
Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co., which oversees the equivalent
of more than $60 billion. “Some economic weakness and
uncertainty in Europe will ease in coming months.”  
 Pimco Purchases  
 Ten-year yields are likely to climb to 3.6 percent by the
end of September, Fukoku’s Okumoto said. Should his predictions
prove accurate, investors who buy the debt today would make a
2.3 percent loss, Bloomberg calculations show.  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond  fund  at
 Pacific Investment Management Co. , boosted holdings of U.S.
government-related debt to the highest level in six months.  
 The $227.9 billion  Total Return Fund ’s investment in the
debt was increased to 51 percent of assets in May, from 36
percent the previous month, according to the  website  of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco.  
 Treasuries, part of the government-related category, are
the premier holdings for fixed-income investors with the U.S.
economy failing to produce private-sector jobs and Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatening the region’s banking sector,
Gross, 66, said this month.  
 First-Half Returns  
 Treasuries are set for their best first half in a decade as
the world’s largest economy starts to rein in its budget deficit
and reduces the size of planned bond auctions.  
 The U.S. said yesterday that it will auction $40 billion in
2-year notes, $38 billion in 5-year securities and $30 billion
in 7-year debt in three daily sales that begin June 22. That
compares with offerings of $42 billion, $40 billion and $31
billion of the notes last month.  
 Matthew Rutherford , the Treasury’s deputy assistant
secretary for federal finance, said earlier this year the
department was confident the “deficit situation” would improve
and that auction sizes had reached their peak. “The heavy
lifting is done,” he said at a Feb. 3 press conference.  
 Treasuries have handed investors a return of 4.7 percent
since Dec. 31, heading for the largest gain in the first six
months of a year since 2000, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  
 Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the
U.S. may soon face higher borrowing costs on its swelling debt
and called for a “tectonic shift” in fiscal policy to contain
borrowing.  
 “Perceptions of a large U.S. borrowing capacity are
misleading,” and current long-term bond yields are masking
America’s debt challenge, Greenspan wrote in an opinion piece
posted on the Wall Street Journal’s website. “Long-term rate
increases can emerge with unexpected suddenness,” such as the 4
percentage point surge over four months in 1979-80, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Theresa Barraclough  in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        