-- Treasury to Gain Expanded Powers in U.S. Financial Overhaul
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-06-18T15:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/treasury-geithner-to-be-given-expanded-powers-in-u-s-financial-overhaul.html

          
          
             The U.S. Treasury Department under
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is coming out of the worst
economic crisis since the Great Depression with expanded powers
to guard against future threats to financial stability.  
 Geithner, who has managed taxpayer bailouts of companies
from  Citigroup Inc.  to  General Motors Co. , would lead a council
to monitor large financial firms under legislation House and
Senate negotiators aim to complete by July 4. Lawmakers
confirmed the council’s basic functions yesterday and may
approve final language next week. Geithner would also get a
research unit that could demand data from banks and regulators
and a new national insurance office.  
 The Treasury-led council’s role includes identifying
companies that might be shut down because they pose a risk to
the financial system. That authority, even if well-intentioned,
could be used for political ends, said  Phillip Swagel , a former
Treasury economist who’s now a professor at Georgetown
University in Washington.  
 “It’s such an open-ended grant of power,” said Swagel,
who worked for Republican Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson . “Do
we really want to give that to every future administration?”  
 Tom Quaadman , vice president of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said the
legislation will give Treasury “enormous new powers.”  
 The Treasury would also be required to approve any
emergency lending by the Federal Reserve. The Fed used its
emergency powers during the crisis to rescue American
International Group Inc. and Bear Stearns Cos.  
 The Treasury’s new powers are one element of legislation
that Geithner has called “the most sweeping financial reform
that we’ve considered in generations.”  
 Council Members  
 The council, which also includes the chairmen of the Fed,
Securities and Exchange Commission and the FDIC, would have the
authority to recommend that the central bank and other agencies
toughen rules to reduce risk at financial institutions.  
 Some of its decisions, such as ruling that a non-bank
financial company should be subject to Fed supervision, couldn’t
be made without the Treasury secretary’s approval.  
 “While it mostly has powers of recommendation, it clearly
has the ability to affect regulation and set the agenda,” said
 Chuck Muckenfuss , a partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in
Washington who specializes in financial regulation and policy.  
 The council would include, as a non-voting member, the
director of a new Treasury financial research office. While the
office isn’t intended to “snoop on people,” it would have
broad power to ask companies for information, Swagel said.  
 Large Banks  
 The office would obtain data and conduct research on
systemic risk and require banks with assets of $50 billion or
more to give information not otherwise available about its
financial condition and internal systems.  
 The success of the research office depends on how its work
is used, said  Mark Calabria , director of financial regulation
studies at the Cato Institute in Washington and a former aide to
Republican Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama.  
 “It’s an open question whether the financial research done
at Treasury will end up serving the policy goals of the Treasury
secretary, or will they actually build a strong, independent
function,” Calabria said.  
 Geithner, 48, will be gaining authority after being the
target of a public and political backlash over the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program. Lawmakers including Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Democrat from Washington state, and Representative
 Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, said the Treasury favored
Wall Street banks over Main Street.  
 Fed Scrutiny  
 As companies including Citigroup and Bank of America Corp.
repaid bailout funds last year, the Treasury escaped the ire of
lawmakers debating whether to curb central bank’s independence
and increase scrutiny of its actions. Lawmakers yesterday agreed
to require greater disclosure by the central bank while
rejecting a provision to make the New York Fed chief a political
appointee.  
 Geithner met with more than a dozen senators in the weeks
before the Senate’s May 20 vote and urged them to support the
regulatory changes. The Obama administration’s proposal,
released in June 2009, included a financial services oversight
council to be led by Treasury.  
 “What’s important is to have true accountability for the
responsibilities granted to each government agency,” Treasury
spokesman  Andrew Williams  said.  
 The President’s Working Group on Financial Markets, formed
in response to the October 1987 stock market crash, is likely to
be supplanted by the council, said  Eugene A. Ludwig , chief
executive officer of Promontory Financial Group and a former
comptroller of the currency. The working group, led by the
Treasury secretary, includes the chairmen of the Fed, SEC and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Insurance Office  
 The Treasury’s authority would also be extended to the
insurance industry. A proposed National Office of Insurance,
whose director would be appointed by the Treasury secretary,
will identify regulatory weaknesses that could contribute to an
industry crisis and recommend to the council of regulators that
an insurer be supervised by the Fed.  
 The legislation falls short of proposing a so-called
optional federal charter for insurance companies that allow
firms to choose between the current system of state regulation
or a federal overseer. Large insurers such as  Allstate Corp. 
have supported an optional federal supervision while smaller
firms and states oppose it.  
 “This is the first toe in the water for federal government
into insurance,” said  Robert Litan , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution and a former Office of Management and
Budget official. “It could prepare the ground for an optional
federal charter.”  
 Inspectors  
 Under the legislation, the Treasury’s inspector general, or
internal investigator, would lead a council of IGs from
government agencies to share information that could improve
financial oversight.  
 “The Treasury Department has been one of the primary
battalions in our economic army,” Ludwig said. “In times of
war the army grows in strength and authority. The question is,
how will this army change in times of peace, or what it will
evolve into.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tim Geithner  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, poses for a portrait in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. treasury secretary, poses for a portrait in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
