-- Reliance Shares Fall as Ambani Brother Anil Fails to Attend Investors Meet
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-06-18T08:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/reliance-shares-fall-as-mukesh-s-estranged-brother-fails-to-attend-meet.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd.  shares fell
as Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  concluded a speech at a shareholders’
meeting without his brother attending, eroding speculation the
two had put aside a five-year feud and would reconcile publicly.  
 India’s largest company by market value dropped as much as
1.4 percent to 1,056.10 rupees after the billionaire ended his
speech around noon in Mumbai. The stock had risen as much as 1.7
percent before the meeting started and traded at 1058.40 rupees
at 1:53 p.m. local time. Anil Ambani’s companies also declined.  
 “The falling stocks today are a knee-jerk reaction to all
the expectation that was being built upon a public display of
truce,” Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2
billion of emerging market stocks at Helsinki-based Fim Asset
Management, including Reliance Industries’ shares.  
 The shareholder meeting took place exactly five years to
the day the Ambanis split India’s second-biggest group, which
initiates years of squabbles and lawsuits as their business
interests clashed. Indian newspapers had speculated about a
rapprochement since the brothers scrapped a non-competition
accord last month, removing curbs on investments.  
 The end of the agreement “paves the way for Reliance to
participate in the whole value chain of the power business,”
Mukesh, 53, said amid applause. The company plans large
investments in power, including nuclear and solar energy, and
telecommunications, he said.  
 ‘Unprecedented Value’  
 Mukesh said Reliance Industries plans to use its balance
sheet to fund new ventures, add capacity to produce polyester
and chemicals, and create “unprecedented value” for investors.
The company is expanding energy exploration off India’s east
coast and plans to drill in East Timor, Yemen and Oman as well
as add shale gas assets, he said.  
 “Long term, there’s value to be created,” said  Vaibhav Sanghavi , who manages funds for wealthy individuals as director
at Ambit Capital Ltd. in Mumbai. “Growth looks promising.”  
 Indian publications including Hindustan Times had reported
that Anil may attend the meeting, ending a feud that delayed
investments in roads, power and telecommunications ventures.  
 Under an agreement reached in 2005, Mukesh kept the
petrochemicals, oil and gas units and Anil, 51, got the power,
telecommunications, financial services and entertainment units.
The brothers said last month they were scrapping an accord drawn
up in 2006 that barred them from expanding into each other’s
businesses.  
 Anil Ambani Stocks  
 Among Anil Ambani’s companies,  Reliance Natural Resources
Ltd.  declined as much as 8.6 percent to 62.05 rupees.  Reliance
Power Ltd.  fell 1.4 percent, Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. lost
1.7 percent,  Reliance Communications Ltd.  dropped 2.2 percent
and Reliance Capital Ltd. was down 1.7 percent. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index  was little changed.  
 On June 11, Reliance Industries acquired an Internet
services company for $1 billion, while Reliance
Communications said it dropped out of the bidding for
wireless broadband services permits after obtaining third-
generation mobile-phone licenses in an earlier auction.  
 Reliance Industries bought shale gas assets in the U.S.
from  Atlas Energy Inc.  for $1.7 billion in April after failing
to purchase LyondellBasell Industries AF in a deal that would
have valued the bankrupt chemicals maker at $14.5 billion, and
losing a bid for oil sands assets in Canada owned by Value
Creations Inc.  
 Shale Gas  
 The Mumbai-based oil  refiner  and energy explorer is
considering buying a stake in shale gas assets owned by  Pioneer
Natural Resources Co.  in the U.S., two people with knowledge of
the matter said June 10.  
 “Reliance aspires to build a significant position in the
shale gas business,” Mukesh, watched by his mother Kokilaben
and wife Nita Ambani, told shareholders. “We will enhance
efficiencies across the chain by drawing on our experience in
drilling and project management. We will commit capital
alongside proven low cost operators to accelerate the
development of this resource.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        