-- Reliance Industries Is Ready for `Big Surge Forward,' Mukesh Ambani Says
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-18T06:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/reliance-industries-is-ready-for-big-surge-forward-mukesh-ambani-says.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
largest company by market value, is ready for a “big surge
forward” and plans to use its balance sheet to fund new
ventures, Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  told shareholders.  
 The company will add capacity to produce polyester and
chemicals and use its strong finances for “inorganic” growth
aimed at creating “unprecedented value” for investors, Ambani
said in Mumbai today. Reliance has “intensified” energy
exploration off India’s east coast and plans to drill in East
Timor, Yemen and Oman as well as add shale-gas assets, he said.  
 Reliance is “drawing up” plans for “mega” investments
in the power sector, including nuclear and solar energy, and
invest in telecommunications, the billionaire said.  
 The expansion will follow a May 23 decision by the
billionaire and his younger brother,  Anil Ambani , to scrap a
2006 accord barring them from direct competition, and a pledge
to cooperate in the interest of their shareholders. Companies
controlled by the world’s richest siblings have since added $14
billion in market value. Anil wasn’t seen at today’s meeting.  
 Indian publications including Hindustan Times had reported
that Anil may attend the meeting, ending a five-year feud that
split the country’s second-largest business and delayed
investments in roads, power and telecommunications ventures.  
 Share Performance  
 Reliance, an oil  refiner  and energy explorer, has  climbed  6
percent in Mumbai in the past year compared with a 24 percent
gain in India’s Sensitive Index and a 16 percent advance in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Energy Index . Investors shied away from the
shares as a global recession curbed fuel demand and the brothers
clashed over their business interests.  
 The stock rose 0.3 percent to 1074.55 rupees at 11:59 a.m.
local time, after having climbed as much as 1.7 percent earlier.  
 Under an agreement reached exactly five years ago, Mukesh,
53, kept the petrochemicals, oil and gas units and Anil, 51, got
the power, telecommunications, financial services and
entertainment units. The brothers said last month they were
scrapping an accord drawn up in 2006 that barred them from
expanding into each other’s businesses.  
 On June 11, Reliance Industries acquired an Internet
services company for $1 billion, while Anil’s Reliance
Communications Ltd. said it dropped out of the bidding for
wireless broadband services permits after obtaining third-
generation mobile-phone licenses in an earlier auction.  
 Reliance Industries bought shale-gas assets in the U.S.
from  Atlas Energy Inc.  for $1.7 billion in April after failing
to purchase LyondellBasell Industries AF in a deal that would
have valued the bankrupt chemicals maker at $14.5 billion, and
losing a bid for oil-sands assets in Canada owned by Value
Creations Inc.  
 The Mumbai-based oil  refiner  and energy explorer is
considering buying a stake in shale-gas assets owned by  Pioneer
Natural Resources Co.  in the U.S., two people with knowledge of
the matter said June 10.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        