-- U.K. Retail Rents May Decline as Consumer Spending Slows, Colliers Says
-- Simon Packard
-- 2010-06-18T09:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/retail-rents-to-fall-through-2011-on-consumer-spending-cuts-colliers-says.html

          
          
             U.K. retail landlords may need to
lower rents through 2011 as  consumer spending  slows in response
to government efforts to cut the record budget deficit,
according to broker  Colliers International UK Plc .  
 Prime U.K. retail rents fell 1.5 percent in the past 12
months after an 11.5 percent slide the previous year, the
London-based company said in an annual survey released today. It
used findings from 420 retail centers across Britain.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will present an
emergency budget June 22 that is likely to include tax increases
and public spending cuts to reduce the 154.7 billion-pound ($230
billion) deficit. Consumer spending will slow as shoppers  pay
off loans  and save more, putting renewed pressure on retailers
that survived the recession, Colliers said.  
 “The rental recovery is therefore back on hold for at
least another 12 months,” the broker said in the report. For
some retailers, the economic slowdown caused by government
cutbacks “is certain to be fatal.”  
 Prospects vary across the country, with London unaffected
because of its international appeal for tourism, which has been
enhanced by the  pound’s weakness,  according to the report.
Oxford Street, the capital’s principal shopping street, has a
vacancy rate of 1 percent. That compares with the U.K. average
of 11.4 percent, Colliers said.  
 Towns throughout Britain face supply and demand imbalances
for retail space. Cardiff’s vacancy rate of 17.1 percent results
from the opening of the  St. David’s 2 shopping center , owned by
a venture between  Land Securities Group Plc  and  Capital Shopping
Centres Group Plc .  
 Guildford, the cathedral city 25 miles southwest of London,
had the biggest gain in prime retail rents for the past year, at
16.7 percent. The worst performer was Dunstable, 30 miles north
of the capital, with a 45 percent decline.  
 “The next 12 months will be a challenge for most involved
in retail property,” Colliers said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        