-- Roche Delays Diabetes Drug by at Least 12 Months Amid Side Effects in Test
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-06-18T07:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/roche-introduces-risk-mitigation-plan-to-trials-of-ipsen-s-taspoglutide.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG  delayed development
of the experimental diabetes drug taspoglutide by at least 12 to
18 months after more people than expected suffered from side
effects such as skin reactions and digestive symptoms.  
 Some patients also experienced heart and respiratory
problems, though everyone recovered without complications, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. Roche said it needs additional time to identify the
people more likely to be sensitive to the medicine and to remove
them from clinical trials.  
 The delay is a setback for Roche’s efforts to expand
outside of cancer drugs, which account for the company’s three
best-selling products and about 50 percent of pharmaceutical
sales. Roche had planned to ask regulators to approve the
diabetes drug, which it licensed from  Ipsen SA  in 2006, next
year. The once-weekly injection would compete with the twice-
daily Byetta shot from Eli Lilly & Co. and Amylin Inc., as well
as Novo Nordisk A/S’s Victoza.  
 “A delay of 12 to 18 months is not good,”  Andrew Weiss , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich, said in an interview.
“It’s an important drug for Roche and they need it on the
market to balance out the oncology franchise, which is starting
to slow down.” Weiss recommends buying the stock.  
 Shares Fall  
 Roche  shares  fell as much as 2.8 percent, the most in
almost a month in Zurich trading, and declined 2.3 percent to
155.3 Swiss francs as of 9:34 a.m. Ipsen fell as much as 20
percent, the most since Dec. 7, 2005, and dropped 16 percent to
26.98 euros in Paris trading. Novo Nordisk rose as much as 5.2
percent, the most in almost five months in Copenhagen trading,
and gained 3.2 percent to 504.5 kroner.  
 Roche is seeking to determine which patients are most at
risk through a test to identify anti-drug antibodies, which are
the body’s immune response to a medicine and can result in
allergic reactions. The company said it will remove patients
whose levels of antibodies exceed a certain level. The incidence
of the response, which is common in protein-based medicines, is
less than 1 percent with taspoglutide, Roche said.  
 “Given the fact that the hypersensitivity is a low event
rate, it’s OK, but anti-drug antibodies are something to be
taken seriously,” Weiss said.  
 Lilly and Amylin have asked the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to approve a once-a-week version of Byetta called
Bydureon. The FDA asked March 15 for clarification of
manufacturing processes, labeling and a risk-management plan.
Antibodies are also a concern for Bydureon, Weiss said.  
 The Swiss company wants to expand beyond its best-selling
cancer drugs and take a share of the $24 billion-a-year diabetes
market. The number of people with the condition is expected to
rise to 366 million by 2030, according to the  World Health
Organization   
 Taspoglutide is a GLP-1 analogue, a newer class of diabetes
medicine that boosts insulin production after meals. The Roche
medicine helped lower blood sugar levels and promote weight loss
in late-stage studies of patients with type-2 diabetes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The headquarters of Roche Holding AG stand in Basel, Switzerland. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
