-- Drugmakers Prodded by FDA for More Neglected Disease Medicines
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2010-06-18T21:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/roche-biogen-prodded-by-fda-to-find-more-medicines-for-neglected-diseases.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG , Johnson & Johnson
and  Biogen Idec Inc.  are being urged by U.S. regulators to see
if existing medicines may help neglected disorders, after an
incentive program failed to spark research on new therapies.  
 The Food and Drug Administration published a  list  of 235
treatments today that may have benefit in rare disorders and
already have marketing clearance for other uses. Identifying
“low-hanging fruit” may compel large drugmakers to look beyond
common ailments with guaranteed consumer demand, said Tim Cote,
head of the agency’s  Office of Orphan Product Development .  
 The list includes Roche’s hepatitis drug Pegasys, J&J’s
leukemia medicine Leustatin and Biogen Idec’s multiple sclerosis
drug Avonex. Regulators need new tactics since an experiment two
years ago to give priority review vouchers in exchange for new
drugs for tropical diseases drew only one participant.  
 “Large pharmaceutical companies are not as engaged as we’d
like to see them be,” Cote said in a phone interview. “I
myself have knocked on the doors of all the big boys.”  
 About 30 million Americans have one of 7,000 rare diseases,
defined by the FDA as conditions affecting fewer than 200,000
people in the U.S. Medicines developed to treat these conditions
are called orphan drugs, under rules that encourage their
development.  
 2,150 Orphan Designations  
 More than 2,150 potential treatments have been identified
since the 1983 Orphan Drug Act promised seven years of market
exclusivity to any product approved for a rare disease. To date,
only 358 are on the market, and most are made by small,
specialized biotechnology companies.  
 “This is not something that companies are thinking about
on a regular basis,” said  Ira Loss  of Washington Analysis, who
has followed the FDA for more than three decades. “If things
were better in terms of the general economy and the pipelines of
these companies, where they had time to focus on this
possibility, it might be a different story.”  
 The FDA’s list focuses on orphan designations that have
been given to drugs whose approval in other uses suggests
they’re not toxic, Cote said. Anyone can apply for orphan drug
designation without the current manufacturer’s permission,
according to  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman.  
 Roche’s Pegasys has orphan status for chronic myelogenous
leukemia. Leustatin, made by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
 J&J , is approved for hairy cell leukemia but has had orphan drug
designation since 1990 for chronic lymphochytic leukemia and
acute myeloid leukemia. Also on the list is Biogen’s  top-selling 
MS drug Avonex, which has had orphan designation since 1991 as a
treatment for cutaneous t-cell lymphoma.  
 Companies Respond  
 While Biogen initially pursued Avonex in “several
indications” the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based drugmaker now
has no plans to develop it for cutaneous t-cell lymphoma, said
Kate Weiss, a company spokeswoman.  
 “While we’re certainly always open to looking at new
indications for all of our drugs, we’re not pursuing that for
that indication,” Weiss said today in a phone interview.  
 J&J decided not to further develop Leustatin in part
because there are other drugs available for leukemia,  Ernie Knewitz , a spokesman for the company, said today in a telephone
interview. J&J is studying products for other types of neglected
diseases including the areas of oncology, HIV and hepatitis C,
Knewitz said.  
 Roche is no longer studying Pegasys in cancer, said
 Kristina Becker , a spokeswoman for the Basel, Switzerland-based
company’s Genentech unit.  
 ‘Long History’ of Development  
 “The company has pursued studies and applications for
several orphan indications,” Becker said today in an e-mail.
“We have a long history of developing new medicines for
diseases where there are no existing therapies even if not many
patients are affected.”  
 Companies may worry that increasing pressure to cut
medical costs will limit their pricing power, making it harder
to recoup the cost of their investment in research from the
small number of patients taking a medicine, Cote said. Orphan
drugs that have other uses may also still be victim to generic
substitution, effectively limiting the promise of seven years of
market exclusivity.  
 “The lack of research and lack of treatments is something
we see every day,” said Mary Dunkle, a spokeswoman for the
 National Organization for Rare Disorders  in Danbury,
Connecticut. “It’s very frustrating for the families.”  
 The FDA tried a new strategy in 2008 by offering priority
review vouchers for companies who win approval of drugs for one
of 16 tropical diseases. The vouchers will shave four months off
the regulatory review of any new product for which a company
uses it. The vouchers also can be traded or sold.  
 Broadening Vouchers?  
 Novartis AG, of Basel, Switzerland, has so far won the only
voucher -- for a 10-year-old malaria pill -- and hasn’t used it.
Cote said he is considering broadening the list of conditions
eligible for a voucher “within a couple months” to spark
interest in the program.  
 Drugmakers are skeptical about vouchers, especially as an
increasing number of drugs with priority review face delays,
said  Ramsey Baghdadi , a health-care analyst at Prevision Policy
in Washington. He isn’t convinced that either initiative will be
enough to encourage companies to invest in orphan-drug research
they wouldn’t otherwise do.  
 “Nothing would hold a pharma company back from going after
something if they really wanted to go after it,” Baghdadi said.
“The real route is through patent extension or increased market
exclusivity. People understand the value of that.”  
 The FDA will solicit feedback on how it approves and
encourages medical products for rare diseases at a June 29-30
 public hearing  at its headquarters in Silver Spring, Maryland.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Vials of Avonex, Biogen Inc.'s multiple sclerosis drug are pictured in this undated company photo. Source: Biogen Inc. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The list includes Roche’s hepatitis drug Pegasys. Source: Roche via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
