-- Rubber Likely to Stabilize at $3 a Kilo in Next Two Months, Group Says
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-18T03:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/rubber-likely-to-stabilize-at-3-a-kilo-in-next-two-months-group-says.html

          
          
             Rubber prices in the top three
producing countries will probably “steady” for the next two
months, supported by strong demand and supply “tightness,”
according to the International Rubber Consortium Ltd.  
 “Prices should be steady around $3 a kilogram through the
next two months,” Abdul Rasip Latiff, chief executive officer
of the consortium, which represents growers and exporters in
Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, said in an interview today.  
 “The European crisis may slow the economic recovery, but
the demand is still there. Auto sales and tire sales are still
up,” he said.  
 Supply has not improved as much as expected after the
annual February-to-April low-production period because dry
weather has reduced latex output, he said.  
 “There is tightness in supply, especially from Thailand
and northern Malaysia,” Rasip said.  
 China’s automobile output this year may grow by as much as
15 percent, expanding from a record to 15 million units, Gu
Xianghua, deputy general secretary of the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said May 29. Vehicle sales surged 46
percent to 13.6 million units last year, overtaking the U.S. as
the world’s biggest auto market, fueling demand for the
commodity used to make tires.  
 Key rubber producers in Southeast Asia should establish a
regional market to minimize the impacts of “excessive
speculation” on prices, Hamzah Zainudin, Malaysia’s deputy
minister of Plantation Industries and Commodities, said in a
speech in Kuala Lumpur today.  
 Market ‘Timely’  
 “With excessive speculation, it’s timely for major
producing countries including Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia
to consider setting up an Asean regional rubber market to
stabilize rubber prices, guided by supply and demand,” he said.  
 Rubber futures in Tokyo have slumped about 19 percent since
advancing to a 21-month high on April 16 on optimism that
economic expansion in Asia and record auto production in China
will drive demand.  
 November-delivery rubber was little changed at 275.2 yen a
kilogram ($3,027 a metric ton) at 12:19 p.m. local time on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange today after losing as much as 1.1
percent earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        