-- Rubber Demand, Output May Miss Forecast on Crisis, Bad Weather, Group Says
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-18T04:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/rubber-demand-output-may-miss-forecast-on-crisis-bad-weather-group-says.html

          
          
             Rubber consumption this year may be
slower than earlier estimated as Europe’s debt crisis likely
slows the global economic recovery and adverse weather curbs
production, the International Rubber Study Group said.  
 Demand will probably increase by 4.4 percent this year to
9.8 million metric tons, based on the assumption that the
economic recovery will slow, Stephen Evans, the group’s
secretary-general, said in an interview. That’s lower than the
group’s March forecast of 10.2 million tons.  
 “Demand certainly continues but the pace will depend on
the European sovereign debt position,” Evans said in Kuala
Lumpur. “We’re not bullish on production because of weather
impacts.”  
 Drought caused by the El Nino weather phenomenon, which
parches crops in Asia, coupled with a concern over wet weather
caused by La Nina during the dry season in Indonesia, the
second-biggest producer, will likely limit production growth
this year, Evans said.  
 Global output may total 9.7 million to 10.2 million tons
this year as drought and heavy rains in key producing countries
curbs supply, Evans said. That compares with the group’s
forecast of 10.1 million to 10.6 million tons on March 17.  
 Rubber futures in Tokyo have slumped about 19 percent since
reaching a 21-month high on April 16 on concerns that the
European debt crisis will weaken demand for the commodity used
in tires. Prices had surged on optimism that economic expansion
in Asia and record auto production in China, the biggest vehicle
market, would drive consumption.  
 La Nina  
 November-delivery rubber was little changed at 275.2 yen a
kilogram ($3,027 a metric ton) at 12:19 p.m. local time on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange today after losing as much as 1.1
percent earlier.  
 La Nina conditions are increasingly likely to develop this
year, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said on June 9. La Nina,
which causes wetter-than-usual weather in Asia, can benefit or
damage crops depending on the severity of the preceding El Nino
event.  
 “Unfavorable weather will have a negative influence on
supply” in June and July, supporting prices, Jom Jacob, senior
economist at  the Association of Natural Rubber Producing
Countries  said in an interview yesterday. “June is supposed to
be a dry month for Indonesia and India but the monsoon is going
on there, disrupting tapping.”  
 Still, “prices may slide to 220 yen a kilogram around
September to October, according to technical signals,” said
Zbigwiew Tan, trading representative at commodity broker  Okachi 
(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd. Prices will be pressured by the European
debt crisis, which may eventually spill over to the U.S. and
China markets, Tan said.  
 China Demand  
 “Europe remains depressed,” said Evans. “But we are less
concerned about China as demand is still growing.”  
 China’s automobile output this year may grow by as much as
15 percent, expanding from a record, to 15 million units, Gu
Xianghua, deputy general secretary of the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said May 29. Vehicle sales surged 46
percent to 13.6 million units last year, overtaking the U.S. as
the world’s biggest auto market.  
 Robust consumption from China, India, Southeast Asia and
Brazil will probably boost demand growth this year by 12.6
percent to 10.6 million tons, said Prachaya Jumpasut, managing
director of London-based consultancy company  The Rubber
Economist . That would lead to a supply deficit of around 476,000
tons this year, he said.  
 The supply-and-demand situation will be “largely
balanced,” said Evans. Consumption may rise from as much as
10.7 million tons next year to as high as 14.2 million tons in
2020. Production next year may reach 10.7 million tons, climbing
to 14.2 million to 14.3 million tons in 2020, he said.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        