-- Russia Stocks Overtakes China in Morgan Stanley Model
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-06-18T04:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/russia-overtakes-china-as-top-bric-in-weighting-under-morgan-stanley-model.html

          
          
             Russia replaced China as Morgan
Stanley’s top pick among the largest emerging stock markets in
its developing-nation model as the brokerage advised investors
to take on riskier assets.  
 Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s chief Asian and emerging-
market strategist, last month made his first asset allocation
change since June 2009, telling investors to increase their
holdings of developing-nation equities and cut cash levels given
the prospects of a “strong year” for the global economy. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has retreated 4.2 percent this year,
following last year’s record 75 percent rally.  
 “At present we are seeking beta aggressively,” London-
based Garner wrote in report yesterday, referring to a measure
of risk. Russia “has the highest beta,” he said.  
 Morgan Stanley raised its “overweight” on  Russia  to 220
basis points from 100 basis points, and cut its position in
China to a 125 basis point “overweight” from 220 basis points.
The change means Russia joins South Korea as the brokerage’s
largest “risk positions,” according to the report. Russia’s
overall ranking within Morgan Stanley’s country model also rose
to second, lagging behind only the Czech Republic.  
 First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  this week urged
investors to be wary of Russian stocks as policy makers in the
world’s biggest energy exporter try to prevent the economy from
overheating and encourage  long-term investment .  
 ‘Very Cautious’  
 “I’d be very cautious about stock investments in this
country,” Shuvalov said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television on June 16 in Moscow. “I would welcome real
investors who can build factories, something new in this
country.”  
 Russia now ranks first for  earnings growth  and second on
two valuation measures within Morgan Stanley’s models. Its
economy is also “in somewhat of a sweet spot” with growth
forecast to accelerate through the fourth quarter while economic
expansion slows in Brazil, India and China, the brokerage said.
The four are collectively known as the BRIC markets.  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  has declined 1 percent this year,
compared with a 22 percent slump in China’s Shanghai Composite
Index and a 6.4 percent retreat in the  MSCI China Index . The
Shanghai index fell 0.5 percent as of 11:30 a.m. local time,
while the MSCI China gained 0.6 percent.  
 Relative to China, Russia’s historical price-to-earnings
 multiple  is at about 0.6 times, compared with a “long-run”
average of about 0.7 times, according to Morgan Stanley.  
 Russia’s modernization needs time, patience and long-term
investments, Shuvalov said. Optimal annual growth rates
shouldn’t exceed 5 percent in the next few years as the
government seeks to control spending, and the central bank
shouldn’t rush to let the ruble trade freely to avoid hurting
domestic producers, he said.  
 OAO Dixy Group, Russia’s third-largest listed food
retailer, and  OAO Sberbank , the nation’s biggest lender, are
among Morgan Stanley’s top picks, the strategist said.  
 Malaysia was upgraded to “overweight” from “equal-
weight” while Thailand and Colombia were cut to “underweight”
from “equal-weight,” according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russia now ranks first for earnings growth  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russia's first deputy prime minister Igor Shuvalov. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russia's first deputy prime minister Igor Shuvalov. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
