-- Russia Will Lead Effort to Found `New World Economic Order,' Medvedev Says
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-06-18T12:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/russia-to-drive-new-world-economic-order-medvedev-tells-global-leaders.html

          
          
             Russia will help lead efforts to
recast the global economic hierarchy as the world emerges from
the financial crisis, President  Dmitry Medvedev  said.  
 “We really live at a unique time, and we should use it to
build a modern, prosperous and strong Russia, a Russia that will
be a co-founder of the new world economic order,” Medvedev said
at the annual  St. Petersburg International Economic Forum  today.  
 Russia will use tax incentives and other free-market
economic policies to turn the country into a destination for
innovators from around the world, Medvedev told an audience
including Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
and French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .  
 Medvedev, in the third year of his presidency, is promoting
modernization to transform Russia from an oil-and-gas economy
into a magnet for high technology. Its reliance on natural
resources exacerbated the steepest contraction among major
emerging markets last year, when the economy shrank a record 7.9
percent.  
 The government will abolish taxes on capital gains from
long-term direct investments starting next year, seeking to lure
funds to reduce the economy’s energy dependence and subdue
speculative capital, Medvedev said.  
 ‘Critical’  
 “Such investments are critically important for modernizing
the national economy and we are ready to create institutions to
facilitate such investments,” he said. The government will
create an investment fund within a year to help draw “strategic
investors” by raising 3 rubles of private capital for each 1
ruble of state money.  
 “We understand that international competition is the
decisive stimulus for our modernization,” the president said.
“Russia should become an attractive country to which people
from the whole world will come in search of their dreams.”  
 Foreign direct investment slipped an annual 17.6 percent to
$2.6 billion in the first quarter.  
 Russia will cut the number of so-called “strategic
enterprises,” which are restricted for foreign investors, to 41
from 208, Medvedev said.  
 Medvedev in March asked billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg, 
owner of holding company Renova Group, to oversee efforts to
create a Russian version of Silicon Valley in the Moscow suburb
of Skolkovo, where tax breaks and other incentives will be
offered to lure investment to spur innovation and production of
high-technology products. Cisco Systems Inc. and Nokia Oyj plan
to join the project.  
 Moscow ‘Hub’  
 Citigroup’s Pandit backed Medvedev’s plans announced last
year to create a financial center in the capital.  
 “It’s a real opportunity to turn Moscow into a hub,”
Pandit said in St. Petersburg today.  
 The nation is on the road to recovery after the decline,
Medvedev said. Sovereign debt is “minimal,” foreign reserves
are growing again and inflation is at its lowest level in 20
years, according to the president. The country boasts government
debt of about 10 percent of gross domestic product.  
 “Flexibility and adaptability are words that have become
much more popular than stability and predictability,” Medvedev
said.  
 Medvedev said he will continue to seek economic integration
on a regional level with former Soviet republics such as
Kazakhstan and Belarus, a development he said doesn’t conflict
with Russia’s aspirations to join the World Trade Organization.  
 In areas where it lags behind, Russia will adopt foreign
practices, such as the European Union’s technical standards,
according to the president.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in St. Petersburg at
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in St. Petersburg at
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev speaks during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
