-- Trust Preferreds May Be Grandfathered as Bank Capital in U.S. Reform Bill
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-06-18T00:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/trust-preferreds-may-be-grandfathered-as-bank-capital-in-u-s-reform-bill.html

          
          
             U.S. banks would be permitted to
count their existing trust-preferred securities, though not new
securities, as Tier 1 capital under a proposal by House members
negotiating the shape of the regulatory-overhaul bill.  
 Banks have been lobbying to remove a Senate measure
introduced by Maine Republican Senator  Susan Collins  that would
ban the use of the securities, known as TruPS, as Tier 1
capital. Bank regulators have said TruPS are too weak for
capital purposes and may make banks look stronger than they are.  
 House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat who is leading the House-Senate
negotiations, proposed in a package of changes that firms with
less than $15 billion in assets be allowed to grandfather their
existing TruPS while larger firms would have five years to sell
them.  
 Representative  Dennis Moore , a Kansas Democrat, offered a
change in language to Frank’s package today that would
grandfather all existing TruPS. “To change the capital
treatment of these TruPS agreements after the purchase was
already made is unfair and could negatively impact economic
recovery,” Moore said.  
 The Senate’s counter-offer called for grandfathering
existing TruPS only at banks with less than $10 billion in
assets.  
 Modifications have to be approved by both House and Senate
negotiators before they can be inserted into the bill text.  
 30-Year Maturities  
 TruPS are issued after a bank-holding company sells debt to
an off-balance-sheet trust. Most TruPS have 30-year maturities.
The market surged after 2000, and some $150 billion of them have
been issued since then. Therefore grandfathering them would give
banks 20 years or more to replace their TruPS with common stock
or other capital.  
 The trust-preferred language is part of the Collins
amendment, which aims to make capital standards uniform for
large and small banks.  
 Lawmakers from each chamber are meeting for a fourth day to
resolve differences between the bill the House approved in
December and the version the Senate produced last month. It is
one of the final steps needed to enact measures aimed at
strengthening financial regulations and preventing a repeat of
the 2008 economic crisis.  
 Lawmakers also debated today a provision in the House offer
that would set up an advance $150 billion fund supported through
fees on the financial industry that regulators could use to
liquidate a large, failing financial firm.  
 Dodd-Shelby Deal  
 Senate Republicans used the fund to block Democrats from
bringing up the legislation for debate in April. They relented
after Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a
Connecticut Democrat, and Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the
banking panel’s top Republican, reached a deal to remove the
fund from the Senate bill.  
 Democrats said the fund would only be used to euthanize
crippled firms and not to keep them from collapsing. Republicans
said the existence of the fund will guarantee it will be used to
prop up failing firms.  
 “There is no bailout fund,” Representative  Luis Gutierrez , an Illinois Democrat, said during today’s
negotiations. “You must dissolve the institution.”  
 The senators rejected the $150 billion fund in their
counter-offer to the House negotiators.  
 Representative  Shelley Moore Capito , a West Virginia
Republican, offered an amendment to replace that section of the
bill with language that would steer failing financial firms into
bankruptcy. The amendment failed.  
 Proxy Access  
 Debates over measures contained in the bill were not
confined to Capitol Hill. Public pension funds, for example,
lobbied today to preserve their top priority in the legislation.
The so-called proxy access provision would give shareholders new
power to nominate directors on corporate ballots by authorizing
the Securities and Exchange Commission to write rules.  
 The Council of Institutional Investors, a Washington-based
group that represents pension funds such as the California
Public Retirement System and the New York State and Local
Retirement System, opposes a change being pushed by Senate
Democrats, including Dodd. Dodd’s change would limit the new
rules to shareholders who have owned at least 5 percent of a
company for two years.  
 The pension group said that its member funds wouldn’t be
able to meet a 5 percent threshold even if they aggregated their
shares. Lawmakers rejected a recommendation from Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, to lower the threshold to 3
percent.  
 The Council of Institutional Investors called on its
members to lobby the White House to back the measure’s current
wording.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        