-- SAIC Motor Says Trading Halted in Shanghai Pending Placement of New Shares
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-19T08:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/saic-motor-says-trading-halted-in-shanghai-pending-placement-of-new-shares.html

          
          
             SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s largest
domestic carmaker, said trading in its Shanghai-listed shares
will be halted June 21 pending an announcement about a share
placement to be reviewed by its board within a week.  
 The Chinese partner of General Motors Co. and Volkswagen
AG didn’t provide details about how much money it will raise
from the sale or who the investors will be in its  filing  to the
Shanghai stock exchange late yesterday. Spokeswoman  Zhu Xiangjun 
said she couldn’t comment on the placement when contacted today
by Bloomberg News.  
 China, which surpassed the U.S. as the world’s largest
vehicle market last year, is encouraging domestic automakers to
develop their own brands and alternative-energy technology to
compete with global rivals including Ford Motor Co. and Toyota
Motor Co. SAIC, which owns the British Rover and MG sports-car
brands, debuted its E1 electric concept car at the Beijing auto
show in April.  
 “Fundraising is of great importance to SAIC right now as
it needs to develop next-generation models for its  Roewe  and  MG 
brands,”  John Zeng , a Shanghai-based analyst with IHS Global
Insight, said in a phone interview today. “It is also in talks
with General Motors to buy next-generation technology for the
Buick LaCrosse and it needs money to build a plant in Wuxi after
the LDV purchase in the U.K.”  
 MG Cars  
 SAIC re-branded Rover cars in China as Roewe after taking
over the design rights in 2005. It plans to start making MG
brand cars at its plant in the U.K. by the end of this year,
spokeswoman Zhu Xiangjun said in January.  
 The company said in October it planned to buy equipment
from LDV Group Ltd. and move some tooling to China after the
U.K. vanmaker collapsed and was sold to Eco Concept Ltd.  
 The Shanghai-based company aims to sell more than 3 million
vehicles this year, and achieve sales of 245 billion yuan ($36
billion) compared with 140 billion yuan in 2009, according to a
filing to the Shanghai stock exchange on April 1. SAIC’s May
sales rose 26 percent from a year earlier to 289,239 units, the
automaker said on June 7.  
 Most of SAIC’s vehicles are made with its partners GM and
VW. The company aims to sell 180,000 of its own brand vehicles
this year, President  Chen Hong  said in March.  
 The automaker’s  shares  have dropped 40.1 percent to 12.05
yuan since the beginning of this year compared with a 23 percent
decline in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. They fell 3.8
percent yesterday.  
 -- Zhe Huang  in Beijing. Editors:  Nerys Avery , Mike Millard.  
          
          


  


        