-- Sanofi Slides on Concern Lantus Diabetes Treatment Might Raise Cancer Risk
-- Albertina Torsoli
-- 2010-06-18T11:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/sanofi-drops-most-in-month-on-concern-diabetes-drug-may-raise-cancer-risk.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA  fell the most in a
month in Paris trading on renewed concern that the Lantus
diabetes treatment, the French drugmaker’s top-selling product,
may be linked to an increased risk of cancer.  
 A study of 1,500 patients published this week in the
journal  Diabetes Care  tied insulin glargine, as Lantus also is
known, to a higher cancer risk, according to a note today from
Hobart Capital Markets, a London brokerage. The study is
“unclear” and “lacks precision,”  Jean-Pierre Lehner , Sanofi’s
chief medical officer, said in a telephone interview. The study
can be “methodologically challenged,” the company said.  
 Sanofi shares slumped a year ago after  Ralph DeFronzo , a
researcher at the University of Texas Health Science Center,
said on a conference call that studies would show Lantus was
tied to cancer. As it turned out, the research published in the
journal Diabetologia delivered mixed results, and the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration said it didn’t show a link.  
 “There’s no difference in what this study is showing and
what was published last year,”  Nick Turner , an  analyst  at
Mirabaud Securities in London, said in a telephone interview.
“Clearly the risk is relatively light. If anything, this study
shows that the risk could be mitigated with dosage, which is a
positive.” He has a “neutral” rating on Sanofi’s stock.  
 Sanofi  dropped  2.27 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 48.84 euros
at 1:15 p.m. in Paris. The stock slid as much as 7.2 percent,
the biggest intraday  drop  since May 20.  
 Additional Studies  
 Sanofi remains confident in the safety of Lantus, Lehner
said. Three additional studies are under way, one in the U.S.
and two in Europe, involving 1 million patients, he said. The
drug had 3.1 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of  sales  last year.  
 “You can’t reach reliable conclusions with a study on
1,500 patients,” Lehner said today. “The possible secondary
effects of insulin are a real problem and it will take years and
years to shed light on the truth.”  
 Of the 1,500 patients in the study published this week,
researchers focused on 112 with diabetes who developed cancer,
comparing them to 370 patients matched for age, sex and weight
to see if they could tease out any differences that may have
contributed to tumor development. During the six-year review,
the number of people exposed to each type of insulin was
similar, the researchers said. A link to cancer was seen only in
those getting higher doses of Lantus, and not other insulins
such as Novo Nordisk A/S’s Levemir, the researchers said.  
 The researchers, led by Edoardo Mannucci from the Careggi
Teaching Hospital’s diabetes agency in Florence, Italy, said the
possible link between Lantus and cancer should be considered.  
 “We should all be aware that the epidemiological approach
cannot provide definitive conclusions on the effects of any
pharmacological treatment,” they wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Sanofi-Aventis SA headquarters in Paris. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
