-- Saudi Arabia Shortlists Eight Groups to Build $1.6 Billion Medina Airport
-- Wael Mahdi
-- 2010-06-18T16:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/saudi-arabia-shortlists-eight-groups-to-build-1-6-billion-medina-airport.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabia’s General Authority of
Civil Aviation, the industry regulator, shortlisted eight groups
for the contract to develop the first phase of an airport at
Medina, Islam’s second holy city.  
 Khalid al-Khaibary, the authority’s spokesman, said in a
phone interview today that the winner of the tender will
develop, own and operate the airport, the cost of which is
estimated at 6 billion riyals ($1.6 billion), for 25 years
before transferring it to the government.  
 The authority designed the airport, which will replace an
existing one, to handle as many as 8 million passengers a year.
The aim is to attract more pilgrims to Medina.  
 The first phase of the project is expected to be finished
by the end of 2014, al-Khaibary said. There will be a second
phase to expand the airport from 8 million passengers to 12
million per year if needed, he said.  
 The bidding groups include companies such as Saudi Binladin
Group, Bouygues SA, TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS, South Korea’s
Samsung, Central Japan International Airport Co., Emirates NBD
Capital, Riyad Bank and Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd.  
 TAV Havalimanlari, a Turkish airport operator, said in a
June 14 filing with the Istanbul stock exchange that it won pre-
qualification to bid for rights to operate the airport. It
qualified with Saudi Oger Ltd., Al Rajhi Holding Group and
Consolidated Contracting Co.  
 The International Finance Corp., part of the World Bank,
will be the financial and legal adviser to the development.  
 The airport authority plans to spend $10 billion to $20
billion on developing and upgrading airports by 2020, with
private investors set to contribute as much as $10 billion to
the projects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wael Mahdi  in Jeddah at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        