-- HSBC Sells First Bonds to Benefit From Proposed Bank Capital Rule Changes
-- John Glover
-- 2010-06-18T15:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/hsbc-sells-first-bonds-to-benefit-from-proposed-bank-capital-rule-changes.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc ’s $3.4 billion
issue of undated 8 percent notes marks the first sale of debt
securities designed to qualify as capital under current and
proposed bank regulations.  
 The bonds count as so-called Tier 1 capital under current
rules by permitting HSBC to defer coupons in some circumstances
and benefit the bank because it pays interest from pretax
earnings, according to the deal’s prospectus. To meet new terms
proposed by regulators, HSBC can convert the notes into
preference shares that pay  dividends  from after-tax earnings.  
 “Few banks will be able to copy it, although many would
like to,” said  Bill Blain , co-head of fixed income at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP in London. “Many just don’t have the HSBC
cachet. It’s a clever play by HSBC.”  
 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed in
December phasing out so-called innovative hybrid securities such
HSBC’s because they failed to absorb losses during the financial
crisis. When the rules change, set for the end of 2012,
innovative securities issued after the proposal date won’t
qualify as Tier 1 capital.  
 The Basel Committee proposal isn’t final and preference
shares may not be included in bank Tier 1 capital. To guard
against this, HSBC can buy back the notes at face value plus any
interest that has accrued, according to the prospectus.  
 HSBC originally planned to sell $300 million of the
securities, according to a person familiar with the matter.  
 “This shows the pent-up investor demand for Tier 1 paper
from top quality lenders,” said Blain.  
 HSBC is  rated  Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the third-
highest grade, and one level lower at AA- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Wells Fargo &
Co. helped HSBC manage the sale, according to the prospectus.
The sale is the biggest issue of its kind for almost two years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        