-- Schneider Seeks Further Acquisitions to Profit From Rebound in Grid Demand
-- Francois de Beaupuy
-- 2010-06-18T11:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/schneider-seeks-further-acquisitions-to-profit-from-rebound-in-grid-demand.html

          
          
             Schneider Electric SA , building on a
1.1 billion-euro ($1.4 billion) purchase of Areva SA’s power-
distribution unit, is seeking acquisitions in automation systems
to gain from a rebound in the medium voltage business next year.  
 “We may consider acquisitions, most likely of smaller
scale, in areas such as distribution automation,” Chief
Financial Officer  Emmanuel Babeau  said in a June 15 interview at
Schneider’s headquarters near Paris.  
 The market for equipment to help automate power grids
“will probably see double digit growth” in coming years as
rising energy needs, the development of renewable energies and
demand for electric cars force utilities and customers to
improve the efficiency and safety of power use, the CFO said.  
 Schneider, the world’s largest maker of low-voltage
equipment such as circuit breakers, is merging its medium-
voltage activity with Areva’s distribution division to form an
“energy” unit to take on  ABB Ltd.  and Siemens AG. The makers
of power transformers have been hurt in recent quarters by the
economic slump that forced utilities and builders to pare
investments.  
 Schneider will mainly rely on internal growth at its energy
unit. The division may have sales of about 4.5 billion euros
this year, said Babeau, 43. The medium-voltage unit will
probably see a rebound in sales at the end of 2010 or in 2011,
he said.  
 “The medium-voltage business is still a bit more under
pressure than other businesses such as data centers and
manufacturers,” the CFO said. “We’re facing big names such as
ABB and Siemens. That doesn’t mean that its margins will
necessarily be lower than our other businesses.”  
 Post T&D Guidance  
 For Schneider, which is predicting a 14 percent margin for
2010, rising raw-material prices point to additional expenses at
the upper end of this year’s range of 100 million euros to 150
million euros, Babeau said. The company will consider raising
some prices in the second half, thought it would have “little
impact” in 2010, he said.  
 The company’s goal of 120 million euros of savings from
integrating acquired Areva operations by 2014 is “very
realistic,” he said, adding that consolidation in the industry
“will continue.”  
 Schneider, which says it last year ranked second worldwide
in installation systems and control, third in industrial
automation, and fourth in building automation, “intends to gain
market shares and reinforce its positions,” the CFO said. It
may invest in “demand response” systems that will allow
utilities and clients to trade electricity more flexibly.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        