-- Senate Votes to Delay 21% Cut in Doctors' Medicare Payments
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-06-18T19:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/senate-delays-21-cut-in-doctors-medicare-payments-sending-bill-to-house.html

          
          
             The U.S. Senate today voted to
postpone a 21 percent cut in Medicare payments to doctors after
lawmakers struck a last-minute deal as the reductions were to
take effect.  
 The chamber, on a voice vote, agreed to delay the cuts
until December after Democrats and Republicans agreed on savings
elsewhere in the government’s budget to prevent the  $6 billion 
measure from adding to the deficit.  
 The vote sends the  measure  to the House, which adjourned
for the week. Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, said he expects lawmakers there to take up the
legislation next week.  
 The Senate acted separately on Medicare after a larger jobs
bill including the provision was blocked yesterday because of
its cost. Baucus called today’s agreement a “good omen” for
the rest of the bill, saying, “I hope we can take this
cooperation and work out the rest of the so-called extenders
bill together.”  
 The Medicare cuts, mandated by a decade-old budget-control
mechanism, were scheduled to take effect June 1. The Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services delayed processing claims to give
lawmakers time to work out an agreement. Those delays ended
today.  
 Retroactive Increases  
 The agency said today it will begin processing the held
claims at the lower rate, with the 21 percent cut, because the
bill approved today hasn’t been signed into law. The measure
would provide physicians with retroactive increases to make up
for the cuts, along with a 2 percent payment boost through Nov.
30.  
 Lawmakers agreed to finance the plan by trimming hospital
payments and tightening tax collections. The bill would also
loosen pension funding requirements, which boosts tax revenue
flowing into the Treasury because it results in companies making
fewer tax-preferred contributions to their pension funds.  
 “This is no way to run a major health-care program,” said
American Medical Association President  Cecil Wilson  in a
statement. “Congress is playing Russian roulette with seniors’
health care.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        