-- Slovak Premier Waiting for New Cabinet to Decide on Backing EU Rescue Fund
-- Meera Louis
-- 2010-06-18T14:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/slovak-premier-waiting-for-new-cabinet-to-decide-on-backing-eu-rescue-fund.html

          
          
             Slovakia’s outgoing Prime Minister
 Robert Fico  said he won’t sign the euro-area rescue fund unless
the four parties likely to form a new government approve it,
potentially throwing a political obstacle in the way of the
mechanism.  
 Fico said refusal by Slovakia to sign the framework
agreement on the fund aimed at stemming Europe’s debt crisis
would prevent its use. The European Commission couldn’t
immediately confirm that Slovakia’s signature is necessary,
noting that the mechanism will become operational once nations
representing 90 percent of the shareholding approve it.  
 Slovakia was “strongly” asked to support the rescue fund,
called the European Financial Stability Facility, at a summit of
European Union leaders in Brussels yesterday, the prime minister
said.  
 The facility is backed by 440 billion euros ($545 billion)
in national guarantees, of which Slovakia’s share is about 1
percent. It is part of a 750 billion-euro aid package that EU
finance ministers hammered out to combat the region’s sovereign
debt crisis.  
 “We are ready to sign it once the current parliamentary
majority says that it accepts this mechanism,” Fico said at a
press conference in Bratislava today.  
 Fico’s coalition lost a majority in parliament after the
June 12 elections, allowing four parties that pledged fiscal
austerity led by SDKU to create a new government. The election
loss means his administration no longer has a mandate to make
the decision, Fico said.  
 ‘Full Competence’  
 “It’s in the full competence” of Fico’s outgoing
government “to decide,” said  Iveta Radicova , leader of the
SDKU party, making her a likely candidate for premier. Calls on
the next government to decide are an “alibi,” she told
reporters earlier today.  
 The EU declined to comment and said it will wait for the
new Slovak government to form a position on the EU rescue fund.  
 “We will not react until there is a new government in
office and it takes a position on the issue,” EU spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj  said by telephone today in Brussels. “It was
decided that it would enter into force whenever a critical mass
of this 90 percent of guarantees was there. We will wait for an
official position of a new government in office.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        