-- UBS, BP, Starr, SocGen, Vivendi, Nalco, Lafarge, Mitsubishi in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-18T12:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/socgen-controller-vivendi-starr-bp-lafarge-mitsubishi-in-court-news.html

          
          
             U.S. citizens and residents with  UBS
AG  accounts are racing the clock to disclose their secret
holdings to the Internal Revenue Service after the Swiss
Parliament ratified an agreement to surrender the names of 4,450
bank clients, tax lawyers said.  
 Swiss lawmakers yesterday ended a standoff and approved the
bank’s settlement with the U.S., allowing the names to be
transmitted to tax authorities as early as this week. Lawyers
said Americans who ignored an IRS offer last year to reduce
penalties in exchange for voluntary disclosures are now flooding
their offices with calls seeking advice on how to avoid possible
sanctions, which could include prison sentences.  
 “For  UBS  account holders, they have mere hours to run to
the IRS and hope they can disclose the account before the Swiss
hand the data over,” said Asher Rubinstein, a partner at
Rubinstein & Rubinstein LLP in New York who said he has been
“getting panicked calls all week.”  
 The  Parliament’s  vote ends Switzerland’s long tradition of
bank secrecy and is a victory for the IRS and U.S. Justice
Department, which fought a two-year battle to gain access to the
accounts. It also removes the threat of further civil litigation
against Zurich-based  UBS  and additional fallout under criminal
law.  
 IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman said yesterday he expects
the Swiss government to “move quickly” to transmit the
information.  
 For more, click here.  
 BP Atlantis Whistleblower Drops Suit Against U.S. Over Safety  
 A lawsuit seeking to force U.S. regulators to temporarily
shut  BP Plc’s  second-largest oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico
was dropped at the request of the whistleblower who lodged the
complaint, court records show.  
 Kenneth Abbott, a former contract employee in charge of the
BP Atlantis platform’s engineering documentation database,
claimed the company lacks key safety and engineering approvals
on specifications used to build it. Atlantis produces 120,000
barrels of oil and 170 million cubic feet of gas daily,
according to a BP court filing.  
 “We were actually required to dismiss the case once BP
intervened,” said Kate Fried, a spokeswoman for  Food & Water
Watch , an environmental group that supported Abbott’s lawsuit.  
 The  suit  criticized the U.S. Minerals Management Service,
which oversees offshore drilling, for failing to act on Abbott’s
concerns about the platform’s documentation until February, when
19 Congressional representatives asked the agency to investigate
the allegations.  
 The whistleblower lawsuit will be refiled shortly, naming
BP as a defendant, Fried said yesterday in a phone interview.
“I have no immediate timetable for that other than to say it
will be soon.”  
 London-based BP has said its Atlantis platform, located
about 100 miles (161 kilometers) south of the undersea gusher
where the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig sank, is safe and is in
compliance with federal regulations.  
 “The plaintiff’s allegations are factually and legally
unsupportable,” Otway Denny, BP’s lawyer, said in the company’s
June 14 motion to intervene in the Atlantis action. He said
Abbott’s information “is critically incomplete and it has been
grossly misinterpreted by plaintiffs and their purported expert
witness.”  
 Toby Odone, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
dismissal of the lawsuit.  
 The case is Abbott v. Salazar, 4:10-cv-01759, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  
 Celebrity Adviser Starr Used Name-Dropping in Alleged Fraud  
 Kenneth I. Starr knew how to cultivate relationships with
powerful people, and he did it in the most transparent way -- by
serial name-dropping.  
 Dining with Starr in the Grill Room at the  Four Seasons  in
New York meant listening to him reel off bold-face names as fast
as he guzzled Diet Cokes, according to one occasional lunch
companion who asked not to be identified.  
 Certain people would come up again and again in his boasts,
according to a story in the June 21 issue of Bloomberg
Businessweek. Starr would say he had lunch with Peter Peterson,
co-founder of the private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP , or
that he and “Pete” were talking at the Council on Foreign
Relations, long chaired by Peterson, or that he had done
something with “Pete,” according to the companion.  
 Starr managed money for a living, and his relationship with
Peterson was one of his key assets. Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, the
99-year-old widow of the bank heir and philanthropist Paul
Mellon was a longstanding client, according to Alex Forger,
Mellon’s lawyer. It was his connection to the Mellons that
started Starr on his path to wooing the rich, according to
people who knew Starr and who asked not to be identified.  
 Starr’s career famously came to an end last month when
government agents arrived at his home on Manhattan’s Upper East
Side and found him hiding in a closet, prosecutors in Manhattan
said on the night of his arrest. His $7.5 million condominium,
which he shared with his fourth wife, Diane Passage, a pole
dancer, featured floor-to-ceiling windows, a granite lap pool,
and a 1,500-square-foot garden, financed with what prosecutors
said was plundered cash, according to a criminal complaint.  
 The civil case is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-cv-04270, and the
criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 1:10-mj-01135, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 BP’s $20 Billion Fund May Not Stop Spill Lawsuits, Judge Says  
 BP Plc’s  $20 billion oil spill fund, established yesterday
at the request of U.S. President Barack Obama, may not stop more
than 230 lawsuits filed by people and businesses harmed by the
worst environmental disaster in U.S. history, a judge said.  
 U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier said while BP’s new fund
is a welcome step, he believes some spill damage claims won’t be
resolved through either the interim-claims process BP has set up
under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 or by the panel of
mediators, led by Ken Feinberg, appointed by Obama to administer
the fund.  
 “Hopefully, everybody will be satisfied through the OPA 90
claims process, and nobody will end up in court,” lawyer Steve
Herman, who represents multiple hotels and fishing industry
workers, told Barbier at a New Orleans federal court hearing
yesterday.  
 “I’m not as optimistic as you,” Barbier told Herman and
more than 75 other lawyers for fishermen, seafood processors,
property owners and tourist businesses that are suing BP.  
 Barbier said judges will also be required to decide which
damage claims are too “remote” from the oil spill to be
legally valid. According to data compiled by Bloomberg,
litigation against BP and other companies involved in the Gulf
spill now extends beyond the Gulf Coast, including cases filed
in Kentucky, South Carolina and Alaska.  
 “It could be geographic remoteness or legal remoteness,”
Barbier said. “It’ll be about where the line is drawn up the
chain.”  
 As of yesterday, “BP has paid 60,000 claims totaling
nearly $100 million,” BP’s lead lawyer Don Haycraft told
Barbier. All of these claims have been resolved so far through
the OPA 90 claims process.  
 BP Suits Should Be Sent to New Orleans, U.S. Says  
 BP Plc , the target of more than 220 federal-court lawsuits
over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, should face a consolidation
of the litigation in  New Orleans , the U.S. government said.  
 Justice Department  lawyers, in a June 10 filing made public
yesterday, urged a panel of judges to gather all the suits
before a single judge in New Orleans for pre-trial proceedings.
The government didn’t identify the judge. BP officials have
asked that the cases be sent to U.S. District Judge Lynn Hughes
in Houston.  
 New Orleans “is centrally located and is geographically
closest to the key events giving rise to liability in these
matters,” U.S. lawyers said in the nine-page filing.  
 Most of the at least 232 cases filed in state and federal
courts so far against London-based BP are proposed class actions
representing potentially thousands of commercial fishermen,
shrimpers, seafood processors, property owners and tourism-
related businesses harmed by the spill, the largest in U.S.
history.  
 The company also faces wrongful-death suits brought by the
families of workers killed in the April 20 explosion of the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. On June 2,  Credit Suisse Group
AG  estimated that the combined cleanup, restoration and
litigation costs of the spill may top $37 billion.  
 “BP continues to believe that the federal district court
in Houston will provide the most convenient location for all of
the related cases, and has the judicial resources and experience
necessary to properly manage a large and complex group of
cases,” Robert Wine, a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 The multidistrict case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
U.S. Judicial Panel on  Multidistrict Litigation , MDL-2179,
Washington.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Offered Me Champagne, SocGen Controller Tells Court  
 Jerome Kerviel offered a  Societe Generale SA  internal
controller champagne and presented “coherent” explanations
when questioned about his trading, according to testimony in a
Paris court yesterday.  
 Marine Auclair, in charge of comparing traders’ reports
with the bank’s accounts, said she contacted Kerviel and his
superiors in April 2007 after finding a “mismatch” of 94
million euros ($116.4 million) between trades he reported and
what was booked in the accounting system.  
 When asked about the discrepancy, Auclair said Kerviel
“had a fairly nervous, worried air about him and said, ‘If you
take care of this gap, I’ll give you a bottle of champagne.’”  
 She testified that she never received any champagne.  
 Kerviel is  on trial  for faking documents, abuse of trust,
and computer hacking related to the 4.9 billion-euro trading
loss the bank incurred in 2008 after unwinding 50 billion euros
worth of unauthorized positions. He admitted yesterday to the
accusations, while insisting the bank knew of his actions.  
 While some of his trades “appeared fictitious” and
“didn’t have a real counterparty,” Auclair said Kerviel gave
her and other controllers “explanations that seemed coherent,
that corresponded to the situation.” He also provided documents
appearing to show they were genuine.  
 When asked about Kerviel’s testimony earlier this week that
his excuses were too “crude” to be believed, Auclair said,
“I’m not an idiot.” Faced with the same circumstances again,
she would still have believed what Kerviel told her, she said.  
 Judge Dominique Pauthe opened yesterday’s hearing saying
Daniel Bouton, who stepped down as Societe Generale chief
executive officer in April 2008, will be called to testify on
June 22, the final day of testimony at the trial, which is to
end June 25.  
 Vivendi Board Didn’t Weigh Share Sale, Bronfman Tells Court  
 Vivendi SA  directors didn’t focus on a possible sale of
shares by the company during a 2001 board meeting,  Warner Music
Group Corp.  Chairman Edgar Bronfman Jr. told a Paris court.  
 The Dec. 14, 2001, meeting was dominated by discussion of
the company’s purchase of entertainment assets from USA Networks
Inc., Bronfman said. Bronfman, who was Vivendi’s vice chairman
from 2000 until 2003, is accused of improperly gaining $12.8
million from exercising stock options based on non-public
information he had about a planned share sale.  
 At the meeting, “we were asked to approve what Vivendi had
said it would do” with the USA Networks assets, Bronfman said.
“We were not asked to approve what it might do sometime in the
future.”  
 Bronfman said he was later surprised by the decision to
initiate a share sale, which came as he was beginning a planned
exercise of his options.  
 Bronfman and former Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marie
Messier are among seven defendants at the trial, which focuses
on a $77 billion acquisition spree under Messier that almost
bankrupted Vivendi. A New York jury in January found the company
liable for making misleading statements to investors during the
same period, prompting it to set aside 550 million euros ($682
million) to cover a possible award in the lawsuit.  
 In his charges, investigating judge Jean-Marie d’Huy
focused on a single English-language slide presented at the
meeting which said that a sale of shares “could be envisaged”
in the future.  
 Lawyers for Bronfman and Vivendi’s former Chief Financial
Officer Guillame Hannezo have argued the sale wasn’t certain at
the time the men sold their own shares, making insider trading
impossible. Paris prosecutors advised against trying any of the
defendants before being overruled by d’Huy.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 BP, Nalco Sued Over Dispersant Used in Gulf Spill  
 BP Plc  and a  Nalco Holding Co.  unit, the maker of a
chemical dispersant used to deal with the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill, were sued by Louisiana residents claiming the product is
four times more toxic than the oil itself.  
 BP has been using the dispersant to break up oil and reduce
harm to the coast following the April explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig. The plaintiffs claim BP used the
dispersant to save money “and lessen the public reaction to the
oil spill” by forcing it to the bottom of the Gulf.  
 The  lawsuit , filed yesterday in federal court in New
Orleans, is a proposed class action that would include all
workers and Gulf Coast residents claiming harm from the
chemical. The plaintiffs are seeking at least $5 million in
actual damages and unspecified punitive damages.  
 “The dispersant has been sprayed over the Gulf of Mexico
and has caused a toxic chemical to be a permanent part of the
sea bed and food chain in the bio structure,” according to the
complaint. The chemical causes “an even more dangerous
condition to exist in the Gulf of Mexico than if the oil was
allowed to float to the shoreline,” the residents said in the
complaint.  
 More than 1.3 billion gallons of dispersants have been
sprayed into the Gulf since April 20, according to the Deepwater
Horizon Unified Command linking companies and government
agencies responding to the spill.  
 The lawsuit is one of more than 230 filed against BP over
the spill in federal and state courts.  
 Charlie Pajor, a spokesman for Naperville, Illinois-based
Nalco, declined to comment on the lawsuit. “We feel our product
is safe and effective,” he said in a phone interview.  
 Toby Odone, a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment.  
 The case is Parker v. Nalco Co., 2:10-cv-01749, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 Two Charged by U.K. SFO in Alleged $27 Million Bank-Loan Fraud  
 A former property developer and former law firm partner
were charged with conspiracy to commit fraud after allegedly
using false documents to get a 22 million-euro ($27 million)
bank loan from a unit of Zurich-based  EFG International AG .  
 Michael Shephard, 49, obtained the loan in 2008 by stating
he had 76 million pounds ($112.5 million) on deposit at Bank
Julius Baer in Guernsey, the U.K. Serious Fraud Office said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. He was helped by Kevin Steele,
formerly a lawyer at  Mishcon de Reya Solicitors  in London, the
SFO said.  
 Steele abused his position in relation to “an undertaking
given to EFG Bank in respect of the EFG loan, the general
mishandling of the Michael Andrew Shephard client account and
the theft of 1.8 million pounds from that account” to pay an
unrelated claim, the SFO said.  
 The men were charged yesterday at a London court and
released on bail, the SFO said. EFG International spokesman
Keith Gapp didn’t respond to a request for comment.  
 “On behalf of Mr. Shephard, we’d be most interested to see
what evidence the SFO has to introduce to support the charges,”
Shephard’s lawyer, Stephen Gilchrist, said.  
 Steele’s lawyer Nick Brett couldn’t be reached.  
 “Kevin Steele was expelled from Mishcon de Reya in
September 2008, nearly two years ago,” the firm said in an e-
mailed statement. “The firm carried out a thorough internal
investigation and brought in the police and the Solicitors
Regulation Authority. It has ensured that the interests of its
clients have been fully protected.”  
 Financial Adviser Kenneth Starr Sued by City National Bank  
 Kenneth Starr, the investment adviser accused in a criminal
indictment of stealing at least $59 million from clients, was
sued by  City National Bank , according to state court records in
New York.  
 City National’s court filing June 16 refers to an agreement
with Starr over a “term promissory note” dated Feb. 25 and
says he is required to answer the bank’s summons. A complaint
with City National’s allegations wasn’t yet available.  
 Starr, 66, of Manhattan, was charged in May in a federal
grand jury indictment in New York with 20 counts of wire fraud
and one count each of securities fraud, money laundering and
fraud by an investment adviser. The alleged victims of the fraud
include an actress, a former executive of a talent agency, the
stepson of a deceased heir to a business fortune, a 99-year-old
heiress, and a film producer.  
 Starr’s clients have included actors Sylvester Stallone and
Wesley Snipes and heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon.  
 Sabrina Shroff, a public defender who represents Starr in
the criminal case, and Abbe Lowell, a lawyer for Starr in a
civil suit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 Cary Walker, a spokesman for Los Angeles-based City
National, declined to comment.  
 The case is City National Bank v. Kenneth I. Starr, Supreme
Court of the State of New York, County of New York.  
 Mortgage-Fraud Crackdown in U.S. Brings 485 Arrests  
 Authorities arrested 485 people since March in the largest
nationwide mortgage-fraud crackdown of its kind, the U.S.
Justice Department said.  
 During the enforcement effort, 1,215 criminal defendants
responsible for $2.3 billion in losses faced some type of legal
action, the department said. The crackdown, dubbed Operation
Stolen Dreams, also included 191 civil cases resulting in the
recovery of more than $147 million.  
 “This represents the largest collective enforcement effort
ever brought to bear in confronting  mortgage fraud ,” said
Attorney General Eric Holder at a news conference in Washington.
“These schemes are despicable, they are dangerous to our
economy and they will not be tolerated.”  
 The initiative was organized by President Barack Obama’s
financial fraud task force. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
has more than 3,000 pending mortgage-fraud cases, almost double
the number in fiscal year 2008, Holder said.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Lafarge Loses Challenge to $307 Million EU Antitrust Penalty  
 Lafarge SA , the world’s largest cement maker, lost a
challenge at the European Union’s highest court to a 249.6
million-euro ($307 million) antitrust fine levied by EU
regulators almost eight years ago for colluding on plasterboard
prices.  
 The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg rejected
Lafarge’s appeal in its entirety and confirmed the penalty.
Yesterday’s ruling conflicts with the view of an adviser to the
top EU court, who said that the case should be re-examined.  
 Lafarge was appealing a fine levied by the European
Commission in November 2002 for its role in a cartel which
covered about 80 percent of the EU plasterboard market.
Lafarge’s fine was upheld by a lower EU court in 2008.  
 The EU plasterboard market was worth about 1.2 billion
euros at the time of the violations. The Brussels-based
commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, fined four companies
in 2002 for fixing prices of plasterboard for at least four
years until 1998. The regulator said collusion started in 1992
when BPB Ltd. and Knauf Group’s Gips agreed to end a price war
and lessen competition.  
 Claire Mathieu, a spokeswoman for Lafarge, declined to
immediately comment.  
 An EU court in 2008 cut the fine for BPB, a  Cie. de Saint-
Gobain SA  unit, to 118.8 million euros from 138.6 million euros.  
 Jan Mazak, an advocate general at the court, said in
February that a lower court’s analysis of the case did “not
deal adequately” with Lafarge’s arguments concerning
discrimination and the duration of the antitrust breach.  
 The case is C-413/08, Lafarge v. Commission.  
 Mitsubishi Motors Wins Appeal of $11 Million Florida Verdict  
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  won reversal of a $10.9 million
jury verdict awarded in 2008 to the family of a Florida man who
died in a rollover accident.  
 Scott Laliberte, 25, was killed in September 2004 when the
seat back collapsed and he was partly ejected from a 2000
Mitsubishi Nativa. His family claimed defects in the seat back
and seat belt. In February 2008, a West Palm Beach, Florida,
jury found a defect in the Nativa caused Laliberte’s death.  
 Florida’s Fourth District Court of Appeal yesterday ordered
a new trial, finding that the Tokyo, Japan-based automaker was
unfairly prevented from putting on evidence of seat-belt and
seat-back tests by the company’s expert witnesses.  
 “When the trial court excluded Mitsubishi’s demonstrative
evidence, its expert’s opinions were barren and unsubstantiated.
The trial court’s error was not harmless,” the court said
yesterday.  
 “Our experts were allowed to offer opinions but they
weren’t allowed to show the reasons behind the opinions,”
Mitsubishi lawyer Scott Paxton said yesterday in an interview.
This “reduced their credibility” to the jury, he said.  
 No new trial date has been set, Paxton said. The Laliberte
family is likely to appeal the decision, he said.  
 Don Fountain, the family’s attorney, didn’t return a call
seeking comment yesterday.  
 The lawsuit is Laliberte v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp., CA 05-
6369, Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida (West Palm
Beach). The appellate case is Mitsubishi v. Laliberte, 4DO8-
2211, Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        