-- Songbird Shares Climb After Report Qatar Wealth Fund May Bid for Company
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-06-18T10:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/songbird-shares-climb-after-report-qatar-wealth-fund-may-bid-for-company.html

          
          
             Songbird Estates Plc , the owner and
manager of most of London’s Canary Wharf district, rose the most
in more than eight months after a report that Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund, its biggest investor, aims to bid for the company.  
 The stock rose as much as 15 percent.  Qatar Investment
Authority  plans to pay more than 700 million pounds ($1 billion)
to buy the 76 percent of Songbird it doesn’t already own, the
Times reported in London today, without saying where it got the
information. The other shareholders include China’s sovereign
wealth fund and New York’s  Simon Glick , the newspaper said.  
 Qatar Holding LLC, a unit of the Persian Gulf country’s
sovereign wealth fund, bought 24 percent of Songbird in October.
Barwa Real Estate Co., which is also controlled by the fund,
said yesterday it agreed to purchase the biggest development on
London’s Oxford Street in about 40 years for 250 million pounds.  
 “It would make sense,” said  Harm Meijer , a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “We see significant value in
Songbird, which shareholders shouldn’t give away too easily.”
Meijer has an “overweight” rating on the stock.  
 Songbird hasn’t had an approach from the Qataris, a
spokesman for the U.K. company who declined to be identified
said by telephone today. A London-based spokesman for Qatar
Holding, who asked not to be identified, declined to comment.  
 The shares gained the most since Oct. 5. They were up 8.5
pence, or 5.9 percent, at 152.5 pence at 11:14 a.m. in London,
bringing the gain for the past year to about 13 percent and
giving Songbird a market value of 1 billion pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        