-- Sony Pays Stringer $4.5 Million After Back-to-Back Losses
-- Mariko Yasu
-- 2010-06-18T09:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/sony-s-stringer-received-4-5-million-annual-salary-leading-japan-s-ceos.html

          
          
             Sony Corp.  Chairman  Howard Stringer 
was paid 410 million yen ($4.5 million) in salary last year as
the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation 3 consoles
posted the first back-to-back annual loss since its listing.  
 Stringer received base pay of 310 million yen and a 100
million yen bonus for the year ended March 31, board director
 Sakie Fukushima  told the annual shareholders’ meeting in Tokyo
today. He also received stock options that may be worth about
400 million yen, the company said.  
 Chief executive officers at Japanese companies from Sony to
Nissan Motor Co. are facing public scrutiny over salaries for
the first time as regulators force their employers to disclose
compensation  packages  starting this year. While Stringer’s pay
falls short of Volkswagen AG’s  Martin Winterkorn , it exceeds the
income earned by the heads of Japanese companies such as Hoya
Corp. and Western companies such Microsoft Corp.  
 “If he were Japanese, he wouldn’t be making this much,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees the equivalent of $450
million at  Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment Co.  “We should
probably look at this as an example of what the future holds but
the Japanese perspective is to say, ‘it doesn’t make sense to
get paid this much while your company is losing money.”  
 Since Stringer became chief executive officer, the stock
has fallen 34 percent, lagging behind the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average’s 13 percent drop. Sony  shares  rose 79 percent in the
year ended March 31, double the benchmark index’s gain.  
 U.S. Firms  
 Shinsei Bank Ltd. Chief Financial Officer  Rahul Gupta  may
resign after former Financial Services Minister Shizuka Kamei
said some non-Japanese executives at Shinsei were paid
“exorbitant” salaries of more than 100 million yen, a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  
 Stringer has the highest compensation among executives at
Japanese companies, based on public disclosures compiled so far
by Bloomberg. In addition to the salary, he’ll be entitled to
purchase as many as 500,000 shares at 2,595 yen apiece until Dec.
8, 2019, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.  
 Excluding stock options, Stringer’s compensation is lower
than News Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch ’s $8.1
million and in line with that of Exxon Mobil Corp. CEO  Rex Tillerson ’s, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s
higher than the $1.28 million Microsoft CEO  Steve Ballmer 
received, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sony Vice Chairman  Ryoji Chubachi  and outgoing Chief
Financial Officer  Nobuyuki Oneda  were paid 150 million yen and
140 million yen respectively, excluding stock options, Fukushima
said.  
 Return to Profit  
 The electronics maker, which has eliminated about 20,000
jobs and shut 11 factories, is forecasting to post profit of 50
billion yen in the year ending March 2011 after posting its
first consecutive annual  loss  since listing its stock more than
half a century ago.  
 Sony’s restructuring efforts “have yielded tangible
results,” Stringer 68, said at the company’s annual
shareholders’ meeting today in Tokyo, where the company is based.
The Welsh-born executive is shifting his attention to new
products and services after reducing costs.  
 “If a Japanese executive were at the helm I doubt the
company would be reforming as fast as it has,” said Ichiyoshi’s
Akino. “There are signs of change and I think Stringer deserves
the credit.”  
 Sony will focus on 3-D products and on services that link
devices including televisions to the Internet and other media
this business year, Stringer said.  
 Sony “is competitive in TV and will be more so” with 3-D
Bravia and Internet-connected models, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Howard Stringer, chairman, president and CEO of Sony. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
