-- Southern Agrees to $3.4 Billion Federal Loan Guarantee for Nuclear Plant
-- Jordan Burke
-- 2010-06-18T20:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/southern-agrees-to-3-4-billion-federal-loan-guarantee-for-nuclear-plant.html

          
          
             Southern Co. , the second-biggest
U.S. utility owner, agreed to a $3.4 billion U.S. loan guarantee
to build the country’s first nuclear power plant in three
decades.  
 The guarantee covers up to 70 percent of Southern’s
eligible projected costs, the Atlanta-based company said today
in a statement.  
 “This is another step forward on the road to nuclear power
playing a prominent role in America’s energy future,” Chief
Executive Officer  David Ratcliffe  said in the statement.  
 Southern would be the first to get federal aid under a
five-year-old law aimed in part at helping add nuclear stations,
which usually cost more and take longer to build than coal or
natural-gas-fired generators.  
 Southern plans to add two reactors to its existing Vogtle
station near Waynesboro, Georgia, in 2016 and 2017. The company,
which has a 45.7 percent stake in the project, estimates its
share of project costs will be $6.1 billion. Its guaranteed
borrowings won’t exceed $3.4 billion, Southern said in February.  
 The total value of the investment, shared with Oglethorpe
Power Corp., Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia and Dalton
Utilities, is about $14 billion, Southern said.  
 Ratcliffe said in February that the company would build the
plant even without federal backing, saying the loan guarantee
“lowers the cost of the project simply by getting a better
financing rate” and provides customers with less expensive
power.  
 Southern supplies power to 4.4 million utility customers in
Georgia, Alabama, Florida and Mississippi. Chicago-based Exelon
Corp. is the biggest U.S. utility owner.  
 Southern rose 9 cents to $34.11 at 4:02 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jordan Burke  in New York at 
 jburke29@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        