-- South African World Cup May Be Iciest in Decades; Fans Seek Hats, Gloves
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-06-18T13:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/south-african-world-cup-may-be-iciest-in-decades-fans-seek-hats-gloves.html

          
          
             South Africa, which counts sun-
soaked beach holidays among its tourist attractions, has been
hit by icy weather that threatens to make the Soccer World Cup
the coldest in decades.  
 Temperatures  this week have dropped to as low as minus five
degrees Celsius (23 degrees Fahrenheit) in Johannesburg,
prompting many of the more than 54,000 fans at the Ellis Park
night-time clash between North Korea and Brazil to don gloves,
woolen hats and overcoats. This was as much as eight degrees
below the 40-year average, according to Derek Van Dam, chief
meteorologist at Etv, a privately owned television station.  
 “We have ended up doing a lot more indoor activities”
than we expected,” said Rajeev Nath, a 31-year-old New Yorker
who is in South Africa for the tournament. “We haven’t had
enough warm clothes so have been buying. We’ll continue to just
layer up.”  
 The first World Cup to take place in Africa is also the
first to be held in winter since Argentina hosted and won the
tournament in 1978. Rain has lashed game venues in Port
Elizabeth and Cape Town and snow has fallen fall across the
country’s mountain ranges.  
 Ghana’s training session yesterday was delayed because of
frozen pitches at their training base north of Rustenburg,
according to the South African Press Association. Heavy rain in
Port Elizabeth this week meant that Germany and Serbia couldn’t
train on the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium pitch on eve of their
match today.  
 Reduced Rail Service  
 The rapid rail line between Johannesburg’s main airport and
business district is operating at half the normal speed as a
precautionary measure because of the cold. Trips from Sandton to
O.R. Tambo airport are now leaving every half an hour and taking
30 minutes, according to the  Gautrain  website.  
 Today Johannesburg is expected to have a maximum of 11
degrees celsius and a minimum of -1. By contrast Berlin in
Germany, where the last World Cup took place in 2006, has a
forecast maximum of 20 degrees and a minimum of 5 degrees. Seoul
in South Korea, which co-hosted the 2002 event, has a maximum of
32 degrees while Buenos Aires in Argentina has a maximum of 13
degrees and a minimum of 12 degrees.  
 No T-Shirts  
 A fan park at Mary Fitzgerald square in central
Johannesburg attracted few fans on the night of June 16 when the
home team, South Africa, slashed their chances of progressing in
the tournament by losing 3-0 to Uruguay in Pretoria.  
 “Its much colder than we expected,” Irena Cegla, a 43-
year-old tourist from Venezuela, said in an interview. “I
thought we may wear T-Shirts during the day but it’s much too
cold.”  
 In addition to the Germany versus Serbia match, Slovenia
today plays the U.S. at Ellis Park in Johannesburg while England
plays Algeria in Cape Town.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A football fan protects himself from the cold as he attends the 2010 World Cup match between Brazil and North Kore at Ellis Park stadium in Johannesburg. Photographer: Christophe Simon/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
