-- South Korean Stocks to Climb 17% as Foreign Fund Flows Rise, JPMorgan Says
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-06-18T05:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/south-korean-stocks-to-climb-17-as-foreign-fund-flows-rise-jpmorgan-says.html

          
          
             South Korean stocks may rally 17
percent by the end of the year as improving corporate earnings
help draw more foreigners after the biggest influx of overseas
funds in more than two months, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  
 The benchmark  Kospi  stock index may rise to 2,000 by the
end of the year, said  Scott YH Seo , Seoul head of equity
research at JPMorgan who’s ranked third for Korean research by
Institutional Investor. The gauge fell 0.1 percent 1,706.11 as
of 1:57 p.m. in Seoul.  
 Overseas investors bought a net 982 billion won ($814
million) of shares on the Kospi  this week , set for the biggest
weekly purchase since the five days ended April 9, according to
Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from the Korea
Exchange Inc. They sold a record 1.24 trillion won of Korean
equities on May 7.  
 “More foreign funds will come in the second half as
earnings are in good shape and as the European sovereign debt
problems stabilize,” Seo said in an interview today. “It’s a
buying opportunity for Korean stocks.”  
 South Korean equity prices assume sovereign debt risks in
some European countries will spread even when the issue is seen
as “manageable,” Seo said. Foreign funds may also invest in
Korean stocks on expectations the won will appreciate, he said.  
 The benchmark measure dropped 11 percent from April 26 to
May 25 as concerns over the European crisis were compounded by
increased tensions between South and North Korea. It has since
rebounded 9.3 percent.  
 Earnings Revision  
 “We’re seeing upward revisions for corporate earnings this
year and next, and we believe the U.S. and European economies
are poised to improve further,” he said.  
 Seo, 44, said South Korean equities are “cheap,”
especially for financial stocks. Share prices of banks already
factor any possible funding difficulties from Europe as well as
economic volatilities that could affect small- and medium-sized
corporate clients, he said, even though the chances for such
events are low.  
 Valuation  for the 762-member Kospi has fallen to 10.3 times
estimated earnings from a multiple of 16 a year ago. That makes
South Korea the cheapest stock market in Asia after Pakistan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 MSCI Upgrade?  
 Seo said it’s unlikely South Korean market will be upgraded
as a developed market by MSCI Inc. this year. A removal of the
nation from emerging markets will bring imbalance given the
heavy weighting of machinery, shipbuilding, engineering and
technology companies among the country’s stocks, he said.  
 South Korea has been under review by MSCI for a possible
upgrade since 2008. The company left the nation’s status
unchanged last year and said it will evaluate South Korea for a
reclassification this year. MSCI will announce its latest review
next week.  
 South Korea’s  Kospi  may rise to 1,900 in the second half as
a global economic recovery and stable commodity prices boost the
nation’s corporate earnings,  Seok Yun , Seoul head of research at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a June 4 interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        