-- South Korea Store Sales Rise for 15th Month as Shoppers Defy Global Gloom
-- William Sim
-- 2010-06-18T02:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/south-korea-store-sales-rise-for-15th-month-as-shoppers-defy-global-gloom.html

          
          
             Sales at South Korea’s major
 department stores  increased in May for a 15th month, showing
domestic demand hasn’t yet been hurt by concern that the global
rebound may falter.  
 Spending  at the three biggest chains climbed 8 percent from
a year earlier, after rising 8.8 percent in April, the Ministry
of Knowledge Economy said in a statement today.  Discount-store
sales  gained 2.3 percent last month, after advancing 0.3 percent
in April.  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said today that the
economy will continue to recover and inflation may accelerate
faster than expected in the second half. Policy makers in Asia
are shifting toward raising interest rates as growth
strengthens, even as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to damp the
global rebound.  
 “A rate hike seems imminent” in South Korea, said  Lee Sang Jae , a senior economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul.
“It’s likely in July, but more likely in August as we still
need to watch over Europe’s debt crisis.”  
 Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said last week the Bank of Korea
will focus more on “price stability” after leaving borrowing
costs unchanged at a record-low 2 percent for a 16th month. Yoon
said June 14 that the central bank should balance sustaining
economic growth and curbing inflationary pressures.  
 South Korea’s economy will expand 5.8 percent this year and
4.7 percent in 2011 as exports surge and domestic demand
strengthens, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said this week, urging the Bank of Korea to begin
raising  interest rates  to contain inflation.  
 The economy will likely post an expansion of more than 5
percent this year, Yoon said today. The government is
considering whether to revise its economic growth forecast for
2010 and will make an announcement on it on June 24, the Finance
Ministry said June 15.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        