-- Spain Solar Firms Plan $1.2 Billion Claim Against Government, Lawyer Says
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-18T09:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/spain-solar-firms-plan-1-2-billion-claim-against-government-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Spanish solar-power producers are
planning to claim about 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in
compensation should the government push ahead with its proposal
to cut the price existing photovoltaic plants earn, said Antonio
Vazquez-Guillen, a partner at Allen & Overy in Madrid.  
 “The government can change the tariff,” Vazquez-Guillen
said in a telephone interview today. “But if it does change it,
those who’ve lost out have the right to compensation.”  
 Vazquez-Guillen said he represents several solar companies,
though he declined to name them. He said that in the best case,
the government may be ordered to pay operators the difference
between the new price and the one offered under the current
system established in a 2007 law.  
 That would be about 1 billion euros, based on a proposal
set out by Industry Ministry officials on June 16, he said.  
 Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  is planning to publish
cuts in the rates that renewable-power producers earn by July 1
as it attempts to keep a lid on electricity costs and revive the
economy from a recession.  
 Solar executives, whose companies have invested more than
18 billion euros in Spain in the last three years, have pressed
the government to maintain prices guaranteed for 25 years under
a 2007 law.  
 An industry ministry spokesman who asked not to be named
said officials haven’t finalized the new tariffs, so it is too
soon to comment on the possible consequences of the change.  
 Deputy Industry Minister  Pedro Marin  told solar executives
at a June 16 meeting that he has decided to cut the revenue by
30 percent for existing solar-panel installations and subsidized
prices for new plants by as much as 45 percent,  Tomas Diaz ,
director of external relations at the Photovoltaic Industry
Association in Madrid, said.  
 “We’re still a long way from this being approved,”
Vazquez-Guillen said. Still, “the legal arguments are very
clear.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        