-- Spanish Deficit to Shrink on Labor-Law Overhaul, IMF's Strauss-Kahn Says
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-18T13:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/spanish-deficit-to-shrink-on-labor-law-overhaul-imf-s-strauss-kahn-says.html

          
          
             International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Spain’s budget deficit will
shrink “rapidly” as the government’s overhaul of labor rules
boosts economic growth.  
 “The decisions made by the Spanish government are very
welcome and I think will be very effective,” Strauss-Kahn said
at a joint press conference with Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  in Madrid after they met today. “The deficit
in countries like Spain will decrease rapidly.”  
 Spain is trying to convince investors it can cut the third-
largest  deficit  in the euro region, while propping up the
country’s savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-
year slump. The  IMF ’s view of Spain’s economy is more
pessimistic than that of the government, whose economic growth
forecasts for 2012 and 2013 are more than a percentage point
higher than those of the Washington-based lender.  
 Spanish “growth will come back very rapidly,” Strauss-
Kahn said. “I’m really confident in the medium-term and long-
term prospects for the Spanish economy, providing the efforts
that have to be made are made.”  
 Zapatero’s labor-law changes make it easier for companies
to avoid adhering to wage-bargaining deals. The decree allows
companies and workers to avoid applying collective-wage bargains
“when the economic situation and outlook of the company could be
damaged as a consequence” of applying the deals, according to
 the text approved  by the Cabinet this week.  
 Investor concerns about debt levels and budget deficits in
Spain, Portugal and Greece have dragged the euro down 14 percent
against the dollar this year. The single currency slipped 0.2
percent to $1.2370 at 3:14 p.m. Madrid time today.  
 “Now we are at a level which for many Europe
industrialists, many European exporters, it certainly is a bit
of a better level,” Strauss-Kahn said. “I won’t be surprised
if markets evolve in a different way in the coming weeks and
coming months,” he added, referring to bond and currency
trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        