-- STMicroelectronics Plans to Double Output of Chips Made at Chinese Plant
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-06-18T08:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/stmicroelectronics-planning-to-double-output-at-china-plant-by-end-of-2012.html

          
          
             STMicroelectronics NV , Europe’s
biggest chipmaker, said it plans to hire more workers to expand
one of its two plants in China, defying higher operating costs
as the government orders companies to increase employee pay.  
 “Even after the wages increase, compared to other
countries, it’s still very competitive,” Chief Operating
Officer  Alain Dutheil  said in an interview in Hong Kong today.
STMicroelectronics aims to double output at its plant in the
Longgang area of Shenzhen, south China, by 2012, he said.  
 Shenzhen, a manufacturing hub that is home to companies
including  Warren Buffett -backed BYD Co., will require employers
to boost minimum pay levels 16 percent from July, the city
government said this month. Foxconn Technology Group, which
employs more than 400,000 people in the city, said this month it
will double wages for local staffers after at least 10 of its
workers committed suicide this year.  
 STMicroelectronics employs about 7,000 people in China,
where it has research facilities in Beijing and Shanghai and a
second manufacturing site in Shenzhen,  Francois Guibert ,
president of the chipmaker’s Greater China and South Asia
division, said today.  
 Production at STMicro’s Longgang plant, set up in 2008,
will expand from a low base, Dutheil said.  
 China accounted for about 25 percent of STMicro’s sales in
the first quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said
today. The Geneva-based chipmaker expects sales growth in the
country will be sustained this year, helped by demand from
customers in the automotive industry, Bozotti said.  
 Minimum monthly wages in Shenzhen will rise to 1,100 yuan
($161) in July, the city government said this month. More than
20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum wages this year,
the Shenzhen government said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        