-- Subbarao Says India Will Increase Interest Rates in a `Calibrated' Manner
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-06-18T09:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/subbarao-says-india-will-increase-interest-rates-in-a-calibrated-manner.html

          
          
             India’s central bank will raise
interest rates in a “calibrated” way given the cash shortage
in the economy and risks to growth posed by Europe’s debt
crisis, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  
 “That remains the stance, that we must do a calibrated
exit from the expansionary stance we had taken during the
crisis,” Subbarao told reporters in the southern Indian city of
Hyderabad today, after a report this week showed  inflation 
unexpectedly accelerated to 10.16 percent in May.  
 Subbarao signaled the Reserve Bank of India has to contend
with the fallout from Europe’s debt woes and a cash squeeze in
the banking system even as it tries to curb inflation. Lenders
are short of cash after telecommunication companies including
Bharti Airtel Ltd. paid $14.6 billion of license fees for
wireless phone services and businesses withdrew money for taxes.  
 The cash crunch has resulted in “some automatic
tightening” in borrowing costs, Subbarao said.  
 Overnight  interbank rates  advanced to 5.3 percent at 2:35
p.m. in Mumbai today, higher than the repurchase rate of 5.25
percent at which lenders borrow from the central bank.  
 India’s 10-year government bond yields declined three basis
points to 7.57 percent at 3:05 p.m. in Mumbai, according to the
central bank’s trading system.  
 Subbarao has increased the central bank’s benchmark rates
twice since mid-March by a quarter percentage point each time.
The  reverse repurchase rate  is 3.75 percent. The next monetary
policy announcement is scheduled for July 27.  
 Inflation is gaining strength in India on higher consumer
demand. Industrial production grew 17.6 percent in April, which
the governor described as “very encouraging.”  
 “It’s quite evident that demand-side pressures are
increasing and inflation is getting more generalized,” Subbarao
said.  
 India’s exports climbed 35 percent to $16.1 billion in May
from a year earlier, Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said in
New Delhi today. Imports rose 30.8 percent to $27.4 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        