-- Swiss Market Index Declines for Second Day; Roche Holding Shares Lead Drop
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-06-18T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/swiss-market-index-fluctuates-roche-slides-as-ubs-credit-suisse-gain.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks retreated for a second
day as a decline in  Roche Holding AG  overshadowed speculation
that European Union stress tests will show the region’s banks
are robust.  
 Roche slid the most in three months after patients showed
hypersensitivity to its experimental diabetes drug taspoglutide.
 Swiss Life Holding AG  dropped 1 percent as Citigroup Inc.
downgraded Switzerland’s biggest life insurer.  UBS AG , the
nation’s biggest bank, followed European banking stocks higher.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  lost 28.19, or 0.4
percent, to 6,447.06, trimming this week’s increase to 0.3
percent. The SMI is down 7.5 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail
the economic recovery. The broader  Swiss Market Index  declined
0.3 percent to 5,673.78 today.  
 Roche lost 2.5 percent to 155 francs, the most since March.
The world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines expects a delay to
the experimental diabetes drug taspoglutide of at least 12 to 18
months because it’s introducing a “risk mitigation plan” to
trials after patients showed hypersensitivity to the medicine.  
 “The hypersensitivity reactions come as a surprise,”
Helvea SA analyst  Karl-Heinz Koch  wrote in a note. “This raises
questions over the competitiveness of the drug.” Separately,
Natixis Securities cut its price estimate by 5 francs to 200
francs “as the market’s risk aversion will prompt it to
eliminate the drug entirely from the stock’s valuation.”  
 Swiss Life Slips  
 Swiss Life dropped 1 percent to 113.7 francs. Citigroup cut
its recommendation on the stock to “hold” from “buy.” The
brokerage highlighted that “Swiss Life’s business is
structurally vulnerable to low interest rates” and noted that
“year-to-date Swiss and German 10-year yields have fallen about
40 basis points and 70 basis points.”  
 UBS advanced 1.7 percent to 15.99 Swiss francs as Europe’s
Stoxx 600 Banks Index gained 1.8 percent.  
 “We can only welcome this news,” Natixis Securities
analyst  Pascal Decque  wrote in a note after EU leaders yesterday
agreed to publish the results of stress tests on banks. “It
should give the markets some reassurance with respect to the
financial health of the European banking sector as a whole.”  
 Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank,
increased 0.7 percent to 45.69 francs.  Zurich Financial Services
AG , the country’s largest insurer, rose 1.3 percent to 253.1
francs.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said EU
leaders reached a “good consensus” on bank stress tests. The
results of the stress tests will be published “at the latest
the second half of July,” Trichet told reporters yesterday in
Brussels after a summit of EU leaders.  
 Norinvest Holding SA  climbed 4.9 percent to 4.94 francs.
The company said that the Golay Buchel Holding SA unit announced
the sale of its two divisions in Japan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        