-- U.K. Budget Deficit Narrower Than Forecast as Growth Improves Tax Revenue
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-18T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/u-k-budget-deficit-narrower-than-forecast-as-growth-improves-tax-revenue.html

          
          
             Britain posted a smaller fiscal
deficit than economists forecast as growth lifted tax receipts,
providing a boost for finance minister  George Osborne  before his
June 22 budget.  
 The 16 billion-pound ($23.8 billion) shortfall in May
compared with 17.4 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said in London today. The result was below
the 18 billion-pound median forecast in a  Bloomberg News survey .  
 Osborne is set to outline the deepest spending cuts since
at least the 1970s to tame a budget deficit of 11 percent of
gross domestic product last fiscal year. U.K. government bond
yields have fallen since Prime Minister David Cameron took
office six weeks ago on expectations his coalition government
will step up the pace of deficit reduction.  
 “With stronger revenue trends and early fiscal action, we
expect the deficit to fall far faster than the consensus view in
the next few years,” said Michael Saunders, chief Western
European economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The U.K. is
relatively well-placed to navigate back to fiscal stability.”  
 The 10-year gilt yield has fallen 37 basis points since May
11 and was trading at 3.509 percent as of 9 a.m. in London, up 3
basis from yesterday. The pound, which has lost more than 8
percent against the dollar this year, was 0.3 percent higher at
$1.4868.  
 Osborne is under pressure from investors and ratings
companies to deliver on his pledge to slash the deficit as the
sovereign-debt crisis engulfing the euro region escalates.  
 Pressure for Cuts  
 “I think the risk that this economy and the U.S. faces is
that unless we get control of our debt burden we could be in
line at some point as well,” former Bank of England policy
maker DeAnne Julius said in a Bloomberg Television interview
June 16.  
 Current receipts rose 7.6 percent in May from a year
earlier, boosted by a 19 percent increase in cash receipts of
value-added tax, a 17.5 percent levy on sales of goods and
services. Government spending climbed 7.3. percent.  
 In April, the deficit was 8.3 billion pounds rather than
the 10 billion pounds initially reported. The revision was
partly due to higher-than-expected receipts from a tax on banker
bonuses. The levy, expected to raise 2 billion pounds, generated
2.5 billion pounds, the statistics office said.  
 The deficit excluding financial-sector interventions in the
fiscal year through April was revised to 10.99 percent of GDP
from a previous estimate of 11.1 percent.  
 Recovery Risks  
 The looming deficit-cutting drive has cast a shadow over
prospects for consumer spending as the economy emerges from its
worst recession since World War II. Osborne has refused to rule
out raising the rate VAT.  
 A measure of cash entering and leaving the public sector
showed an 12 billion-pound deficit in May compared with 19.1
billion pounds a year earlier. Economists predicted a 20.5
billion-pound shortfall, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Net debt climbed to 903 billion pounds, or
62.2 percent of GDP.  
 Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander yesterday
pledged to cut the deficit at a faster pace than the previous
Labour government planned as he froze or axed projects worth
more than 10 billion pounds.  
 While the independent fiscal watchdog set up by Osborne
predicts the overall deficit will be 4 percent lower over the
next five years than the Treasury forecast in March, it says the
structural hole has increased, meaning the new government has
more to fill through spending cuts and tax rises.  
 The deficit will be little changed at 155 billion pounds in
the fiscal year that began in April, or 10.5 percent of GDP, the
Office for Budget Responsibility said earlier this week.  
 In the first two months of the fiscal year, the deficit was
24.3 billion pounds, down from 26.2 billion pounds a year
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. posts smaller-than-expected deficit in May  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.K. finance minister George Osborne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.K. finance minister George Osborne. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
