-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Rise in May as BOE Holds Bond Stimulus in Place
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-18T08:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rise-in-may-as-boe-holds-bond-stimulus-in-place.html

          
          
             U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose in May
as the Bank of England kept its 200 billion-pound ($297 billion)
bond stimulus in place to help stoke lending in the economy,
preliminary data from the bank showed.  
 The number of loans granted was 51,000, compared with
48,000 in April, according to a sample from the central bank’s
panel of six major lenders released in London today. The  Council
of Mortgage Lenders  said in a separate report that the U.K.
housing market remains “subdued.”  
 While mortgage approvals have stabilized as the U.K.
economy resumed expansion, they are still at half the level they
were at the peak of the housing boom as banks curtail lending in
the wake of the credit crisis. House-price growth is being
supported by a lack of properties for sale. The Royal
Institution for Chartered Surveyors said on June 15 that a  home-
price  gauge climbed to a four-month high in May.  
 “Looking forward, lenders expected mortgage market
activity to remain broadly flat in the coming months,” the Bank
of England said. “Demand for housing, especially among first-
time buyers, continued to be constrained by tight credit
conditions.”  
 The  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said in its report that
gross mortgage lending totalled an estimated 11.3 billion pounds
in May, up 7 percent from the previous month. The group said
earlier this week that credit availability “remains problematic
for first-time buyers who tend not to have a substantial
deposit.”  
 Budget Concerns  
 Home buying may also be curbed as consumers await the
outcome of the government’s emergency budget on June 22, aimed
at reducing a record deficit.  Bellway Plc , a U.K. homebuilder
specializing in first-time buyers, sold 13 percent fewer homes
in the four weeks following the U.K. election on May 6 as
concerns about possible spending cuts and tax increases deterred
purchasers, Finance Director  Alistair Leitch  said on June 15.  
 Figures today showed Britain had a smaller  fiscal deficit 
than economists forecast in May as growth lifted tax receipts,
providing a boost for finance minister George Osborne. The pound
remained higher against the dollar after the reports and was up
0.3 percent to $1.4874 as of 9:40 a.m. in London.  
 Separate data from the Bank of England today showed that
 M4 , the broadest measure of money supply, was unchanged in May
from the previous month. From a year earlier, M4 growth was 2.8
percent, down from 3.2 percent in April and the lowest since
April 1993.  
 Measures of expansion in money supply, earnings and
spending in the U.K. are “significantly lower than the average
growth rates recorded before the crisis,” Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King said on June 16.  
 The mortgage-approvals data published today is based on
reports from Banco Santander SA, Barclays Plc, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Nationwide Building Society and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        