-- U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Falls for Seventh Day After Reversing Increase
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-06-18T20:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-falls-for-seventh-day-after-reversing-increase.html

          
          
             An indicator of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell for the seventh day, reversing an earlier rise.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 3.4 basis points to a mid-price of 109.8 basis points as of
3:37 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Five-year
swaps on Transocean Ltd., owner of the drilling rig involved in
the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, fell 66.5 basis points to
523.5 basis points.  
 The index, which typically falls when investor confidence
improves and rises when it deteriorates, dropped about 14.3
basis points this week to its lowest intraday level since June
1. Today’s decline follows a spurt of debt sales yesterday by
U.S. financial institutions and precedes next week’s interest-
rate decision by the Federal Reserve and report on first-quarter
gross domestic product.  
 “Investors are very, very cautious right now,” said  Scott B. MacDonald , head of credit and economic research at Aladdin
Capital Management LLC. “You have some deep-seated concerns
about a double-dip recession.”  
 Total global corporate defaults for the year reached 39
this week, Standard & Poor’s said today in a research report.
The ratings company projects a 3.5 percent U.S. corporate
default rate for non-investment grade debt for 12 months through
March 2011. That forecast may rise on “significant overhang of
surviving leveraged corporate issuers” and the revival of
“questionable practices and structures in some recent deals,”
S&P said in the report.  
 JPMorgan sold $1.25 billion of five-year notes yesterday,
boosting the size of the offering from the $1 billion initially
marketed, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Bank of America issued $3 billion of 10-year debt.  
 This week swaps on JPMorgan fell 21.1 basis points to 102.5
basis points, contracts on Goldman Sachs declined 37.8 basis
points to 168, and those on Citigroup dropped 42.6 basis points
to 166, according to CMA DataVision prices.  
 Swaps on BP  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 Swaps on BP Plc, the primary owner of the leaking oil well,
rose for the fourth in five days. Contracts on BP increased 4.5
basis points to 471 basis points and are 66 basis points higher
on the week, CMA prices show. Contracts on Anadarko Petroleum
Corp., which owns a 25 percent stake in the well, fell 50 basis
points to 572, CMA prices show.  
 The extension of the U.S. corporate credit risk decline
into next week may depend on the outcome of a G-20 summit and a
meeting of Fed policy makers. Also, U.S. new-home sales data are
due June 23, the same day as the Fed’s interest-rate decision,
followed two days later by a report on first-quarter GDP.  
 “If some of the data shows a bit of stability, the market
will firm,” MacDonald said. “If the numbers are worse than
expected, it could widen back out again.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net 
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        