-- U.S. Rallies to Tie Slovenia 2-2 at World Cup; Serbia Defeats Germany 1-0
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-18T17:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/u-s-rallies-to-tie-slovenia-2-2-at-world-cup-serbia-defeats-germany-1-0.html

          
          
             The U.S. came from behind to tie
Slovenia 2-2 at the World Cup in South Africa, while Serbia
upset Germany 1-0.  
 Landon Donovan  and Michael Bradley scored as the U.S.
erased a 2-0 halftime deficit in the Group C game in
Johannesburg. The Americans also had a goal from Maurice Edu
disallowed in the 86th minute.  
 “Our immediate goal was to win, but we started (playing)
not to lose,” U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  said in a news conference.
“The tie keeps us alive and that’s the important thing.”  
 Serbia’s Milan Jovanovic scored the only goal moments after
Germany’s  Miroslav Klose  was red-carded in Group D in Port
Elizabeth. Serbia goalkeeper Vladimir Stojkovic also stopped a
penalty kick from  Lukas Podolski .  
 “It was a very important game for us,” Stojkovic told
reporters. “Everybody believed in this win.”  
 Slovenia was prevented from claiming a place in the round
of 16 by the U.S. rally. The top two teams in each of the eight
groups after three games qualify for the next round.  
 Slovenia leads Group C with four points, the U.S. has two,
England one and Algeria none. England plays Algeria later today.  
 Valter Birsa gave Slovenia the lead in the 13th minute and
Zlatan Ljubijankic made it 2-0 three minutes before halftime.  
 Donovan scored three minutes after the break with a shot
from an angle into the roof of the net. Bradley then rushed onto
Jozy Altidore’s headed pass and beat goalkeeper Samir Handanovic
with eight minutes left.  
 Disallowed Goal  
 Edu appeared to have given the Americans the lead four
minutes later, but the goal was disallowed by referee Koman
Coulibaly of Mali as players were grappling in the area.  
 “I’m assuming it was a foul somewhere because obviously it
couldn’t have been offside,” Donovan said. “I don’t know what
to think of the call because I didn’t see a foul anywhere.”  
 Serbia handed Germany its first defeat in a World Cup group
game since 1986. The Germans are tied with Serbia and Ghana at
three points and lead Group D because of a superior goal
difference. Ghana plays Australia tomorrow.  
 Klose was ejected after receiving his second yellow card in
the 37th minute for tripping Serbia captain  Dejan Stankovic .
Jovanovic gave his team the lead a minute later with a shot from
eight yards out.  
 Germany’s  Sami Khedira  smashed a shot against the crossbar
in the last minute of the first half. Stojkovic dived to his
left to save Podolski’s penalty kick in the 60th minute after a
handball call against  Nemanja Vidic . Jovanovic and  Milos Krasic 
then hit the goalpost and the crossbar with shots.  
 “In the second half we played a lot better with a man
down,” Germany coach  Joachim Loew  told reporters.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Cherundolo of the United States takes a high tackle on Milivoje Novakovic of Slovenia during the 2010 FIFA World Cup match between Slovenia and USA at Ellis Park Stadium on June 18, 2010 in Johannesburg. Photographer: Christof Koepsel/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
