-- U.S. Denied World Cup Win After Referee's Decision
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-06-18T21:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/u-s-denied-world-cup-win-after-referee-disallows-goal-without-explanation.html

          
          
             The U.S. team members aren’t sure
what denied them a go-ahead goal in their 2-2 World Cup tie with
Slovenia, and were left frustrated by referee Koman Coulibaly’s
silence.  
 Having gotten two goals back after going in 2-0 down at
halftime, substitute Maurice Edu’s 86th minute strike appeared
to have given the U.S. the lead, only for the  Mali  referee to
disallow it. The Americans surrounded Coulibaly, asking for an
explanation, and said he didn’t give one.  
 “I’m assuming it was a foul somewhere because obviously it
couldn’t have been offside,” U.S. striker and man of the match
 Landon Donovan  told reporters after the game at Johannesburg’s
Ellis Park. “I don’t know what to think of the call because I
didn’t see a foul anywhere.”  
 The U.S., ranked 14th by soccer’s ruling body, gave up
goals to Slovenia’s Valter Birsa and Zlatan Ljubijankic. A win
for 25th-ranked Slovenia, with a population of  just 2 million ,
would have made them the first country to progress to the
tournament’s knock-out stages, and would have meant the U.S. was
all but eliminated from the event.  
 The tie in Group C means both Slovenia and the U.S. go into
their last game with a chance of progressing at the expense of
England and Algeria, their group rivals. With three points from
a win over Algeria, the U.S. could progress.  
 “At one moment in the second half, it seemed like it was
one point gained, and then later it seemed like two points
dropped,” U.S. coach  Bob Bradley  said. “Our aim was to win,
but we were also in a situation where we couldn’t lose. This tie
keeps us alive and that’s the important thing.”  
 ‘Great Fight-Back’  
 U.S. captain  Carlos Bocanegra  said the players were
disappointed with themselves for being 2-0 down at halftime and
that helped his side improve in the second 45 minutes.  
 “It was a great fight-back,” he said. “We were angry at
halftime about how the first half went, but each individual
looked at themselves and collectively we raised it in the second
half.”  
 Donovan scored three minutes after the interval with a shot
from an angle into the roof of the net, before Michael Bradley,
the coach’s son, rushed onto Jozy Altidore’s headed pass and
beat goalkeeper Samir Handanovic to set up the finish.  
 “We need to win one game to advance out of the group,”
Bocanegra said. “If we beat Algeria, we feel five points will
see us through.”  
 Coulibaly, 39, has been an international referee since
1999. The finance inspector’s first language is Bambara, and he
also speaks English and French, according to FIFA’s website.
He’s overseen matches in the Africa Cup of Nations, the
continent’s tournament for national teams.  
 Slovenian coach Matjaz Kek declined to comment on the
referee’s decision. “I wouldn’t say the referee has had an
impact on the final result,” he said. “We gained a point today
and are in a very good position.”  
 Final Matches  
 Slovenia  now plays  England in Port Elizabeth on June 23 in
their final group game, while the U.S. takes on Algeria in
Pretoria at the same time.  
 Bradley said he hadn’t gotten an explanation of what
happened on the play. Television replays showed the U.S. players
weren’t offside, and there were no obvious fouls by Americans.  
 “In all games there are moments when you’re frustrated
because you feel situations haven’t been handled correctly, or
even fairly, but that’s the way football works,” coach Bradley
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Johannesburg on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Referee Koman Coulibaly  
                       
                         
                           Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images 
                         
                         Michael Bradley of the United States shouts at referee Koman Coulibaly during the 2010 FIFA World Cup match between Slovenia and USA in Johannesburg, on June 18, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Michael Bradley of the United States shouts at referee Koman Coulibaly during the 2010 FIFA World Cup match between Slovenia and USA in Johannesburg, on June 18, 2010. Photographer: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
