-- Tullett Prebon Suit Accusing BCG Partners of Poaching Thrown Out by Judge
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/tullett-prebon-suit-accusing-bcg-partners-of-poaching-thrown-out-by-judge.html

          
          
             Tullett Prebon Plc , the inter-dealer
broker, lost a lawsuit accusing competitor  BGC Partners Inc.  of
a hiring raid on 77 of its partners that cost the U.K. firm
$387 million in market value.  
 U.S. District Judge  Stanley Chesler  in Newark, New Jersey
yesterday ruled Tullett had failed to include its allegedly
victimized U.S. units in the lawsuit and said the firm lacked a
stake in the matter that would allow it to pursue the case.  
 “Tullett U.K. is, at bottom, a shareholder of the affected
subsidiaries,” Chesler said, adding that the firm failed to
show it “meets the basic standing requirement that a plaintiff
may seek to vindicate only its own rights, not those of a third
party.”  
 London-based Tullett, a firm that matches securities trades
between banks, sued New York’s BGC Partners in October,
complaining BGC’s hiring of brokers from two units of Tullett in
the U.S. had diminished its market value.  
 Tullett said in its complaint it had sustained a $387
million loss in its market value from August when hiring raid
began through the end of the year. The company’s shares fell
28.2 percent during the period.  
 “BGC has shown no sign that it is willing to stop its
unlawful activity,” according to the complaint. Only a court
order directing BGC to end its “systematic destruction of
Tullett Prebon’s subsidiaries” would put an end to its attempts
to put Tullett Prebon “out of business.”  
 Considering Options  
 Tullett disagreed with the court’s decision and is
considering its options, firm spokesman  Nigel Szembel  in London
said in an e-mail.  
 “Judge Chesler’s opinion, which does not reach the merits
of Tullett’s claims, was in part based on the pendency of a
FINRA arbitration brought by Tullett’s subsidiaries against BGC
subsidiaries,” Szembel said. The case before the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority is unaffected by the decision, and
will go to trial soon, he said.  
 BGC spokesman  Robert Hubbell  declined to comment.  
 The case is Tullett Prebon Plc v. BGC Partners Inc.,
09cv5365, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        