-- Uribe's Shadow May Hang Over Santos Win in Colombia Presidential Election
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-06-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/uribe-s-shadow-may-hang-over-santos-win-in-colombia-presidential-election.html

          
          
             Colombian presidential candidate
 Juan Manuel Santos  may coast to victory in this weekend’s runoff
election. A bigger challenge in office will be escaping the
shadow of the kingmaker who helped get him there: President
 Alvaro Uribe .  
 Santos, who as Uribe’s  defense  minister delivered some of
the biggest blows in Colombia’s five-decade fight against
Marxist rebels,  won  47 percent of first-round votes May 30
against 21 percent for the Green Party’s  Antanas Mockus . Santos
was supported by 66.5 percent of those interviewed in a Gallup
Colombia poll taken June 5 to June 7, compared with 27.4 percent
for Mockus, a two-time Bogota mayor.  
 “One of Santos’ great challenges will be building autonomy
from Uribe without losing the benefits of being associated with
him,” said Elisabeth Ungar, director of Transparency for
Colombia, a Bogota-based anti-corruption group.  
 Uribe has an approval rating above 60 percent after eight
years in office, credited with cutting kidnapping by 93 percent
and boosting foreign investment five-fold to a  record  $10.6
billion in 2008.  
 With his legacy as one of Colombia’s most popular
presidents assured, the 57-year-old lawyer may not be content to
sit on the sidelines after handing power to his chosen heir,
said  Adam Isacson , senior associate at the Washington Office on
Latin America.  
 Santos’ Main Opponent  
 “If Uribe gives weekly media interviews and remains in the
public eye, it will be a dual-run government,” said Isacson,
who has led several U.S. congressional delegations to Colombia.
“Santos’ main opposition may not come from the left, but from
Uribe, if he doesn’t like what Santos does.”  
 Santos, as Uribe’s defense  minister  from 2006 to 2009,
oversaw the rescue in 2008 of 15 hostages held by the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, including French-
Colombian politician  Ingrid Betancourt  and three U.S. defense
contractors. He also ordered the raid into Ecuador that killed
the group’s second in command,  Raul Reyes .  
 While vowing to continue Uribe’s security policies, Santos
has emphasized his plan for creating jobs and spurring growth.
Colombia’s unemployment  rate , at 12.4 percent in April, is the
highest in South America. The International Monetary Fund
predicts the $242 billion economy will grow 2.25 percent this
year, the region’s second-worst performance after recession-
battered Venezuela.  
 Santos may not be willing to match Uribe’s intense
schedule, which includes town hall meetings every weekend in
remote, often rebel-besieged towns, Isacson said. The cousin of
the current vice president, Santos is the scion of the family
that founded Colombia’s biggest newspaper, Bogota’s  El Tiempo .  
 Short Honeymoon  
 “Santos’ honeymoon will be shorter because of the
comparisons he faces with Uribe,” Isacson said. “If he takes a
long weekend or doesn’t do the community broadcasts, he will be
compared unfavorably.”  
 Santos may also be dogged by the outgoing government’s
human-rights record, which Democratic leaders in the U.S.
Congress have cited as a reason for holding up approval of a
free-trade agreement reached in 2006.  
 As defense minister, Santos oversaw the army amid
allegations by prosecutors that soldiers murdered hundreds of
civilians and passed them off as rebels killed in combat. Santos
says he took unpopular decisions to punish those responsible and
bring their crimes to light, including firing 27 officers.  
 His Own Man  
 “From day one, this will be a Santos government,” the 58-
year-old candidate said in an interview June 12 aboard his
campaign airplane. “I won’t stop praising all that Uribe has
done, but I will have my own legacy to rid Colombia of the
stigma of violence we have faced for more than 40 years, to
bring down poverty and unemployment, and create the conditions
for a very competitive economy.”  
 Unlike the 58-year-old Mockus, who has  pledged  to raise
taxes on the rich to pay for improvements in education, Santos
says he’ll close loopholes to eliminate by 2014 a budget deficit
equal to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product. A former finance
minister who studied economics at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, Santos says he’ll boost economic
growth to 6 percent within two years.  
 Santos said his vice presidential choice of  Angelino Garzon , a former trade union leader and human rights advocate,
may soften criticisms that he and Uribe cut corners while
pursuing the FARC.  
 Uribe is banned by law from campaigning on Santos’ behalf.
Still, in interviews and speeches the past month, he’s urged
voters to stay with the “hen” that safeguards Colombia’s
“three little eggs” of prosperity, investor confidence and
social development.  
 Congressional Leverage  
 Santos may have more of an advantage in dealing with
Congress than his former boss. His La U party, with 28 seats, is
the biggest in the 102-seat  Senate . After the first round, he
won the endorsement of three other pro-Uribe parties with a
combined 40 seats. The Liberal Party, which had been the biggest
opposition bloc to Uribe’s government, is split on whether to
support Santos. Mockus’s Green Party has five seats.  
 “If Santos names a team of new faces to his government,
not Uribe people, then Colombia will move on to Santos
quickly,” said Monica Pachon, a political analyst at Bogota’s
Universidad de los Andes. “He has such strong political capital
in congress that he will be able to pass reforms quickly and
easily. That will help make him his own man.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Colombian presidential candidate Juan Manuel Santos speaks during a campaign stop in Cartagena, Colombia, Photographer: Alejandra Parra/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Santos is expected to win this weekend's runoff election  
                       
                         
                           Alejandra Parra/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Santos speaks to reporters on his plane. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Santos speaks to reporters on his plane. Photographer: Alejandra Parra/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
