-- Vedanta, China Nonferrous Mines Hit by Power Outage in Zambia
-- Obert Simwanza
-- 2010-06-18T13:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/vedanta-china-nonferrous-mines-among-those-hit-by-power-outage-in-zambia.html

          
          
               Vedanta Resources Plc ’s Konkola
copper project and China Nonferrous Metals Co.’s Mulyashi site
were among mines in Zambia hit by electricity blackouts across
the country after a fault at the Kariba North hydro power plant.  
 “This is a national emergency, there’s an outage all over
the country,” Rahul Kharkar, Vedanta’s head of corporate
affairs at Konkola, said in an interview by mobile phone today.
The blackout started at 10:15 a.m. local time, he said.  
 The failure of a circuit-breaker at the Kariba plant was
affecting most of the country, Zambia Electricity Supply Corp.
spokeswoman Lucy Zimba said by phone. “Mines have definitely
been affected but I can’t give the exact extent of it at this
stage,” Zambian Chamber of Commerce General Manager Frederick Bantubonse said from Kitwe, the nation’s second-largest city.  
 China Nonferrous interrupted mine work at its facility in
the country. “Extraction at the mine has been affected and now
we are only relying on standby generators,” spokesman Sydney
Chileya said by phone from Luanshya, about 185 miles north of
Lusaka. He wasn’t able to quantify the disruption.  
   Marc Ocskay , spokesman for Glencore International AG, which
also owns Zambian operations, declined to comment. First Quantum
President  Clive Newall , who oversees the Frontier copper mine in
the country, didn’t respond to e-mailed questions.  
 Kharkar said power had now been restored in parts of
Lusaka. “This is a gradual process of restoration,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        