-- Vodafone May Get Verizon Wireless Dividend Starting in 2012
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-18T12:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/vodafone-may-receive-verizon-wireless-dividend-payments-starting-in-2012.html

          
          
             Vodafone Group Plc , which hasn’t
received a  dividend  from its U.S. wireless joint venture since
2005, may start getting payments in 2012, according to partner
 Verizon Communications Inc.   
 Verizon Wireless may start paying the dividend after the
unit’s debt is paid off by 2011, Verizon Communications Chief
Financial Officer  John Killian  said in an interview with
Bloomberg News yesterday. “There’s a reasonable chance in 2012
we would begin to pay” dividends, he said, “assuming no
change in the structure of the business.”  
 Vodafone, which owns 45 percent of Verizon Wireless, has
been seeking a dividend from the unit that has been using funds
for other purposes -- primarily to cut debt.  Ivan Seidenberg ,
chief executive officer of Verizon Communications, which owns
the rest of the venture, has said he will only consider a
dividend once the wireless unit’s debt is paid off.  
 “This would have a transformative effect on Vodafone,
increasing free cash flow by over 30 percent,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sandford C Bernstein in London.  
 Vodafone shares rose  1.3 percent to 143.1 pence at 1:54
p.m. in London trading.  
 Verizon Wireless’s borrowings swelled when it bought
Alltel last year to become the largest U.S. mobile-phone
company, taking on more than $20 billion in debt. Verizon
Communications had more than $55 billion in long-term
borrowings at the end of last year.  
 Verizon Talks  
 Verizon Wireless will use its free cash flow to pay down
debt in the “near term,” Vodafone, the world’s largest
mobile-phone company, said June 2 in its annual report.
Vodafone spokesman  Simon Gordon  declined to comment on
Verizon’s remarks.  
 Verizon has held talks with Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, discussing options including a merger, buyout and
dividend payout from the unit’s profit, two people familiar
with the talks said in March.  
 “The suggestion of cash distributions appears to make a
deal between the two companies less likely,”  Bernstein ’s
Bienenstock said today.  
 The companies meet in December each year to discuss their
partnership, Killian said. “We control the decision,” he
said. “It’s a Verizon-controlled decision as to when we pay
the cash out and how much we pay.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        