-- Vornado Realty Said to Bid for Servicer CW Financial
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-06-18T15:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/vornado-realty-trust-said-to-make-offer-to-buy-loan-servicer-cw-financial.html

          
          
             Vornado Realty Trust  submitted a bid
to buy CW Financial Services, the parent of the second-largest
manager of delinquent U.S. commercial real estate loans,
according to a person with knowledge of the offer.  
 A winner for New York-based CW Financial may be selected in
the next week, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the bidding hasn’t been made public. Buyout firms Apollo
Global Management LP and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC,
which had made competing offers, are no longer seeking to buy
the company, according to two people familiar with the auction.  
 CWCapital Asset Management, a unit of  CW Financial , is the
special servicer of $144 billion of securitized real estate
loans, including more than $18 billion that are delinquent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has access to
valuable pricing and payment information, according to  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York.  
 “This would be a very strategic move by Vornado,” said
 Mohsin Meghji , a principal at New York-based restructuring firm
Loughlin Meghji & Co. and chief restructuring officer of Capmark
Financial Group Inc. “The competitive landscape for special
servicing is being reset and CW is one of the last large
platforms available.”  
 Roanne Kulakoff , a spokeswoman for New York-based Vornado,
declined to comment. Representatives for CW Financial and
Beekman Advisors in McLean, Virginia, which is running the
auction, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  
 Caisse de Depot  
 CW Financial is majority owned by a unit of Montreal-based
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest pension
fund manager. Francois Gaboury, spokesman for the Caisse’s Otera
Capital subsidiary, declined to comment on Vornado or other
potential bidders. An “announcement” on CW is being planned
for the end of the month, he said.  
 Vornado is the third-largest U.S. real estate investment
trust by market value. It is among the biggest owners of office
buildings in New York and Washington, and it also owns retail
properties nationwide. Its properties include New York’s 1 and 2
Penn Plaza, Chicago’s Merchandise Mart, and the Crystal City
complex in Northern Virginia.  
 The company had $789 million of  cash  and cash equivalents
at the end of the first quarter, according to its most recent
quarterly  filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 When commercial mortgages are packaged into securities, a
special servicer is assigned to manage the assets and help
direct a restructuring if the loans become troubled.  
 ‘Driver’s Seat’  
 “Owning a firm like CW gives access to information on a
lot of troubled loans as well as an established platform for
originating new ones,” Thypin said. “That puts the owner in
the driver’s seat and in control of distressed real estate that
they may want for themselves.”  
 LNR Partners Inc. of Miami Beach, Florida, the largest
special servicer, has been assigned about $181 billion of
securitized debt, including almost $24 billion of delinquent
assets, according to Bloomberg data.  
 LNR Property Corp., the unit’s parent owned by Cerberus
Capital Management LP, hired Lazard Ltd. to help restructure as
much as $1 billion of debt, people familiar with the matter said
on Jan. 14. A restructuring of LNR could result in Vornado
owning a stake in the company because it holds some if its
mezzanine debt, a person familiar with the holding said.  
 Vornado listed the carrying amount of that debt, with the
borrower named as Riley HoldCo Corp., at $74.4 million in its
quarterly regulatory filing.  
 The Wall Street Journal reported Vornado’s potential stake
in LNR last week.  
 Third Servicer Sale  
 CWCapital would be the third special servicer to change
hands since December. Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC bought
Capmark Financial’s loan-servicing and mortgage-lending business
for $468 million in December. Island Capital Group LLC, the New
York-based firm run by real estate investor  Andrew Farkas ,
agreed in March to buy the special-servicing and debt-fund unit
of Centerline Holding Co. for about $50 million in cash and $60
million in assumed debt.  
 CWCapital’s largest troubled loan is $3 billion of debt on
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Manhattan’s biggest apartment complex, which is
facing foreclosure, was purchased for $5.4 billion by Tishman
Speyer Properties LP and BlackRock Inc. near the top of the
market in 2006.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        