-- Vuvuzela Makers Struggle to Keep Pace Amid World Cup Fever
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-18T15:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/vuvuzela-makers-struggle-to-keep-pace-with-demand-amid-world-cup-fever.html

          
          
             Vuvuzelas, the yard-long plastic
horns deafening fans in South Africa’s World Cup soccer
stadiums, have become one the country’s fastest-selling sports
items, leaving manufacturers struggling to keep up with demand.  
 “Before sales averaged 20,000 a month but two weeks before
the World Cup we started selling 20,000 a day,” said Clinton
Currie, 36, who runs the Johannesburg-based  Vuvuzela Branding
Company , which has reached its production capacity. With up to
70 percent of his patented vuvuzelas being sold internationally
in countries including the U.K., Brazil and Portugal, Currie
says demand has been “unbelievable” and may continue with
orders coming in for the months after the tournament ends.  
 The plastic horn, the Zulu name of which means “to make a
loud noise,” costs anything from 12.50 rand ($1.65) at discount
retailers to 60 rand on the streets of Johannesburg where
informal traders expect buyers to haggle. There are at least
four manufacturers of vuvuzelas in South Africa as well as a
number of Chinese competitors. The beginnings of the product are
unclear and no one supplier can claim to sell the original item.  
 “Our Vuvuzelas are 95 percent sold out and suppliers are
battling to keep up with demand,” said  Tamra Veley , spokeswoman
for  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd.,  South Africa’s second-biggest
retailer by sales. “Sales have already exceeded the 70,000
mark, making it the fourth-biggest selling World Cup item at
Pick n Pay. Trading cards have been our biggest seller, followed
by flags, soccer balls and vuvuzelas.”  
 Orchestra, Ring Tones  
 The term “vuvuzela” was No. 5 on Google’s list of “Hot
Topics” in the U.S. today, with the search term showing almost
6 million options. The use of the horns at South African soccer
matches has increased in recent years, prompting the creation of
a  vuvuzela orchestra  and  applications  for  Apple Inc’s  iPhone
that allow users to “blow” their phones to mimic the
instrument’s sound.  
 The noisy horns, which are being sold around the world by
distributors such as  Amazon.com Inc , could have a device
inserted into its mouthpiece to make it quieter, Currie said. A
blast from a vuvuzela can reach 127 decibels, making it louder
than a lawnmower. The alteration is not worth it, he added,
because soccer-loving South Africans will modify them and make
them even louder by extending their length.  
 “I’ve got to admit, I’m softening” to the vuvuzela,
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said in an interview yesterday in
Cape Town, where he is promoting London’s bid to host the 2018
World Cup. “There is no question it creates a unique
atmosphere. It’s maybe something that isn’t readily transferable
to other countries, if I can put it as tactfully as I can.”  
 Currie’s single biggest order has come from  Coca-Cola Co. 
which wants 200,000 branded horns for its outlets at the  FIFA
Fan Fest  parks across South Africa’s nine provinces.  Absa Group
Ltd. , the country’s third-largest bank by market value, has also
been a big customer, Currie said.  
 J Sainsbury Plc ’s Chief Executive Officer,  Justin King ,
said on a call with journalists on June 16 that the U.K.’s
third-largest supermarket chain bought 70,000 vuvuzelas and had
sold 50,000 before the end of the first week of the World Cup.
The horns are selling for 2 pounds ($2.96) each at Sainsbury,
which King said is the only U.K. supermarket to stock them.  
 “It’s a sign of the robustness of the London economy,”
Johnson said. “There is always an entrepreneur who will make
money out of the robustness of the brilliant new thing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A woman blows a vuvuzela horn before watching the South Africa vs. Uruguay game at the Silverstar Casino in Muldersdrift during the 2010 World Cup football tournament. Photographer: Stan Honda/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
