-- WaMu, Extended Stay, Rangers, Chemtura: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-18T13:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/washington-mutual-ciena-visteon-remedial-yantai-chemtura-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             It’s unclear whether  Washington
Mutual Inc. (WM)  or its stockholders scored a victory yesterday when
a bankruptcy judge in Tacoma,  Washington , sent back to  Delaware 
a dispute over whether WaMu should convene a shareholders’
meeting.  
 The saga began in April when U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F.
Walrath in Delaware allowed shareholders of the bank holding
company to file suit to compel holding a meeting. The
shareholders oppose WaMu’s Chapter 11 plan and the global
settlement it includes. Presumably, they would elect a new slate
of directors who could abandon the plan and settlement.  
 Allowing a move toward a shareholders’ meeting is unusual
in bankruptcy cases. Judges often deny similar efforts for fear
new managers will disrupt an advanced reorganization.  
 With Walrath’s permission, shareholders sued in Washington
state court to compel the meeting. WaMu responded by having the
suit removed to U.S. district court in Washington where the case
was then referred to a bankruptcy judge.  
 In a courtroom ruling yesterday, the Washington bankruptcy
judge granted WaMu’s motion and transferred the case to Walrath,
court records show.  
 Significantly, the Washington judge did not decide a motion
the shareholders made to remand the case to the Washington state
court. With the remand motion undecided, Walrath conceivably
could send the dispute back to state court on the theory that
it’s governed by state law. Or, WaMu could ask Walrath to put
the suit on hold because she’s close to approving a disclosure
statement and allowing creditors to vote on the reorganization
plan.  
 At a hearing yesterday, Walrath was to decide a separate
motion by shareholders seeking appointment of an examiner to
investigate the merits of the proposed settlement with the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Walrath
put off the hearing while the parties discuss documents to turn
over to the shareholders.  
 Walrath also postponed a hearing for approval of the
disclosure statement until July 8. For Bloomberg coverage on
yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 The settlement and plan confirmation would enable WaMu to
distribute more than $7 billion to creditors. To read about the
settlement, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  
 Shareholders and bank bondholders believe WaMu and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are giving up too cheaply and
should continue lawsuits with JPMorgan.  
 The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank was the sixth-largest depository and credit-card
issuer in the U.S. and the largest bank failure in the country’s
history. The holding company filed formal lists of assets and
debt showing property with a total value of $4.485 billion
against liabilities of $7.832 billion.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Starwood May Be Out of the Running for Extended Stay  
 The fight to take over Extended Stay Inc. may be over as a
result of a hearing yesterday in New York bankruptcy court.  
 Hotel operator Starwood Capital Group LLC participated in
the auction and lost to the $3.93 billion cash offer from
Centerbridge Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP. (BX) 
Attempting to keep its takeover hopes alive, Starwood described
a rival plan this week it valued at some $4.8 million, although
it would include only $700 million cash.  
 At yesterday’s hearing, the bankruptcy judge said he was
“not inclined” to allow Starwood to file a competing plan.  
 The bankruptcy judge yesterday ruled in favor of approving
the disclosure statement explaining Extended Stay’s plan
incorporating the sale to the Centerbridge group. The judge
settled on July 20 as the date for the confirmation hearing to
approve the plan.  
 Before the hearing, Starwood and the creditors’ committee
filed a motion for permission to file a plan. The judge said he
would hear the motion on July 20, the same day as the
confirmation hearing.  
 Starwood’s lawyer said during the hearing that it was
dropping its contention that the auction was conducted
improperly. To read Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click
here. To read details of Starwood’s plan, click here for the
June 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The Starwood plan would
allow a greater recovery for holders of $3.3 billion in
mezzanine debt, who would receive little to nothing under the
Extended Stay plan.  
 The Starwood plan also would provide eventual full recovery
on $175 million in subordinated mortgages whose holders would
get little under the company plan.  
 For details about the company’s plan and the auction that
the Centerbridge group won, click here to read the June 10
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition last June listed assets
of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion, including
$4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10 different
mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of mid-priced extended-stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are almost all managed by HVM LLC, an
affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York ( Manhattan ).  
 Lenders to Be Paid $256 Million under Rangers Plan  
 The  Texas Rangers  professional baseball club filed an
amended reorganization plan yesterday to satisfy objections
raised by the official creditors’ committee. The accompanying
disclosure statement, also revised, tells secured lenders they
can expect eventually to recover $256 million on their $525
million in claims.  
 The papers were revised in part to be utilized if the
bankruptcy judge decides that creditors are entitled to vote.
Even if there must be a ballot, the papers still anticipate a
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan on July 9.  
 The Rangers take the position that the plan pays all
creditors in full, so no one is entitled to vote. The revised
plan provides for paying post-bankruptcy interest on secured and
unsecured claims, thus removing an objection raised by the
creditors’ committee who said they were entitled to vote for
lack of interest.  
 The newly revised disclosure statement breaks down the uses
of cash under the acquisition where a group led by team
President Nolan Ryan will buy the club in a transaction valued
at $575 million. At closing, the cash consideration is nominally
$304 million.  
 After adjustment, the actual cash payment is $287.6
million. From that amount, $30 million will be held in escrow
for one year to cover any indemnification obligations owing to
the purchasing group.  
 The secured lenders will receive $75 million plus interest
when the plan is implemented, directly on account of their
secured claims. The lenders also hold liens on the general and
limited partnership interests in the team.  The disclosure
statement says that the lenders when the plan becomes effective
will initially receive $123 million on account of the equity
interest, plus the $30 million one year later if there are no
claims on the escrow. The total amount secured lenders are
expected ultimately to receive under the plan is $256 million,
according to the disclosure statement.  
 At a hearing yesterday, the bankruptcy judge said he would
decide later if the team’s lawyers, Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP,
and financial advisers,  Perella Weinberg  Partners, have
conflicts of interest that bar their representing the company in
Chapter 11. The U.S. Trustee argued to the judge that the two
firms’ representations of team affiliates and participation in
transactions before bankruptcy render them ineligible in Chapter
11.  
 The judge also deferred ruling on whether he would approve
a $1.5 million fee for Perella Weinberg on completion of a sale
or restructuring. The argument was made that the firm performed
most of the work before bankruptcy so the success fee should be
a pre-bankruptcy claim rather than a cost of the Chapter 11
case. It won’t matter if the plan eventually gives complete
payment on unsecured claims because Perella Weinberg would be
paid in full no matter what.  
 The judge, Michael Lynn, didn’t say at yesterday’s hearing
when he would rule on several contested issues that were argued
at a hearing earlier this week. The judge will decide whether
creditors are entitled to vote and whether the lenders are
entitled to oppose the plan by standing in the shoes of the
general and limited partners. He will also rule on the adequacy
of the disclosure statement.  
 For Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.
For details on the proposed plan and sale, click here for the
May 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The team filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 to complete the
sale to the Nolan Ryan group since the lenders wouldn’t consent.
The Rangers moved from Washington to  Texas  in 1972. The team
defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009. This
writer’s brother is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders.  
 The partnership that owns the team, Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners, said in the petition that assets and debt are both
less than $500 million.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Chemtura Files Potential Full-Payment Chapter 11 Plan  
 Specialty-chemical maker  Chemtura Corp. (CEM)  filed a
reorganization plan yesterday, supported by the official
creditors’ committee. The plan may pay all creditors in full
while holding the potential for providing some value to existing
shareholders, the company said in a statement. The plan is
designed to reduce debt for borrowed money to about $750 million
from $1.3 billion, according to the accompanying disclosure
statement.  
 If existing shareholders vote in favor of the plan, they
will receive 5 percent of the new stock, plus the right to
participate in a $100 million rights offering to buy more stock.
The disclosure statement says that the official committee
representing stockholders isn’t in agreement on the plan. Talks
nonetheless continue, the company statement said.  
 The pool of unsecured claims is made up of general
unsecured creditors with claims totaling a maximum of $249
million. In addition, there are $120.2 million in unsecured
lenders’ claims and $1.03 billion in unsecured notes.  
 Unsecured creditors as a group will receive the new stock,
less 5 percent if shareholders go along with the plan. If
stockholders fully participate in the rights offering, unsecured
creditors also will receive the $100 million in cash proceeds.  
 Given an assumed enterprise value of $2.05 billion for the
reorganized company, unsecured creditors should be paid in full
with the stock and cash. If stockholders vote against the plan,
unsecured creditors are anticipated to realize about 83 percent
of their recoveries through the stock, with the remainder coming
from available cash.  
 If stockholders provide the $100 million through the rights
offering, unsecured creditors’ recovery through stock would be
reduced to the neighborhood of 80 percent, with the remainder in
cash.  
 Chemtura also signed a plan-support agreement with the
creditors’ committee and an ad hoc group composed of holders of
$770 million of the notes. The bankruptcy judge in New York is
scheduled to consider approving the agreement at a July 13
hearing.  
 The agreement precludes a participating creditor from
selling a claims unless the buyer agrees to support the plan.
The company will pay the noteholders $7 million to reimburse
their costs. The company also agree not to modify the plan
unless the creditors’ committee consents, along with holders of
at least 50 percent of the participating notes.  
 Chemtura received an extension until Sept. 18 of the
exclusive right to propose a reorganization plan.  
 The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales declined to
$2.5 billion in 2009 from $3.5 billion a year earlier. The
subsidiaries outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  
 The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Ciena, SBA Settle with Ares Capital, Allowing Plan  
 Ciena Capital LLC , its creditors’ committee, and the U.S.
Small Business Administration reached a settlement with the
parent  Ares Capital Corp. (ALD)  that will fund a 50 percent payment to
Ciena’s unsecured creditors.  
 Allied Capital Corp., a Washington-based lender that merged
with New York-based Ares in March, was sued in January 2009 by
Ciena’s creditors and the SBA. Among other things, the suit
sought to invalidate Allied’s claimed lien on $200 million of
Small Business Administration loans.  
 The settlement compromises the $325 million secured claim
originally asserted by Allied that now belongs to Ares as a
result of the merger. Ares will subordinate its claim and
security interest so collateral can be used for full payment on
$9 million in administrative, tax, and priority claims in
Ciena’s Chapter 11 case.  
 The hearing for approval of the settlement will be held
June 30 in U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan.  
 Ares will also allow about $16 million from the collateral
to be used to fund a 50 percent dividend for unsecured creditors
under a Chapter 11 plan.  
 Ciena was once the third-largest loan originator for the
SBA. It filed under Chapter 11 in September 2008 after discovery
that a Michigan employee was recording fraudulent loans. The
filing was designed to stop the SBA from terminating loan-
servicing rights.  
 The complaint alleged that Ciena, also a provider of
commercial factoring and financing for commercial real estate,
was holding $250 million of loans that had not yet been
securitized. Among them, $200 million were SBA loans that
allegedly secured $325 million of loans outstanding on the
Chapter 11 filing date.  
 Ciena and the SBA contended that federal law prohibited
giving a security interest in an SBA loan or servicing rights
unless the SBA consents.  
 Ciena and the committee extol the settlement as being more
beneficial than invalidating Ares’ security interest. Even if
the claim were unsecured, it would dwarf other unsecured
creditors and give Ares 85 percent of distributions under a
Chapter 11 plan.  
 Allied involuntarily became Ciena’s lender when it was
called on its guarantee and paid $320 million to the banks that
were then the lenders under Ciena’s revolving credit agreement.  
 Ciena’s formal lists of assets and debt showed assets of
$361 million against liabilities totaling $397 million,
including $325 million in secured claims.  
 The Ciena case is In re Ciena Capital LLC, 08-13783, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Visteon Financing Approved, Disclosure Hearing June 21  
 Auto parts maker  Visteon Corp. (VC)  won approval from the
bankruptcy judge yesterday for an agreement where bondholders
will raise $1.25 billion cash needed for confirmation of a
reorganization plan. The judge put off a ruling until June 21 on
whether he will approve the disclosure statement and allow
creditors to vote on the plan.  
 To read about the plan Visteon revised this week, click
here for the June 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The newest
plan would give shareholders 1.94 percent of the stock if they
vote in favor of the reorganization. The remainder of the plan
is much the same as before, although the amount of stock
received by other constituencies is changed to account for the
shareholders’ piece.  
 To read about the positions being taken by various parties
going into the hearing for approval of the disclosure statement,
click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. To read
about yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Remedial Says Yantai Raffles Slowing Sale of Vessels  
 Although Remedial (Cyprus) Public Co. Ltd. was given
authority by the bankruptcy judge in late May to sell its two
elevated support vessels for the offshore oil and gas industry,
the completion of the sale is being held up by a dispute with a
builder of one of the vessels.  
 Secured bondholders owed $230 million were authorized to
purchase the vessels in exchange for $120 million in debt plus
whatever is outstanding on the $5 million post-bankruptcy loan.
The bondholders must also pay costs to cure contract defaults.  
 Yantai Raffles Shipyard Ltd., the builder of one vessel,
claimed that the contract was terminated for breach. The
contract was to be one of the assets transferred in the sale.  
 The dispute is delaying completion of the sale.  
 Remedial said in a court filing that the buyers may take
advantage of a provision in the contract to complete one
purchase before the other.  
 In the meantime, Remedial says it needs an extension of the
exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan. The hearing on the
exclusivity motion will be held June 30.  
 At the June 30 hearing Remedial will also ask the judge to
approve an increase in financing from $5 million to $6.5
million. Financing for the Chapter 11 case comes from the
bondholders who are owed a net of $177 million, according to a
court filing.  
 Remedial needed Chapter 11 when a restructuring couldn’t be
implemented out of court.  
 The two vessels are under construction in  China . They are
scheduled for delivery this year. Where the cost originally was
projected to be $269 million, the price rose to $318 million.
The company said that assets were on the books for $157 million
with liabilities totaling $237 million. Unsecured creditors are
owed $11 million.  
 The case is In re Remedial (Cyprus) Public Co. Ltd., 10-
10782, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 Watch List  
 Publisher American Media Working on Noteholder Deal  
 American Media Inc., publisher of the Star and National
Enquirer, didn’t make the interest payment due May 1 on the 14
percent senior subordinated notes. Standard & Poor’s reported
that holders of 75 percent of the notes agreed to extend the due
date until June 21.  
 American Media disclosed a “pending confidential
transaction,” S&P said, without providing details. S&P said
that holders of the subordinated debt can expect a recovery from
nothing to no more than 10 percent.  
 Twice last year, the Boca Raton, Florida-based company
obtained relief from subordinated noteholders who allowed the
payment of interest with more notes. S&P said at the time that
the subordinated debt represented 32 percent of balance sheet
liabilities.  
 New Filing  
 Las Vegas Shopping Center Files in Wilmington  
 Charleston Associates LLC, the owner of part of the Shops
at Boca Park shopping center in Las Vegas, filed a Chapter 11
petition yesterday in Delaware, blaming problems on the
“current and prolonged economic recession.”  
 The center, located at the intersection of Charleston and
Rampart in Las Vegas, lost two anchor tenants in the last two
years. In addition to lower rent basic collections, decreased
mall traffic reduced revenue by depressing so-called percentage
rent.  
 Charleston’s property is situated 20.4 acres. Currently,
85.2 percent of the space is rented, although some is vacant.  
 The petition listed the property as being worth $92.3
million, against $65.1 million liabilities. Debt includes $60.1
million in mortgages. The ownership of the mortgage is in a so-
called securitization. The nominal owner of the mortgage is
Mortgage Electronic Registration Inc.  
 The case is In re Charleston Associates LLC, 10-11970, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Sam Zell to Be Deposed in Fight over Tribune Plan  
 Sam Zell will be examined under oath by lawyers for holders
of $1.6 billion in debt owing by newspaper publisher Tribune Co.
They are among creditors opposing Tribune’s Chapter 11 plan,
which would settle fraudulent transfer claims allegedly arising
from the $13.8 billion leveraged buyout that Zell led in
December 2007. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here. Creditors
are voting on the plan in advance of an Aug. 16 confirmation
hearing.  
 The plan, filed in April, is opposed by holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy debt who announced their opposition
even before the settlement was formally disclosed. To read about
the plan, the proposed settlement, and the parties’ arguments,
click here for the April 13 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 BP, Extended Stay, Las Vegas Strip Property: Audio  
 BP Plc (BP/) , Extended Stay Inc. and FX Luxury Las Vegas I LLC
are the bankruptcy cases covered in the latest bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  
 Downgrade  
 A&P Demoted to CCC+ Corporate on Refinancing Risk  
 Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. was downgraded one notch
yesterday by Standard & Poor’s to a CCC+ corporate grade, in
part due to concern about  debt maturities  in 2011.  
 S&P in addition is concerned about multiemployer pension
debt, “limited free cash flow generation, and geographic
concentration.” The new S&P rating is one level higher than the
demotion issued in April by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 S&P predicts that senior secured noteholders would recover
up to 50 percent in the event of payment default. For unsecured
debt, the new rating is CCC- coupled with a judgment that the
recovery will range between nothing and 10 percent.  
 S&P calculates A&P as having $3.5 billion of adjusted debt
in February.  
 A&P reported a $876 million net loss and an $802 million
loss from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended in
February, on sales of $8.81 billion. The loss from operations in
the year was $600.6 million.  
 The balance sheet is upside down, with total assets of
$2.82 billion and total liabilities of $3.22 billion in
February.  
 Montvale, New Jersey-based A&P had 429 stores in February,
mostly in New York, New Jersey, and  Pennsylvania .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        