-- Wind's Bonds Trade Near Record Low on Concern It Can't Meet Debt Payments
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-06-18T13:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/wind-s-bonds-trade-near-record-low-on-concern-it-can-t-meet-debt-payments.html

          
          
             Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA’s
bonds are trading near record lows as concerns escalate Greece’s
third largest mobile phone operator can’t meet debt payments.  
 The company’s 356 million euros ($440 million) of 8.5
percent notes due 2013 fell to 5 percent of face value, close to
their lowest level of 4 percent on June 16, according to prices
provided by HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 “A restructuring looks unavoidable at this point,” said
 Robert Jaeger , high-yield analyst at Societe Generale CIB in
London, who recommends holding the bonds. ”With another default
situation possible in the very near-term, Wind Hellas may have
to act before the end of the month.”  
 Investors should sell any Wind Hellas bonds they own
analysts at UniCredit SpA in Munich said today. Wind Hellas
began talks with creditors, it said June 14, because of a slump
in sales and earnings in April and May caused by the
government’s austerity measures. The Athens-based company
emerged from bankruptcy seven months ago after renegotiating 3.2
billion euros of debt through the U.K. bankruptcy courts.  
 The company’s debt was cut yesterday to a step away from
default to C by Fitch Ratings. Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded its assessment June 16 to Caa3, nine levels below
investment-grade and three notches from default.  
 The company has about 35 million euros in cash and could be
in breach of a 25 million-euro liquidity covenant on its loans
by June 30, Jaeger said. It faces bond payments of about 40
million euros at the end of June and middle of July, according
to Fitch.  
 “Even if it meets the June liquidity covenant, it risks
running out of cash over the next few months, if April and May
operating trends continue,” Jaeger said.  
 Wind Hellas said it retained Morgan Stanley, White & Case
and Karatzas & Partners as advisers and they are in discussions
with creditor groups and its shareholder Weather Investments
SpA. Weather Investments is the holding company for Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        