-- Woods, Mickelson Fail to Make First-Round Birdies at `Difficult' U.S. Open
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-06-18T14:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/woods-mickelson-fail-to-make-first-round-birdies-at-difficult-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson , the
world’s two best golfers, failed to make a single birdie during
the opening round of the  U.S. Open . They weren’t the only ones
struggling at  Pebble Beach .  
 “No one is making a lot of putts out there,” Woods, 34,
told reporters after yesterday’s first round. “You just can’t.
It’s playing very tricky.”  
 After 156 golfers spent more than 12 hours on the oceanside
California course, only nine managed to break par in golf’s
second major tournament of the year.  Shaun Micheel ,  Paul Casey 
and Brendon de Jonge are tied for the lead at 2-under-par 69.  
 Woods shot 3-over par 74 and failed to make a birdie for
the first time in one of golf’s four majors since the 2003
Masters Tournament and just the third time in his career.
Mickelson finished at 4-over, going birdie-less for the first
time in the event in three years.  
 “It just was very frustrating for me,” said Mickelson,
who posted his highest opening score since the 1997 U.S. Open at
Congressional Country Club in Maryland.  
 Second-round play started today under cloudy skies with
light winds.  
 Mike Weir  and  K.J. Choi  shot 1-under 70s and are in a group
one stroke behind the leaders.  Ian Poulter ,  Alex Cejka ,  Ryo Ishikawa  and Rafael Cabrera-Bello also shot 70s.  
 Micheel, an American whose lone professional win came in
the 2003 PGA Championship, had five birdies and three bogeys
during his opening round. After tying for fourth place at last
week’s St. Jude Classic in Memphis, Micheel said he’s motivated
to play well for his mother, Donna, who was diagnosed with
cancer last year and is unable to attend the U.S. Open.  
 “It’s tough. I’m trying to play for her,” Micheel said in
a televised interview while fighting back tears. “It’s nice to
be able to play for somebody else. It’s usually just about me. I
love my mom. What do you say? She’s hanging in there.”  
 Micheel and Casey  
 Micheel and Britain’s Casey birdied the par-5 18th hole to
tie for the lead. Casey, 32, is ranked ninth in the world, yet
has only one win in the U.S.  
 De Jonge, of Zimbabwe, is playing in his first U.S. Open
and had four birdies, four bogeys and the lone eagle of the day
at the par-5 14th hole.  
 While Mickelson, 40, praised the U.S. Golf Association for
a “very fair” course setup, he blamed himself and balky
putting for his score.  
 “There’s something off,” he said. “The ball is not
starting on my line. I’ll have to work on it. Fortunately, I
have a lot of time to do that.”  
 Mickelson, a five-time U.S. Open runner-up, is scheduled to
begin his second round today at 4:36 p.m. New York time. Woods
tees off at 11:06 a.m. With fewer players on the course early in
the day, Woods said he hopes the “bouncy” conditions of the
course’s Poa annua grass putting surfaces improve.  
 ‘Bouncing All Over’  
 “The greens are just awful,” Woods said. “It’s Poa. So
you know they’re going to be bouncing all over the place.”  
 On the first day, Pebble Beach lived up to its reputation
as one of golf’s most difficult venues. In the previous four
U.S. Opens staged at the course, the first-round leader never
has led by more than one shot.  
 “The course never lets up,” said South African  Tim Clark ,
who shot 1-over. “You never know where the birdies or bogeys
are going to come from.”  
 For Mickelson, who has a chance this weekend to follow up
on his win at April’s  Masters  and surpass Woods as the world’s
No. 1 golfer, the bogeys came quickly.  
 After beginning play on the 10th hole, he made three
straight bogeys on 16, 17 and 18 -- where he launched his second
shot from the first cut of rough on the right side of the
fairway into the Pacific Ocean on the left.  
 ‘Trying to Hook’  
 “I was trying to hook it,” the left-hander said of the
252-yard shot that started out over the water and never came
back to the fairway.  
 Mickelson also missed birdie putts from about five feet on
the sixth, 14th and 15th holes.  
 “It’s just frustrating because I came in here prepared. I
came here ready,” he said. “I gave myself a lot of birdie
opportunities and putted terrible.”  
 The Masters champion began the tournament the 15-2 favorite
to take his fifth major title by U.K. bookmaker  William Hill
Plc ;  Woods , a three-time U.S. Open winner, was second choice at
8-1. Mickelson finished tied for 16th the last time the U.S.
Open was played at Pebble Beach in 2000. Woods won that year by
a record 15 shots.  
 Woods started his round with eight straight pars before
making his first bogey at the par-4 ninth when he three-putted.
He was heckled after his tee shot on that hole by a fan who
yelled, “It is our business, Tiger. You made it our business.”  
 No Impact  
 When asked by a reporter about the status of his marriage
earlier this week, Woods said it was “none of your business.”
While he admitted to hearing the fan’s comment, Woods said it
didn’t impact his play.  
 Woods, the winner of 14 major tournaments, hasn’t won an
event since a November car accident led to his admission of
marital infidelity. He last claimed a major title at the 2008
U.S. Open at  Torrey Pines  in California.  
 Woods closed yesterday’s round with bogeys at the 16th and
18th holes. He flipped his wedge to the ground on No. 18 after
his chip from off the green led to a dropped shot.  
 “It’s the U.S. Open. It’s going to be difficult,” said
Woods. “You just have to be patient. I felt like I was hitting
good shots, it was just tough out there.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Buteau  and
 Erik Matuszewski  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net  and
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        