-- Tiger Woods Tested by Pebble Beach Second Day at U.S. Open Championship
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-18T22:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/woods-tested-by-pebble-beach-for-second-day-at-u-s-open-golf-tournament.html

          
          
             Tiger Woods  didn’t find this
morning’s conditions at  Pebble Beach  any kinder than during
yesterday’s afternoon round.  
 A day after saying that the  U.S. Open  course’s Poa annua
putting surfaces were “bouncy” and “awful” during his 3-
over-par opening round, Woods took the course today on freshly
cut greens, facing little wind.  
 The result was only slightly better.  
 Seeking his fourth U.S. Open title, Woods shot 1-over-par
72 and sits three shots inside the projected 36-hole cut line of
7 over. The low 60 scores and ties, plus others within 10 shots
of the lead, qualify for the two weekend rounds.  
 “I feel good,” Woods told reporters after his round.
“I’m right there. As we know, the U.S. Open is only going to
get tougher as the weekend goes. It’s a long haul.”  
 Woods trails leader  Graeme McDowell  by seven shots. His
biggest two-round comeback to win a major was six shots at the
2005  Masters Tournament .  
 “A guy that’s won 14 majors, he’s got a lot of game,”
 Ernie Els , one of Woods’s playing partners for the first two
rounds, told reporters. “He looks pretty sharp. I think it’s
only a matter of time before he starts getting in his stride.”  
 Through two rounds of the 2000 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach,
which he won by a record 15 shots, Woods held a six-shot lead at
8-under par over  Thomas Bjorn  and  Miguel Angel Jimenez .  
 Beginning today’s round on the oceanside California
course’s 10th hole, Woods hit an errant tee shot that struck a
fan on the left side of the fairway. He saved par with a putt
from about four feet.  
 Five Shots Back  
 The world’s No. 1-ranked golfer then avoided having to putt
on the par-4 11th when he chipped in from about 10 yards in
front of the green for his first birdie of the tournament. At
that time, Woods sat five shots off the lead.  
 Whatever momentum Woods might have had came to a halt when
his tee shot on the par-3 12th came to rest in a greenside
bunker, leading to his fifth bogey of the tournament.  
 Els, a two-time U.S. Open winner who was paired with Woods
and Britain’s  Lee Westwood  for the second straight day,
described the course conditions as improved from a day earlier.  
 “This morning, the greens were a lot smoother and the pace
was quite nice,” the 40-year-old South African said. Els shot
3-under 68 today and is tied for second at 1 under with  Dustin Johnson  of the U.S. and  Ryo Ishikawa  of Japan.  
 Opportunity Lost  
 Woods swapped a birdie on the par-5 14th hole, where he
sank a putt from about six feet, with a bogey on the par-3 17th
after his tee shot landed in thick rough left of the green.  
 At even-par for the day through his first nine holes, Woods
reached the first tee with a chance to close ground on the
leaders. The opportunity proved fleeting. He bogeyed the par-4
second hole after his 3-wood off the tee came to rest against
the edge of a bunker on the right side of the fairway. From
there, Woods’s only option was to hit his ball sideways back to
the fairway.  
 Throughout the day, Woods chose not to use his driver on
many tee shots, opting for his shorter-flying and usually more
accurate 3-wood or an iron. The strategy failed him again on the
par-4 third hole when his 3-wood tee shot flew so far left it
was headed toward the course’s 16th green before hitting a tree
and bouncing down into thick rough about 20 yards left of the
fairway. He walked off the green with a second consecutive
bogey, nine shots off the lead at the time.  
 ‘Just Horrendous’  
 On his final hole of the day -- the 505-yard par-4 ninth --
Woods took his driver and hit his longest drive of the round,
leaving him with a short approach shot.  
 With a high-lofted club in his hand, Woods flew the ball
about 30 feet past the hole to the left, prompting NBC
television analyst  Johnny Miller  to proclaim, “That is just
horrendous.” Woods two-putted for a par.  
 With softer greens this morning, Woods and others playing
early often spun approach shots backward off the putting
surface, leading to longer putts.  
 “It was a totally different golf course,” Woods said. “I
know they put some water on it last night, and that’s probably
the last drink they will get. So it will firm up.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California, at 
   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        