-- World Bank Urges China to Use Rates to Manage Economy
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-18T03:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/world-bank-urges-china-to-use-exchange-interest-rates-to-manage-economy.html

          
          
             China should make more use of the
exchange rate and interest rates to help manage its economy and
reduce the risks from surging housing prices and overinvestment,
the World Bank said today.  
 A more flexible currency would give China’s leaders more
freedom to decide on monetary policy, the  World Bank  said in its
quarterly report on the Chinese economy released in Beijing. A
stronger currency would also help reduce inflation pressures by
lowering the cost of imports, and rebalance growth toward
consumption, the Washington-based development bank said.  
 China has kept the yuan pegged around 6.83 per dollar for
two years as it steered the world’s third-largest economy
through the global crisis. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has left interest
rates unchanged since December 2008, relying on administrative
measures and controls on lending to prevent overheating after
growth rebounded to 11.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 “More exchange-rate flexibility would make monetary policy
more independent,” allowing China “to raise  interest rates 
even when interest rates in high-income countries remain low,”
the World Bank said. The gap between borrowing costs and rates
of return on property and investment “is a fundamental driver
of overinvestment and real-estate speculation, which are very
difficult to contain without higher interest rates.”  
 U.S. Pressure  
 China is facing pressure to allow the yuan to rise from
U.S. lawmakers, who claim the undervalued currency gives its
exporters an unfair advantage. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New
York has said that the Senate would vote this month on a measure
aimed at pushing China to let the yuan appreciate.  
 The bill would require the Treasury Department to determine
if a nation has a currency misaligned with the U.S. dollar, and
would let companies seek import duties as compensation.  
 Chinese officials have hit back at the criticism and said
China will reform its exchange-rate mechanism based on global
developments and the needs of its own economy.  
 The World Bank estimates China’s gross domestic product
will increase by 9.5 percent this year and 8.5 percent in 2011.
 Growth  eased to 8.7 percent last year, the second consecutive
annual slowdown, hurt by the global financial crisis.  
 “Overall growth prospects remain solid and much less
uncertain than a year ago,” the World Bank said in today’s
report.  
 Economic Risks  
 Still, the economy faces risks from higher lending, rising
housing prices, the surge in debt taken on by local government
investment vehicles and rising non-performing loans at the
nation’s banks, according to the report.  
 The government should rein in the monetary expansion
started at the end of 2008 to support its 4 trillion-yuan ($585
billion) stimulus package, the World Bank said. New  lending 
climbed 30 percent last year to a record 9.59 trillion yuan and
officials have set a target of 7.5 trillion yuan for this year.  
 “A less accommodative overall monetary stance would also
reduce the need for tough property-related measures,
particularly if higher interest rates would be allowed to reduce
the fundamental drivers of rapid housing price increases,” the
report said.  
 “ Inflation  is likely to remain contained this year,” the
World Bank also said, estimating overall consumer prices will
rise by 3.7 percent during 2010. The government’s target is to
keep price gains within 3 percent for the year.  
 Wage Increases  
 Growth in wages due to labor disputes and government-
mandated minimum pay increases are “unlikely to set in motion
an unwarranted wage-inflation spiral” given the flexibility of
China’s labor market and the track record of manufacturers in
absorbing such gains, the World Bank said.  
 While inflation expectations have increased due to the
monetary expansion since the end of 2008, there is no upward
pressure on commodity and food prices globally and food
inflation in China will moderate, according to the report.  
 In the longer term, the pace of China’s growth is likely to
slow to an average of 8.4 percent from 2010 to 2015 and 7
percent in 2016 to 2020 from 9.6 percent between 1995 and 2009,
according to an analysis by the bank’s economists.  
 -- Nerys Avery  in Beijing. Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Lily Nonomiya   
 To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A more flexible currency would give China’s leaders more freedom to decide on monetary policy, the World Bank said. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Burns, manager of the World Bank’s Development Prospects Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the global economy.
     The World Bank raised its forecast for global growth this year and next, while acknowledging the risks posed by strained government budgets. The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year and by the same amount in 2011, up from January predictions of 2.7 percent for 2010 and 3.2 percent next year, the Washington-based institution forecast in a report yesterday. At the same time, the bank said it saw a "high probability" of a "more muted recovery" because of an acceleration to trim deficits. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
