-- Yamaha to Double Showrooms in India in 5 Years to Tap Rising Rural Demand
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-06-18T09:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/yamaha-to-double-india-motorcycle-dealers-in-5-years-to-tap-rural-demand.html

          
          
             Yamaha Motor Co. , the world’s
second-biggest motorcycle maker, plans to double the number of
its sales outlets in India in the next five years to tap demand
in villages as economic growth boosts incomes.  
 India Yamaha Motor Pvt.  may increase showrooms to 2,000,
mostly in small towns and rural hubs,  Koji Arai , director and
chief sales officer, said yesterday in an interview in Surajpur,
near New Delhi.  
 The country, Asia’s third-biggest economy, is spending more
to build roads connecting villages and improve electricity,
phone and health care. The infrastructure investments and rising
prices for farm produce are boosting rural incomes. Yamaha is
following  Hero Honda Motors Ltd. , India’s largest motorcycle
maker, to expand in the countryside, where 70 percent of the
nation’s more than 1.1 billion people live.  
 “The next strong demand for motorcycles could only happen
in rural and semi-urban areas as people in urban centers shift
to cars,” said  Mayur Milak , an automobile industry analyst at
Alchemy Share & Stock Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai. “The only issue
will be branding, because typically it is word-of-mouth
publicity that works and Hero Honda has an advantage in this.”  
 Rising Sales  
 Industrywide motorcycle sales advanced 26 percent to 7.3
million units in the year ended March 31, according to the
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Yamaha sold 223,305
units locally in the period, according to the group. Hero Honda,
which sold 58 percent of the total in the period, gets about 40
percent of its sales from villages, the company said in March.  
 About 10 percent of the people living in villages in India
own a motorcycle, compared with the national average of 18
percent, local brokerage Batlivala & Karani Securities Ltd. said
in a report in February.  
 Yamaha  fell 0.5 percent to 1,284 yen in Tokyo. The shares
have gained 10 percent this year.  
 India Yamaha Motor, which is 70 percent owned by Iwata
City, Japan-based Yamaha, targets an increase in sales from
small towns and rural areas to as much as 30 percent of the
total in the next five years, from about 15 percent now, Arai
said, without saying how many units the company will sell.  
 “In order to do well, we need to increase the breadth and
spread of our network,” said Pankaj Dubey, national business
head at India Yamaha. “First you have to make motorcycles
available and only then sales can happen.”  
 Retail Network  
 The company is refurbishing some of the existing outlets in
small towns and rural hubs and adding new ones called Yamaha
Bike Corners, organizing free motorcycle service camps and test
rides, Dubey said.  
 “Word of mouth is very important in rural India,” said
Arai. “So we are taking good care of our existing customers.”  
 India Yamaha Motor, which can produce 600,000 motorcycles a
year, is considering selling scooters in India, Arai said,
declining to provide details.  
 The convenience of driving scooters that shift gears
automatically is attracting more women and will help growth of
the segment, Arai said.  
 Sales of scooters rose 27 percent to 1.46 million units in
the year ended March 31, according to the industry group.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A man drives a Yamaha Motor Co. YZF-R15 motorcycle on a road in New Delhi. Yamaha plans to double the number of its sales outlets in India in the next five years. Photographer: Prashanth Vishwanathan/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Koji Arai of India Yamaha Motor  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Koji Arai, director and chief sales officer of India Yamaha Motor, speaking during an interview in Surajpur, on Thursday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Koji Arai, director and chief sales officer of India Yamaha Motor, speaking during an interview in Surajpur, on Thursday. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
