-- Yemen LNG to Honor Supply Deals With GDF, Total, Korea Gas, CEO Rafin Says
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-06-18T09:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/yemen-lng-to-honor-supply-deals-with-gdf-total-korea-gas-ceo-rafin-says.html

          
          
             Yemen LNG Co. will honor its
liquefied natural gas contracts with buyers including  Total SA ,
GDF Suez SA and  Korea Gas Corp. , an official said, after the
Middle Eastern state proposed to review them.  
 “They are long-term contracts which are binding and will
continue to be respected,”  François Rafin , managing director of
Yemen LNG, said by telephone from Paris today. “The three
contracts are priced at market prices.” He declined to give
details on the prices, citing confidentiality agreements.  
 Yemeni President  Ali Abdullah Saleh  ordered a review of LNG
contracts signed between Yemen LNG and customers to bring them
in line with current gas prices, the official Saba news agency
reported on June 15.  
 Yemen has turned to gas as an alternative to oil, the
source of 75 percent of its income. Crude production may drop to
260,000 barrels a day this year from 440,000 barrels a day in
2001, according to U.S. Energy Department data.  
 GDF Suez is the plant’s biggest customer at 2.55 million
metric tons of the fuel a year, followed by Korea Gas and Total
at 2 million tons each, according to data on the  website  of
Yemen LNG.  
 Total owns 39.6 percent of the 6.7 million ton-a-year Yemen
LNG plant, with other major stakeholders including state-run
Yemen Gas Co. having 16.7 percent, Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co.
17.2 percent and Korea Gas 6 percent, according to Yemen LNG’s
 website .  
 Revenue Security  
 One of the three 20-year LNG contracts has a floor and
ceiling price, which was sought to ensure security of revenue to
repay the loans for the project, Rafin said. He declined to talk
about “market prices” and said that these are “markers” that
are quoted on a daily basis.  
 Korea Gas spokesman Lee Kwa Hyung was unable to comment
yesterday on the Yemen government’s decision as he couldn’t
reach the LNG import team. Korea Gas paid about $193 a ton, or
about $3.67 per million British thermal units, for a cargo from
Yemen this year, according to  customs data . That compares with
an average of $689 a ton the country paid for Qatari supplies.  
 “The Asian market was deliberately selected to ensure
security of revenues at times when the U.S. gas market price
might be depressed,” according to a posting on the website.
“The U.S. market is expected to remain an attractive market for
Yemen LNG due to high gas demand, which will provide significant
additional revenues to Yemen.”  
 Natural gas for July delivery traded at $5.138 per million
Btu, down 0.5 percent, on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
4:41 p.m. in Singapore. Prices were as high as $13.577 in July
2008.  
 The Energy Department reduced its forecast for 2010 U.S.
LNG imports by 9.6 percent as rising supplies of domestic gas
from unconventional sources such as shale and higher prices in
Europe and Asia reduce the U.S. appetite for the fuel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        