-- Euro Has Biggest Weekly Gain Since May 2009 on European Debt Concern Eases
-- Ben Levisohn
-- 2010-06-18T21:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/yen-advances-versus-dollar-euro-on-japan-s-growth-deficit-reduction-plan.html

          
          
             The euro had its biggest weekly gain
against the greenback in 13 months as stock markets rallied and
concern over Europe’s debt crisis eased.  
 The common currency appreciated versus the yen as increased
demand yesterday at a Spanish bond sale and an agreement by
European Union leaders to disclose how banks perform on stress
tests damped investor concern about the region’s financial
system. The dollar fell versus the yen as Japan’s ruling party
announced a deficit-reduction plan and after a report yesterday
showed a  rise  in U.S. jobless claims.  
 “The bad news we got this week was not quite as frequent
as we had seen recently and the euro proved more resilient,”
said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo
& Co. in New York. “The fact that the auction was
oversubscribed and they managed to get the bonds out the door at
a cost that was not prohibitive was an encouraging sign.”  
 The euro bought $1.2387 at 5 p.m. in New York, from
$1.2389 yesterday, after touching $1.2417, the highest level
since May 28. It gained 2.3 percent gain on the week, the most
since the five days ended May 22, 2009. The yen strengthened 0.3
percent to 90.71 per dollar in New York, from 91.01 yesterday.
The currency traded at 112.40 per euro, from 112.76.  
 ‘Getting Religion’  
 “All the Group of Three economies are getting religion
right now in terms of deficit measures,” said  Boris Schlossberg , director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York. “Credit markets more or less stabilized and
that’s why the euro has performed well.”  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.4 percent on the
week, while MSCI World Index increased 3.3 percent.  
 The yen was headed for a second weekly gain versus the
dollar after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  pledged to cut
the world’s largest public debt. Kan said he’d consider an
opposition party proposal to raise the consumption tax.  
 BNY Mellon is “seeing net buying of the Japanese yen, not
so much as a risk aversion play, but because of investor
enthusiasm about Japan’s ruling party announcing a new plan to
combat deflation, reduce the budget deficit and restore
growth,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-
exchange group in Boston, wrote in a note to clients. BNY Mellon
is the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration.  
 One-for-One  
 The euro will trade on a one-for-one basis with the U.S.
dollar in the first three months of next year as Europe works to
recover from its sovereign-debt crisis, according to BNP
Paribas.  
 The shared currency will “drift” to 97 U.S. cents in the
third quarter of 2011 and end the year at parity as “a weak
euro will help Europe generate the required income to deal with
the financial consequences of the crisis,” BNP said in a note
to clients. Previously the bank forecast a “gradual rebound”
in the euro in the first quarter, according to the note.  
 The euro touched a three-week high versus the greenback
after an auction of Spanish debt yesterday spurred optimism that
nations in the region can raise sufficient funds.  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of 10-year debt
at an average yield of 4.864 percent, less than the 5.04 percent
that the bonds traded at before the sale. Demand was 1.89 times
the amount on offer. It also sold 479.2 million euros of 30-year
debt at 5.908 percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio was 2.45,
higher than the 1.38 at the previous sale on March 18.  
 Poised to Fall  
 “The market will likely try to hold on to what has been
achieved in the euro this week,” said  Steven Barrow , head of
Group of 10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “But I take no confidence in the idea that markets are
ignoring the bad news out of the euro zone.”  
 The greenback is down against all 16 major currencies this
week after initial jobless claims in the U.S. increased by
12,000 to 472,000 in the week ended June 12, according to Labor
Department figures. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected 450,000 claims, according to the median forecast.  
 The U.S. economy will stagnate in the second half of the
year as households, businesses and state and local governments
trim debt, according to  John Herrmann  of State Street Global
Markets in Boston.  
 “There is an incredible amount of deleveraging going on in
the economy,” Herrmann, a senior fixed-income strategy, said
yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Radio with  Tom Keene .
“Organic growth in the economy is likely to decelerate” as
government stimulus fades and temporary census workers complete
their contracts, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 18 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Gartman, an economist and editor of the Gartman Letter, speaks about Europe's sovereign debt crisis and the outlook for the euro. 
     Gartman also discusses gold prices. Gartman talks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
