-- Your Party Says DPJ Alliance `Suicidal,' Rejects Proposed Tax Increase
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-06-18T02:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/your-party-says-dpj-alliance-suicidal-rejects-proposed-tax-increase.html

          
          
             A fledgling Japanese opposition
party has “no intention” of cooperating with Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  and opposes any attempt to raise the nation’s
 consumption tax  soon, the party’s No. 2 official said.  
 Forming an alliance with Kan’s ruling  Democratic Party of
Japan  would be “suicidal,” said  Kenji Eda , secretary-general
of Your Party, formed last year by former Financial Services
Minister  Yoshimi Watanabe .  
 Kan yesterday said he will consider the proposal by the
main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  to double the national
sales tax to 10 percent as he seeks to reduce the world’s
largest public  debt . Speaking after the DPJ released its policy
platform for next month’s mid-term elections, Kan said Japan
must “rehabilitate” its fiscal situation.  
 “They’re talking about raising taxes because they couldn’t
stop wasteful spending as promised last year,” said Eda, 54, in
a June 16 interview at his office in Tokyo. “We have no
intention to ally with the DPJ. We won’t be stupid and be lured
by the promise of a couple of cabinet posts.”  
 The ruling coalition is aiming to reverse the damage caused
by the June 2 resignation of Kan’s predecessor,  Yukio Hatoyama ,
and maintain its majority in the upper house in the July 11
elections. Your Party’s refusal to cooperate reduces Kan’s
options for partners should the DPJ fall short at the ballot box.  
 More Lawmakers  
 Your Party has one legislator in the upper house and hopes
to increase that to between 10 and 20 next month, said Eda, a
former trade ministry official. Half of the chamber’s 242 seats
are up for grabs. The party also has five lawmakers in the more
powerful lower house, where the Democrats won a landslide
victory last August. The DPJ and its partners  have  122 seats in
the upper house.  
 Eda’s group calls for boosting government revenue by 30
trillion yen ($330 billion) through selling public assets and
cutting spending over the next three years. It aims for a 4
percent economic growth rate by lowering corporate taxes and
promoting deregulation and privatization.  
 The party was ranked as the country’s third-favorite ahead
of the upper house election, according to an Asahi newspaper
survey  published  June 13. Seven percent said they’d vote for
Your Party, compared with 40 percent who backed the DPJ and 17
percent who favored the LDP.  
 More than half of 1,318 investment bankers and executives
surveyed in May by the Tokyo-based executive search firm
BizReach Inc. said they may support Your Party.  
 “Our prime target are people who have no particular party
affiliations and front-line business people,” Eda said. “The
DPJ has recovered its popularity in a v-shape but Kan’s
popularity is at peak now while we have one more month to go.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        