-- Tyson, Meat-Company Pricing Power Target of New U.S. Livestock Sales Rules
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-06-18T21:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-18/tyson-meat-company-pricing-power-target-of-new-rules-update3-.html

          
          
             Tyson Foods Inc.,   Smithfield Foods
Inc.  and other large meatpackers would be barred from buying
animals from each other and limits would be set on their
exclusive contracts with large livestock suppliers under a rule
proposed by the government to address antitrust concerns.  
 Industry consolidation and increasing packer ownership of
livestock have lowered the prices smaller farmers receive for
their cattle, hogs and poultry, U.S. Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said today. Exclusive contracts among larger producers
and meatpackers keep small farmers in the dark about pricing,
limiting their negotiating power, he said.  
 “This is about fairness and making sure the playing field
is level,” Vilsack said on a conference call with reporters.
“This is not about guaranteeing success. This is about making
sure that if you play by the rules and work hard, you have a
shot at success.”  
 Under the USDA proposal, meatpackers would be barred from
signing higher-paying contracts with large producers than farmer
groups that can provide the same quantity and quality of
livestock, “without providing legitimate justification for the
disparity,” according to an  outline  of the rule on the USDA’s
website. Packers also would be prohibited from sharing prices
with competitors and receiving livestock from each other.  
 Sample contracts also would be made available on a USDA
website, in a move to improve transparency, the department said.  
 ‘Aggressive’ Rule  
 The proposal “represents an aggressive rule-making
effort,” Vilsack said. Producers “should not be treated less
favorably because they’re small.”  
 The rule addresses longstanding concerns that big meat
processers have too much pricing power, which has been the focus
of a series of hearings by the U.S.  Department of Agriculture 
and the Justice Department, the USDA said in e-mailed  statement .
Hearings have been held in Iowa and Alabama and are scheduled in
Wisconsin, Colorado and Washington D.C. later this year.  
 The number of hog producers in the U.S. has plunged by 89
percent since 1980 to about 71,000 today, Vilsack said. The
ranks of cattle farmers also have shrunk, dropping by 41 percent
over the past 30 years, to 950,000, according to the USDA.  
 Tyson spokesman  Gary Mickelson  said the industry is
“already extensively regulated.” “We want and need livestock and
poultry producers to succeed so they can continue to supply our
processing plants,” Mickelson said.  
 ‘Dynamic’ Industry  
 Mark Dopp , a vice president with the American Meat
Institute, which represents Tyson, Smithfield, Hormel Foods
Corp. and other meat processors, said the proposed rule is an
attempt “to turn the clock back on the livestock and meat-
marketing practices.”  
 “Courts have affirmed that our industry is dynamic and
competitive and have rejected USDA’s arguments repeatedly,”
Dopp said in the statement. “Now in the face of repeated
judicial rejection of their arguments, USDA is engaging in a
regulatory end-run and attempting to change the law through
administrative fiat.”  
 The  National Chicken Council , a Washington-based trade
group, called the USDA’s proposal “one-sided, unrealistic, and
not in accordance with court rulings.”  
 David Kruse , a part-owner of an 8,000-head cattle feedlot
in Royal, Iowa, said the livestock industry “needs more
transparency.” Smaller producers should not be given an
advantage if they can’t deliver product consistent with larger
producers, he said.  
 Premiums Are Justified  
 “A feedlot that’s able to produce a quantity of product
with a very transparent and consistent quality should be able to
get a premium over someone else who can’t meet that particular
criteria and whose product is generally a wildcard,” said
Kruse, who is also the president of commodities brokerage
CommStock Investments Inc.  
 Meat processors that require a farmer to spend money to
modify or upgrade facilities must ensure that the farmer is able
to recoup 80 percent of that capital investment, under the USDA
proposal.  
 “For too long, producers have had to bear the financial
hardship of being at the whim of production contractors,
resulting in inequality in production practices, increasing
losses and decreasing profitability,”  Bob Stallman , the
president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Open Market Threat  
 John Lawrence , a livestock economist and an associate dean
at Iowa State University in Ames, said the rise of marketing
contracts has had a “small negative impact” on spot-market
prices for livestock, because contracts reduce the number of
buyers in the open market.  
 “Too much of a good thing can be bad for you,” Lawrence
said. “A lot of people like marketing contracts, to the point
that very few hogs are left in the open market. We’re down to
maybe 5 to 7 percent of hogs sold through the open market. So
the question becomes, is that cash market large enough to
effectively and efficiently discover the real price?”  
 The proposed rule will be published on June 22 and will be
open for comment until Aug. 23, the USDA said. After that, the
department will consider a final rule.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        