-- NY regulator, banks eye individual bond insurer fixes
-- By Neil Shah and  Dan Wilchins
-- Mon Jan 28, 2008 6:15pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/28/businesspro-bondinsurers-bailout-dc-idUSN2864212420080128

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wall Street banks and the New York 
State Insurance Department are more likely to look for 
individual fixes for ailing bond insurers than an industry-wide 
bailout, a person briefed on the matter said on Monday. 

  Bond insurers, who guarantee principal and interest 
payments on roughly $2.5 trillion of securities, have suffered 
major writedowns of bonds and derivatives linked to U.S. 
subprime mortgages.  Some investors could face huge losses on insured securities 
if the insurers lose their top credit ratings, which are 
critical for their business, analysts warned.  Last week, New York State Insurance Superintendent Eric 
Dinallo met with major Wall Street banks, which have billions 
of dollars in exposure to the so-called "monoline" insurers, to 
encourage them to put up cash to support the insurers.  The New York State Insurance Department has hired Perella 
Weinberg Partners to advise on bond insurers, a spokesman for 
the department said on Monday.  Perella Weinberg Partners is a small merger advisory firm 
founded in 1996 by Joseph Perella, a top dealmaker of the 1980s 
and 1990s at Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley.
  MORE DOWNGRADES?  Meanwhile, more U.S. bond insurers may lose their crucial 
top "AAA" credit rating as their struggle to raise needed 
capital may be a sign that the guarantors' woes are deepening, 
analysts said Monday.  Ratings agency Fitch is likely to downgrade bond insurer 
FGIC Corp soon, said analyst Rob Haines of research firm 
CreditSights.  Six weeks ago, on Dec 17, Fitch said on December 17 that 
FGIC's main bond insurance unit had too little capital for its 
top ratings. Without a plan to secure more than $1 billion of 
capital in four to six weeks, Fitch said in mid-December, FGIC 
would likely be downgraded.  A spokesman for Fitch said the rating agency does not 
comment on pending rating actions.  Sean Egan, managing director of independent credit-rating 
firm Egan-Jones Ratings Co., said during a conference call on 
Monday he expects even bigger firms like MBIA Inc ( MBI.N ) and 
Ambac Financial Group ABK.N to eventually see their ratings 
slashed.  "Watch for multi-step downgrades," Egan said. "Once it 
breaks, it's likely to break big."  Bond insurers like MBIA and Ambac have seen their stocks 
plunge on concerns they lack the cash to fulfill guarantees on 
some $930 billion of structured finance assets.  Major rating firms Moody's Investors Service, Standard & 
Poor's and Fitch have all put pressure on the insurers to raise 
more cash or risk losing their top credit rating.  Ambac said on January 18 it was no longer seeking to issue 
stock or convertibles because of difficult market conditions. 
MBIA successfully sold $1 billion of surplus notes earlier this 
month, but those bonds have already fallen dramatically in 
price since then.  FGIC, which as of the end of September had insured $314.8 
billion of outstanding bonds, said on December 17 it has 
developed and is actively pursuing a plan to boost its capital. 
A spokesman for FGIC was not immediately available.  "The major ratings firms will cut ratings of the monoline 
firms as problems" become more obvious, Egan said.