-- Merrill's Cohen sees media consolidation
-- By  Kenneth Li  and  Michele Gershberg
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 12:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/businesspro-media-summit-merrill-dc-idUSN2745489920061127

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The media sector will be dominated by 
a handful of companies that produce or distribute 
entertainment, despite a proliferation of new technologies and 
companies vying to deliver programming to homes and handheld 
devices, a leading media analyst said on Monday. 

  Merrill Lynch analyst Jessica Reif Cohen sees consolidation 
in distribution, even as new players like phone companies begin 
to compete with cable operators in offering Internet, 
television and voice services.  "There will be three to five large distributors ... there's 
roughly four or five large content companies, and lots of other 
players," Cohen told the Reuters Media Summit in New York.  Within the cable segment, Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ) and Time 
Warner Cable are likely to dominate, and the remaining players 
will be much smaller and possibly controlled by private 
investors, Cohen told the Reuters Media Summit in New York.  Time Warner Cable is part of Time Warner Inc. ( TWX.N ).  Phone companies Verizon Communications Inc. ( VZ.N ) and AT&T 
Inc. ( T.N ) are taking the lead in building up video services 
and might ultimately buy satellite providers like DirecTV Group 
Inc. DTV.N or EchoStar Communications Corp. ( DISH.O ).  "We would expect there'll be consolidation on that side," 
Cohen said. "Whether its DirecTV and EchoStar, or EchoStar 
being sold to one of the telephone companies."  Cohen, who joined Merrill Lynch in 1994 as managing 
director and senior media and entertainment analyst, is among 
the top ranked in the industry.
  WHO'S BUYING, SELLING?  Wall Street is also eyeing media sector mergers and 
acquisitions among smaller film and television producers 
including DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. DWA.N.  "Would DreamWorks be an obvious acquisition candidate? It 
makes sense to me," Cohen said.  The two companies created by the January split of Viacom 
Inc. VIAb.N from broadcaster CBS Corp. ( CBSa.N ) could also be 
in the market for purchases, with some market speculation that 
either might also seek to go private.  "I think you'll see with the separation of Viacom and CBS 
there are things that they used to have and they don't have 
that they may want to build up again," Cohen said.  Viacom and CBS separated in January in a bid to appeal to 
different classes of shareholders. Since the split, the stock 
of CBS, once considered saddled with the slower-growing TV and 
radio units, has performed better than MTV Networks-owner 
Viacom.  "There's a lot of speculation (over) one side or the other 
(being) taken private," Cohen said, adding that she thought it 
was unlikely. "I don't know that there's a willing seller 
there."  Media mogul Sumner Redstone controls both Viacom and CBS.  (For more coverage of the Reuters Media Summit, please see 
our MediaFile blog at  blogs.reuters.com/mediafile )