-- Execs face tough digital transition, Diller says
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 6:49pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/businesspro-media-summit-diller-executiv-idUSN2747363720061127

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Big media companies and their 
executives face a tough transition as they seek growth from new 
businesses on the Internet, IAC/InterActiveCorp ( IACI.O ) Chief 
Executive Barry Diller said on Monday. 

  Diller, whose company owns a portfolio of some 60 brands 
from Match.com to HSN home shopping network to LendingTree.com, 
is among the first and most high-profile of old media 
defectors.  His exit from News Corp.'s NWSa.N Fox television and film 
studios in 1992 was derided by his peers, during a period well 
documented in the New Yorker magazine.  A new crop of traditional media executives are now on a 
similar odyssey -- most prominent among them is NBC Television 
President Randy Falco, who just this month was appointed CEO 
and chairman of Time Warner Inc.'s ( TWX.N ) AOL unit.  "It's a very hard adaptation," Diller said at the third 
annual Reuters Media Summit in New York, speaking generally 
about the plight of media executives making such a move. "You 
get a headache by the first cup of coffee in the morning."  Diller, having spent years atop the media industry as head 
of Fox and chief of movie studio Paramount in the 1980s, quit 
in 1992 to take a year-long soul-searching mission, according 
to the 1993 New Yorker profile by Ken Auletta.  Diller's friend and now wife, Diane von Furstenberg, 
introduced him to QVC, a 24-hour network that sells merchandise 
on television, a far cry from the Klieg lights of Hollywood's 
red-carpet movie premieres.  "All they care about is status," Diller told Auletta at the 
time, speaking of his former Hollywood peers. "That's why they 
can't understand why I'm doing this."  Diller had flirted with buying back into traditional media 
in the past decade, but has since created a vast network of 
largely Internet-based properties focused on myriad sectors, 
including online and on-TV retailing and Internet search.  He told the Reuters summit that media companies, which only 
in the last few years have invested more heavily in Internet 
businesses, have done a "poor" job.  "They don't do it really well," he said, noting his alma 
mater, News Corp., was among the few exceptions. "Instead they 
just try and extend colonialism, media colonialism, into 
whatever they can."  Media companies "tend to not really get into it, but to see 
in a sense how it can be exploited from where they've been, 
rather than to what the opportunities are genuinely."  "It's interesting that none of them play at all in Internet 
product creation," he added. "All the talk has been about what 
they're going to buy."  (For more coverage of the Reuters Media Summit, please see 
our MediaFile blog at  blogs.reuters.com/mediafile/ )