-- Falling dollar may benefit some firms
-- By  Bill Rigby
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 5:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/businesspro-dollar-companies-usa-dc-idUSN2717206020061127

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The decline of the dollar over the 
past few weeks may cast a worrying shadow over the U.S. 
economy, but it could boost results for some corporations. 

  Fourth-quarter earnings may get a kick from sales in 
foreign currencies -- now worth more against the lowly dollar 
-- while the growing value of the euro and yen signals vibrant 
overseas markets for U.S. companies' goods, analysts said.  "I wouldn't say that it's single-handedly a major factor in 
terms of the translation benefit, but it does make North 
American production more competitive with a lot of the rest of 
the world," said AG Edwards analyst Chris Kotowicz.  The dollar has dropped about 5 percent in value against the 
euro since mid-October -- hitting a 20-month low on Monday -- 
while it has dropped nearly 4 percent against Japan's yen.  The greenback has been squeezed by a series of lukewarm 
U.S. economic indicators and fears that foreign investors may 
trade in dollar investments for currencies yielding greater 
interest rates.  That could be damaging to U.S. industry in the long run, 
but in the short term, it could be good news for large 
industrial companies such as General Electric Co. ( GE.N ), 
United Technologies Corp. ( UTX.N ) and 3M Co. ( MMM.N ), which 
have all steadily increased their international sales in recent 
years.  According to Kotowicz's research, 10 out of 18 U.S. 
industrial companies he follows generated 40 percent or more of 
their income from foreign regions last year, compared with only 
one company in 1997.  In addition to a favorable exchange rate for foreign 
earnings, a stronger euro and yen reflect improving European 
and Japanese economies, which means stronger demand for 
elevators, construction equipment, aircraft engines, air 
conditioners and the like. The same may hold true for auto, 
chemical and steel makers, industry-watchers said.
  AUTO BOOST  The lower dollar should actively help the battered U.S. 
auto industry -- which has accused Japan of maintaining an 
artificially weak currency to benefit its export industries -- 
according to industry experts.  The Harbour-Felax Group, a Detroit-based auto consulting 
firm, has estimated that every one yen gain in the value of the 
dollar against the Japanese currency translates into a price 
advantage of $174 per vehicle for Japanese automakers.  With the dollar declining, that price advantage is waning, 
which should help Detroit-based automakers General Motors Corp. 
( GM.N ), DaimlerChrysler AG's DCXGn.DE Chrysler Group and Ford 
Motor Co. ( F.N ).  A similar effect may help larger chemical companies like 
Dow Chemical Co. ( DOW.N ), DuPont Co. ( DD.N ) and Celanese Corp. 
( CE.N ) said Hassan Ahmed, an analyst with HSBC.  "I don't expect trade patterns to shift, primarily because 
energy prices are high, but currency translation-wise the 
diversified names would benefit more than the U.S.-centric 
ones." said Ahmed.  Chemical majors Dow, DuPont and Celanese generate about 30 
to 40 percent of their revenue from Europe and would stand to 
benefit the most if a weak dollar trend were to continue, he 
added.  The weaker dollar is "not good for the country but great 
for steel companies," said Chuck Bradford, metals analyst at 
Soleil Securities. "Most of the problem that steel companies 
had in the 1990s was because of the strong dollar that made 
U.S. companies less competitive," he said.
  DOWN SIDE  The dollar's slide could be more damaging, however, if it 
signals a lack of faith in the U.S. economy and encourages 
inflation, some analysts warned.  "The U.S. has a huge trade deficit, so as the dollar 
becomes weaker those products we are importing become much more 
expensive," said Larry Peruzzi, senior U.S. equity trader at 
The Boston Company Asset Management. "We're importing 
inflation. The price of that (foreign) car just got a little 
more expensive."  Some said the decline in the dollar would only be offset by 
greater foreign sales at best.  "It (the falling dollar) means corporate earnings are worth 
less -- they buy less in terms of other currencies," said Peter 
Schiff, president at investment brokerage Euro Pacific Capital 
Inc. "Some U.S. companies involved in exports might be able to 
offset that by earning more dollars, but they are just earning 
more dollars of diminished value."  If the weakness in the dollar continues, it would 
eventually cause concern about the U.S. Federal Reserve raising 
interest rates to combat inflation, some analysts warned.  "Glass half full on the US dollar: it will boost U.S. large 
cap, multinational earnings," said Merrill Lynch's Richard 
Bernstein, in a note to clients. "Glass half empty on the US 
dollar: the Fed will find it increasingly difficult to ease if 
the dollar does continue to weaken."  (Additional reporting by Nick Zieminski,  Euan Rocha , Lisa 
Lee and  Kevin Krolicki )