-- ACS CEO, CFO leaving company after options probe
-- By  Megan Davies
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 2:42pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/businesspro-acs-resignations-dc-idUSL2781275320061127

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Affiliated Computer Services Inc. 
( ACS.N ) said on Monday its chief executive and chief financial 
officer had resigned because of their role in improper stock 
option grant practices. 

  It also said it planned to take about $51 million in 
charges related to problems with previous stock options grants. 
News of the resignations sent ACS's stock price up slightly in 
heavy volume and analysts described the move as positive.  "ACS had kind of become a poster child in this whole 
options backdating scandal," said Jefferies & Co. analyst 
Joseph Vafi. "They clearly today sent a signal that they are 
taking this very seriously."  The Dallas-based computer services company said that a 
board investigation into accounting practices had concluded 
that "certain conduct" of CEO Mark King and CFO Warren Edwards 
violated the company's code of ethics.  Both resigned, effective Sunday, and have entered into 
separation agreements that call for them to remain employees 
through June 30, 2007, ACS said.  A company spokesman said that King and Edwards were 
unavailable to comment.  ACS also said it expects to take a noncash expense of 
approximately $51 million related to incorrect accounting 
measurement dates, plus additional tax-related expenses.  The board investigation was initiated in response to an 
informal inquiry by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
and a subpoena from a federal grand jury in Manhattan. It 
reviewed ACS's stock option practices from 1994 through 2005.  More than 150 companies have launched internal 
investigations or are the subject of probes by the federal 
officials to determine if dates of stock options grants were 
manipulated.  ACS shares rose 37 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $51.11 in 
Monday midday trade on the New York Stock Exchange but were 
down four cents to $50.70 by early afternoon.  Goldman Sachs analyst Julio Quinteros said in a note to 
clients that he viewed the news "as a positive for the stock."  Vafi at Jefferies & Co. said the stock could rise further 
over the next few weeks now that uncertainty surrounding the 
investigation has been reduced.  ACS appointed Chief Operating Officer Lynn Blodgett as 
president and CEO. Blodgett, 52, has been with ACS since 1996, 
when it acquired a company that he had founded. He has been a 
company director since September 2005.  The company also named Executive Vice President of 
Corporate Development John Rexford as CFO. Rexford, 49, joined 
ACS in 1996 as senior vice president for mergers and 
acquisitions.  King's lawyer, Karen Seymour, said in a statement that her 
client voluntarily resigned as CEO and "cooperated fully" with 
the investigation.  She added that he "acted at all times in good faith and did 
not engage in any intentional misconduct."  The Wall Street Journal reported that Gary Naftalis, a 
lawyer for Edwards, had noted that his client became CFO in 
2001, years after the problems apparently started.  "He engaged in no intentional misconduct and acted in good 
faith at all times in connection with the company's 
long-standing and historic options granting practices," 
Naftalis said, according to the newspaper.  Naftalis could not be reached for comment.  ACS said it was continuing to review the results of the 
investigation to determine the accounting consequences of the 
use of incorrect measurement dates during 1994 through 2005.  The noncash expense of $51 million "may increase or 
decrease when finalized," it said.  ACS added that it had not yet determined the impact of the 
accounting adjustments on its financial statements "nor whether 
it will be required to restate its consolidated financial 
statements as a result of these adjustments."  (Additional reporting by  Jim Finkle  in Boston)