-- Toy, electronics retailers in on price watch
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 3:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/businesspro-usa-retail-toys-dc-idUSN2745327620061127

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. consumers binged on toys and 
electronics this Thanksgiving weekend, leaving retailers and 
analysts to wonder if demand has already been satiated and 
whether discounts that spurred the three-day spree will cut 
into profits. 

  "We believe the Thanksgiving Day weekend was a success for 
(consumer electronics) retailers from a sales perspective," BMO 
Capital Markets analyst Richard Weinhart wrote in a note, 
saying many shoppers likely bought a flat-panel TV for 
themselves given the weekend's steep discounts.  But that does not mean retailers are in the clear for the 
entire holiday season, which can account for as much as 40 
percent of an average retailer's full-year revenue.  "Looking forward many questions remain, such as whether 
demand will remain solid, what impact this will have on 
long-term profitability, and whether some of these self gifts 
are simply pulling forward demand from future months," he 
wrote.  Hot new toys like Mattel Inc.'s MAT.N T.M.X. Elmo and 
consumer electronics -- such as Nintendo Co. Ltd.'s 7974.OS 
Wii and Sony Corp.'s ( 6758.T ) PlayStation 3 (PS3) video game 
consoles -- along with flat-panel TVs are expected to top many 
wish-lists this holiday season.  Wal-Mart noticed the trend, and in October cut prices on 
more than 100 popular toys and games. The world's largest 
retailer also said it would promote key electronics such as 
flat-panel TVs, MP3 players and video game consoles.  While this is typical Wal-Mart behavior, its price cuts are 
always met with trepidation as investors mull how well 
specialty retailers like Toys "R" Us, KB Toys, Best Buy Co. 
Inc. ( BBY.N ) and Circuit City Stores Inc. CC.N will stand up 
to the competition.  To win sales over the weekend, stores opened doors at the 
crack of dawn on "Black Friday" -- the day after Thanksgiving 
-- and lured shoppers with aggressive, early-bird promotions.  Consumers responded, and Visa USA said electronics helped 
drive Black Friday sales, with the average ticket price on Visa 
cards at electronics and appliance stores rising almost 9 
percent compared with a year earlier.  "With some of the best pricing and excitement over the 
potential arrival of more PS3 units, traffic at Best Buy was 
the strongest we've seen on Black Friday morning in years," 
Credit Suisse analyst Gary Balter said in a research note.  KB Toys Chief Executive Officer Gregory Staley said his 
stores saw brisk sales of toys related to hot movies like 
"Pirates of the Caribbean" and "Cars," and games like "Deal or 
No Deal." KB tries to focus on selection to compete with 
Wal-Mart, rather than on price, he said.  "It's impossible to compete when products are being sold 
below the manufacturer's list price," Staley said of trying to 
match Wal-Mart's price cuts.  Reyne Rice, a toy trends specialist with the Toy Industry 
Association, said many toy retailers tried to differentiate 
themselves by selling exclusive products or bundling popular 
items together.  "I think what the retailers were smart about were making 
offerings that weren't head-on-head comparisons on price," she 
said.  Gerrick Johnson, a toy analyst with BMO Capital Markets, 
said it is hard to judge how well the holiday season will shape 
up based on three days of sales.  "Whatever happened last week is just an aberration. You 
have so much crazy discounting that you don't know what makes 
sense or not," he said.  But he said retailers have stocked their stores with a 
hefty supply of inventory, expecting a good season.  "The consumers have to pull through," he said. "And if they 
don't, that's where it could be messy."