-- UPDATE 4-Reckson postpones meeting, giving Icahn more time
-- 
-- Mon Nov 27, 2006 6:44pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/27/reckson-icahn-idUSN2746060620061127

 

  (Adds Icahn and Macklowe stakes, updates stock prices) 

  By  Ilaina Jonas NEW YORK  Nov 27 (Reuters) - Reckson Associates Realty
Corp. RA.N said on Monday that it would postpone a
shareholder meeting for the second time to give billionaire
Carl Icahn and his partners more time to firm up financing for
their $4.6 billion bid for the company.  The special shareholder meeting was called for a vote on
Reckson's pending merger pact with SL Green Realty Corp.
( SLG.N ). The offer from the Icahn partnership topped the SL
Green bid.  The partnership, Rome Acquisition LP, formed by entities
associated with Icahn and New York developers Harry Macklowe
and his son William Macklowe, has offered to acquire Reckson
for $49 per share in cash.  Reckson, a real estate investment trust that owns offices
in New York and its suburbs, said the offer remains subject to
due diligence.  Uniondale, New York-based Reckson also said its board
reaffirmed its recommendation of the deal with SL Green. That
deal is a mix of cash and stock and values Reckson at about
$3.98 billion, or about $45.69 per share, based on SL Green's
closing price Monday of $134.90.  Some shareholders have objected to SL Green's intention to
sell much of Reckson's suburban properties to a group led by
Reckson's management.  Icahn owns or controls 4.2 percent of Reckson shares,
through his 90 percent stake in American Real Estate Partners
LP ( ACP.N ), based in Westchester County, New York, and through
other entities, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The Macklowes own 3.9 percent, the
filing said.  Shares of American Real Estate Partners closed up 2.6
percent, or $1.86 to close at $73.75 and was one of the top
gainers on the New York Stock Exchange.   The Icahn/Macklowe entity said it will fund Rome with $1.2
billion, and when combined with debt financing it expects to
meet the intended price, according to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing.   Reckson said it had received a letter from the partners
saying they anticipate delivering a definitive binding
proposal, along with binding commitments from lenders, by Dec.
4. Reckson cautioned there are no assurances a binding offer
will be forthcoming by that date.  The deal with SL Green carries a $99.8 million break-up
fee, according to Reckson's proxy filing with the U.S. SEC.  All bidders also must assume Reckson's debt of about $2.1
billion.  Reckson had earlier postponed the special shareholder
meeting from Nov. 22 to Nov. 28.  Reckson shares closed up 5 cents at $48.96 on the New York
Stock Exchange, on a day where the overall MSCI U.S. REIT
Index, a yardstick used to measure REIT share performance, was
down about 2.7 percent. SL Green shares closed down 3 percent.



