-- UBS facing subprime banking investigations: report
-- 
-- Sat Feb 2, 2008 2:34pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/02/businesspro-ubs-investigations-dc-idUSN0248835420080202

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - U.S. government prosecutors are 
investigating whether Swiss banking giant UBS misled investors 
by reporting inflated prices of mortgage-backed securities it 
held despite knowing those valuations had eroded, the Wall 
Street Journal said on Saturday. 

  The Journal, quoting unnamed sources familiar with the 
probe, said the investigation by the U.S. Attorney for the 
Eastern District of New York had not yet issued subpoenas.  But the sources noted that the New York prosecutors work 
closely with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
SEC recently expanded its own probes of both UBS and Merrill 
Lynch and Co Inc pricing of mortgage securities, a move which 
empowers the SEC to issue subpoenas, they said.  UBS was not immediately available for comment. A Merrill 
Lynch spokesman had no comment.  UBS, Europe's hardest-hit bank from the credit crisis, last 
week raised its subprime write-downs to $18.4 billion.  On Friday, the bank also urged its shareholders to dismiss 
a plan from some dissenting shareholders demanding an external 
probe into the bank's subprime woes.  The U.S. Justice Department on Wednesday said it was 
looking into whether fraud occurred in the packaging and 
selling of complicated mortgage securities like collateralized 
debt obligations (CDOs), the Journal said.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking at 14 
unnamed companies in that probe, the agency said.  On Friday, the top securities regulator in Massachusetts 
filed a civil complaint against Merrill Lynch, accusing the 
brokerage of selling unsuitable subprime mortgage-related 
securities to the city of Springfield.  Massachusetts Secretary William Galvin seeks to take away 
Merrill's profits from a transaction in which it sold CDOs to 
the city. Merrill invested about $14 million of the city's 
money in CDOs last year, only to see most of the value erased.  Separately, the city of Springfield said on Thursday that 
Merrill had agreed to pay it $13.9 million after determining 
the city had not approved the purchase of the CDOs.  UBS remains under fire at home. Shareholder advocacy group 
Ethos in December called for more clarity from UBS over its 
subprime losses, urging an independent probe.  But UBS on Friday said there was no need for a separate 
investigation given that the country's EBK banking watchdog was 
already probing the reasons which led to its losses.  UBS last week stunned investors with its third round of 
subprime write-downs. It reported heavy fourth-quarter losses 
and a total 2007 net loss of 4.4 billion Swiss francs ($4.07 
billion).  (Reporting by  Christine Stebbins , editing by Jackie Frank)