-- Kissing Off Congress, Evan Bayh Breaks Hearts: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-02-18T02:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-17/kissing-off-congress-evan-bayh-breaks-hearts-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             “Married White Senator seeks long-
term relationship with person or institution with a bipartisan
spirit. Must have a soft spot for medical-device companies, coal
mines and promise never to filibuster during an argument.
Affection for Hoosier basketball a plus. High salary, too.”  
 It’s lonely in the Senate for a moderate. In announcing
that he was giving up his relatively safe seat,  Indiana  Senator
Evan Bayh played his own headhunter. With the Senate
dysfunctional, he wants to pursue “helping grow a business,
helping guide an institution of higher learning or helping run a
worthy charitable endeavor.” He did not give an 800 number.  
 Elsewhere in his statement, which mercifully didn’t mention
spending more time with his family, Bayh blamed his bailing on a
polarized Senate where governing rarely occurs.  
 It now takes 60 votes to approve a deputy assistant
secretary for agricultural marketing orders. No one on the red
side likes anyone on the blue side, and vice versa. Leading
Republicans were for a bipartisan commission to deal with the
deficit, some sponsoring a bill to that effect, before President
 Barack Obama  proposed it. Then they were against it. The
president’s call for a bipartisan summit on health care elicited
the repeated accusation that he was setting a trap.  
 We all get that it’s no bed of roses up there on  Capitol
Hill . But what happened to sticking with a job when the going
gets tough? You know -- the way millions of people do every day.  
 The Pampered Flee  
 Who gave the pampered class permission to bolt when their
coveted jobs are no longer fulfilling? Bayh could have taken one
for the team, with a seat as safe any Democrat holds in this
environment. With his departure, it’s now as endangered as any.
White House to Bayh: thanks a lot.  
 That’s not to say he’s venal in his departure, like former
Senator Trent Lott. The timing of his retirement in December
2007 -- with five years left on his latest six-year term -- was
suspiciously on the eve of new lobbying limits that would have
crimped his future earnings. But neither is Bayh like the self-
sacrificing  Connecticut  Democrat Chris Dodd, who stepped aside
from what looked like a losing battle in Connecticut to let a
Democrat with a better shot run.  
 Bayh’s reasoning resembles that of former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, who justified decamping for greener pastures with
the rationale that she could make a better contribution to
society out of office. So far that contribution has been to
herself and to  Fox News . She fosters, and feeds off, the Tea
Party movement but wouldn’t rally the troops for free, charging
them a $100,000 speaking fee as if they were some rich trade
association.  
 Gentler Politics  
 Bayh is just the kind of public servant to save Congress
from its ills. There’s mutual respect and friendship between him
and his Indiana colleague, Republican  Richard Lugar .  
 Bayh was 6 when his father,  Birch , was elected to the
Senate, and so is steeped in a kinder, gentler tradition. Like
young  Al Gore , Bayh ran through the halls of the Capitol, was
dandled on the knee of old lions, and schooled at  St. Albans .  
 Bayh has had many wins in his political life -- Indiana
secretary of state, governor for two terms, then two terms in
the Senate. He’s also had his share of close calls and losses,
which may account for his cautious nature.  
 He endured his mother being stricken with cancer when he
was 16. An Oklahoma beauty queen who beat her husband-to-be in
an American Farm Bureau speaking contest, the Marvelous Marvella
 died  in 1979 at 46.  
 Dad’s Defeat  
 Bayh was scarred by a lesser but still searing loss two
years later, when his father was defeated in his bid for a third
Senate term, not just by anyone but by Dan Quayle, considered no
more a bright light back then than when he couldn’t spell potato
as vice president.  
 Although Bayh has grown in his job and lost the callow look
he shared, oddly enough, with Quayle, he is more conciliator
than fighter. It was unlikely and yet still an eerie possibility
that history could have repeated itself in this year’s election,
with Bayh challenged by another politician named Dan.  
 Former Senator  Dan Coats , who worked for Quayle and was
appointed to fill his seat when Quayle became  George H.W. Bush ’s
vice president, says he has enough signatures to get on the
Republican primary ballot. Still, he had an uphill climb ahead.
He was running  20 points behind  after a video surfaced in which
he extolled the virtue of his adopted  North Carolina , where he
was registered to vote, over Indiana.  
 Foresaw Trouble  
 To his credit, Bayh was worried that failure to pass
health-care reform could spell doom for Democrats this fall.
According to  Jonathan Alter ’s upcoming  book , “The Promise:
President Obama, Year One,” Bayh assured White House senior
adviser  David Axelrod  that as a matter of survival, Democrats
would pass health-care legislation. Otherwise, Bayh said,
“We’re all screwed.”  
 “I do not love Congress,” Bayh said as he prepared to
leave it. As one of the few senators who can reach across the
aisle and touch someone, he should keep his hand in the
outstretched position for the next 11 months. He has nothing
left to lose.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        