-- Show Tax Collectors Where You Fudged It: Ann Woolner (Update1)
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-02-17T16:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-17/show-tax-collectors-where-you-fudged-it-ann-woolner-update1-.html

          
          
             Hiding clever little accounting
tricks deep inside corporate tax returns can save companies big
sums, as long as no tax agent finds the golden nuggets.  
 It’s a game of hide-and-seek that taxpayers take for
granted. If a creative interpretation offers a tiny space for
wriggling through a rule, squirm away. Concoct an arguable
defense for paying the lighter tax the interpretation allows,
and hope you never have to argue it.  
 If some poor agent of the Internal Revenue Service can dig
through thousands of corporate tax return pages to find those
questionable deductions and figures the potential payoff makes
it worthwhile to challenge them, fine.  
 That is about to change if a rule proposed by the IRS
sticks. The nation’s tax collector has the radical idea that
companies should point government snoops to every dubious tax
break they claim.  
 The rule would force businesses to list on their returns
every “uncertain tax position” they are taking and say how
much it would cost the company if the IRS successfully
challenged the claim.  
 It would force the companies to hand over maps to hidden
treasures and state the value of the gold that lies within the
chest. That way, they would be telling the government whether it
is worth the effort to open up the lid or better to some other
company’s pot of jewels.  
 Probably Constitutional  
 The rule is probably constitutional, Fifth Amendment right
against self-incrimination notwithstanding. The rule wouldn’t
require a company to testify against itself in a criminal sense
(although it’s possible to imagine a string of events where that
might occur).  
 But it sure sounds un-American. Or, at least un-
sportsmanlike.  
 What is the point of hiring all those tax lawyers if not to
find little hiding places for big money? And what is the point
of the little hiding places if you then must erect a big,
flashing sign adorned with huge dollar signs pointing the IRS to
them?  
 There are those who claim that paying taxes isn’t a game.
The First U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston said so last
August when it ordered Textron Inc. to turn over tax documents
previously considered protected by attorney-client privilege.  
 Lining Up  
 The ruling shocked tax lawyers, who are lining up on
Textron’s side to try to persuade the U.S. Supreme Court to
consider reversing it. The list keeps growing and now includes
silk stocking law firms, the American Bar Association and
Financial Executives International.  
 As for the new rule, IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman says all
the agency wants to do is collect taxes with “certainty,
consistency and efficiency.”  
 At a speech in New York last month where he announced the
proposed rule, Shulman employed a word meant to convey
legitimacy, openness and democracy.  
 He called it “a major step towards transparency.”  
 As a journalist, I think of transparency as a good thing,
especially when I want it from the government. As a citizen, I
don’t think the government should get so much of it from me.  
 Not that I’m some sort of tax cheat, mind you. No, no, no.
I don’t even take questionable tax positions. In fact, as a tax-
and-spend advocate, I hand over all I can to the U.S. Treasury.  
 Just to make myself clear, let me add that any audit of my
returns would probably hurt Uncle Sam, who would have to give me
money back.  
 Anyway, the IRS conducts an annual survey that says most
Americans oppose tax cheating.  
 And yet, about 9 percent say it’s OK to cheat “a little
here or there,” and 4 percent consider it fine to do it “as
much as possible,” according to the just-released 2009 survey.  
 Boosting Collections  
 The new rule wouldn’t apply to individuals or to companies
with less than $10 million in assets. But for those that are at
least that large, they would have to lead the tax collector to
the richest potential for boosting collections.  
 Self-reporting seems to be catching on. A new law in South
Carolina requires any group that advocates overthrowing the U.S.
government to register and pay a $5 fee.  
 Really.  
 It’s called the Subversive Activities Registration Act. I
think it more likely to sign up a few radical Tea Partiers or
overzealous Confederacy worshippers than al-Qaeda or the
Taliban.  
 But I digress.  
 I’m all for everyone paying all their taxes and for the IRS
collecting them fairly and efficiently. Tens of billions of
dollars in business taxes go uncollected every year, which adds
to the tax burden of those who pay every dime they owe. (Like
me.)  
 Understaffed IRS  
 Surely the IRS is understaffed for the task, especially
considering the high-paid expertise that companies employ. So
it’s hard to argue against something that would let agents cover
more ground more quickly and to richer result. Shulman says 25
percent of any large corporate audit is spent on “searching for
issues.”  
 It is also true that companies already must disclose to
investors some of those tax positions under a 2006 accounting
rule known as Fin 48. And the IRS wouldn’t demand to know
whether the business deeply believes it deserves the break or is
merely gaming the system. Nor would some lengthy explanation be
required.  
 So why does it seem like the IRS would be somehow cheating
if it forced businesses to flush their dubious tax breaks out
into the open?  
 It’s because many of us think of complex tax collection as
a hide-and-seek game. It’s because the game is adversarial. A
whole industry of lawyers, accountants and advisers lives on
that assumption.  
 Besides, where’s the fun in giving up the goods?  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        