-- Abbott Overtakes Gillard in Poll Three Weeks Before Australian Election
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-31T06:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/abbott-overtakes-gillard-in-poll-three-weeks-before-australian-election.html

          
          
             Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s coalition has an election-winning lead over Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor Party with three weeks of
campaigning left before the ballot, according to an opinion poll
published today.  
 The Liberal-National coalition leads Labor 52 percent to 48
percent on a two-party preferred basis, the Sydney Morning
Herald  reported , citing a Nielsen poll. Gillard’s approval
rating fell five points to 51 percent, while Abbott’s rose six
points to 49 percent, according to the survey.  
 Gillard, who called an Aug. 21 general election after
ousting Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  last month, has seen her
initial popularity eroded as key policy initiatives hit
roadblocks. A compromise on a proposed mining tax to win the
backing of  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata Plc
has met with resistance from smaller resources companies, while
the past week of campaigning was overshadowed by media reports
of leaks within her Cabinet.  
 “Labor’s had a bad week,” said  Rick Kuhn , a political
scientist at Australian National University in Canberra.
“Things could easily turn around again. This isn’t necessarily
a definitive turn.”  
 The telephone survey of 1,356 voters on July 27 to 29 has a
margin of error of 2.6 percentage points.  
 “Look, polls go up and down and I think I am very much the
underdog in this election campaign,” Abbott told reporters in
Darwin today.  
 Cabinet Leaks  
 Gillard’s focus in the second week of the campaign moved
from touting Labor’s ability to manage the A$1.2 trillion ($1.09
trillion) economy to defending herself against reported leaks
within her government.  
 A report on Nine Network television, citing unidentified
government officials, said Gillard spoke in Cabinet against a
proposed rise in pension payments to the aged and a paid
parental leave plan. Gillard confirmed July 28 she questioned
the affordability of the plans, which she said will cost a total
of A$50 billion over the next decade.  
 “Superficialities can make a big impact when the policy
differences between the contenders are small and that’s the case
now,” Kuhn said in a telephone interview.  
 Gillard scaled back a proposed 40 percent levy on mining
“super profits” to defuse a row with the nation’s biggest
miners that threatened to dominate an election campaign and
boost the coalition, which opposes the tax. While she reduced
the levy to 30 percent on iron ore and coal profits, small
companies say it will still cost jobs and deter investment and
last week restarted an anti-tax campaign.  
 Voters support Abbott’s coalition as a better economic
manager by 47 percent to Labor’s 35 percent, while Labor’s
overall lead narrowed to four percentage points, according to
two Newspoll surveys published in the Australian newspaper on
July 26 and 27. A week earlier, Gillard’s party held a 10-point
lead over the opposition and led on economic management 42
percent to 41 percent.  
 ---Editors:  Ed Johnson ,  Paul Tighe   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        