-- Asian Stocks Rise for Fourth Week in Longest Winning Streak Since March
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-31T00:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/asian-stocks-rise-for-fourth-week-in-longest-winning-streak-since-march.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose for the fourth
consecutive week, their longest winning streak in four months,
as company earnings reports boosted confidence in the strength
of the global economy.  
 Canon Inc. , the world’s largest camera maker, jumped 9.3
percent this week in Tokyo after reporting profit that beat
analyst estimates. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia televisions,
gained 7.6 percent in Tokyo after raising its annual forecasts.
HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, climbed 3.7 percent in
Hong Kong after most European banks passed stress tests. Sanyo
Electric Co. soared 21 percent after getting a takeover bid.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1.4 percent this week to
119.11 and climbed 5.6 percent this month, its first monthly
increase since April and the biggest gain since March. The index
has slumped about 8 percent from its high this year on April 15
on concern China’s measures to limit property-price inflation
and Europe’s government-debt would stall global growth.  
 “People are buying on optimism the global economy is on an
uptrend after seeing those positive earnings reports,” said
 Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion.  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1 percent this
week, even as industrial production unexpectedly dropped and
unemployment climbed. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  rose 1 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2.6 percent after the
central bank said it will keep a “moderately loose” monetary
policy.  
 Canon, Sony Earnings  
 Canon  jumped 9.3 percent to 3,765 yen this week in Tokyo
after saying first-quarter net income more than quadrupled to
67.6 billion yen ($779 million), beating analysts’ estimates, as
the economic recovery boosted demand for single-lens reflex
cameras and laser printers.  
 Sony  increased 7.6 percent to 2,705 yen, the highest close
since June 4. The world’s No. 3 television maker raised its
full-year earnings forecasts after posting an unexpected profit
last quarter.  
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest carrier
by market value, climbed 5.7 percent this week in Singapore
after posting better-than-estimated first-quarter profit and
saying a recovery in demand will continue.  
 This week was the  peak  for April-June earnings reports in
the Asia-Pacific region, with more than one-fourth of the 985
companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index releasing results,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than half the
companies that announced results have exceeded analysts’
estimates, Bloomberg data show.  
 Cheapest Since 2008  
 Speculation economic growth may falter dragged down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by as much as 9.6 percent this year, and
the  average  price of stocks in the gauge dropped this month to
the lowest level since December 2008. The index’s companies
trade at about 14 times estimated profit.  
 Baoshan Steel & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s
second-biggest steelmaker, advanced 4.1 percent to 6.55 yuan in
Shanghai this week after the nation’s statistics bureau said on
July 28 profits of Chinese industrial companies in 24 regions
jumped 72 percent to 1.61 trillion yuan ($237.5 billion) in the
first half of 2010 from a year earlier.  
 “A double-dip for China’s economy seems unlikely,” said
 Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“The rebound will carry on for a while as stocks are cheap and
earnings of some companies have beaten expectations.”  
 Banks, Sanyo Gain  
 Banks rose this week after the results of financial tests
by European regulators showed 92 percent of lenders passed. They
got a further boost after the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , which represents central banks and regulators in 27
nations and sets capital standards for banks worldwide, on July
26 proposed softer capital and liquidity rules.  
 HSBC advanced 3.7 percent to HK$79.75 in Hong Kong and
London-based  Standard Chartered Plc  climbed 5 percent to
HK$226.20. Westpac Banking Corp. increased 5.5 percent to
A$23.99 in Sydney. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s
largest bank by market value, gained 5.4 percent to 429 yen.  
 “The stress test results weren’t the disaster that some
thought it would be,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage
about $1.1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “As
time goes on, the likelihood of a double dip recession seems to
be diminishing, but economic growth is going to be tempered.”  
 Sanyo Electric, Japan’s third-biggest maker of solar panels,
soared 21 percent to 136 yen, and  Panasonic Electric Works Co. 
jumped 21 percent to 1,099 yen. Panasonic Corp., the world’s
largest maker of rechargeable batteries, offered to buy out both
companies for 818.4 billion yen.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        