-- BP Macondo Oil Well `Kill' Delayed Because of Gulf of Mexico Storm Debris
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-31T15:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/bp-macondo-oil-well-kill-delayed-because-of-gulf-of-mexico-storm-debris.html

          
          
             BP Plc’s  next attempt to more fully
seal its Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico was delayed by a day
as the company had to remove debris from a relief well.  
 The so-called static kill procedure, in which heavy mud
will be pumped into the previously spilling well, may start Aug.
3 rather than Aug. 2, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen 
told reporters on a call yesterday.  
 During Tropical Storm Bonnie, which entered the Gulf on
July 23, BP was forced to evacuate drilling vessels from the
spill site, 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the Louisiana coast.
After the storm, the company had to remove the sediment that
fell inside the wellbore. A drilling vessel is preparing to
install casing in the relief well, the company said today in a
statement on its  website .  
 The casing is necessary to make sure the relief well is
reinforced before injecting mud from the top through the blowout
preventer of the damaged well. That process may reduce the time
it takes to ultimately plug Macondo with the relief well. A few
weeks later, mud and cement will be pumped through the relief
well to permanently plug Macondo.  
 The placement of a permanent plug has been delayed by about
two weeks until the end of August due to time lost during the
storm,  Daren Beaudo , a company spokesman, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Beaudo said cleaning the debris has set
back the timing by an additional couple of hours.  
 ‘No Monitoring System’  
 Macondo was shut with a stack of valves on July 15 after
spewing oil into the Gulf for almost three months.  
 The Obama administration, which plans within a few days to
announce a new determination of much oil was leaking, may widen
the range of its estimate because of difficulties assessing the
flow, said a scientist involved in the research.  
 “There’s just a lot of uncertainty because there was no
monitoring system put in place,” said Ira Leifer, a University
of California, Santa Barbara researcher and a member of the
panel of scientists advising the U.S. Energy Department on the
spill.  
 The well, which began leaking after an April 20 drilling-
rig explosion that killed 11 workers, was releasing 35,000 to
60,000 barrels of oil a day into the Gulf, the government  said 
on June 15. Allen said yesterday that along with a new flow
estimate, the government will release data on how much oil
evaporated and how much has been dispersed.  
 Rules Rewritten  
 The incident prompted the U.S. House to push through an
overhaul of offshore drilling safety and environmental rules
that would eliminate a $75 million cap on liability for
companies responsible for spills. The bill, passed by a vote of
209-193 yesterday, also would bar London-based BP from new
offshore leases.  
 The Senate may act on its version of oil-spill legislation
next week.  
 BP informed the governments of Vietnam and Pakistan that it
put its production assets in the countries up for sale as a part
of company’s plan to dispose of $30 billion of assets to raise
cash to cover costs associated with the Gulf of Mexico disaster.  
 In Vietnam , BP plans to sell interests in an offshore
natural gas-production field, a pipeline and a power generator,
said  David Nicholas , a London-based company spokesman.  In
Pakistan , it plans to sell oil and gas production fields,
including deep-water sites, which includes the largest offshore
acreage given to any single explorer in the country, he said.  
 BP also wants to sell its German gas station unit Aral for
more than 2 billion euros ($2.61 billion) to finance expenses,
according to an e-mailed preview of  Wirtschaftswoche , to be
published Aug. 2.  
 BP spokeswoman Natalia Erikssen declined to comment on the
Wirtschaftswoche report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        