-- Buffett-Autographed Dairy Queen Spoon Raises $4,500 for Charity
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/buffett-autographed-dairy-queen-spoon-raises-4-500-in-auction-for-charity.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett , the billionaire
investor who’s pledged to donate his fortune to worthy causes,
helped raise $4,500 for charity with the sale of an oversized
Dairy Queen ice-cream spoon bearing his signature.  
 The five-pound spoon drew 61 bids since July 21 in an
Internet auction that ended yesterday, according to EBay Inc.’s
website. Proceeds will go to the Children’s Miracle Network, an
organization that raises funds for children’s hospitals. The
winning bidder wasn’t identified.  Dairy Queen  is a unit of
Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , the holding
company Buffett built through acquisitions and stock picks.  
 Buffett, the world’s third-richest person, has promised to
give 99 percent of his fortune to charity. He and Microsoft
Corp. co-founder  Bill Gates  are working to persuade fellow
billionaires to give at least half their wealth to philanthropy.
Buffett, 79, wrote in a  letter  announcing the campaign last
month that he had benefited from an economy where “fate’s
distribution of long straws is wildly capricious.”  
 “My hat’s off to Warren Buffett for continuing to have a
philanthropic bent on life,” said  Coppy Holzman , co-founder and
chief executive officer of  charitybuzz.com , a website that runs
auctions for nonprofit groups. “He’s an iconic figure in the
industry. People follow what he does.”  
 Buffett made his largest donation since the 2008 financial
crisis this year, giving $1.6 billion in  Berkshire Class B stock 
to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, named for Gates and his
wife. The foundation combats disease and global poverty and
funds U.S. education initiatives. Gates, the world’s second-
richest man after Mexico’s  Carlos Slim , is a Berkshire director.  
 Buffett’s Pledge  
 Buffett, whose wealth was estimated at $47 billion by
Forbes magazine in March, announced his philanthropic plans in
2006. He pledged about 85 percent of his Berkshire holdings to
the Gates Foundation; the Susan Thompson Buffett Foundation, a
charity named for his late wife; and organizations run by his
children: the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, the Sherwood
Foundation and the NoVo Foundation.  
 Buffett transformed Berkshire over four decades from a
failing textile mill to a  $193 billion enterprise . He collects a
$100,000 annual salary and lives in the home he bought in 1958
for $31,500, according to a book by his son Peter.  
 Buffett’s annual charity-lunch auction in June raised a
record $2.63 million to benefit the San Francisco-based  Glide
Foundation , which serves meals to the needy. The auction winner
and as many as seven guests get to have lunch with Buffett at
New York steakhouse  Smith & Wollensky . Buffett has raised more
than $8 million with 11 Glide auctions.  
 In 2006, a 2001 Lincoln Town Car owned by Buffett with the
license plate “THRIFTY” sold for $73,200 on EBay to benefit
youth-education organization Girls Inc.  
 “Bidders can respond well to unusual things,” Holzman
said. “You can give back. You can have fun while you do it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        