-- Dubai Airport Studies `One-Stop' Check-in, Security System to Speed Trips
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-08-02T00:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/dubai-airport-considers-one-stop-passenger-check-in-security-for-speed.html

          
          
             Dubai World Central-Al Maktoum
International , set to become the world’s largest airport, may
use “one-stop” processing to get travelers in and out of
aircraft more quickly.  
 Operator Dubai Airports has trialed  Siemens AG 
technology that allows passengers to pass through check in,
customs, immigration and security screening in one place,
James Robinson, head of strategic planning, said at a
conference in Sydney on July 28. Travelers usually go to
different parts of an airport for each of these steps at
present.  
 “It’s out there, it just needs to be driven forward,”
Robinson said. The airport operator is deciding whether to
implement the system, he said.  
 The new  airport  is the center of a planned $32 billion
travel and logistics development that Dubai is building to
boost inbound tourism and challenge London, Singapore and
Hong Kong as a global aviation hub. Located about 40
kilometers from Dubai’s existing airport, the new airfield
will eventually have the capacity to handle 160 million
passengers annually using five runways and 14.3 square
kilometers of terminal space.  
 The airport began handling cargo flights in June, with
passenger services scheduled to start in March.  Emirates
Airline , the world’s largest international passenger carrier,
plans to relocate to a dedicated terminal at the airport,
which will be twice the size of Hong Kong Island, he said.  
 The new Al-Maktoum facility will include dedicated
facilities for Airbus SAS A380 aircraft, the world’s largest
commercial passenger jet. Emirates is building up a fleet of
90 A380s, which require special air bridges to reach the
upper of its two passenger decks.  
 Dubai’s current airport, Dubai International, received
40.9 million passengers last year and is being expanded to
accommodate 75 million by 2012. The emirate expects total
arrivals to reach 140 million a year by 2025.  
 Dubai is the world’s third-biggest re-export hub after
Hong Kong and Singapore. The new airfield is adjacent to the
Jebel Ali port, which Robinson said will make it more
efficient to load freight that arrives by sea.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        