-- Economy in U.S. Will Probably Keep Cooling as Lack of Jobs Limits Spending
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/economy-in-u-s-will-probably-keep-cooling-as-lack-of-jobs-limits-spending.html

          
          
             The world’s largest economy will
probably keep cooling in the third quarter as a lack of jobs
prompts American consumers to rein in spending.  
 The economy in the U.S. grew at a slower-than-forecast 2.4
percent annual rate from April through June after expanding at a
3.7 percent pace in the previous three months, Commerce
Department figures showed yesterday. Household  purchases  climbed
at a 1.6 percent rate following a 1.9 percent first-quarter gain
that was smaller than previously estimated.  
 “The economy is still struggling to gain traction,”  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura Securities International Inc.
in New York, said in an interview. “Consumers are going to be
very cautious about spending, especially about big-ticket
items.”  
 Growth in the past three months was supported by increases
in inventories, home construction,  business investment  and
government spending that may not be matched this quarter. The
pace of recovery in the first half of the year kept unemployment
hovering near 10 percent, raising the risk that household
purchases will not rebound.  
 Nomura’s Resler forecasts the economy will expand at a 1.7
percent pace from July through September.  
 Most stocks climbed yesterday as better-than-projected
earnings overcame concerns the economy will slow. The Standard &
Poor’s  500 Index  were little changed to 1,101.6 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York.  
 Deeper Slump  
 The worst U.S. recession since the 1930s was even deeper
than previously estimated, reflecting bigger slumps in consumer
spending and housing, according to the Commerce Department’s
annual revisions also issued yesterday.  
 The economy shrank 4.1 percent from the fourth quarter of
2007 to the second quarter of 2009, compared with the 3.7
percent drop previously on the books, the report showed.
Household spending fell 1.2 percent in 2009, twice as much as
previously projected and the biggest decline since 1942.  
 “The typical pattern is to snap back hard and you just
haven’t done that,”  Jay Feldman , an economist at Credit Suisse
in New York, said in an interview. “We’re not calling for a
double-dip, it’s a moderate recovery. Things will appear to be
slowing.”  
 Credit Suisse forecasts growth will average 2.75 percent in
the second half of the year, compared with 3.1 percent for the
first six months.  
 Below-Average Rebound  
 Over the past 12 months, the economy grew 3.2 percent. The
first years of recoveries from recessions in the mid 1970s and
early 1980s averaged 7 percent, Feldman said.  
 Economists at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New York forecast
average growth of 2 percent from July through December, while
the Conference Board, a New York-based research group projects
1.6 percent.  
 Excluding growth in  inventories  and residential spending,
gross domestic product rose at a 0.8 annual rate percent as
consumer purchases slowed and the trade deficit swelled.  
 The  trade gap  in the second quarter widened to $425.9
billion from $338.4 billion, subtracting 2.8 percentage points
from growth, the biggest reduction since 1982, yesterday’s
report showed. Imports grew at a 29 percent pace, while exports
climbed 10 percent.  
 Residential construction  climbed at a 28 percent pace last
quarter, the biggest gain since 1983, rebounding from a weather-
related first-quarter slump and supported by a government
homebuyer tax credit. The expiration of the incentive has caused
sales to slump, indicating the industry will weigh on growth for
the rest of the year.  
 More Inventories  
 The buildup of inventories may also represent an economic
stumbling block. Stockpiles climbed at a $75.7 billion annual
pace last quarter, the biggest gain in more than four years.
Without a pickup in consumer spending, inventories are not
likely to repeat that performance, according to  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
Pennsylvania.  
 Similarly, a 22 percent surge in business investment, the
biggest advance since 1997, isn’t sustainable, he said.  
 “Businesses are pretty much at the point where they will
only add to inventories at a replacement basis rather than a
rebuilding basis,” Naroff said in an interview. “Once they
finish investing in equipment and make all the adjustment in
inventories, now they are back to fundamentals. There is nothing
there that tells me the rest of this year will be anything
special.”  
 Better Outlook  
 Not all economists are convinced the outlook is as dour.  
 “We find some constructive takeaways for the prospects for
growth in the second half of the year,”  John Ryding , chief
economist at RDQ Economics in New York, said in a note to
clients. “The recovery has been less dependent on consumer
spending than we had thought.”  
 Also, stockpiles are near record lows compared to sales,
indicating companies have not overbuilt, while orders for
durable goods indicate business investment “appears to be
ramping up,” said Ryding.  
 The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said
yesterday its  business barometer  rose to 62.3 this month,
exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion and the
group’s employment and new orders gauges rose as well.  
 Americans are also cleaning up their balance sheet, putting
themselves in a better position to spend, Ryding said.  
 The consumer  savings rate  has been rising, indicating
“consumers may be in better financial shape, and if that’s the
case, we’re likely to get a little bit of a pickup in consumer
spending growth,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- David Tice, chief portfolio strategist for bear markets at Federated Investors Inc, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger trade deficit and an easing in consumer spending. Tice, manager of the Federated Prudent Bear Fund, speaks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
