-- Enbridge Says More Than One-Third of Crude in Michigan Spill Is Recovered
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2010-07-31T21:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/enbridge-says-a-quarter-of-crude-recovered-after-pipeline-leak-in-michigan.html

          
          
             Enbridge Inc. , which carries most of
the oil imported to the U.S. from Canada, said more than a third
of the crude oil that leaked from a ruptured pipeline in
Michigan this week has been recovered.  
 Enbridge has removed 7,000 to 8,000 barrels of oil from the
estimated 19,500 barrels that spilled,  Steve Wuori , executive
vice-president, Enbridge Liquids Pipelines, said today on a
conference call with reporters.  
 The oil spilled July 26 from a breach in Line 6B into the
Tallmadge Creek and flowed into the Kalamazoo River. The 30-inch
pipeline is run by  Enbridge Energy Partners LP . Line 6B can
transport 190,000 barrels a day of light synthetic and heavy and
medium crude oil between Sarnia, Ontario, and Griffith, Indiana,
supplying refineries including plants operated by  BP Plc ,
 Imperial Oil Ltd . and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc.   
 There has been a “significant reduction” in the amount of
heavy oil in the waterways and no oil has been spotted on nearby
Morrow Lake, the Calgary-based company said in a statement.  
 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency acknowledged that
while “remarkable progress” has been made in the cleanup,
there is still “several months” of remediation effort needed,
EPA On-Scene Coordinator Mark Durno said on the conference call
today.  
 There will be “months, if not years” of monitoring needed
of the spill site and the government will seek full
reimbursement of its costs from Enbridge, he said.  
 Cleanup Costs  
 The EPA has authorized $5 million of its own money for the
cleanup effort so far, but has no estimate for the total cost,
said Susan Hedman, the agency’s regional administrator. The
agency is not satisfied with the long-term work plan Enbridge
has submitted because “technical details” are missing or
“plans were much too general,” and has asked the company to
submit a new plan by August 2, she said.  
 The damaged section of the pipe has been unearthed from the
marshy terrain through which it runs and is no longer leaking
oil, Enbridge officials said on the call. Company officials
didn’t estimate when the pipeline would return to service.  
 Enbridge won’t be able to restart its 268-mile pipeline
until it takes “corrective action,” the Department of
Transportation said.  
 Enbridge does not yet have an estimate for the cost of the
cleanup but will “make good” on legitimate claims of damage from
the spill, Enbridge Chief Executive Officer  Patrick Daniel  said.
“Our objective is to return the river to the same state as it
was prior to the incident,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        