-- Yen, Dollar Drop as Signs of Global Recovery Buoy Higher-Yielding Assets
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/euro-rises-for-first-time-in-eight-months-as-sovereign-debt-concern-eases.html

          
          
             The euro rallied against the dollar
for the first time in eight months as concern eased that the 16-
nation region’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and spread to
the global economy.  
 The dollar dropped in July against all of its most-traded
counterparts before next week’s payrolls report as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified last week that “the
economic outlook remains unusually uncertain.” The greenback
slid yesterday below 86 yen for the first time this year as a
report showed U.S. economic growth slowed in the second quarter.  
 “European data has been surprisingly robust, while all
signs are that the U.S. is heading for slower growth in the
second half,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist
at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “There have been some hints
from Fed policy makers that further easing could be on the table
should the economy deteriorate.”  
 The euro climbed 6.7 percent to $1.3052 yesterday, from
$1.2238 on June 30, in its first monthly advance since November,
when it increased 1.9 percent. The shared currency rallied 10
percent from a four-year low of $1.1877 reached on June 7. The
euro gained 4.3 percent to 112.84 yen, from 108.22. The dollar
slid 2.2 percent to 86.47 yen, from 88.43, in its third monthly
decline.  
 Sweden’s krona was the best performer among major
currencies in July, appreciating 8.1 percent to 7.2104 versus
the dollar and climbing 1.3 percent to 9.4113 against the euro.  
 Sweden’s Growth  
 The Scandinavian nation’s gross domestic product grew 1.2
percent in the second quarter after a revised 1.5 percent
advance in the first three months of the year, Statistics Sweden
said on its website yesterday. The Riksbank on July 1 doubled
its main lending rate from a record low to 0.5 percent to stem
house price gains.  
 The euro rallied after the Committee of European Banking
Supervisors said on July 23 that only 7 of 91 European Union
banks failed stress tests.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told
reporters in Basel, Switzerland, this week that the stress tests
were “a very important transparency exercise that, I have to
say, we in the ECB appreciate.” The ECB and the Bank of England
both have policy meetings scheduled on Aug. 5.  
 An index of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the euro
nations increased this month to 101.3, the highest level since
March 2008, the European Commission said this week. The number
of people out of work in Germany fell in July for a 13th
consecutive month, dropping by a seasonally adjusted 20,000 to
3.21 million, the lowest level since November 2008, the Federal
Labor Agency reported.  
 ‘Strong Data’  
 “What’s helping the euro is continued strong data,” said
 John Doyle , a strategist in Washington at the currency-trading
firm Tempus Consulting Inc. “That German unemployment number as
well as the economic confidence, it’s enough to push it
higher.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a revised 3.7 percent increase in the first
three months of the year, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. The median forecast of 81 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a gain of 2.6 percent.  
 The  unemployment rate  will increase to 9.6 percent in July,
from 9.5 percent in the previous month, according to the median
forecast of 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Labor Department’s Aug. 6 report. Employers may eliminate 60,000
jobs from nonfarm payrolls in a second consecutive reduction.  
 St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  wrote in a research
paper released on July 29 the U.S. is moving closer to Japanese-
style deflation and the central bank should resume purchases of
Treasury securities if the economy slows and prices fall.  
 Bernanke’s View  
 Bernanke said in testimony on July 21 before the Senate
Banking Committee that policy makers “remain prepared” to act
as needed to aid growth even as they get ready to raise interest
rates eventually and shrink a record balance sheet.  
 The yen appreciated to 85.95 versus the dollar yesterday,
its strongest level since Nov. 30 and close to a 14-year high of
84.83 reached that month.  
 Japanese policy makers signaled this week that a stronger
currency poses a danger to growth, spurring speculation they
will take steps to counter that risk.  
 The Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki 
highlighted in a speech in Sapporo the economic risks of a
rising yen and said the bank will act to combat deflation, a
more aggressive stance than his colleagues have indicated.  
 “We are reaching multi-year and in some respects even
multi-decade lows in the dollar-yen, which is likely to result
in a fair bit of rhetoric and even actions from the government
of Japan,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto.  
 Nissan Motor Co. said this week it will boost output
capacity in Mexico to about 700,000 vehicles a year and may
consider increasing exports from the U.S. as the strong yen
makes North American production more competitive.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        