-- Illinois Sends Contrasting Messages to Bond Buyers, Voters on Deficit Plan
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/illinois-sends-contrasting-messages-to-bond-buyers-voters-on-deficit-plan.html

          
          
             Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn ’s
administration is sending different messages to municipal-
bond investors and voters about its plans to close the
 state’s  $13 billion deficit.  
 Finance officials are telling overseas debt buyers
that Illinois can balance its budget with a 2 percentage-
point boost in its income tax,  John Sinsheimer , Illinois’s
director of capital markets, said in an interview. After
Quinn’s Republican opponent criticized that amount, the
governor vowed to veto any increase of more than 1
percentage point.  
 The difference between the two figures equals about $3
billion a year for taxpayers. The contrasting messages
suggest that after the November election, promises may have
to be put aside to address the shortfall, said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income research for Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, a money management firm based in
Philadelphia.  
 “They’re going to have to show they’re doing
something, or their bonds will fall off a cliff,” Schankel
said in an interview. “Once the election is over, they can
do what they want and explain it away.”  
 Asked about the different messages, Ashley Cross, a
Quinn spokeswoman, referred to comments the governor made
at a July 29 news conference.  
 “I support a 1 percent surcharge for education, and
that’s it,” Quinn said. “I’m going to veto anything that
isn’t my plan.”  
 His budget director,  David Vaught , predicted in an
interview the day before that state lawmakers will pass a
“substantial” income tax-rate increase of up to 2
percentage points in January.  
 Deficit Penalty  
 The state’s unresolved deficit and backlog of $4.7
billion in unpaid bills has driven investors to extract a
penalty when the state borrows. The yields on 35-year Build
America Bonds sold by Illinois on July 21 had increased
about 58 percent relative to U.S. Treasury securities since
January. The so-called spread to Treasuries rose to 3.294
percentage points from 2.083 in that period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Illinois, which has borrowed about $9 billion since
Jan. 1, has the lowest state credit rating along with
California, according to Moody’s Investors Service. It
ended its 2010 budget year on June 30 “in the worst fiscal
position in its history,” Comptroller  Daniel Hynes  said in
an early July  report .  
 Spending Cuts  
 The state’s deficit is about half of its $26 billion
general-fund budget, according to Illinois documents. So
far, the governor and lawmakers have focused on cutting
spending and borrowing to make annual pension
contributions.  
 The $6 billion a year generated by an increase in
personal and corporate tax rates would help close the
annual deficit, Sinsheimer said, adding that some investors
were impressed by a 2 percentage-point rise when combined
with spending cuts.  
 “The overseas investors we talk to, when we told them
we could balance the budget with a 2 percent increase in
individual and corporate income taxes, that pretty much
raises about $6 billion,” he said in a July 28 interview
with Vaught. “They looked at us and said, ‘Only a 2
percent increase?’ They were amazed by that.”  
 Education Tax  
 Quinn has called for boosting education funding by
increasing the income-tax rate by 1 percentage point to 4
percent for individuals. The state Senate approved a 2
percentage-point increase in 2009, and Quinn testified in
the House in support of that legislation, Vaught said in
the interview.  
 State officials have delayed taking action because of
the election, Vaught said. Quinn, a Democrat, faces
Republican  Bill Brady , an Illinois state senator, in the
governor’s race.  
 Kelly Kraft , a spokeswoman for Vaught and Sinsheimer,
referred follow-up questions to Cross.  
 An investor’s cost of insuring five-year Illinois
bonds against default hit a record of $370,000 in June to
protect $10 million of debt, as efforts to close the
deficit languished. The low was $155,000 in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price had
fallen back to $280,000 on July 29.  
 “When everything is over, it’s not difficult for the
Legislators to say the situation is worse than they thought
and then increase revenue,” said  Robert Rich,  director of
the Institute of Government and Public Affairs at the
University of Illinois in Champaign. “You can’t cut your
way out of a $13 billion deficit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        