-- Miramax Buyers Said to Plan Other Library Purchases, Won't Make New Films
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/miramax-buyers-said-to-plan-other-library-purchases-won-t-make-new-films.html

          
          
             Miramax intends to seek more film
assets once investors led by Colony Capital LLC and construction
executive  Ronald Tutor  complete their purchase of the  Walt
Disney Co.  unit, a person with knowledge of the plans said.  
 Future deals will likely also focus on libraries of older
films, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.
Colony Capital, led by Chairman  Tom Barrack , joined Tutor and
other investors on July 29 in a $660 million accord to buy
Miramax, whose main asset is more than 700 movies that have
already been released.  
 The investors see an opening to bid on film libraries,
which have been discounted by other potential buyers as a result
of shrinking DVD sales, the person said. No specific assets have
been identified. Colony Capital, Barrack’s Los Angeles-based
private-equity group, and Tutor declined to comment, said
 Kristin Celauro , an outside spokeswoman for the buyers.  
 Colony Capital and Tutor plan to hire an executive to
exploit the Miramax library when the deal closes by the end of
the year, the person said. No new production is planned.
Instead, the new owners intend to seek distribution arrangements
for the half of the library that isn’t covered by TV agreements.  
 Miramax, maker of maker of Academy Award winners such as
“Chicago” and “Shakespeare in Love,” was one of several film
assets on the block. Los Angeles-based Relativity Media LLC
agreed to take over the marketing and distribution operations of
 Liberty Media Corp. ’s Overture unit last week. Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc., the studio that own a library with more than 4,000
titles, is seeking buyers after falling behind on $3.7 billion
of debt.  
 Distribution Deals  
 Miramax has distribution in the U.S. through agreements
between Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty’s Starz pay TV service
and Burbank, California-based Disney. The buyers are paying
about four times the library’s cash flow, the person said.  
 Many of those agreements expire within three years, giving
Tutor and Colony Capital the ability to sign new TV, Internet
and other digital agreements, the person said.  
 Tutor brought Colony Capital into the deal to help finance
the purchase. Barrack decided later to personally invest,
according to an executive with knowledge of the arrangement. The
group is still seeking debt financing before the deal closes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        