-- Iran `Hiding Truth' About Nuclear Work, Will Be on G-8 Agenda, Cannon Says
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/iran-hiding-truth-about-nuclear-work-will-be-on-g-8-agenda-cannon-says.html

          
          
             Canadian Foreign Minister  Lawrence Cannon  said Iran is “hiding” the truth about its nuclear
program and added that the effectiveness of new sanctions will
be reviewed by Group of Eight officials when they next meet in
September.  
 Cannon, who presides over meetings of G-8 foreign ministers
this year, led a March summit where he helped push for sanctions
against Iran that were imposed this week by Canada and the
European Union, and earlier by the U.S. Iran has denied
allegations from the U.S. and some of its allies that the
nuclear program may be intended for weapons development.  
 Iran “must allow unfettered access to the inspectors and
must make sure that it doesn’t develop a nuclear capacity other
than for peaceful purposes,” Cannon said in an interview
yesterday in Bloomberg’s Ottawa office. “For the last 20 years
Iran has indeed been hiding the truth from everybody.”  
 Canada and EU governments this week imposed their toughest
sanctions yet on Iran, backing U.S. efforts to force the country
to halt uranium enrichment and stop any pursuit of a nuclear
weapons capability.  
 “We will analyze how these sanctions are holding,” Cannon
said.  
 The package includes a ban on new investment in or
equipment sales to Iran’s oil and natural-gas industries,
restrictions on export-credit guarantees and insurance, and
closer monitoring of banks doing business with Iran.  
 The United Nations Security Council imposed a fourth round
of restrictions on Iran in June, while President  Barack Obama  on
July 1 expanded U.S. measures targeting Iranian gasoline imports
and banking access. Iran is the second-largest oil producer in
the Middle East after Saudi Arabia.  
 China Disagrees  
 Iran has ignored three previous sets of UN sanctions and
rejects Western allegations that it wants to build an atomic
bomb. Iran says the nuclear program is designed to generate
electricity for a growing population and that as a signatory to
the nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty  it is entitled to continue
such activities.  
 China disagrees with the EU’s “unilateral” sanctions
against Iran and would prefer the nuclear-fuel supply issue be
solved through dialogue,  Jiang Yu , a spokeswoman for China’s
foreign ministry, said in comments posted on the ministry’s
website yesterday.  
 Cannon said G-8 ministers will also discuss North Korea
when they next meet.  
 “We have two states, Iran and North Korea, who aren’t
behaving in a responsible fashion,” Cannon said. “They will be
in our discussions.”  
 ‘Highest’ Condemnation  
 North Korea has been under renewed international pressure
since a South Korean warship was sunk in March. An international
panel said it was torpedoed by a North Korean submarine, a
charge that country has denied.  
 “We have condemned that to the highest extent,” Cannon
said of the ship’s sinking. Canada, which helped with the
international investigation of the sinking, said in May it would
impose new  sanctions  on North Korea.  
 Cannon, 62, has been foreign minister since October 2008,
and began in the federal cabinet as transport minister when he
was first elected in 2006 in a Quebec district. He comes from a
political family, with five relatives having served in
Parliament and three others in Quebec’s provincial legislature.  
 On Afghanistan, where Canada has 2,800 soldiers, Cannon
reiterated the country’s military mission will end next year.
Canada has had 151 military  casualties  in Afghanistan, more than
in any conflict since the Korean War, and a diplomat was also
killed.  
 Afghanistan  
 Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  hasn’t outlined a detailed
plan for Canada’s involvement after next year. In a speech that
opened the last session of Parliament in March, the government
said, “After 2011, our effort in Afghanistan will focus on
development and humanitarian aid.”  
 “We will be looking at the ways that we are going to be
going forward in those areas, as well as our diplomatic
relations with the government of Afghanistan,” said Cannon, who
this month attended a major donors’  summit  in Kabul.  
 “The international commitment is strong enough, the
support is strong enough to be able to help this country in the
right direction,” Cannon said. “The biggest risk of course is
to fall back to the periods that are pre-2001.” The Taliban
regime ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001.  
 The Conservatives led by Harper lack a majority of seats in
the House of Commons and won opposition support to extend the
combat mission to 2011. Now that the military mission is ending,
Cannon said the government may not need to return to Parliament
to seek a vote on its plans in Afghanistan.  
 “The only reason why previously we went through this and
we had a motion is that called upon the engagement of Canadian
forces elsewhere,” Cannon said. “The prime minister will make
the determination as to what he indeed wants to do with the
opposition parties.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        