-- New York Mets Owners Sued for Pensions Lost in Bernard Madoff Ponzi Scheme
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/new-york-mets-owners-sued-for-pensions-lost-in-bernard-madoff-ponzi-scheme.html

          
          
             The owners of the New York Mets
should be responsible for reimbursing more than $16 million in
pension benefits invested on behalf of their workers in  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, according to a lawsuit filed by the
widow of an employee.  
 Elyse S. Goldweber, the beneficiary of her late husband’s
401(k) plan, filed suit yesterday against Sterling Equities
Inc., which owns the Major League Baseball team, in the U.S.
District Court in Manhattan. The lawsuit, which also named Mets
Chief Executive Officer  Fred Wilpon , said most of the couple’s
$280,420 retirement fund was “wiped out.”  
 At the time Madoff disclosed in December 2008 that his $65
billion investment venture had collapsed, Wilpon said his
family and his business weren’t in financial jeopardy, the
lawsuit said.  
 “Defendant Wilpon’s statement that his family and his
business family were all ‘fine’ did not take into account the
loss of the retirement savings of many of his employees,” the
lawsuit said.  
 Wilpon has declined to disclose the team’s losses from
investments in Madoff funds, the suit said.  
 The court-appointed trustee working to recover some of the
losses said the Mets made a $48 million profit from the $523
million invested with Madoff, the lawsuit said. That
determination has made it impossible for the employees to seek
compensation from the trustee,  
 “We believe the complaint has no merit,” the Great Neck,
New York-based company said in a statement issued last night.
“The Sterling Equities 401(k) Plan and its participants were
among the many victims of the Madoff fraud.”  
 The company said it filed a claim with the insurer of the
investment funds, the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation or SIPC, and assisted participants with filing
claims.  
 “We believe the participants who were defrauded by
Madoff are entitled to the full protection of SIPC and are
therefore eligible to be reimbursed for all their losses as is
provided under the law,” the company said in its statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        