-- Obama Says `Tough Decisions' on $60 Billion Automaker Aid Now Paying Off
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-07-31T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/obama-says-tough-decisions-on-60-billion-automaker-aid-now-paying-off.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said the
“tough decisions” he made to give almost $60 billion in aid to
the U.S. auto industry saved a million jobs and led to the
strongest period of growth for automakers in a decade.  
 In his weekly  address  on the radio and the Internet, Obama
said the help given to General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC
have led to a “hopeful story” of economic recovery following
the nation’s worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  
 “There’s no doubt that we have a long way to go and a lot
of work to do before folks here and across the country can feel
whole again,” he said in the address, recorded at a GM plant in
Hamtramck, Michigan, yesterday. “But what’s important is that
we’re finally beginning to see some of the tough decisions we
made pay off.”  
 Obama is stepping up his defense of government aid to
automakers as polls show voters haven’t been persuaded the
spending was worthwhile. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted
July 9-12 shows the federal assistance package to automobile
companies is becoming less popular: 48 percent say they became
less supportive of it in recent months, while 17 percent say
they have become more supportive.  
 Obama visited GM and Chrysler plants in Michigan yesterday
as part of an administration campaign leading into the November
congressional elections to highlight the impact of the
president’s economic policies.  
 Government Aid  
 The administrations of Obama and his predecessor,  George W. Bush , committed a total of $85 billion to rescue the automakers,
aid suppliers and prop up the financing arms of GM and Chrysler.
About $67 billion in loans and equity investments are still
outstanding, according to administration figures.  
 Obama advisers have said they expect about $60 billion --
the amount committed by the administration -- to be recouped.  
 Obama in his radio address said the government investments
are helping the companies reinvent themselves to make cars like
GM’s Chevrolet Volt, an electric car than can go 40 miles before
using its gasoline-powered generator.  
 The president also criticized opponents of the aid programs
who would have preferred to “walk away and let these jobs go”
instead of saving the industry.  
 He called on Republicans in Congress to work with him on
taking more steps to encourage hiring by passing legislation
that would give tax breaks and lending assistance to small
businesses. Senate Republicans blocked consideration of the
measure earlier this week.  
 “At a time when America is just starting to move forward
again, we can’t afford the do-nothing policies and partisan
maneuvering that will only take us backward,” Obama said.  
 Republican Address  
 In the Republican  address , Senator  Mike Johanns  of Nebraska
said Obama’s policies are hurting private-sector job creation by
creating new rules and regulations.  
 He singled out provisions of this year’s health-care
overhaul that requires more business record-keeping for total
purchases over $600 in a year.  
 “This will create a mountain of new paperwork,” he  said ,  
 Johanns also criticized $120 billion in new government
health insurance taxes that he said will hurt small businesses
the most, and he said energy legislation Obama is pushing would
negatively affect private employers.  
 “It’s time to stop pushing anti-growth policies and start
supporting a real job growth agenda,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        