-- Loonie Has First Monthly Gain Against Dollar Since April on Growth Appeal
-- Alex Kowalski
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/loonie-has-first-monthly-gain-against-dollar-since-april-on-growth-appeal.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar strengthened against
its U.S. counterpart in July, the first monthly gain since
April, as increases in equities and commodities bolstered the
appeal of currencies tied to growth.  
 “Strong equity and crude in the early part of the week
helped boost the loonie,”  Michael Leavitt , a Montreal-based
institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
said in an e-mail.  
 The Canadian currency gained after reports showing economic
growth slowed in both nations failed to deter speculation the
Bank of Canada will continue to raise the target rate for
overnight lending. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  raised
the benchmark interest rate on July 20 by a quarter-percentage
point for a second month and may raise rates again in September.  
 The currency, nicknamed the loonie, appreciated 3.2 percent
to C$1.0279 per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0639
on June 30. It fell gained 0.6 percent for the week and 2.5
percent this year. One Canadian dollar purchases 97.28 cents.  
 “The equity markets globally have been outperformers this
month,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto. “If market
volatility starts to abate that will likely inspire more moves
into risk currencies like Canada.”  
 Stocks, Commodities  
 The MSCI World Index  of equities in 24 developed markets
rose in July, the first time since March, by 8 percent.  The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 6.9 percent.  
 Crude oil for September delivery gained 4.4 percent to
$78.95 a barrel in July. Copper futures rose 12 percent to $3.31
a pound, the best performance since August.  
 Canada’s gross domestic product expanded 0.1 percent in May
after being unchanged the month before, with mining and oil
leading increased goods production, while wholesale and real
estate activity declined,  Statistics Canada  said yesterday in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted a 0.2
percent gain, based on the median of 22 estimates.  
 Growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, less than forecast, reflecting a larger
trade deficit and reduced consumer spending. The increase in
gross domestic product follows an upwardly revised 3.7 percent
pace in the first quarter, according to figures from the
Commerce Department released yesterday. Business investment
climbed at the fastest rate since 1997.  
 Job Growth  
 Canadian employers added a net 15,000 jobs in July,
according to a Bloomberg survey before the Statistics Canada
report Aug. 6. Employment rose by 93,200 in June.  
 “The Canadian dollar will continue to benefit from better-
than-south-of-the-border numbers when looking at the recent
strong domestic employment numbers and tame inflation,” said
Leavitt, of MF Global Holdings. “The Canadian dollar should
continue to trend towards parity.”  
 The loonie last traded on a one-for-one basis with its U.S.
counterpart on April 6 for the first time in almost two years.
The currency rose to par with the greenback in September 2007
for the first time in three decades amid booming demand for raw
materials.  
 “The markets are pricing accordingly with a September rate
hike,” Spitz said. “Unless there’s a material downturn in
between now and the meeting, I think the market has it right.”  
 Governor Carney raised the target rate for overnight loans
between commercial banks to 0.75 percent on July 20 and said
further action will be “weighed carefully against domestic and
global economic developments.”  
 Central Bank Stance  
 The Bank of Canada overnight lending rate will increase 25
basis points to 1 percent in the third quarter, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 Canadian government bonds rose this week, with the
benchmark 10-year note’s yield falling 11 basis points to 3.12
percent, from 3.23 percent on July 23. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in June 2020 increased 94 cents to
C$103.24.  
 Foreign investors bought a record C$11.5 billion of federal
government securities in May, almost double the previous record
of C$6.75 billion set in January, Statistics Canada reported
July 19. Demand for Canadian bonds has increased on signs the
country was exiting a global recession faster than other Group
of Seven countries and that Canada’s debt burden will be lower.  
 Canada will auction C$3.2 billion ($3.1 billion) of 3-year
bonds on Aug. 4, according to the central bank’s website. The
2.5 percent securities mature in September 2013.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        