-- Pakistan Flood Toll Exceeds 1,500 as Officials Struggle to Reach Survivors
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-08-02T14:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/pakistan-s-floods-rains-may-have-killed-3-000-people-aid-official-says.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s deadliest floods in
decades killed more than 1,500 people and overwhelmed government
efforts to provide aid, officials and relief workers said.  
 With President  Asif Ali Zardari  touring Europe, the
government said it was rushing help to the devastated
northwestern province, where the army has fought Taliban
guerrillas. Islamic militant groups in the region and the U.S.
government both have built public support in the past by
providing assistance to bolster government attempts.  
 Monsoon rains will continue for the next few days after
ripping out bridges, roads and villages since late last week,
said Nasir Khan, a  Meteorological Department  official in the
provincial capital, Peshawar. Regions downstream in the Indus
River valley, where most of Pakistan’s 162 million people live,
braced for floods that may damage crops, according to the
nation’s biggest agriculture body.  
 More than 1,500 people have died in Pakistan’s northwestern
province, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, said Noor Muhammad, a press
officer for the provincial development ministry.  
 Government and private relief agencies are managing to
provide “only 5 percent of what’s required,” Mujahid Khan,
provincial spokesman for the  Edhi Foundation , which runs
Pakistan’s largest ambulance and rescue services, said by phone
from Peshawar.  
 Pakistani television channels showed flood survivors
gathered at roadsides, seeking transport to nearby towns.  
 Army Rescue  
 Pakistani soldiers in the flood-scoured Swat Valley “are
rescuing people from the water by helicopter,” said Zahid Khan,
55, president of the hotel association in Mingora, the valley’s
main town. “But the government has sent no help for people who
lost their homes and they are camping wherever they can with no
drinking water,” he said by phone.  
 Islamic militant activists distributed aid packages in the
northwestern town of Charsadda, outside Peshawar, the Associated
Press reported. An earthquake in 2005 that killed about 86,000
people exposed the government’s inadequacy in providing relief
as the U.S. and Islamic militants raced to fill the gap.  
 U.S. Air Force cargo planes landed in the city of
Rawalpindi yesterday with food packages as part of $10 million
in emergency help pledged by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .
She has sought to boost her country’s image among Pakistanis as
an opinion survey released last week by the Pew Research Center
in Washington showed only 17 percent of the local population had
a positive view of the U.S.  
 U.S. Aid  
 The U.S. is rushing helicopters, boats, pre-fabricated
bridges, mobile water treatment units and food supplies to
affected areas, Clinton said in a  statement  yesterday.  
 Food distribution has begun in the worst affected districts
of Peshawar, Nowshera and Charsadda, the World Food Program said
yesterday on its website. Floodwaters “have also caused
significant damage” to the UN agency’s warehouses in
northwestern Pakistan, it said.  
 The flood’s death toll may rise to 3,000, said Edhi
Foundation’s Khan. He spoke from Peshawar, the capital of
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, previously called the North-West Frontier
Province.  
 Officials in Pakistan’s other provinces -- Punjab, Sindh
and Baluchistan -- braced for the floodwaters moving down the
Indus River and its tributaries. The Sindh government ordered
residents evacuated from locales along the Indus.  
 Crop Damage  
 The floods, which according to U.K. charity Oxfam may be
Pakistan’s worst in 35 years, may cut the production of rice,
sugarcane and corn by about 10 percent to 15 percent, said Nasir
Cheema, president of Pakistan’s Chamber of Agriculture.  
 Pakistani television networks showed survivors clinging to
trees or debris in muddy, raging mountain rivers. Armed forces
chief  Ashraf Pervez Kayani  yesterday visited flooded areas of
the Swat Valley and his helicopter evacuated 17 residents, the
army said  on its website .  
 Opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif , a two-time prime minister,
criticized Zardari for pursuing a trip to France and the U.K.
this week. His absence flies in the face of “the worst flooding
in the country’s history,” Sharif said on the GEO television
news channel.  
 Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani , who toured the stricken
province by air, ordered the government to provide food to
people at safe locations.  
 The floods followed the deaths of 152 people when a plane
crashed in heavy rain near the capital, Islamabad, on July 28.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anwar Shakir  at   ashakir1@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pakistan’s Flash Floods May Have Killed 3,000  
                       
                         
                           A. Majeed/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Pakistani local residents evacuate in a flood-hit area of Nowshera, Pakistan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pakistani local residents evacuate in a flood-hit area of Nowshera, Pakistan. Photographer: A. Majeed/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
