-- Deaths From Pakistan Floods May Reach 3,000, Rescue Service Official Says
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-31T15:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/pakistan-death-toll-from-flash-floods-in-northwest-rises-to-539-edhi-says.html

          
          
             The local head of Pakistan’s largest
rescue service said the death toll from flash floods in the
country could reach thousands in the next few days.  
 Already, over 800 deaths have been reported because of the
devastation brought by the floods in the country’s northwest.  
 “The death toll could go as high as 3,000 because the
level of destruction has been so great,” Mujahid Khan, chief
spokesman for Edhi rescue service, the country’s biggest, said
by telephone from Peshawar today. Khan later said the number of
fatalities was now 817.  
 The flooding deaths come after 152 people died when a plane
crashed in heavy rain near the capital on July 28. Homes and
bridges have collapsed in the rain, live electric wires have
fallen into the waters and families have been swept away in the
floods.  
 “We can see people drowning but we can’t go into the water
because of its high pressure,” Khan said yesterday. “The
relief efforts of everyone combined is only 5 percent of what’s
required.”  
 Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , who toured the
stricken province by air, ordered his government to rescue
people and provide food supplies to those at safe locations.  
 Evacuation  
 Floods may reach the southern province of Sindh within the
next few days, Information Minister Sumsam Bokhari told a news
conference in Islamabad. The Sindh government has ordered
residents along the banks of the River Indus to be evacuated.  
 Army troops equipped with life jackets, motorboats and
heavy rafts were called in yesterday to help move families to
safety, according to a statement on the military website.  
 Pakistani television channels showed images of people on
flooded roads grabbing wreckage to keep from being swept away,
drowning goats and buffalo, and makeshift boats.  
 “All the houses in my village have been destroyed and now
it’s simply a fight for survival,” Mehmood Khan, a tribal
elder, said by telephone from Wana, South Waziristan yesterday.
“Food supplies have started to run out. We haven’t eaten in 48
hours and the scant food supplies we saved for women and
children may not last long.”  
 The districts of Nowshera, Charsadda, Peshawar, Swat, and
Lower Dir are the worst-affected, according to the government.  
 The first spell of the monsoon started on July 22 and
affected the western province of Baluchistan, according to the
National Disaster Management Agency in Islamabad.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anwar Shakir  at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net 
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        