-- Treasury Notes Climb for Fourth Straight Month as Economic Growth Slows
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/treasury-notes-climb-for-fourth-straight-month-as-economic-growth-slows.html

          
          
             Treasury  notes gained for a fourth
consecutive month, pushing two-year yields to the lowest ever,
as data that showed U.S. economic growth is cooling fueled
demand for the safest securities.  
 The two-year yield fell for a ninth straight week, the
longest since February 2008, as a report yesterday showed gross
domestic product expansion decelerated to an annual rate of 2.4
percent rate last quarter, lower than forecast. A Federal
Reserve report July 28 underscored central bankers’ view that
the recovery is progressing more slowly. U.S. payrolls shed jobs
in July for a second month, a report next week may show.  
 “There’s concern about growth being low for an extended
period,” said  Michael Cloherty , interest-rate strategy head in
New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of 18 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “That’s the theme that keeps pushing things
along. We’ll need continued bad news to extend this rally.”  
 The two-year  yield  dropped 4 basis points on the week, or
0.04 percentage point, to a record low of 0.5461 percent
yesterday in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It has
declined 6 basis points in July and 22 basis points since the
week ended May 28.  
 The 10-year  note yield  fell 9 basis points on the week and
26 basis points this month to 2.91 percent. The 30-year  bond 
fell for the first month since March, with its yield rising 10
basis points to 3.99 percent.  
 Growth in gross domestic product from April through June
decelerated from a revised 3.7 percent pace in the first three
months of the year and from 5 percent in the last quarter of
2009, Commerce Department data showed yesterday. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.6 percent rate.  
 ‘Moderate Recovery’  
 “The moderate recovery looks likely to continue but for
now, at least, risks to growth are skewed to the downside,”
 Zach Pandl , an economist at primary dealer Nomura Holdings Inc.
in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “The report’s many
details were on net a negative for the economic outlook.”  
 The Fed’s regional business survey, known as the Beige
Book, said that over the past two months “nearly all districts
reported sluggish housing markets” since a tax credit for
homebuyers expired April 30. Several of the bank’s 12 districts
reported manufacturing “slowed or leveled off.” Still, it
said, “economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey.”  
 The survey was issued two weeks before the central’s bank’s
next policy meeting, scheduled in 10 days.  
 Note Auctions  
 Treasuries rose this week even as the U.S. sold $104
billion in 2-, 5- and 7-year securities. The $38 billion 2-year
note offering drew a record low auction yield of 0.665 percent,
and the $37 billion 5-year notes yielded 1.796 percent, the
lowest level at an auction of the debt since December 2008.  
 U.S. employers eliminated 60,000 jobs in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor
Department reports the data on Aug. 6. The economy lost 125,000
jobs in June in the first monthly decline this year.  
 The worst U.S. recession since the 1930s was even deeper
than previously estimated, reflecting bigger slumps in consumer
spending and housing, according to the Commerce Department’s
annual revisions, issued yesterday. The economy shrank 4.1
percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of
2009, compared with the 3.7 percent drop previously on the
books, the report showed.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank is prepared to take further policy actions if the world’s
largest economy “doesn’t continue to improve.” The Fed cut the
benchmark interest rate to a record low range of zero to 0.25
percent in December 2008 and bought $300 billion in Treasury
securities, in addition to purchasing housing-agency and
mortgage-backed securities, as a tool of monetary policy.  
 Quantitative Easing  
 The central bank should resume purchases of Treasuries if
the economy slows and prices fall, Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  wrote.  
 “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” Bullard wrote in a research
paper July 29 about the possibility of deflation. “A better
policy response to a negative shock is to expand the
quantitative easing program through the purchase of Treasury
securities.”  
 A resumption of such purchases isn’t on the horizon,
according to primary dealer Citigroup Inc.  
 “Further balance-sheet expansion is unlikely given the
concerns around size of current balance sheet and the
diminishing returns to further asset purchases,” Citigroup
strategists led by  Amitabh Arora  in New York wrote in a report
issued yesterday.  
 Fed’s Balance Sheet  
 Assets on the Fed’s balance sheet totaled $2.33 trillion as
of July 28, according to central bank data.  
 Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange yesterday showed
traders have reduced the probability that policy makers will
raise their  target  rate for overnight lending between banks to
33 percent by April, from 54 percent a month ago.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, yesterday narrowed to 1.76 percentage
points from this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in
January. The five-year average is 2.13 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        