-- Sanofi Bid for Genzyme Bid May Need to Be Higher Than $80 to Win Investors
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-08-01T15:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/sanofi-may-need-to-bid-up-to-21-3-billion-to-win-over-genzyme-investors.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA may have to pay at
least $80 a share, or $21.3 billion, to acquire genetic-disease
drugmaker  Genzyme  Corp. as activist directors drive up the
price, investors in the U.S. biotechnology company say.  
 Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has support
from his board to offer as much as $70 a share, or about $18.7
billion, and is preparing a formal offer letter for Genzyme,
according to three people familiar with the situation who
declined to be named because the deliberations are private.  
 Activist  Ralph Whitworth  of Relational Investors LLC.,
Genzyme’s second-biggest holder, began buying the stock in the
third quarter of 2008, when it traded as high as $83.25.
Whitworth, and  Carl C. Icahn , the third-largest shareholder,
gained four of 13 board seats this year in compromises brokered
with Genzyme to avoid a proxy battle.  
 “Relational is looking at this, they’re saying, we’ve
owned this a while, we owned it in the 80s, why would we sell?”
said  Sachin Shah , a merger arbitrage specialist at Capstone
Global Markets in New York, in a telephone interview. “The only
reason would be if they believe they can get full value.”  
 The  shares  of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme fell
23 cents to close at $69.56 on July 30. Genzyme’s stock plunged
26 percent last year after a plant shutdown caused drug
shortages. Sanofi declined 25 cents to 44.57 euros at the close
of trading in Paris on July 30.  
 Whitworth’s Stake  
 Relational Investors bought 1.3 million shares in the third
quarter of 2008, according to a regulatory filing. The fund
added another 1.4 million shares in the following quarter, when
shares traded as high as $80.33. Relational  held  10.6 million
shares as of June 16, according to a regulatory filing.  
 Whitworth joined the board in April, with an option to name
another director. His pick, Dennis Fenton, a former head of
operations and manufacturing at  Amgen  Inc., the largest U.S.
biotechnology company, was appointed to the board in June.  
 Icahn bought 1.45 million shares in the company in the
third quarter of 2009, when the stock traded as high as $58.24.
Icahn had 13.1 million shares as of March 31. Icahn associates
 Steven Burakoff  and  Eric Ende  became directors in June.  
 “Icahn is going to come out and demand a special
committee” to put the company up for sale as soon as Sanofi’s
letter arrives, Shah said.  
 Icahn didn’t return calls for comment. Whitworth declined
to comment, referring questions to Genzyme.  Bo Piela , a Genzyme
spokesman, and  Jean-Marc Podvin , a Sanofi spokesman, declined to
comment.  
 Not for Sale  
 Genzyme CEO  Henri Termeer  said in a June 14 interview that
the company wasn’t for sale. It is focused on fixing
manufacturing defects that cut into sales of its biggest
products, Termeer said. He is seeking to revive the drugmaker
after sales slumped 2 percent to $4.5 billion last year,
following a virus contamination at Genzyme’s Allston Landing
factory in Boston.  
 “$80 was the valuation in 2008, before the manufacturing
issues, and without those issues it would be trading there
now,” said  Sven Borho , a partner with Orbimed Advisors, holder
of about 2.5 million Genzyme shares. “This hasn’t been a great
year and you can’t base a valuation on it. The growth rate in
2011 could easily be 20 percent or more, and that’s one of the
highest growth rates in biotech.”  
 Generic Competition  
 Viehbacher is counting on takeovers to help replace revenue
it will lose as its medicines face competition from lower-priced
generic drugs. Sanofi, based in Paris, cut its 2010 earnings
forecast on July 26 after U.S. regulators approved a generic
rival to its Lovenox blood thinner.  
 Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare
genetic disorders, sells products less likely to face generic
competitors because its treatments made from living cells are
harder to copy than traditional pills made from chemical
compounds, said  Joshua Schimmer , an analyst for Leerink Swann &
Co. in New York, in a July 30 research report. Additionally,
acquiring Genzyme would provide Sanofi an entrance to drugs for
rare diseases, Schimmer wrote.  
 Icahn was chairman of ImClone Systems Inc. in 2008 when Eli
Lilly & Co. agreed to buy the New York-based biotechnology firm
for 73 percent premium over the average share price in the 30
days before the deal was announced, Schimmer said.  
 In a similar biotechnology deal, AstraZeneca Plc, of
London, agreed to acquire MedImmune Inc. in 2007 at a 70 percent
premium, based on the 30-day average price before it was
announced, Schimmer said.  
 In May, Japanese drugmaker  Astellas Pharma Inc.  agreed to
buy OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc., a maker of biotechnology drugs for
cancer, for a 68 percent premium over the average share price in
the 30 days before the deal was announced, Schimmer said.  
 52 Percent Premium  
 Genzyme’s average closing price was $52.75 in the month
before an offer by Sanofi was first reported on July 23,
according to Bloomberg data. An offer of $80-a-share would
represent a 52 percent premium.  
 “We believe the board of Genzyme will push for a sale, but
is unlikely to recommend an offer below $80 a share,” said
Genzyme investor  Amit Shabi , a partner at Bernheim, Dreyfus &
Co. in Paris.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sanofi’s Genzyme Bid May Need to Reach $80  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chris Viehbacher, chief executive officer of Sanofi-Aventis SA. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chris Viehbacher, chief executive officer of Sanofi-Aventis SA. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
