-- Slovenia, Croatia Agree to Settle NLB Bank Dispute as EU Entry Approaches
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-07-31T11:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/slovenia-croatia-agree-to-settle-nlb-bank-dispute-as-eu-entry-approaches.html

          
          
             Slovenia and Croatia said they
reached an agreement over Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., allowing
the Ljubljana-based bank to operate in the neighbouring country
and speed up Croatia’s entry into the European Union.  
 “We have agreed on the process of how to solve this
difficult issue,” Slovenian Prime Minister  Borut Pahor  told
reporters in the Slovenian Alpine resort of Bohinj after meeting
with his Croatian counterpart  Jadranka Kosor  today. “This
should remove one of the last breaks in Crotia’s EU-accession
process,” he added.  
 Nova Ljubljanska, Slovenia’s largest bank with units in
most of the former Yugoslavia, has been barred from operating in
Croatia because its communist-era predecessor owes Croatian
savers 312 million deutsche marks ($208 million), excluding
interest, according to Croatian central bank Governor  Zeljko Rohatinski .  
 The two premiers, who did not give detail of what had been
agreed, said the resolution would be in place by the end of
October.  
 NLB won’t be allowed to operate in Croatia, Rohatinski has
said, as long as the savers’ issue, stemming from before the
break-up of Yugoslavia, remains unresolved. Slovenia, in turn,
has said it won’t allow Croatia to complete talks in the policy
area on free movement of capital if NLB is barred from operating
there. The Balkan nation has now completed negotiations in 22
out of 35 policy areas on July 27.  
 Croatia, which aims to become the second former Yugoslav
nation in the EU by 2012 after Slovenia, will be able to
complete entry talks early next year the latest, Kosor said
earlier this month.  
 Relations between Slovenia and Croatia have improved since
both nations agreed last year to settle a border dispute by
international arbitration, which was ultimately confirmed in a
people’s vote in Slovenia last month. Before the agreement, a
Slovenian veto had blocked Croatia’s EU accession bid.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        