-- Stanford Said to Name Hewlett-Packard's Frier to Endowment Investment Post
-- Gillian Wee
-- 2010-07-31T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/stanford-said-to-name-hewlett-packard-s-frier-to-endowment-investment-post.html

          
          
             Stanford University, the third-
richest U.S. college, plans to name  Ken Frier  chief investment
officer, filling a position that’s been open more than two
years, according to two people with knowledge of the hire.  
 Frier holds the same job at the employee pension plan of
Hewlett-Packard Co. in Palo Alto, California, about 2 miles (3.2
kilometers) from the Stanford campus. He’ll start at the
university in August, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the appointment hasn’t been made public.  
 Frier, 52, a graduate of Stanford Business School, will
report to  John Powers , chief executive officer of Stanford
Management Co., which oversees the $12.6 billion endowment.
Endowment board members sought an experienced manager to support
Powers after the fund’s investments dropped a record 26 percent
in the year ended June 30, 2009, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in April.  
 The chief investment officer’s post has been vacant since
February 2008, when  Eric Upin  left for Sequoia Capital, a
venture capital firm in Menlo Park, California. Upin later moved
to Makena Capital Management LLC, a Menlo Park money manager
founded by Michael McCaffery, Powers’s predecessor at Stanford
Management.  
 Frier joined Hewlett-Packard’s treasury department in 2000
and has run the $30 billion pension fund of the world’s largest
personal-computer maker since 2007. He declined to comment, as
did  David Demarest , a Stanford spokesman.  Hani Durzy , a
spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, didn’t return a telephone call
and e-mail seeking comment.  
 Lehman’s Impact  
 University endowments suffered record losses following the
September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
triggering layoffs, spending reductions and delays in capital
projects. Investments at Harvard University, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, fell 27 percent in the year ended June 2009,
while holdings at Yale University of New Haven, Connecticut,
declined 25 percent.  
 Harvard’s $26 billion endowment is the largest among U.S.
colleges, while Yale’s $16 billion fund ranks second.  
 Stanford, in the wake of the financial crisis, dismissed
412, or 3.2 percent, of its non-faculty workers and postponed
$1.1 billion in construction. As financial markets recovered in
2009, Powers explored selling as much as $1 billion of its
private-equity, distressed-debt and energy funds to take
advantage of rising prices. He canceled the sale in December.  
 The search for a chief investment officer was handled by
David Barrett Partners LLC, a recruiting company in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        