-- U.K. Gilts Post Weekly Gain Amid Signs Economic Recovery May Be Slowing
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-31T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/u-k-gilts-post-weekly-gain-amid-signs-economic-recovery-may-be-slowing.html

          
          
             U.K. 10-year government bonds posted
a weekly gain, driving the yield down by the most since June,
after reports added to evidence that the economic recovery is
sputtering, making interest rate increases less likely.  
 Gains yesterday wiped out a monthly decline and pushed the
10-year yield to the lowest in a week after a report showed
 consumer confidence  fell more than economists forecast in July.
 House prices  fell this month and banks approved fewer mortgages
than economists forecast in June, separate reports showed this
week. There’s a “considerable” way to go before rates return
to “normal,” central bank Governor  Mervyn King  said July 28.  
 “The growth and inflation outlook argues for further gilts
outperformance,” said  Marius Daheim , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “The growth
differential is something that will support” gilts, he said.  
 The 10-year yield decreased 12 basis points this week to
3.33 percent as of 4:40 p.m. in London yesterday. That was the
biggest weekly decline since the yield fell 16 basis points in
the week ended June 25. The two-year yield was at 0.77 percent,
down from 0.88 percent on July 23.  
 Investors are betting that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
plans to slash the U.K. budget deficit will hinder the U.K.
recovery from the worst recession on record while making it more
likely that the country will keep its AAA credit rating. The
U.K. economy will probably expand by 1.2 percent this year,
trailing behind 3.1 percent in the U.S. and 2 percent in
Germany, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  
 ‘Constructive on Gilts’  
 U.K. bonds outperformed their German peers in July, with
the spread between 10-year gilts and similar maturity bunds
narrowing to 65 basis points yesterday, from 78 basis points on
June 30. The spread narrowed from 103 basis points on May 7, the
most since October 2005  
 “With fiscal consolidation, the government’s contribution
to growth will not last,” said  Matteo Regesta , a fixed-income
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “I remain constructive
on gilts in terms of outright direction.”  
 Gilts may extend gains next week on speculation reports
will show growth in the country’s manufacturing industry slowed
this month. An index of manufacturing slipped to 57 in July from
57.5 a month before, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
data is released on Aug. 2.  
 Gilts returned 5 percent this year through July 29,
compared with a gain of 6 percent for German bonds, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries handed investors 6.3
percent.  
 The pound gained for a third consecutive week,
strengthening 1.7 percent to $1.5696. It was at 83.09 pence per
euro, from 83.72 pence on July 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        