-- U.K. House Price Recovery Will Continue Through 2014, CEBR Says in Report
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-31T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/u-k-house-price-recovery-will-continue-through-2014-cebr-says-in-report.html

          
          
             The U.K. house-price recovery will
continue through 2014 as  low interest rates  and a shortage of
supply buoy the market, the Centre for Economics and Business
Research said.  
 Prices in the fourth quarter will be 6.7 percent higher
than a year earlier, rising to an average 179,000 pounds
($279,000), the London-based research group said in an e-mailed
statement today. The annual rate of growth in the fourth quarter
of 2011 will ease to 2 percent, it said.  
 The CEBR downplayed recent reports indicating the house-
price recovery is fading.  Mortgage approvals  fell in June and
data from Nationwide Building Society and Hometrack Ltd. showed
prices declined in July. The market is “correcting for getting
ahead of itself at the beginning of the year” and the drop
isn’t a “prelude to an even steeper decline,” it said.  
 “The forecasted prolonged period of very low interest
rates will continue to stimulate demand for housing over the
coming years,” the CEBR said in the report. “Strict planning
regulations and a  deep recession  have contributed to a tight
supply of new housing on our small island and are likely to
persist, thus helping to drive house prices upwards.”  
 Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last week there
may be a “considerable” way to go before the  benchmark
interest rate  rises from the current 0.5 percent to a more
“normal” level.  
 The central bank has held the rate at that level since
March 2009 and former U.K. Treasury adviser  Roger Bootle 
yesterday forecast that borrowing costs won’t be increased until
at least 2012 as the government’s budget squeeze threatens a
“fragile” recovery.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        