-- Victoria State Pledges Swift Action on Bushfire Commission Recommendations
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-31T04:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/victoria-state-pledges-swift-action-on-bushfire-commission-recommendations.html

          
          
             Victoria’s Premier  John Brumby 
pledged decisive action as a report into Australia’s worst
bushfires found “important deficiencies of leadership” in
managing a crisis that left 173 people dead last year.  
 Brumby told reporters the state government will study the
findings of the  Victorian Bushfires Royal Commission  and respond
in the coming weeks. The commission found “wanting” the
leadership of some officials from the Country Fire Authority,
Department of Sustainability and Environment and the state
police force as they responded to what’s known as the “Black
Saturday” fires on Feb. 7, 2009.  
 Among the 67 recommendations, the commission said roles at
the organizations should be clarified and advised the state to
improve the availability of bushfire shelters. It also
recommended a comprehensive approach to evacuation, including
encouraging and helping vulnerable people to leave endangered
areas early.  
 The bushfires that swept the state covered areas to the
north and east of Melbourne as temperatures soared to as high as
48 degrees Celsius (118 degrees Fahrenheit). Fanned by winds as
strong as 125 kilometers (78 miles) per hour, the fires gutted
more than 2,000 homes.  
 The fires encompassed an area covering 78 communities,
advancing at one point to the eastern suburbs of Melbourne. The
towns of Marysville and Kinglake were almost destroyed.  
 ‘Stay or Go’  
 The “stay or go” policy, under which residents decide
either to remain at their property and fight the blaze, or leave
early enough to evacuate safely, is sound, the commission said.  
 An interim report released last year said that warning
systems were “inadequate,” with emergency telephone services
stretched by unprecedented demand.  
 Extending the broadcasting of official warnings to
commercial radio and television, the reintroduction of sirens in
some local communities, and the introduction of a national
telephone automatic warning system were recommended.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        