-- Yankees Get Kearns, Wood From Indians, Berkman From Astros Before Deadline
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/yankees-get-wood-kearns-from-indians-berkman-from-astros-before-deadline.html

          
          
             The New York Yankees, with a 66-37
record, the best in the majors going into the final third of
the season, acquired a pitcher, infielder and outfielder before
the Major League Baseball trade deadline expired.  
 The World Series champions got pitcher  Kerry Wood  and
outfielder  Austin Kearns  from the Cleveland Indians, and first
baseman  Lance Berkman  from the Houston Astros.  
 The deals were completed before yesterday’s 4 p.m. New
York time deadline for player trades outside baseball’s waiver
system. Trades can be made after the expiration, but players
must first pass through waivers, giving other teams the chance
to claim them.  
 The Yankees traded for Wood just as he was reinstated by
the Indians, who placed him on the disabled list July 12 with a
blister on his right index finger. At the start of the season,
he didn’t pitch until May 8 after he sustained an upper back
muscle strain.  
 The Yankees will send Cleveland a player to be named or
$500,000, and the Indians gave New York $2.2 million, the
Associated Press reported. New York will pay $1.5 million of
the $3.8 million left on Wood’s salary, the wire service said.  
 Scoreless Opponents  
 Wood, 33, is 1-4 with eight saves and a 6.30 earned run
average in 23 games this season for the Indians. In nine of his
last 11 appearances, he struck out 10 and held opponents
scoreless.  
 Wood was selected by the Chicago Cubs as the fourth
overall pick in the 1995 First-Year Player Draft. He has a
career record of 81-68 with a 3.71 ERA in 357 games during 12
seasons with the Cubs and Indians.  
 The Yankees acquired Berkman from the Astros for two
minor-league players. Berkman also will be used as a designated
hitter, the Yankees said. Houston received right-handed pitcher
 Mark Melancon  and infielder Jimmy Parades in return for the
five-time All-Star.  
 The Astros will pay $4 million as part of the deal, AP
reported.  
 Berkman, 34, had spent his entire 11-year major-league
career with Houston, batting .296 with 326 home runs and 1,090
runs batted in. He has a .245 average with 13 homers and 49 RBI
this season.  
 Kearns Joins Yankees  
 The Yankees also acquired Kearns from Cleveland for a
player to be named or cash in a July 30 deal. Kearns, 30,
hit .272 with eight home runs and 42 runs batted in during 84
games in which he played all three outfield positions with the
Indians this season.  
 Kearns was selected by Cincinnati in the first round of the
1998 draft. He has a career .258 batting average with 113 home
runs and 464 RBI in 926 games over nine seasons with the Reds,
Washington Nationals and Indians.  
 The Los Angeles Dodgers acquired right-handed pitcher
 Octavio Dotel  and cash from the Pittsburgh Pirates in exchange
for right-handed pitcher  James McDonald  and minor-league
outfielder Andrew Lambo.  
 The Dodgers also got left-handed pitcher  Ted Lilly ,
infielder  Ryan Theriot  and cash from the Chicago Cubs, who
acquired infielder  Blake DeWitt  and minor-league right-handed
pitchers Kyle Smit and Brett Wallach.  
 Three-Team Deal  
 In a three-team deal, the St. Louis Cardinals acquired
right-hander  Jake Westbrook  from the Cleveland Indians and sent
outfielder  Ryan Ludwick  to the San Diego Padres.  
 Westbrook, 32, is 6-7 with a 4.65 earned run average in 21
starts this season, his 10th with the Indians. An All-Star in
2004, he’s 69-71 with a 4.34 ERA in 221 career games, including
181 starts.  
 Ludwick, 32, is batting .281 with 11 homers and 43 runs
this season. He has a .272 average with 98 homers and 349 over
eight seasons for three teams and was an All-Star with the
Cardinals in 2008.  
 Cleveland also received minor-league pitcher Corey Kluber
from the Padres, while the Cardinals got minor-league pitcher
Nick Greenwood from the Padres and cash from the Indians.  
 Tampa Bay acquired reliever  Chad Qualls  from the Arizona
Diamondbacks for a player to be named.  
 Qualls, 31, has 12 saves with a 1-4 record and 8.29 earned
run average in 43 games this season. He’s 30-26 with a 3.75 ERA
and 51 saves over his seven-year career with Houston and
Arizona.  
 Five-Player Swap  
 The Diamondbacks also sent catcher  Chris Snyder  to the
Pirates for infielder  Bobby Crosby , outfielder  Ryan Church  and
right-hander D.J. Carrasco. Pittsburgh also got minor-league
shortstop  Pedro Ciriaco  and money in the five-player trade
between the last-place teams in the National League.  
 In a five-player deal between Atlanta and Kansas City, the
Braves got outfielder  Rick Ankiel  and right-hander  Kyle Farnsworth  for reliever  Jesse Chavez , outfielder  Gregor Blanco 
and minor-league pitcher Tim Collins.  
 The Baltimore Orioles traded left-hander  Will Ohman  to the
Florida Marlins for right-hander  Rick VandenHurk .  
 The Boston Red Sox sent reliever  Ramon Ramirez  to the San
Francisco Giants in exchange for minor-league pitcher Daniel
Turpen.  
 Edwin Jackson , who pitched one of Major League Baseball’s
five no-hitters this season for the Diamondbacks, was traded on
July 30 to the Chicago White Sox for pitchers  Daniel Hudson  and
David Homberg.  
 Two days before the deadline, three-time All-Star pitcher
 Roy Oswalt  joined the Philadelphia Phillies from the Houston
Astros. To get Oswalt, the Phillies gave up their best young
starter, J.A. Happ, and two prospects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Yankees Acquire Three Players Before Trade Deadline  
                       
                         
                           Jared Wickerham/Getty Images 
                         
                         Kerry Wood of the Cleveland Indians pitches against the New York Mets. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kerry Wood of the Cleveland Indians pitches against the New York Mets. Photographer: Jared Wickerham/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
