-- Zimmer Gets Grassley Request for Reports on Handling of Product Complaints
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-07-31T16:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-31/zimmer-gets-grassley-request-for-reports-on-handling-of-product-complaints.html

          
          
             Zimmer Holdings Inc. , the world’s
biggest maker of artificial hips and knee joints, was asked by a
U.S. senator to disclose information about how it handles
complaints about its products.  
 In a letter, Senator  Charles Grassley  asked Chief Executive
Officer  David C. Dvorak  to list reports of “safety concerns or
problems” reported by Zimmer’s consultants or contractors since
January 2008, along with how the company responded. Grassley, an
Iowa Republican, also called for Zimmer to provide information
on how it tracks the long-term performance of its orthopedic
devices.  
 The request comes at a time when lawmakers are trying to
stem rising health-care costs, which have increased at 2.5 times
the rate of inflation annually. List prices for artificial hips
and knees have risen 5.6 percent so far this year, on top of a
130 percent increase in the average selling price of a hip
between 1996 and 2008, according to Orthopedic Network News, a
trade journal that tracks costs.  
 Grassley’s inquiry stemmed from an article in the New York
Times about a dispute between Zimmer and two of its consultants
about whether and why artificial hips and knees were failing in
patients after being implanted. In both cases, Zimmer blamed the
surgical techniques, while the consultants blamed the devices,
the Times said.  
 “Zimmer welcomes the opportunity to speak with Senator
Grassley,” Charlie Young, a Zimmer spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Feedback from physicians “can lead to modifications and
improvements to products, their labeling and the manner in which
we train and educate surgeons about our products,” Young said.  
 Zimmer, based in Warsaw, Indiana,  rose  83 cents to $52.99
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has slipped 10 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        