-- Boeing, IDNA, Coldplay, Mattel: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2009-04-09T23:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-09/boeing-idna-coldplay-mattel-intellectual-property-update2-.html

          
          
             Boeing Co.  is entitled to at least
$16.9 million in compensation after winning a patent-
infringement claim against NASA over an aluminum alloy used to
build the Space Shuttle.  
 Boeing, the world’s second-biggest commercial-plane
builder, developed a lighter structure for frames in the 1970s
and 1980s to save on jet fuel prices. It claimed the technology
was used in the external fuel tank that provides the backbone of
the shuttle during launch and sued the government in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims in Washington in 2000.  
 U.S. Federal Claims Judge  Francis M. Allegra , in an opinion
made public April 2, said Boeing is entitled to a 1.25 percent
royalty on the cost of the tanks. He ordered the two sides to
submit a filing by April 17 on exactly how much that would
total, including the cost of Boeing having to wait to get paid.  
 Boeing had said it was entitled to 3.5 percent of $1.24
billion in sales of the tanks, while the government put the rate
at 1.25 percent based on costs, excluding overhead and profit,
of $334.6 million. The judge sided with the government on the
percentage and with Boeing on the amount the figure would be
based upon.  
 The National Aeronautics and Space Administration needed
the lighter weight so it could increase the amount of the
payload going into space to become part of the International
Space Station. The tank was designed and built by  Lockheed
Martin Corp.  and was used in shuttle missions beginning in 1998.  
 Boeing complained to Lockheed Martin, which told Chicago-
based Boeing to “take up any issue of infringement with NASA,”
Allegro wrote. “Boeing eventually did just that.”  
 NASA denied infringement and Boeing sued in November 2000.
The court sided with Boeing on infringement in 2005, and a trial
on how much NASA should pay ended in November 2007. The judge’s
opinion was filed under seal March 16 and reissued April 2 after
the lawyers on both sides redacted confidential information.  
 Charles Miller , spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
said the government is reviewing the opinion.  
 The case is Boeing Co. v. U.S., 00-705, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  
 Trademark  
 IDNA Sued by Triax Over ‘Time-Release’ Messaging Trademark  
 IDNA Inc.,  a company that provides education and training
services, was sued for trademark infringement by a Kentucky-
based technology company.  
 Triax Media Group of Louisville, Kentucky, markets a CD to
convey safety and dosage information about prescription drugs to
consumers. The CD also contains automatic reminders to refill
the prescriptions, the company said in its complaint filed April
3 in federal court in Louisville.  
 The company markets its product to pharmaceutical companies
to use for patent education. It has a registered U.S. trademark
on the term “Time-Release Messaging” for its prescription-
reminder program, according to court papers.  
 The registration covers use of the term for “interactive
medical monitoring and alert service for reminding clients of
medical information, namely medicinal dosage, allergic
sensitivity, prescription refills and prescription reminder
services,” according to the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  
 In 2007, IDNA began marketing “Compliance X,” and
referred to its CD product as a “Time-Release CD-ROM.” This
usage is an infringement of the Triax trademark, the company
claims in its pleadings.  
 Triax sent two cease-and-desist letters to New York-based
IDNA beginning in October 2007 and hasn’t received any response,
according to court papers. On March 3, IDNA filed an application
to register the term “Time-Release CD ROM Com0pliance XR,”
according to the patent office.  
 In its application, IDNA said it planned to use the term
for a “computer program to motivate patient adherence to
medical regimen.”  
 The two companies’ products will be sold to the same
classes of purchasers, and the name similarity is likely to
cause confusion, Triax said in its court papers.  
 Triax asked the court to order IDNA to stop its alleged
infringement and to destroy all infringing product and
promotional materials. It’s also asked for attorney fees, money
damages and all of IDNA’s profits attributable to the
infringement.  
 Claiming the infringement is deliberate, Triax requested a
tripling of the damages and extra damages to punish IDNA for its
“willfully tortious acts which have displayed actual malice
toward the rights of Triax.”  
 David S. Kaplan  and  Catherin B. Ford  of Cincinnati’s  Frost
Brown Todd LLC  represent Triax.  
 The case is Triax Media Group LLC v. IDNA Inc., 3:09-cv-
00247-JBC, U.S. District Court, Western District of Kentucky
(Louisville).  
 Fifth Avenue Digital Sues Camera Store for Infringement  
 Fifth Avenue Digital Inc. , a New York photography service,
sued a camera retailer for trademark infringement.  
 In the complaint filed April 7 in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York, Fifth Avenue accuses 5th Ave Digital of
causing confusion in the marketplace.  
 The camera company’s use of what the photographer says are
infringing marks “injure and threaten to continue to injure”
Fifth Avenue Digital, according to court papers.  
 The photographer included in the complaint  quotations  from
a Web site about 5th Ave digital’s alleged business practices
which “earn an unsavory reputation,” Fifth Avenue claims.  
 The camera company does business under the Web site
www.5thavedigital.com, which clicks through to
www.need4digital.com, according to court papers.  
 When accessed yesterday, the www.5thavedigital.com Web site
didn’t load, and the www.need4digital.com site bore a notice
that it will be closed until Sunday, April 12.  
 Fifth Avenue Digital asked the court for money damages and
attorney fees. The company also requested that it be transferred
the www.5thavedigital.com domain name and be awarded extra
damages to punish the camera store for what it says is “willful
wrongful acts of unfair competition.”  
 Dana Reeves Carter  and  Debra J. Guzov  of New York’s  Guzov
Ofsink LLC  represent the photographer.  
 The case is Fifth Avenue Digital Inc. v. 5th Ave Digital,
1:09-cv-01320-DGT-MDG, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York.  
 Paris Court Delays Decision on L’Oreal-EBay Counterfeit Lawsuit  
 A court decision on  L’Oreal SA ’s lawsuit against  EBay Inc .
over sales of counterfeit perfumes that had been scheduled for
yesterday was postponed.  
 The Paris court will rule on April 29, Sravanthi Agrawal, a
spokeswoman for EBay, said yesterday.  
 Mississippi Enacts Model Trademark Protection Measure  
 Mississippi passed and signed into law legislation that
brings the state’s trademark law into accord with federal
trademark law and model legislation developed by a trademark
trade group.  
 The new act prohibits trademark infringement and provides
triple damages in cases involving deliberate or bad-faith
infringement, according to a  statement  from the New York-based
International Trademark Association.  
 Mississippi is the second state to adopt the newest version
of the model bill. California is the first. The bill permits
infringement actions to protect trademarks that are famous
within the state.  
 Copyright  
 Coldplay Denies It Infringed Satriani’s Music in ‘Viva la Vida’  
 Coldplay, a British alternative rock band, denied guitarist
 Joe Satriani ’s claim that it ripped off sections of his 2004
instrumental “I Could Fly.”  
 Satriani sued Cold Play for copyright infringement in
federal court in Los Angeles in December 2008. He said the
band’s “ Viva la Vida ” incorporated part of his song without
authorization.  
 In court papers filed April 6, the band denied the
allegations. Coldplay “admits it never sought or obtained
permission to use ‘If I Could Fly’ in ‘Viva la Vida,’ and denies
any obligation to do so,” it said in its court filing. The band
also said Satriani’s composition “lacks originality and thus is
not protectable by copyright.”  
 Co-defendant with Coldplay is Los Angeles-based Capitol
Records Inc., the band’s  label .  
 The band’s court papers were signed by  Russell J. Frackman ,
a partner in Los Angeles-based  Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP .
Frackman is best known for his representation of the Recording
Industry Association of America in the music-downloading case
against  Napster Inc .  David A. Steinberg  from the same firm also
represents the band.  
 Satriani is represented by  Howard E. King  and Seth A.
Miller of Los Angeles-based  King Holmes Paterno & Berliner .  
 The case is Joe Satriani v. Christopher Martin, 2:08-cv-
07987-DDP-VBK, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California.  
 Mattel Jury Award in Trademark Case More Than Doubled by Judge  
 Mattel Inc. ’s trademark infringement damages against Super
Duper Inc., a publisher of children’s literature, were raised by
a federal judge in South Carolina.  
 U.S. District Judge  Henry Floyd  increased the jury award to
$999,113 from $400,000. In his order issued March 31 in
Greenville, South Carolina, he said the amounts awarded by the
jury were “neither sufficient to adequately compensate” Mattel
nor to deter the publisher from future misconduct.  
 He said the court record was “replete” with Super Duper’s
“apparent proclivity in generously borrowing, without
permission or payment, the ideas of others.”  
 The underlying dispute was over Mattel’s “Sort and Say”
trademarks and Super Duper’s “See It! Say It” teaching
materials for children. In April 2008, a jury found Mattel’s
marks were infringed.  
 In addition to the money damages, Floyd also ordered the
cancellation of Super Duper’s “See it! Say it!” marks and
permanently ordered the publisher not to infringe Mattel’s
trademarks.  
 Super Duper filed court papers March 31 saying it would
appeal the judgment.  
 The case is Super Duper Inc. v. Mattel Inc., 6:05-cv-01700-
HFF, U.S. District Court, District of South Carolina
(Greenville).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Monster Gets Help From Yahoo, Microsoft in Hunt for Leakers  
 Monster Worldwide Inc.  obtained an Illinois court order
directing  Yahoo! Inc.  and  Microsoft Corp.  to disclose the names
of people the online jobs posting company said revealed
confidential information about it on the Internet.  
 Using pseudonyms “salisoostupid,” “igotoutjustintime”
and “cluelessmanagement,” a person or people from Nov. 21 to
Jan. 6 posted on a Yahoo investors’ forum Monster’s acquisition
plans, internal sales department results and management
departures that would be known only to current or former
employees bound by confidentiality agreements, Monster said in
court papers seeking the order.  
 New York-based Monster, through a subsidiary, operates
www.monster.com, the world’s largest Internet job-search site.
Its chairman and chief executive officer is  Salvatore Iannuzzi .  
 The messages were posted on a Yahoo bulletin board where
investors and speculators can exchange messages with one
another. If the Web posters, one of whom used a Microsoft
Hotmail e-mail address, are revealed to have worked for Monster,
the company may sue for breach of its confidentiality
agreements, according to the filing. Cook County Circuit Court
Judge Diane Larsen yesterday granted Monster’s unopposed request
for Yahoo and Microsoft to reveal who controls the e-mail
addresses.  
 The disclosures cost the company an unspecified amount of
money and “may disrupt or compromise Monster’s on-going
business interests and cause additional losses,” according to
that March 18 filing.  
 David Bowermaster , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, said he couldn’t immediately comment on the
judge’s order.  
 Kelley Benander , a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, declined to comment on the Monster matter. The
company typically gives its screen-name users notice of court-
sanctioned demands for their identities and 15 days to file an
objection before it turns over that information.  
 The case is Monster Worldwide Inc. v. Yahoo! Inc.,
2009L003283, Cook County Circuit Court (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        