-- Tesco opens U.S. Fresh & Easy store on the Web
-- By  Rachel Sanderson
-- Sun Nov 4, 2007 11:55am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/04/businesspro-tesco-us-dc-idUSL0446725620071104

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Days before the long-awaited launch of 
its first U.S. store, Britain's Tesco ( TSCO.L ) has opened the 
doors of the "Fresh & Easy" chain on the Internet. 

  The world's third largest retailer provides a tour of its 
first U.S. store in a video posted on www.freshandeasy.com/blog 
showing chill cabinets filled with Fresh & Easy own label 
chocolate ice cream, jugs of mango smoothies and packs of 
sushi.  To visitors at Tesco Express convenience stores in Britain 
the store looks familiar with own label fruit and vegetables, 
ready meals and freshly cut flowers set out in display-ready 
boxes that allow Tesco to replenish shelves faster than rivals.  Carrier bags slung at the checkout read "Reusable, 
Replaced, For Free, Forever." Prices also appear low. Tips for 
a "dinner made easy" offers a beef lasagna, Caesar salad, 
ciabatta loaf and bottle of wine for less than $12.  Tesco launches the new chain of convenience stores in Los 
Angeles on November 8 pledging to bring fresh, local foods at 
low prices to the world's biggest consumers. In the next weeks 
it will extend a roll out of an initial 122 stores to Las 
Vegas, Phoenix and San Diego.  Executives have not ruled out expanding nationwide if the 
stores are successful and Tesco has earmarked 250 million 
pounds ($521 million) per year for the U.S. business going 
forward.  Fresh & Easy's store size -- at around 10,000 square feet 
-- and its focus on healthy, organic foods is expected to put 
it in direct competition with Whole Foods Market Inc WFMI.O 
and Trader Joe's, but executives from the big chains, including 
the world's biggest Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), are watching.  Investors and retail industry investment bankers familiar 
with the U.S. and European retail market are overwhelmingly 
upbeat about the new chain and said U.S. food retailers' 
history of being slow to react to new trends gives Tesco an 
advantage.  Fresh & Easy's innovation is expected to be the own brand 
products and ready-made meals that have helped secure Tesco a 
31 percent market share in British grocery because the higher 
margins allow it sell higher quality food but keep prices low.  Citigroup retail analyst James Anstead believes the U.S. 
market theoretically provides Tesco with a $100 billion 
opportunity, some $20 billion more than the group's turnover 
last year from the 12 countries where it already operates.  "Tesco could revolutionize the underdeveloped U.S. food 
retail market," Anstead recently told investors in a note.