-- Mbeki associates make bid for S.Africa media giant
-- By Michael Georgy
-- Sun Nov 4, 2007 6:05am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/04/businesspro-safrica-mbeki-media-dc-idUSL0438999320071104

 

 JOHANNESBURG  (Reuters) - President Thabo Mbeki's political 
adviser, a foreign ministry official and a businessman have 
made a major bid to take over one of South Africa's most 
influential media groups, their company said on Sunday. 

  Groovin Nchabeleng, chief executive of Koni Media Holdings, 
told Reuters that the investment company made a 7 billion rand 
($1 billion) offer to buy 100 percent of Johncom JCMJ.J, 
which owns South Africa's Sunday Times and other newspapers.  Political adviser to the presidency Titus Mafolo, foreign 
ministry spokesman Ronnie Mamoepa, and former chief of state 
protocol Billy Modise have shares in Koni Media Holdings, with 
Nchabeleng as the majority owner.  The move has already drawn more criticism from Mbeki's 
opponents, who accuse him of hurting South Africa's democracy 
by purging opponents and stifling dissent, allegations he 
denies.  It may also spark controversy at a time when Mbeki's 
political rivals are watching his every move as he competes in 
the race to lead the ruling African National Congress (ANC), 
which traditionally leads to the presidency.  "No one will have any illusions that the group attempting 
to take over Johncom is acting on behalf of political 
principals who are synonymous with the Mbeki faction in the 
ruling party," said the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) 
spokesman, Dene Smuts, who is also an MP.  Nchabeleng said there were no political motivations behind 
the bid, which he described as part of his business strategy.  "This would be an integrated media company that will play a 
significant role in Africa and compete globally. It is one of 
the major acquisitions that Koni media will be looking at for 
key strategic assets and integration," he said.  Koni Media Holdings said in a statement that it "denied any 
involvement of the presidency or any other government 
structures" in its bid for Johncom.
  POLITICAL FIRE  Mbeki is constitutionally barred from serving again when 
his term expires in 2009, though nothing prevents him from 
running for another stint as leader of the ANC, which would 
give him influence even after he steps down as head of state.  Another top candidate is his rival, ANC Deputy President 
Jacob Zuma. He is backed by powerful trade unions but may be 
recharged in an arms corruption case that has hounded him.  Speculation has been growing that highly-respected business 
tycoon Cyril Ramaphosa will join the ANC race as it enters the 
final stretch. The party will choose a new leader in December.  Ramaphosa, 54, a former trade unionist, was the ANC's chief 
negotiator during talks that led to a peaceful end to apartheid 
in 1994 and Nelson Mandela becoming South Africa's first black 
president.  The ANC succession debate has triggered some of the worst 
infighting in its history and overshadowed crucial issues such 
as rampant crime and inequalities left by decades of apartheid 
that are troubling millions of South Africans.  Mamoepa said Mbeki had never been consulted on Johncom and 
dismissed any notions that the government played any role.  "These suggestions are just thunder and lightning and have 
no significance," he told Reuters. "We did this on the basis of 
our constitutional rights to engage in such activities."