-- Peyton Manning Skills Needed to Avert Tax Fumble: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-02-02T02:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-01/peyton-manning-skills-needed-to-avert-tax-fumble-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  is offering up
a budget that reflects the biggest debts and deficits in U.S.
history.  
 Rather than boggle the mind with the details of this $3.8
trillion monstrosity, plenty of people -- especially Wall
Streeters -- would rather think about whether the New Orleans
Saints will get to Indianapolis Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning 
or what the new stand-alone  AOL Inc.  will report in earnings
this week.  
 This year, though, you probably want to shift your eyes
from the sports screen to C-Span coverage of the House Ways and
Means Committee. To forestall tax disaster, Obama and House
Minority Leader  John Boehner  have to do more than agree to
debate on the air at a GOP retreat. Otherwise taxes will go up
enough to spoil a few years of football.  
 Exactly what has changed becomes clear when you look back
at attitudes of the past decades. When it came to the budget
process, lawmakers always had to follow what  James Lucier  of
Capital Alpha Partners, a Washington-based forecasting firm,
calls their “Farmer’s Almanac.” From budget through
resolutions through tax revisions to pay for resolutions to
presidential signature, it was all quaint and obscure. The whole
process itself was front and center, enough of a burden to
impede truly dangerous tax increases.  
 What if those lawmakers and the White House couldn’t even
get it together to enact a budget? So much the better. That’s
what happened in 1995, after Republicans took the majority in
the House of Representatives and President  Bill Clinton  and
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  couldn’t agree on a deal. From that
spring through autumn, when Washington shut down, the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose to 5,100 from 4,100.  
 Clinton’s sex life? Good news as well, for markets.
Scandals kept Clinton so busy he didn’t have time or inclination
to force through more tax increases.  
 Tax Doom  
 But doom this time looms. At least tax doom. If Congress
generally does nothing by Christmas, taxes will go up, with the
top rate on the income tax reverting to 39.6 percent from 35
percent now. If you include phase-outs of exemptions, the top
rate will really be more than 40 percent.  
 The special election in Massachusetts of  Scott Brown  to the
Senate will charge up his Republican colleagues, but probably
not enough to enable them to halt the expiration of the Bush-era
cuts on the top rates. The increase in the top rates, Lucier
says, “you can take to the bank.” It is already inscribed in
the almanac.  
 Inaction on the top income tax rates in 2010 in turn will
affect dividends, where the rate increase will be more dramatic.
The tax rate on dividends now stands at 15 percent, the same as
the capital gains rate. But this special treatment likewise
expires in December.  
 Double Whammy  
 Without new legislation, the rate will increase some 25
percentage points. That’s because dividends will again be
treated, as they were historically, as ordinary income, and
taxed at 39.6 percent rate. In other words, a double whammy.  
 Some will reply that dividend taxes have been high before,
without apocalypse. But it is the rate of increase that matters,
rather than the absolute level.  
 If the Senate follows its traditional pattern it may, with
Brown’s help, manage to curtail the tax increase on dividends.
But the operative word is “may.” Brown, after all, is
inexperienced -- no political Peyton Manning, not to mention a
 Jack Kemp .  
 There is also the heavy task of keeping the long-term
capital gains rate down. If Congress does nothing, that too will
rise, to 20 percent.  
 Busy With Scandals  
 Middle-income earners may tell themselves it doesn’t affect
them. But Congress has to be on the lookout for them too and
remember to enact another patch for the alternative minimum tax.
What if Ways and Means Chairman  Charles Rangel  is too busy with
his ethics probe to get to that? This time, political scandal is
a minus for markets, not a bonus.  
 The combination of the new increases will reduce the
relative competitiveness of the U.S.  
 The best possible outcome, from a tax point of view,
requires action worthy of Manning. This has to come first on the
political front, followed by election of Republicans and tax-
averse Democrats in sufficient numbers to support extending the
current tax rates. More action then has to come from the new
Congress itself: it must extend the current rates in November or
December.  
 Leaving Washington alone while it celebrates the occasional
special-election victory is far from enough for the pro-growth
crowd to do in 2010. This year is the Super Bowl of tax, and
it’s time for our leaders to get ready to play.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        