-- Swap Bonds, Short Stocks for Greek Trading Riches: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-02-02T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-01/swap-bonds-short-stocks-for-greek-trading-riches-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             The markets are in a funk about the
public-debt crisis in Greece. The country was clearly not ready
for euro membership and now faces some hard choices: make savage
budget cuts and plunge into a deep recession; default on its
debts and lose its credit rating for a generation; plead for a
bailout from its European Union partners; or quit the euro.  
 But, hey, there might be money to be made from this Greek
tragedy. The way to do it is by swapping Hungarian bonds for
Greek ones, selling the euro, ditching Spanish and Portuguese
assets, and shorting the Athens stock market.  
 The Greek crisis is accelerating all the time.  
 Last week, Greek bonds plunged as the markets took a look
at government plans to cut a budget deficit running at 12.7
percent of gross domestic product. Traders decided the numbers
didn’t add up. There was speculation that a bailout was being
organized by the European Central Bank, or the EU.  
 Greece’s troubles seeped into the currency markets,
dragging down the euro. Other euro-area bond markets, in Spain
and Portugal in particular, took a tumble. One wild story had
Greece selling bonds to China to ease the budget crisis.  
 The markets are demanding answers, and in the next few
weeks they may get them. Greece is in the spotlight, and it will
have to come up with a credible plan. The trouble is, none of
the options is very appealing. If the country gets serious about
curbing its deficit, most of the growth of the last decade will
turn out to have been illusory. If Greece begs its euro-area
partners for a bailout, it will be humiliated. If it starts
printing some “new drachma” to pay back bondholders, it will
be almost impossible to borrow more.  
 Greece will do what most of us would when faced with such a
terrible range of choices: prevaricate, delay, postpone and hope
something turns up.  
 Until the crisis is resolved, though, there will be plenty
of opportunities to make money. Here are five places to start:  
 One, buy every Greek bond you can lay your hands on. Greek
10-year bonds yield 6.6 percent, compared with 3.2 percent for
German debt. That is a huge difference for what is essentially
the same product: a government bond denominated in euros. So
long as default is avoided, and Greece stays in the euro area,
your Greek bonds will soar in price.  
 Two: Sell Hungarian and Polish government bonds. Both
countries are in respectable shape economically, even if they
have been hit hard by the global recession. Both aim to join the
euro area at some point in the coming decade, at which point
interest rates would fall in line with the ECB benchmark, and
bond prices would soar. But after Greece’s woes, do you think
Poland and Hungary will be allowed into the euro area anytime
soon? Not likely. Short those bond markets as soon as you can.  
 Three: Sell the euro. Every day, EU and ECB officials line
up to declare that the Greeks won’t get any help. Officially,
that might be true. There are plenty of ways to help out on the
sly. Greece could be allowed to issue bonds jointly with other
countries; the ECB could extend measures that allow it to accept
Greek bonds as collateral for loans; or the EU could find a way
of increasing “structural” subsidies for the Greek government.
The markets will smell a bailout, however, even if it comes
packaged in some fancy label. The credibility of the euro and
the ECB will be badly damaged. Investors will ditch the
currency, and switch back to the dollar and the yen.  
 Four: Sell Portuguese and Spanish bonds. Let’s suppose the
worst happens: Greece defaults on its debts, offering
bondholders 70 percent or 80 percent of their money back. Not
only will Greek bonds collapse in price, so will the debts of
other vulnerable euro-area countries. The markets will pick them
off one by one, with Portugal and Spain next in line, and
Ireland close behind. If you short those three, you’ll clean up.  
 Five: Sell Greek stocks. The Athens stock exchange’s
benchmark, the ASE Composite Index, has fallen 15 percent in the
past six months. That’s nothing like enough because the outlook
is grim for Greek stocks. Inside the euro area, Greece faces
years of recession or slow growth as public spending is slashed
to curb the budget deficit. If Greece leaves the common
currency, the “new drachma” will be about as solid as Tiger
Woods’s marriage vows. Either way, foreign investors don’t want
to be holding Greek stocks. The market should be off at least 50
percent. It has a long way to fall before this crisis is over.  
 Whatever happens, someone will benefit from this crisis.  
 This isn’t a cynical exercise. Thinking about how to profit
from a catastrophe is a good way of considering the different
plausible outcomes, and what likelihood to ascribe each one.  
 The chances are that Greece will be bailed out, probably
quietly, keeping it so far off the books that German, French and
Dutch taxpayers won’t notice. The cost to the credibility of the
ECB and the euro will still be high.  
 (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        