-- Tweeting for Social Good in Davos
-- Rosabeth Moss Kanter
-- 2010-02-01T19:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-01/tweeting-for-social-good-in-davos.html

          
          
             Global leaders are all a-twitter about  Twitter . While they don't know whether to fear it or embrace it, they are running to catch up with the change triggered by Twitter,  Facebook , and other  social media . 

 The power of technological change is one of the few points of agreement to emerge from the meetings of business, non-profit, and government leaders at the  World Economic Forum  (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland. Questions of how to revive economies, create jobs, regulate banks, deal with pandemics, reverse climate change, or close the gender gap are contentious, and action is often stalled. Meanwhile, technology marches briskly onward.  

 For nearly 20 years, the Internet has been hyped as giving more power to the people. Sometimes the hype is true. The latest wave of interactive networking tools provide platforms for making rapid progress on issues that people care about, while bypassing the need for top-down decision-making. This idea pervaded Davos 2010. 

 On a WEF panel in Davos, Google CEO Eric Schmidt touted smart phones as the most powerful computers consumers have yet seen, and mobile applications as the growth frontier for improving society. At a private reception, Bill Clinton praised new technology for directing money quickly to where it is needed, citing the devastating earthquake in Haiti, an  effort he is championing  as a special United Nations envoy to Haiti. Appeals that went out through social media were efficient and fast. Donations of $5 or $10 via free text messages from cell phones added up to tens of millions of dollars. Call it mobile philanthropy. 

 New causes benefit from viral visibility. WEF and YouTube sponsored a contest to pick an inspiring cause. To the surprise of staff who thought poverty would be the most popular theme, the  winner  was the founder of an organization in the UK dedicated to ending female genital mutilation.  

 Interactive media help identify, develop, and improve promising ideas. " Crowd-sourcing " was invoked in Davos as the newest innovation tool for companies, who pitch a problem through social networks hoping that those with solutions will step forward. But while there are limits to what people will volunteer for commercial ends, the promise seems greater for societal ends. One example is the  Climate Collaboratorium , the brainchild of MIT's Tom Malone, which is billed as "harnessing the world's intelligence to save the planet."  The site invites people to vote on or propose ideas. This taps the wisdom of strangers to get moving on issues that politicians can't resolve. 

 Sometimes strangers need to be alerted to new developments. Several intellectuals in Davos criticized Twitter for reducing important issues to 140-character sound bites. But tweets are alerts, not answers; they are highly amplified versions of  Paul Revere's midnight ride  to announce that "the British are coming." After the botched bombing of Northwest flight 253, I wrote that  social networking technology could help anti-terrorism  efforts by making information widely accessible to those who might have reason to act on it but are not otherwise directly connected. The whole point is that you don't know who needs to know, nor do you need to provide more than the headline; you simply announce that the information exists. 

 Network technologies forge new connections between people and opportunities. Stay-at-home mothers now spend more time on their PCs than they do cooking and cleaning, according to an executive from  Infosys , one of India's largest IT outsourcing companies, who hosted a Davos discussion. In Saudi Arabia, where women with university degrees are often confined to the home, social networks are a primary source of connection. Collaboration tools could provide job opportunities. The CEO of  Manpower  felt that collaboration tools could link these educated women to project teams, providing job opportunities that might have revolutionary impact. 

 Although social networking technologies are not the solutions to the world's ills, they are solution-finders with enormous potential. As packed rooms of luminaries in Davos attested, it is better to retweet than retreat. 

 See all of HBR.org's Davos 2010 posts. 
          
          


  


        