-- Georgia Gulf to Close Winnipeg Window, Door Plant
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2007-08-24T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-24/georgia-gulf-to-close-winnipeg-window-door-plant-update3-.html

          
          
             Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) , the largest North
American producer of vinyl construction products, will close a
factory that makes plastic window frames and doors to cut costs
amid weak demand from U.S. homebuilders.  
 The company acquired the extrusion plant in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, when it purchased Royal Group Technologies Ltd. in
October, Atlanta-based Georgia Gulf said today in a statement.
Work will be transferred to Royal Group's remaining 12 factories
that produce doors and windows, spokesman Mark Badger said. The
plant will be shut this year, affecting about 45 jobs, he said.  
 The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Ed Schmitt, is
closing plants after a U.S. homebuilding slump led to losses in
each of the three quarters since acquiring Royal Group. Schmitt
said this month he would counter ``difficult market conditions''
by closing additional factories to boost annual cost savings to
$157 million in 2008 from $130 million this year.  
 ``There are many ways of achieving the cost savings targets,
including using better materials technology and more efficient
extrusion technology,'' Badger said in a phone interview.  
 Earlier consolidations cut Royal Group's second-quarter
payroll expense by 24 percent from a year earlier, Georgia Gulf
said on Aug. 8. The company has cut employment at Royal Group by
40 percent to 4,700 workers as of May 31, Badger said. Royal
Group employed 7,800 people when the acquisition was announced.  
 Georgia Gulf  shares  fell 19 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $16.04
at 4:01 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have dropped 35 percent in the past year.  
 The company isn't disclosing severance and plant-closing
costs for Winnipeg, Badger said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        