-- Group fights higher taxes on buyout firms, funds
-- By  Rachelle Younglai
-- Fri Jul 6, 2007 3:33pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/06/businesspro-privateequity-congress-dc-idUSN0642060420070706

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The private equity industry and its 
friends are fighting back against legislation that would more 
than double their tax rate to 35 percent, contending the 
proposals would hurt average Americans and not just 
multimillionaire fund managers. 

  Republican Rep. Eric Cantor of Virginia is heading a 
coalition backed by the financial services, real estate, resort 
and energy industries to thwart a U.S. House bill that takes 
aim at the 15 percent tax rate now paid by most managers of 
private equity funds, hedge funds and other investment 
partnerships.  The Coalition for the Freedom of American Investors and 
Retirees also opposes a bipartisan Senate bill that would close 
a loophole that allows private equity firms to go public as 
partnerships without paying corporate taxes.  Both bills are targeting the well-heeled managers of firms 
such as Blackstone Group ( BX.N ), that completed its initial 
public offering last month despite calls from some lawmakers 
and labor representatives for a delay.  KKR & Co. LP KKR.UL, the prominent U.S. buyout firm that 
pioneered the leveraged buyout industry, and Och-Ziff Capital 
Management have also filed for IPOs.  Sponsors of the bills say raising the rates would improve 
the fairness of the tax code, but Cantor's coalition says the 
legislation will hurt ordinary Americans whose pension funds 
are often invested with these firms.  "The bill applies to everyone that is involved in asset 
management business," said Cantor.  "Ultimately, the people who will be negatively impacted ... 
will be the blue jeans-wearing Americans who frankly rely on 
their retirement funds, both in the public and private sector, 
to secure their retirement," he said.  Groups lining up against the bills include the U.S. Chamber 
of Commerce, the Managed Funds Association, the Securities 
Industry and Financial Markets Association, the National 
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts and the 
International Council of Shopping Centers.  Private equity funds, which have recently bought or are 
buying a range of household names such as Hilton Hotels Corp. 
HLT.N and Chrysler Group, the U.S. unit of DaimlerChrysler AG 
DCXGn.DE, are casting a wide net to gather support.  Other industries closely watching the legislation include 
restaurants, forest products, mining, agriculture, beverage 
distributors and manufacturers, according to one lobbyist.  The coalition so far counts Cantor and three other 
Republicans on the powerful House Ways and Means tax-writing 
panel as its members. Another key member is Alabama Rep. 
Spencer Bachus, the top Republican on the House Financial 
Services committee.  On the Senate side, there are similar rumblings about 
forming a coalition to block a tax rate increase on money 
managers, although an aide said the talks were not far along.  The AFL-CIO labor group, which is backing both tax bills, 
called the opposition's arguments ridiculous.  "The whole thing is preposterous and has nothing to do with 
anything other than the fact that a lot of very rich people 
here don't like paying taxes," said Damon Silvers, associate 
general counsel for the labor federation.  The bills were introduced last month as Blackstone went 
public, raising more than $4 billion. Blackstone chief 
executive Stephen Schwarzman's stake in the firm was valued at 
above $7 billion, and he also received a one-time payment of up 
to $677 million.  The House bill would raise the tax rate to 35 percent on a 
fund's "carried interest," or the 20 percent cut of profits 
beyond targeted returns typically kept by a fund manager. 
Currently, a fund manager pays the 15 percent capital gains tax 
rate on the profits.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said it began forming a 
strategy to fight the tax legislation before either bill was 
introduced.  "Carried interest is a widely used mechanism... so it will 
affect more than hedge funds and private equity," said Ashley 
Miller, a lobbyist for the Chamber. "You are going to hurt 
working Americans, police officers and nurses who are getting 
very high returns from the funds. Any time you start taxing 
something you will get less of it."  Miller declined to say how much the Chamber planned to 
spend on fighting the tax bills.  Another key player in the lobbying fight is the Private 
Equity Council, a group formed several months ago to represent 
the rapidly growing industry. A spokesman for the group said 
there was a fluid and broad-based coalition forming.