-- UBS draws veil over reasons for Wuffli's departure
-- By Andrew Hurst, European Banking Correspondent
-- Fri Jul 6, 2007 8:23am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/06/businesspro-ubs-ospel-dc-idUSL0664981820070706

 

 ZURICH  (Reuters) - UBS ( UBSN.VX ) refused on Friday to 
explain the shock overnight departure of Chief Executive Peter 
Wuffli, but traders said it may be linked to the embarrassing 
closure of a hedge fund earlier this year. 

  Wuffli, who will officially leave the bank in the next few 
days, will be replaced by his deputy, Marcel Rohner, who headed 
the group's wealth management business, the world's largest 
with more than 3 trillion francs ($2.5 trillion) of assets 
under management.  "We are not going to discuss any further details in 
public," Chairman Marcel Ospel told a conference call with 
reporters, and said the board of the Swiss bank had taken a 
decision late last week which it felt "comfortable with."  The sudden change, announced late on Thursday, followed 
calls from critics for UBS to boost its performance and even 
consider breaking up the company -- by getting out of 
investment banking and focusing entirely on wealth and 
investment management.  Ospel himself acknowledged that financial markets may have 
been taken aback by the announcement but reaffirmed the bank's 
strategy of keeping investment banking and wealth and asset 
management under one roof.  "The changes might look unsettling at first glance but be 
assured we intend to act as one firm focusing on growth," he 
said. "There is no disagreement on strategy."  UBS shares were up 0.95 percent at 74.50 francs at 1126 
GMT, when the DJ Stoxx European banking sector index .SX7P 
was up 0.54 percent. The bank's shares, which rose by nearly 19 
percent in 2006 are down 0.34 percent since the beginning of 
January, while the DJ Stoxx banking index is up 0.74 percent.  Shares in local rival Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) were up 0.57 
percent on Friday at 88.55 francs, having risen 3.3 percent 
since the start of the year.  Ospel said Wuffli would not receive any special severance 
payment beyond salary due and a package of executive 
incentives.  Traders said Wuffli's departure suggested the bank has been 
unnerved by the rising tide of criticism from some investors.  Under the changes, Ospel, 57, has agreed to stay on as 
chairman for at least three more years after his proposal that 
Wuffli should succeed him as chairman was rejected by the 
bank's board.  "The statement from the bank said that Wuffli was not given 
the board chairman's position and that is probably 99 percent 
of what was at issue," said a Swiss-based consultant with close 
links to UBS.  "This is a question of pride. If he found out he was not 
getting the job, why stick around?"  Analysts said they believed Wuffli did not have the force 
of personality required to be the bank's new chairman.
  HEDGE FUND EMBARRASSMENT  UBS suffered embarrassment earlier this year when it said 
it was shutting down its hedge fund arm, Dillon Read Capital 
Management (DRCM), after first-quarter losses of at least 150 
million francs linked to subprime mortgage woes in the United 
States.  Some traders in Zurich said the fiasco at Dillon Read may 
have been one of the reasons for Wuffli's departure. Analysts 
have said in recent months there could be more losses to come 
at Dillon Read.  "Speculation over a possible departure of Wuffli was in the 
market for some months since the hedge fund problems became 
known," said one trader.  "The possibility of further losses by the DRCM hedge fund 
may have played a role," said Vontobel in a note.  Rohner, Wuffli's 42-year-old successor, will have to 
persuade investors that UBS can punch its weight in investment 
banking as effectively as in wealth management.  Some analysts say that, although UBS is a world leader in 
private banking, it simply cannot match the firepower in 
investment banking of rivals such as Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) and 
Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ).  Ospel said on Friday the business was performing well and 
that UBS expected to announce good results for the second 
quarter, although his remarks carried an element of caution.  "Second-quarter results on August 14 will contain both 
positive and negative swings," said Ospel. "All the available 
information suggests the results will be broadly in line with 
market expectations."  (Additional reporting by Ruppert Pretterklieber)  ($1=1.219 Swiss Franc)