-- Weber, Deutsche Telecom, RIAA: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2008-03-18T18:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-18/weber-deutsche-telecom-riaa-intellectual-property-update2-.html

          
          
             Weber-Stephen Products Co., the
closely held maker of Weber barbeque grills, sued two
competitors for patent infringement.  
 Weber, based in Palatine, Illinois, accused Pro-Iroda USA
Inc.'s  O-Grill  and R.H. Peterson Co.'s Grill Topper of
infringing its patent for a cooking grate with grease-control
structures. Weber sued Moreland Hills, Ohio-based  Pro-Iroda  and
 R.H. Peterson  of City of Industry, California, in two separate
suits filed in federal court in Chicago March 12.  
 In dispute is patent 7,073,429, which was issued on July
11, 2006, and which covers an assembly element in a gas-fired
grill that controls the direction of the grease generated by
cooking food on the grate.  
 Weber-Stephen applied for the patent in December 2002 and
was assisted in the application process by Chicago's  Baker &
McKenzie .  
 The complaints in both cases list all the features of the
accused products that infringe the patent. In both cases, Weber-
Stephen asked the court to find the two companies' products
infringed the patent.  
 Weber-Stephen is also seeking money damages and an order
barring the companies from selling the infringing products.  
 Baker & McKenzie's David I. Roche and Daniel A Tallitsch
represent Weber-Stephen.  
 The case against Pro-Iroda is Weber-Stephen Products Co. v.
Pro-Iroda USA Inc., 1:08-01462, U.S. District Court, northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 The case against Peterson is Weber-Stephen Products Co., v.
R.H. Peterson Co., 1:08-cv-01471, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 For other patent news from March 17, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Nymex Copyright Infringement Claims Rejected by High Court  
 The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected a New York Mercantile
Exchange appeal that sought to block smaller rival
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  from using Nymex settlement
prices for futures and options.  
 Nymex, the world's largest energy market, argued
unsuccessfully that it holds copyrights on its prices, which are
determined in part by its settlement committees. The high court
made no comment, turning away the appeal as part of a list of
orders released yesterday in Washington.  
 A federal appeals court in August threw out Nymex's lawsuit
against ICE, as the second-largest energy market is known. The
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York said ICE ``took
nothing more than ideas, for which the copyright law affords no
protection.''  
 The legal battle was one of several fights between New
York-based Nymex and Atlanta-based ICE. Nymex has also called
for ICE to be subject to the same trading restrictions.  
 On March 6, Nymex's parent company,  Nymex Holdings Inc. ,
stepped up the rivalry, saying it will compete directly with ICE
by offering derivatives contracts cleared through LCH Clearnet
Group Ltd. on oil, natural gas and electricity.  
 LCH Clearnet is a service provider to international
exchanges and agreed with Nodal Exchange to develop North
American power markets on an auction model, beginning in 2008.  
 ICE, an electronic exchange, dominates trading in  Brent
crude  and European natural gas trading while Nymex has more
users of its U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude oil and U.S.
natural gas futures.  
 Jonathan A. Marshall  of Boston's  Fish & Richardson 
represented New York Mercantile.  
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. was represented by  Richard
H. Klapper  of New York's  Sullivan & Cromwell .  
 The case is New York Mercantile Exchange v.
Intercontinental Exchange, 07-938.  
 Niederland Says Camera Operator Infringed Film Copyright  
 Margot Niederland, an independent filmmaker, sued her
camera operator for copyright infringement.  
 Niederland made ``Broken Angel,'' a documentary film about
the Broken Angel building in New York's Bedford-Stuyvesant
neighborhood in 1990. The film premiered at the Sundance
Festival and won an award at the 42nd Melbourne International
Film Festival.  
 Niederland said she learned that after an October 2006
fire, the building, a Clinton Hill landmark, was in danger of
being torn down and the self-taught architect owner was on the
verge of eviction.  
 She decided to make a second film about the building and
camera operator  Amber Tyler Chase  agreed to work with her. After
about 11 trips to the Broken Angel for filming, Chase submitted
a sample deferred compensation agreement, Niederland said in the
complaint she filed in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, on
March 31.  
 Chase asked for the title ``director of photography'' and
as discussion about the proposed contract proceeded, Niederland
discovered Chase was ``seeking to acquire more than compensation
for her services,'' according to court papers.  
 Niederland was ``unwilling to give up creative control over
any element'' of the film, so no agreement with Chase was ever
reached, she said in her court papers.  
 Chase retained possession of the original tapes, including
``crucial footage: the final destruction of the Broken Angel
building's top structures,'' according to court papers.  
 Niederland says she believes Chase intends to use the
footage in a film of her own. Niederland has registered the U.S.
copyrights for the footage.  
 In addition to seeking a declaration that she's the owner
of the footage, Niederland asked the court to order the
impounding of the original tapes and any copies in Chase's
possession, and an order barring Chase's destruction of the
footage or her use of it in any other project.  
 She's also asking for money damages and attorney fees.  
 Fara S. Sunderji, Roger Netzer, and Michael E. Kraver of
New York's  Willkie Farr & Gallagher  represent Niederlander.  
 The case is Margot Niederland v. Amber Tyler Chase, 1:08-
cv-01054-NG-RER, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New
York (Brooklyn).  
 Oregon Woman, Once Accused of Illegal Downloading, Fights Back  
 Tanya Andersen, who was the target of a copyright
infringement suit brought by the recording industry, re-filed a
class-action complaint in which she accused the industry of
racketeering, fraud and illegal spying.  
 Andersen, who lives in Beaverton, Oregon, refiled her case
March 14 after U.S. District Judge Ann Brown in Portland gave
her specific directions about what to include in her new
complaint.  
 Brown dismissed much of Andersen's earlier complaint on
February 19, and gave her until March 14 to re-file. Brown let
stand Andersen's claim against the music industry for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
 In her order, Brown told Andersen she had to state the
legal authority for each claim she made, and state which
defendants are associated with each claim. The judge also
pointed out that racketeering claims must be made that are
consistent with a 2006 ruling from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals requiring more than mere allegations of a sham case.  
 The new complaint, which is 109 pages, accused the major
recording studios of devising ``an illegal enterprise intent on
maintaining their virtually complete monopoly over the
distribution of recorded music.''  
 She accused the record companies of mail fraud, wire fraud
and other criminal acts'' for ``attempting to extort payment of
money'' from people accused of illegally downloading recorded
music.  
 Anderson had not downloaded any music illegally, and the
person who used the name under which she was accused of doing
the downloading was male, lived in a different state, and was
unknown to her, she said in her pleadings.  
 In the racketeering charge in her new complaint, Anderson
said the individual studios worked together with the  Recording
Industry Association of America , a music-industry trade group;
Vector Capital Corp.'s Media Sentry, which investigates illegal
downloading; and the Settlement Center, which contacts
defendants in efforts to extract a financial settlement from
them.  
 In January, U.S. District Judge James Redden ordered
 Vivendi SA 's Universal Music Group and four other record labels
to pay Andersen's legal fees after they dropped their suit
against her for illegal file sharing.  
 That case is Atlantic Record Corp. v. Andersen,
3:05-cv-00933-AS, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon
(Portland).  
 Lory R. Lybeck  of Mercer Island, Washington's  Lybeck Murphy 
represents Anderson in her proposed class action.  
 The case is Anderson v. Atlantic Recording Corp.,
3:07-cv-00934-BR, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon
(Portland).  
 For other copyright news from March 17 click here.  
 Trademark  
 Haas Outdoors Sues Camo Umlimited for Trademark Infringement  
 Haas Outdoors Inc. , the first maker of camouflage clothing
to use computers to design its patterns, sued  Camo Unlimited  for
trademark infringement.  
 The company manufactures and licenses others to manufacture
camouflage clothing and accessories under the Mossy Oak
trademark. It first registered this trademark with the U.S.
patent and Trademark office in February 1989, according to the
patent office database.  
 Camo, of Blount County, Alabama, made and sold camouflage
car tags and hooded sweatshirts incorporating Haas' Mossy Oak
trademark, according to the complaint Haas filed in federal
court in Mississippi March 13.  
 Haas representatives bought two Camo sweatshirts bearing
the Mossy Oak trademark in December 2006, according to court
papers. These shirts infringe Haas' trademarks, according to the
complaint.  
 The company is asking for all profits Camo has made from
the accused projects. It claimed the infringement is deliberate,
so has asked that the money damages be tripled.  
 It's also seeking an order barring manufacture and sale of
any of Camo's infringing products.  
 Bradford Colema Ray  of Jackson, Mississippi's  Watkins
Ludlam Winter & Stennis  represents Haas.  
 The case is Haas Outdoors Inc. v. Camo Unlimited, 08-cv-
00047-SA-JAD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Mississippi (Eastern Division).  
 Deutsche Telecom Claims Magenta-Colored Flag Infringes  
 Deutsche Telecom AG , Europe's largest telephone company, is
not satisfied with the new shade of red adopted by a Dutch
information-technology company, the International Herald Tribune
 reported  March 16.  
 Company flags flown by Compello, based in Zwolle, the
Netherlands, triggered a complaint because the telecom company
claimed trademark rights to their magenta color, according to
the Herald Tribune.  
 The company moved to a deeper, redder color it calls ``Red
Rubin,'' but Deutsche Telecom lawyers allege it's still
infringing, according to the Herald Tribune.  
 No suit has been filed, and Compello is still adjusting its
corporate color in hopes of avoiding litigation, the Herald
Tribune reported.  
 IP Talk  
 Lawyer Disciplined for Requiring Associate to Sign Away Right  
 The Florida Supreme Court reprimanded a Miami lawyer for
requiring a newly hired associate to sign an agreement that
would have barred him from practicing IP law for a year after
leaving the firm, the Florida Bar said in a  statement  March 13.  
 Jesus Sanchelima  of  Sanchelima & Associates  was given a
public reprimand after a Feb. 14 court order, according to the
statement. He was disciplined for violating a rule of the
Florida Bar that prohibits placing restrictions on a lawyer's
practice.  
 Sanchelima, a patent lawyer and former electronics
engineer, has been in practice since 1977.  
 IP Events  
 IP Bar Group to Meet, Discuss Courts and Patent Reform  
 The American Bar Association's Section of Intellectual
Property Law will hold its annual IP law conference in
Arlington, Virginia, April 10-12.  
 Among other topics, the conference will present a program
contrasting and comparing recent patent-law holdings from the
Supreme Court of the U.S. and the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit. That program will be led by Pamela
Banner Krupka of the Krupka Law Group of Los Angeles.  
 Representatives of the pharmaceutical and software
industries will make up part of a panel discussion on patent
reform at the conference. Robert A. Armitage, senior vice
president and general counsel of  Eli Lilly & Co. , is one of the
panelists, with the representative from the software industry
yet to be named.  
 Others on that particular program are Chief Judge Paul R.
Michel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the
court that hears appeals of patent cases; and  Gerald J.
Mossinghoff , a senior counsel at Alexandria, Virginia's  Oblon,
Spivak, McClelland, Maier & Neustadt  and former patent
commissioner.  
 Registration information for the conference can be found at
the section's Web site,  www.abanet.org/intelprop .  
 For Bloomberg articles by lawyers on intellectual property
topics, click here.  
 For daily Bloomberg legal analysis, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        