-- BMW Jerks, Porsche Flashers -- What Your Car Shows About You
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-04/bmw-jerks-porsche-flashers-what-your-car-shows-about-you.html

          
          
             Thundering down a highway in a
smoking-hot  BMW  M6, I flick on my blinker and slide into the
left lane to pass slower vehicles. Immediately a minivan swings
in front of me, throws on his brakes and sticks there at a
steady 50 miles per hour, boxing me in.  
 Ah, the dreaded BMW hater, intent on taking the arrogant
jerk in his Bimmer down a notch.  
 One of the fascinating things about testing cars for a
living is seeing how other drivers react to you, for good or for
bad. A vehicle is your personality on wheels, and once behind
the wheel of a silver Rolls-Royce Phantom or a yellow  Hummer ,
you may also find yourself taking on aspects of that persona.  
 Some cars make loud statements, so it’s best to be aware
what they are before dropping $20,000 or $200,000.  
 I’ve tried on many an auto personality. One day I’m the
Camaro guy -- mullet not included -- the next a trust funder in
his red Maserati or the Porsche purist hurtling toward a mid-
life crisis.  
 That said, you’re really never a  Toyota  Corolla dude. Many
cars are just utilitarian, the khaki in the great auto tapestry.
The only thing you’re declaring is that you like to travel from
A to B with minimum fuss (the recent pedal recall
notwithstanding).  
 Carmakers are extremely aware of brand perception, which
they try to manage carefully through advertising and public
relations. Sometimes it works well -- like Mini’s image as fun
and rebellious, yet still eco-conscious. But once the image gets
away, it can be disastrous. (Take notice, Toyota.)  
 Hapless Hummer  
 “When public perception goes awry there’s always a better
way to position yourself so that it is less harmful to the
brand,” says  Joe Molina , president of California-based JMPR
Public Relations, which represents Bugatti and Bentley. “Hummer
is an example where the image was totally mismanaged. Nobody was
minding the store.”  
 A good way to avoid such a fate, says Molina, is to have
marketing people carefully listening to word on the street. “If
you hear the same thing from two or three markets, that’s
trouble. The top people need to know before it’s too late.”  
 Someone at  General Motors  might have tried to counteract
the vitriol that led to a Web site devoted to thousands of
photos of consumers flipping Hummers the bird, dating back to
2003. No wonder the brand is being sold to a Chinese company.  
 Still, there’s nothing like taking a car on the road to
gauge if you’ll be loved or loathed.  
 Classic Cool  
 Some cars are obvious: Everyone loves a classic. A buddy
drives a 1961 Lincoln Continental which oozes cool nostalgia.
He’s been pulled over by police numerous times, but has not once
been given a ticket.  
 Then there are surprises. I’ve never received a bigger
reception than the time I tested a convertible  Smart  car around
Manhattan. The city’s usual glib indifference was scrubbed away
by the tyke-size mini-car. I was approached by Upper East Side
doyennes, pretty downtown girls and sweaty construction workers.
By day’s end I was longing for the anonymity of the subway.  
 Exotic cars are tricky. I’ve recently driven both a
Lamborghini Gallardo and a Ferrari 599 around the Tri-State.
(Loved them both.) Small boys in the city, many whom have only
ridden in yellow taxis, follow these exotics with awed eyes --
the call of the cool car is somehow primal.  
 Yet there can be hints of distaste or mistrust among
adults, some of whom look upon you with hooded eyes. Who needs a
fire-engine-red, $300,000 car, they seem to say -- is there some
emotional hole you’re trying to fill?  
 Special Feeling  
 And with everyone watching you (and they are), I did find
myself feeling rather special and maybe just a bit above it all.
Give the car room, please.  
 (One businessman I spoke with stopped making sales calls in
his Ferrari. Vendors would never give him good prices, he said,
pointing out his car. He switched to a minivan.)  
 In his book “Traffic: Why We Drive the Way We Do (and What
It Says About Us),” Tom Vanderbilt cites studies which show
motorists were less likely to honk their horns at those who
drove a similar car.  
 “I don’t really like Hummers,” Vanderbilt said. “I’m
probably less likely to let one merge in front of me than I
would someone driving the same model Subaru as I do.”  
 Such is also the experience of owners of Harley-Davidsons,
Corvettes and Porsches, who heartily acknowledge one another.
This courtesy does not include the Porsche Cayenne SUV, I
discovered, and BMW drivers.  
 Flash Porsches  
 “Other Porsche guys will flash their lights and give you
the wave,” says Nat Mundy, owner of a vintage 1966 911 and co-
founder of  Grand Prix New York  in Mount Kisco.  
 Mundy also has a 2005 Audi S4 and a 1989 Range Rover
modified to look like a monster truck, which he calls his
“yuppie redneck truck.” What he drives depends on the
impression he wants to project that day.  
 “I’m totally anonymous in the Audi, and nobody dares to go
near the scary Range Rover,” he said. “But pull up in the old
Porsche and everyone approaches and wants to talk. It’s way
friendlier than a new Ferrari or Lamborghini.”  
 ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lamborghini Gallardo LP560-4. Little kids love exotic cars like Lamborghinis and Ferraris.  Photographer: Barry Hathaway/Lamborghini SpA via Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     General Motors Chevrolet Camaro SS. The new Chevy Camaro gets lot of attention in rural areas. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     BMW AG's M6 coupe. Many drivers seem to regard BMW owners as arrogant or egotistical.  Source: BMW AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Hummer H3. Hummer is an example of what happens when a brand image goes terribly wrong. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A vintage 1969 Mercedes-Benz 280SL, from the collection of the Mercedes-Benz Classic Car Center.  Photographer: Tim Rue/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
