-- CSM Agrees to Buy U.S. Best Brands for $510 Million
-- Jeroen Molenaar
-- 2010-02-04T18:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-04/csm-agrees-to-buy-u-s-best-brands-for-510-million-update1-.html

          
          
             CSM NV (CSM) , the world’s largest supplier
of bakery ingredients, said it agreed to buy Best Brands Corp.
in the U.S. for $510 million in cash to take  North America ’s top
spot in bakery supplies.  
 The purchase, financed from available credit lines, values
the specialty bakery manufacturer and distributor at 8.5 times
its 2009  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, Amsterdam, Netherlands-based CSM said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 CSM will add Best Brands’ 2009 revenue of $538 million from
selling frozen baked cakes and muffins, increasing annual U.S.
sales to more than $2.3 billion, the company said. Apart from
selling bakery supplies in European countries, CSM produces milk
acid, from which biodegradable plastics are made.  
 “The Best Brands  acquisition  fully fits within our stated
strategy as it strengthens our leadership in our core markets,
brings complimentary in an extended customer portfolio and
expands our baking capabilities,” Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Hoetmer said in the statement.  
 Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Best Brands, with a staff of
1,580, specializes in frozen laminated dough, baked cakes,
muffins and bakery mixes, as well as services sold to in-store
bakeries and institutional baking clients. Company
representatives did not immediately return calls for comment.  
 CSM slid 71 cents, or 3.5 percent, to 19.44 euros in
Amsterdam. The company issued its statement after that  market 
closed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Jeroen Molenaar in Amsterdam 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        