-- Sony Catches Kindle, Trails iPad With Reader: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-02-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-04/sony-catches-kindle-trails-ipad-with-reader-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             The annals of consumer technology are
full of woulda, coulda, shoulda: companies that were ahead of
their time, then missed the wave they themselves helped spawn.  
 These days, just about no one fits that description better
than Sony Corp. Back in 2006, it helped kick off the electronic-
book trend with its first Sony Reader, then lost the initiative
as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle introduced features like built-in
wireless access that redefined the category.  
 Now, Sony is out with a new addition to its e-reader line,
the Reader Daily Edition. At $399, it’s considerably more
expensive than the Kindle and Barnes & Noble Inc.’s similar
Nook, both of which sell for $259. But it also offers more than
they do, and reaffirms that the parade hasn’t completely left
Sony behind, even in an Apple iPad world.  
 The Daily Edition is the first Sony model with wireless,
operating in the U.S. over AT&T Inc.’s 3G network; until now,
every Sony had to be hooked up to a computer to download
content. I’ve found wireless to be a huge boon in an e-reader,
allowing me to buy books and access news while traveling or on
the go.  
 It’s news, in fact, that Sony is counting on to help
differentiate the Daily Edition from its competitors. It has
struck deals with a number of major newspapers, including News
Corp.’s Wall Street Journal and New York Post, to sell
subscriptions for editions tailored for the device. No one will
mistake these for the kind of rich -- and right now theoretical
-- presentations possible on the iPad. Still, they are better
formatted and easier to read than much of what appears on the
Kindle.  
 Narrower, Thicker  
 The Daily Edition is narrower and thicker than Amazon’s e-
reader, with a longer screen. It also feels more substantial,
with metal in places the Kindle is plastic. The screen uses the
same gray-scale digital-paper technology found on the Kindle and
Nook, but with an important difference: The Sony display is a
touch screen.  
 This is a much more natural way of moving around than
either the Kindle’s buttons and joystick or the Nook’s separate
navigation window. You can buy or open a book or newspaper just
by poking its thumbnail image, and turn pages with a finger
swipe rather than click.  
 Oddly, unless you’re reading, say, Hebrew, the default
page-turn gesture is a left-to-right swipe, not the right-to-
left move that would simulate a physical book. Luckily, users
can control that, and Sony says it will eventually change the
default.  
 Little Bit Dimmer  
 There’s at least one drawback to the screen: The layer that
makes it touch-sensitive also makes it a little bit dim. It
didn’t bother me; as with an ink-and-paper book, I just turn on
a light if I’m having trouble seeing. Some folks, though, seem
to be more sensitive to the dimness factor than I am; the best
advice is to find a retail store carrying the Daily Edition and
try before you buy.  
 The Daily Edition also includes a stylus, which I found to
be a mixed blessing. On the one hand, it’s easier than your
finger for scrawling yourself a note. I also found myself using
it with the on-screen virtual keyboard; my pokes were more
precise. But when the reader slid off the center console of my
car, the stylus popped out and briefly went missing. In other
words: one more thing to lose.  
 Less Selection  
 The Sony online bookstore’s selection is thinner than
Amazon’s. Both have current best-sellers at similar prices,
usually $9.99, but in terms of older titles, Amazon has more
that you’d actually want to read. On the other hand, Sony
supports a broader array of book formats, meaning there are
other places you can go for content, including your public
library.  
 The Daily Edition comes with a replaceable battery and
enough memory to store hundreds of books, plus slots for an SD
card and Sony’s Memory Stick. I found its performance acceptable
-- not as swift as the Kindle, but considerably faster on both
startup and in operation than the poky Nook. Battery life was
good, not great; I was able to go about four or five days
between charges, as opposed to seven or eight on the Kindle.  
 In the end, the big question about the Daily Edition is
whether it’s worth the extra cost over a Kindle or Nook. You do
get more: the larger screen, the premium fit and finish, a cover
and hard case. I especially regard a cover, which for the Kindle
costs an extra $29.99, as essential not only for protecting the
reader but because it creates more of a book-like reading
experience.  
 Do all those justify the hefty price premium? Only you --
and your wallet -- can be the judge.  
 (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        