-- Underwear Bomber Got Worst Treatment Law Allows: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-02-05T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-04/underwear-bomber-got-worst-treatment-law-allows-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             For those who think it an outrage
that Federal Bureau of Investigation agents Mirandized the
Christmas Day underwear bomber 50 minutes into his chat with
agents, I have two words for you.  
 Richard Reid.  
 With a shoe containing partly burned explosives, Reid had
been removed from a flight from Paris that landed at Boston’s
Logan airport for maybe five minutes when agents advised him he
had the right to remain silent. The right stems from a 1966 U.S.
Supreme Court ruling that said under the Fifth Amendment, people
can’t be coerced into confessions.  
 The Reid case was little more than three months after the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. No one can accuse officials then
of deluding themselves with a Sept. 10 mentality.  
 And for anyone who considers it weak-kneed to prosecute
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab as a common criminal rather than
declare him an enemy combatant and haul him to a military
tribunal, here are two more words: Bush, Cheney.  
 The previous administration always prosecuted suspected
terrorists captured on U.S. soil in federal district court. Some
300 people have been tried there on terrorism-related charges,
convicted and sentenced to spend a chunk of their lives in U.S.
prisons.  
 That is far more efficient than military tribunals, which
have handled only three cases to conclusion in the past nine
years, all of them involving people picked up overseas.  
 As for advising the suspect of his right to clam up,
longstanding FBI rules require Miranda warnings whenever a
suspected terrorist is taken into custody in the U.S., according
to Attorney General Eric Holder. Long-standing means prior to
the Obama administration.  
 Inherently Correct  
 I mention this not because I consider the Bush-Cheney
policy inherently correct. But it underscores how transparently
partisan, devoid of substance and fear-baiting Republicans are
when they claim that the handling of the Christmas Day episode
proves the Obama administration is dangerously naive about
terrorism.  
 No one complained about Reid being handled like a
shoplifter.  
 You would never know it now to hear the rhetoric, but the
previous administration demonstrated repeatedly that if you want
to punish terrorists with hefty sentences and do it relatively
swiftly, U.S. district court is where they need to go, not a
military tribunal. However counterintuitive, the point is proven
by comparing results. Read on for that.  
 And just because a terrorist is told he has the right to
remain silent, it doesn’t mean he will. Like several other
accused terrorists who were Mirandized, Abdulmutallab has been
talking his head off.  
 Real Bungling  
 There is plenty of real bungling when it comes to
Abdulmutallab, to be sure. The terrorist-watch system proved
ill-equipped in basic ways. And don’t get me started about the
government’s failure to take seriously his father’s warnings.  
 Yes, it would have been nice if Holder had consulted
National Intelligence Director Dennis Blair about how he was
handling Abdulmutallab.  
 But you have to wonder about an intelligence chief who told
Congress that he would have called in the High-Value Detainee
Interrogation Group to do the questioning. That team, whose job
it is to question terrorists abroad, not at home, hadn’t been
set up by Christmas Day, anyway.  
 Intelligence Community  
 Holder says the FBI “informed its partners in the
intelligence community,” and none “objected” to handling
Abdulmutallab as a criminal. The same thing happened in
subsequent talks with Obama and “senior members” of his
national security team, Holder said in a letter to Republican
senators.  
 Bush administration protocol makes the attorney general the
decider, by the way.  
 I understand why lots of Americans find it incomprehensible
that cherished constitutional rights are going to people out to
destroy us, bent on murdering as many innocents as possible. It
seems crazy to treat them as criminals and tell them they can
keep quiet.  
 An exception to the rule allows agents to forgo the Miranda
warning if they have reason to believe the suspect knows about
some attack that is about to occur. It took the FBI 50 minutes
to determine that there was no such ticking bomb in
Abdulmutallab’s case.  
 Having No Choice  
 As for handling people captured within our borders, the
government has no choice but to enforce their rights. When the
Bush administration tried to deny Jose Padilla counsel, a
federal judge in New York said no. That was Michael Mukasey, who
went on to become Bush’s last attorney general.  
 Military commissions haven’t only proven themselves to be
slow because of court challenges that prompted revisions; they
also haven’t been especially tough. The three convictions from
tribunals brought sentences fairly light compared with federal
court punishments, according to an analysis by the Center for
American Progress.  
 And the widely held belief that “lawyering up” is
synonymous with shutting up just isn’t true. Sometimes the
threat of prosecution, complete with the Miranda warning, acts
as leverage to persuade the suspect to spill his guts.  
 Abdulmutallab’s chattiness post-Miranda points up that
little-appreciated fact about the criminal justice system.
Bringing his family over helped persuade him, it’s true. So,
surely, did the weight of evidence against him.  
 He was caught, after all, with a wad of deadly powder
packed into his underwear which he tried to ignite, and we have
witnesses to say so.  
 Abdulmutallab failed at downing the plane. But he succeeded
at igniting a partisan firestorm in Washington.  
 But then, how hard is that?  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        