-- Comstar to Spend $300 Million on Regional Purchases
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2006-11-01T13:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-01/comstar-to-spend-300-million-on-regional-purchases-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Comstar United Telesystems plans
to spend $300 million of the proceeds from its initial public
offering on acquisitions this year and in 2007, Chief Executive
Officer Eric Franke said.  
 Comstar UTS,  Russia 's largest alternative phone operator,
will spend $150 million to complete six acquisitions this year,
he said in Moscow today. The company will spend another $150
million next year.  
 ``My priority is Russia, the  Commonwealth of Independent
States  and Eastern Europe,'' Franke said. The company also plans
to buy shares in OAO Moscow City Telephone, the dominant fixed-
line phone company in the Russian capital, on the market.  
 Moscow-based Comstar UTS, controlled by Russian billionaire
 Vladimir Yevtushenkov , raised more than $1 billion in an IPO in
February this year and has tried to find assets to buy with the
proceeds. Comstar UTS said Oct. 30 it will team up with Intracom
Holdings SA to acquire Greek phone company Hellas Online.  
 The company said yesterday it paid $4.7 million for two
telecommunications operators in Ukraine, DG Tel and Technologic
Systems. Comstar UTS said on Oct. 28 that it bought 75 percent
plus one share of CallNet, an alternative operator in  Armenia ,
for an undisclosed sum.  
 Comstar UTS will further expand in Ukraine to include
cities with a population of one million people such as
Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, Lviv and Donetsk, Franke said today.
The country is the company's most important market after Moscow
in terms of company development, he said.  
 Plan B  
 Comstar UTS also plans to buy shares in Moscow City
Telephone on the market, Franke said. Comstar said last week it
raised its stake in Moscow City Telephone to 66.9 percent.
Franke said Comstar UTS will continue buying shares on the
market as it awaits for the government to decide on the sale of
its stake in Moscow City Telephone now held by Syvazinvest.  
 Comstar UTS planned to use most of its proceeds from the
IPO to take part in the sale of the government's controlling
stake in OAO Svyazinvest, the country's national fixed-line
operator, which has been delayed repeatedly.  
 ``We have changed the course: if Svyazinvest was plan A, it
is now plan B,'' Franke said. Comstar UTS has a list of 20
regions where it is looking at companies to pursue acquisitions,
he said.  
 Separately, Comstar UTS plans to cut 300 jobs in Moscow by
the end of 2006, reducing its Moscow staff to 1,200, Franke
said. That includes reducing the number of managers from 340 to
200, he said. The company will also cut the chain of management
to four from eight levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        