-- Russian Stocks Gain the Most in Three Weeks; Led by Gazprom
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2006-11-01T16:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-01/russian-stocks-gain-the-most-in-three-weeks-led-by-gazprom.html

          
          
             Russian stocks rose, with the RTS
Index gaining the most in more than three weeks, led by OAO
Gazprom and OAO Unified Energy System.  
 Kommersant reported President  Vladimir Putin  may discuss gas
and electricity price increases with the heads of the two energy
companies.  
 OAO Mobile TeleSystems, eastern  Europe 's biggest mobile-
phone company, climbed after a report that parent company AFK
Sistema wants a stake in Deutsche Telekom AG.  
 Rambler Media Ltd., which runs Russia's second-biggest
Internet search engine, gained after billionaire Vladimir
Potanin's company bought 49 percent of the company.  
 The dollar-denominated RTS Index advanced 1.9 percent to
1644.86 at the close of trading in Moscow, rising for a second
day and posting the biggest one-day gain since Oct. 9. The ruble-
based Micex Index increased 2 percent to 1456.  
 Shares of Gazprom, the biggest natural-gas producer, soared
4.8 percent to $11. Unified Energy, the national power utility,
gained 3.6 percent to 78 cents.  
 Alexei Miller , Gazprom's Chief Executive, and  Anatoly
Chubais , CEO of Unified Energy, will meet with Putin in the
Kremlin on Nov. 3, Kommersant reported, citing an unidentified
person with knowledge of the meeting. The companies have
requested increases in gas and electricity prices.  
 Gazprom loses money on domestic gas sales and says the 15
percent price rise the government approved for 2007 isn't enough
to ensure production can keep pace with demand.  
 Shares of OAO Novatek, Russia's second-largest gas producer,
gained 2.4 percent to $59.60 in London, rising for a sixth
session and reaching an all-time high.  
 Mobile TeleSystems advanced 4 percent to $7.85.  
 Financial Times Deutschland reported in its print edition
today that Sistema may seek between 10 percent and 20 percent of
Deutsche Telekom. Sistema denied the report, Financial Times
Deutschland said on its Web site, citing an unidentified
spokesman.  
 Deutsche Telekom Stake  
 Rambler Media shares gained 4 percent to $32.50 in London,
rising for a sixth session. Billionaire  Vladimir Potanin 's PM
Invest Company Ltd. acquired about 48.8 percent of Rambler,
Rambler said yesterday. PM Invest also applied to the Russian
Federal Anti-Monopoly Service to buy a further 6 percent of the
media company.  
 ``The transaction is a significant milestone in the
development of Rambler and opens up new opportunities for
broadening its reach and advertising base,'' Natasha Zagvozdina
and Alexei Yazykov, analysts at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow,
wrote in a report.  
 OAO Rosneft, the state oil producer, added 1.1 percent to
$8.69 in London. Deutsche Bank AG's Russian brokerage raised is
recommendation on the stock to ``buy'' from ``hold'' and
increased its price estimate by 16 percent to $9.4.  
 Rosneft  
 Rosneft will benefit ``from participating in the sale of OAO
Yukos Oil Co.'s assets,'' analysts led by Stephen O'Sullivan at
Deutsche UFG in Moscow wrote in a report released yesterday after
the market closed.  
 The acquisition of Yukos's biggest oil unit in 2004 allowed
Rosneft to become the third-largest producer in  Russia . Rosneft
is the second-largest creditor of bankrupt Yukos, with about $9.6
billion worth of court-approved claims.  
 Uralsib bank shares advanced 5.1 percent to 1.85 cents on
the RTS. The bank's parent Uralsib Financial Corp. is in talks
with OAO Trading House Kopeyka, a Russian grocer that's 50
percent-owned by the bank, to buy the rest of the company,
Vedomosti said, citing Kopeika spokeswoman Anastasiya Schukina.  
 Schukina declined to elaborate before the purchase closes,
according to the Russian newspaper. Uralsib may pay as much as
$600 million for the stake, Vedomosti said, citing an
unidentified official at the company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balduin Hesse in  London  at 
 bhesse2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        