-- AIG ex-CEO severance seen as high as $68 mln: analyst
-- 
-- Tue Jun 17, 2008 6:09pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/17/businesspro-aig-sullivan-severance-dc-idUSN1738452320080617

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - American International Group Inc's 
( AIG.N ) former chief executive, Martin Sullivan, who stepped 
down on Sunday amid large subprime losses, could receive up to 
$68 million in severance pay and benefits, according to an 
estimate compiled by an outside research firm. 

  Corporate governance firm The Corporate Library on Tuesday 
said Sullivan -- who was replaced by Chairman Robert Willumstad 
as CEO on Sunday -- could receive up to $2.5 million in salary, 
$26.6 million in bonus payments, $14 million from a defined 
contribution plan, $21.9 million worth of stock awards, $3.3 
million in pension benefits and $32,316 in medical and life 
insurance coverage, according to a report by research analyst 
Alexandra Higgins.  The figure is far higher than what has been disclosed by 
the company in regulatory filings, and higher than the actual 
severance package that is likely to be negotiated. Although the 
final figure has not been set, Sullivan is more likely to 
receive between $35 million and $50 million in pay and 
benefits, according to a source familiar with the matter.  The Corporate Library compiles its estimates based on 
severance agreements, and the latest pay and benefits 
information provided by the company.  AIG, in a regulatory filing earlier this year, said 
Sullivan was due a termination pay and benefits package of $35 
million, as long as he left for good reasons, or was asked to 
step down "without cause."  The figure includes salary of $5 million, $30 million in 
severance pay, and $32,316 in medical and life insurance 
benefits but does not include pensions, or stock awards.  Sullivan is the latest in a line of executives who have 
resigned from their firms after large losses from subprime 
investments. AIG has, over the past two quarters, written down 
more than $20 billion in assets linked to subprime mortgages.  Other executives to stand down amid mounting mortgage 
losses include Charles Prince, who had been head of Citigroup 
( C.N ), and Stanley O'Neal, former CEO at Merrill Lynch & Co 
MER.N.  (Reporting by  Lilla Zuill , editing by Phil Berlowitz)