-- Tiger Woods, Angelina Jolie Shouldn't Set Bonuses: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2009-09-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-09/tiger-woods-angelina-jolie-shouldn-t-set-bonuses-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             The Group of 20 proclamation
suggesting remedies for what ails finance is a tale told by an
idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. Its proposed
solutions are not only flawed, they are impossible to implement
-- especially with regard to the thorny issue of remuneration
and bonuses.  
 Here are some of the key elements of the policy measures
prescribed by the G-20 nations, along with their faults.  
 1) “We will develop cooperative and coordinated exit
strategies, recognizing that the scale, timing and sequencing of
actions will vary across countries and across the types of
policy measures.”  
 The G-20 hasn’t got a hope of persuading its members to
stick to a coordinated plan to halt and reverse the $12 trillion
cash transfusion that’s keeping the global economy alive. There
won’t be an orderly unwinding on a collectively agreed schedule;
instead, selfish nationalism will dictate a beggar-thy-neighbor
approach that goes, “You first.” “No, you first.” “No, I
insist, YOU first.”  
 No nation will want to risk anemia and a competitive
disadvantage by being first to turn off the money taps that have
flooded the economic system with liquidity. And the futures
market is telling us any rate increases are way, way in the
future; the three-month dollar contract for settlement in the
middle of next year has dived below 1 percent, from 1.7 percent
just a month ago and more than 2 percent at mid-year. Moves in
euros and pounds paint a similar picture of central banks in no
hurry to end the sugar rush of free money.  
 The shoe is likely to pinch hardest in the foreign-exchange
market, where the U.S. is a past master at using the pretense of
a “strong dollar” policy to devalue its way to renewed
prosperity. That helps explain why Bank of France Governor
Christian Noyer said this week it’s “very important” for
currencies to be stable; it also sets the scene for a humdinger
of a currency battle between the U.S. and China next year.  
 2) “More stringent capital requirements for risky trading
activities, off-balance sheet items, and securitized products.”  
 Everyone, including the banks themselves, acknowledges that
the inverted pyramid of leverage that the financial community
erected in the past decade was resting on a slender tip of too-
little capital. Use of the words “more stringent” dodges the
so-far-unresolved question, though: How much capital is enough?  
 The answer is very different in so-called normal times,
versus the chaotic aftermath of a Black Swan-inspired maelstrom.
Sometimes, it’s impossible to build your cash bulwarks high
enough. Moreover, different jurisdictions are likely to reach
different conclusions, not least to tilt the playing field a bit
in favor of their domestic banks versus overseas competitors.  
 3) “Prevent excessive short-term risk taking and mitigate
systemic risk, on a globally consistent basis.”  
 One of the beautiful side-effects of so-called quantitative
easing -- beautiful if you are a bank in the bond market, anyway
-- is that governments are now selling more bonds to pay for
their stimulus programs, and buying more bonds to funnel
liquidity into the banking system. In other words, there’s a new
patsy bringing a big stake to the fixed-income poker game.
Provided your traders are skilful at steering prices in both the
auctions and the buybacks, there’s free money to be made.  
 Other markets aren’t quite so sympathetic to the need for
banks to restore their balance sheets -- and the way to make
money in finance is to take risks. Can regulators really
determine what is “excessive” and what is justifiable? And how
do they expect to ensure that the regulator next door agrees
with them, rather than taking a more relaxed view that will
encourage banks to shift their trading activities over the
border to where the frowns are less severe?  
 4) “Greater disclosure and transparency of the level and
structure of remuneration for those whose actions have a
material impact on risk taking. Global standards on pay
structure, including on deferral, effective clawback, the
relationship between fixed and variable remuneration, and
guaranteed bonuses, to ensure compensation practices are aligned
with long-term value creation and financial stability.”  
 The problem with the banking industry’s bonus system isn’t
size, or the relationship between salary and bonus, or the
existence of guarantees. The issue is that private gains become
public losses when the bets go awry.  
 Imagine how ridiculous it would be if governments imposed
pay scales for Angelina Jolie, Tiger Woods, or the guys at
Google Inc. who built the world’s best Internet mousetrap. If
Sergey Brin and Larry Page had failed, they would be garage-
trapped geeks, not billionaires. If Woods starts finding the
rough rather than the fairway, he’ll lose his endorsements. If
Jolie’s movies are box-office duds, her earnings power will melt
faster than a moviegoer’s ice cream.  
 The same should apply to banking. Long-term risk-taking
that plants financial landmines for the future shouldn’t produce
short-term mega-bonuses that let traders skip away unscathed
before their trading lemons ripen. Building claw-backs into the
process so that today’s payment can be recouped if it turns out
to be based on phantom profit is one solution. So is paying
bankers in the same products they foist on their clients.  
 Allowing governments to apply spurious numerical limits to
how much star traders earn, though, is as random, capricious and
unwarranted as asking Jolie to set your bonus -- albeit a lot
less fun.  
 (Mark Gilbert is the London bureau chief and a columnist
for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        