-- Russian Stocks Climb to Three-Month High as Oil Rises Above $72
-- Maria Ermakova
-- 2009-09-09T16:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-09/russian-stocks-climb-to-three-month-high-as-oil-rises-above-72.html

          
          
             Russian stocks  rose for a third day
as energy companies gained on oil above $72 a barrel, offsetting
declines by banks and concern that this year’s rally outpaced
earnings prospects.  
 OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , the country’s second-biggest oil producer,
jumped 5 percent, the biggest increase in the Micex. The
benchmark index of 30 stocks added 0.9 percent to 1,159.95, the
highest level in three months. Oil rallied as much as 2 percent
to $72.50 in  New York .  
 The Micex has climbed 87 percent this year as oil more than
doubled from its February low on signs the global economy is
recovering, boosting demand for fuel.  Russia  is the world’s
largest energy supplier.  
 “The fact that oil is trading above $70 a barrel is the
main catalyst for Russian stocks,” said Michael Kart, who helps
manage more than $1 billion in stocks at Marshall Spectrum Ltd.
in Moscow, including about $60 million in equities in Russia and
former Soviet states.  
 The stock market has been mirroring moves in oil by the
most on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Russia may annul export duties for oil produced in eastern
Siberia by the end of this year, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin , who is also OAO Rosneft’s board chairman, told reporters
in Moscow today.  
 Lukoil advanced the most in three weeks to 1,629.10 rubles.
OAO Surgutneftegaz, the nation’s fourth-biggest oil company,
added 2.1 percent to 26.493 rubles.  
 OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural-gas producer,
climbed 2.6 percent to 170.24 rubles.  
 Banks Stumble  
 Banks retreated after central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev
signaled policy makers may lower the bank’s benchmark  interest
rates  as early as this month after the currency stabilized and
inflation slowed.  
 Policy makers will “likely” cut the key interest rates in
the “immediate future,” Ignatiev said today. The central bank,
which began lowering rates in April, last reduced its
refinancing rate to 10.75 percent from 11 percent on Aug. 10.  
 VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, slumped 2.8
percent to 4.58 kopeks, making it the worst performer in the
Micex.  
 OAO Sberbank, the largest bank, fell for the first time in
five days, retreating 1.8 percent to 57.40 rubles. The shares
climbed as much as 2 percent before the central banker’s comment
on rates.  
 Sberbank may say second-quarter profit tumbled 87 percent
as it set aside more money to cover bad loans, according to the
median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company
is expected to report results at 10 a.m. tomorrow in Moscow.  
 OAO Gazprom Neft fell 1.1 percent to 119.63 rubles. The
Russian  oil company  that took control of Sibir Energy Plc said
second-quarter profit tumbled 45 percent after crude prices
collapsed from the previous year.  
 This year’s stock rally has lifted shares to their most
expensive level in more than a year. The Micex is  valued  at 11.4
times reported earnings, the highest level since June 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        