-- Biovail Reaches Settlement Over Generic Wellbutrin XL
-- Susan Decker
-- 2007-03-05T21:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-05/biovail-reaches-settlement-over-generic-wellbutrin-xl-update4-.html

          
          
             Biovail Corp. reached a settlement
with four generic-drug makers that delays sales of cheaper
copies of one form of its antidepressant Wellbutrin XL until
next year.  
 The agreement resolves complaints against  Anchen
Pharmaceuticals LLP ,  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL) ,  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) ,
Mississauga, Ontario-based Biovail said today in a statement.  
 Biovail reported $302.2 million in Wellbutrin XL sales for
the first nine months of 2006, or 42 percent of the company's
product revenue. Under the settlement, the generic drug-makers
won't be able to market copies of the 150-milligram dose of
Wellbutrin XL until 2008, and Teva, Anchen and Impax will have
an exclusive license for 180 days after entering the market.  
 ``If the 150 milligram dose were not launched in 2007 or
2008, annual earnings per share would climb by 12 cents and 51
cents, respectively,'' Douglas Miehm, an RBC Capital Markets
analyst, said in a note to clients.  
 Shares of Biovail rose 4 cents to $20.54 at 4:01 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Teva American
depositary receipts, each worth one ordinary share, rose 3 cents
to $34.73 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  
 Teva, with partners Anchen and Impax, will continue to sell
the 300-milligram form of the drug without any other generic
competitors, including a so-called authorized generic or
unbranded version by Biovail. That exclusivity term ends June
13.  
 Biovail Forecast  
 Watson, which also was involved in litigation over the
drug, can enter the market after both exclusivity periods end.  
 Biovail will announce new 2007 forecasts on March 15, when
its fourth-quarter earnings are reported, the company said.
Biovail and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which introduced the original
version of Wellbutrin, split the revenue from the drug because
of Biovail's patent on the extended-release form. London-based
Glaxo sells the drug in the U.S.  
 Teva began selling the 300-milligram form of the drug in
December. Teva pays Anchen Pharmaceuticals Inc. after a court
said Anchen's Wellbutrin XL copy didn't infringe the Biovail
patent. Teva splits profits with marketing partner Impax.  
 Biovail won't receive any royalties from the companies,
Isabel said. The agreement was approved by the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission.  
 Andrx Corp., bought by Watson last year, claimed that it
owned a patent on the 150-milligram form of the drug.
GlaxoSmithKline last month agreed to pay Andrx $35 million plus
royalties to resolve that case. Biovail said it agreed to pay
one-third of the licensing costs, and the agreement resolves all
``impediments'' to the drug.  
 A lawsuit is pending in which closely held Abrika
Pharmaceuticals Inc. is challenging Biovail's Wellbutrin XL
patent. It doesn't have regulatory approval.  
 Separately, Biovail ended an agreement in which it paid
Watson for access to toxicity data for the compound diltiazem,
the key ingredient in Biovail's Tiazac and Cardizem.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York
at   Lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in  Washington 
at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Simison at   rsimison@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        