-- TMK First-Half Net Drops 45% on Rising Costs of Steel
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2008-11-06T13:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-11-06/tmk-first-half-net-drops-45-on-rising-costs-of-steel-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO TMK (TMKS) , the world's second-largest
maker of pipes for the oil and gas industry, said first-half
 profit  dropped 45 percent as rising steel costs outpaced
increased prices for its products.  
 Net income fell to $150.9 million, or 17 cents a share, from
$276.5 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, Moscow-based TMK
said today in a  statement . Sales rose 17 percent to $2.37
billion, while the cost of sales jumped 28 percent.  
 ``The picture for TMK should improve in the second half,''
Nikolai Sosnovsky, an analyst with UralSib Financial Corp., said
by phone in Moscow. ``If TMK builds up central Asian, Chinese
sales as scrap and steel prices fall, it can do very well even
with a drop in domestic demand. It could be a good defensive
play.''  
 TMK will earn as much as half its revenue outside Russia
next year after spending more than $1.3 billion in 2008 on assets
in  North America  and  Kazakhstan . The company also plans to cut
spending 80 percent after orders slowed from Russian energy
companies constrained by the credit squeeze, Head of Strategy
Vladimir Shmatovich said Oct. 30.  
 Inventories of finished goods doubled in the first six
months compared with a year earlier to $802 million, TMK said
today.  
 Order in Turkmenistan  
 Turkmengas, the state-owned gas producer, awarded TMK a
contract for 5,000 metric tons of K42 grade wide-diameter pipes,
used for trunk pipelines, the Russian company said today in a
separate statement. The shipment is due this month.  
 TMK plans to increase sales to  Turkmenistan  by 10 times as
the holder of Central Asia's second-largest gas reserves seeks
new export routes. Dmitry Pumpyansky, TMK's billionaire owner and
chairman, met Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov in
March to discuss supplies of pipes for trunk pipelines.  
 The producer also said today that it took a $13 million
charge after a drop in the value of its stake in OAO VTB Bank,
Russia's second-largest lender. The holding was worth $19.9
million by June 30 after a ``significant and prolonged decline''
in the shares, TMK said.  
 Tenaris SA is the largest maker of steel tubes for
pipelines.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        