-- Goodyear Among Founders of Michigan Auto Trade Group
-- Mike Ramsey
-- 2007-01-04T22:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-04/goodyear-among-founders-of-michigan-auto-trade-group-update1-.html

          
          
             Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  and three
other companies that do business with Michigan-based carmakers
and auto-parts suppliers have formed a trade group to promote the
state's ailing automotive industry.  
 The founders of MICHauto want to revive a sector battered by
job cuts and factory shutdowns, especially at General Motors
Corp. and Ford Motor Co. The industry's woes have contributed to
Michigan's 6.9 percent  unemployment rate , the second worst among
states and more than 50 percent higher than the national rate.  
 Michigan lost 101,000 automotive manufacturing jobs between
2001 and 2006, a 32 percent drop. Meanwhile, Southern states have
increased  auto-industry  employment over the past 15 years by
luring new factories from Toyota Motor Corp., Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and  Nissan Motor Co. (NSANY) , among others.  
 ``We need somebody -- an organization -- to make a fight,
get a little life into Michigan's auto industry,'' said Johann Finkelmeier, a vice president at Goodyear's North American tire
division.  
 Other founding members of the group are R.L. Polk & Co., an
auto-industry researcher; accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP;
and Warner Norcross & Judd LLP, a  law firm .  
 In its first year, the group intends to meet with deans of
engineering and business schools in the state about how to
develop and retain workers. It also is planning meetings with
economic-development organizations throughout the state.  
 The group is building a Web page --  http://www.michauto.org 
-- and developing a directory of Michigan automotive companies
and related businesses.  
 Michigan Ties  
 Goodyear doesn't have plants in Michigan, according to its
Web site. It has factories in southern states including Texas,
 North Carolina , Georgia, Virginia,  Alabama , Florida,  South
Carolina  and Tennessee. Finkelmeier said that large customers are
based in Michigan, including GM, Ford and DaimlerChrysler AG's
Chrysler unit.  
 Office Depot Inc. (ODP) , which operates a chain of office-product
stores, has begun working with MICHauto. While the Delray Beach,
Florida-based company isn't involved in the auto industry, many
of its customers are, said Jack Tann, Office Depot's manager of
business development in Michigan.  
 ``We are intimately involved with companies'' in the auto
industry, Tann said. ``We have a large operation in southeastern
Michigan,'' where many auto companies and suppliers are based.  
 The trade group is looking to emulate the  Alabama Automotive
Manufacturers Association , which has 350 members, and the German
Association of the Automotive Industry, or VDA.  
 Model Organizations  
 ``If you look at the organizations in the South and in
Europe, they are effective,'' said Tom Manganello, a founder of
the organization and the chairman of Warner Norcross & Judd LLP's
Automotive Industry Group. ``We do not have anything like it.''  
 Alabama's share of North American automotive production
increased from 2.9 percent in 2005 to 4.3 percent in 2006 and is
projected to be 4.6 percent in 2007, according to data collected
by Ward's Automotive Reports. Alabama, home to a Hyundai Motor
Co. plant, is the sixth-largest auto producer in the U.S.
 Michigan  is first.  
 Michigan produced 14.4 percent of U.S.-manufactured
automobiles last year, compared with 15.4 in 2005.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Ramsey in Southfield, Michigan, at 
mramsey6bloomberg.net  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at   dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        