-- Italian Stocks Fall; Fiat, Lottomatica, Popolare, and Telecom Italia Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-15T15:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/l-espresso-mondadori-recordati-roma-may-move-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index
declined for a second day, falling 32.68, or 0.2 percent, to
21,062.18 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan, trimming this week’s
gain to 1.5 percent.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Banco Popolare  (BP IM) retreated for a second day, falling
1.5 percent to 4.2 euros. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. initiated
coverage of Banco Popolare with an “underperform” rating.  Bulgari SpA  (BUL IM) dropped 1 percent to 7.15 euros,
extending yesterday’s 2.2 percent slide. Intermonte Sim SpA
downgraded the world’s third-largest jeweler to “underperform”
from “neutral.”  “Although we expect healthy third-quarter results, we are
downgrading the stock as we think that recent performance has
far outpaced improvements in fundamentals,” it wrote in a note.  Fiat SpA  (F IM) rose 1.1 percent to 11.8 euros, paring
yesterday’s loss. Citigroup Inc. reiterated a “buy” rating on
the carmaker before third-quarter results due on Oct. 21.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA IM), Italy’s second-biggest insurer,
lost 1.4 percent to 8.28 euros as insurance stocks declined
across Europe, ending a two-day gain.  Unipol Gruppo Finanziario
SpA  (UNI IM) fell 1.5 percent to 54.15 euro cents.  Lottomatica SpA  (LTO IM) rose 2.9 percent to 11.91 euros,
snapping two days of losses. Equita Sim SpA reiterated a “buy”
rating on the lottery company, saying in a note today that it
expects “a strong rebound at earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization level, thanks to top line growth
and cost cutting in the Italian division that will improve full-
year visibility.”  Recordati SpA  (REC IM) dropped 2.2 percent to 6.73 euros,
snapping four days of gains. Italy’s biggest publicly traded
drugmaker had its recommendation cut to “hold” from “buy” at
UniCredit Research.   Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM) decreased for the first time
in four days, falling 1.7 percent to 1.05 euros. Italy’s biggest
phone company was downgraded to “neutral” from “outperform”
at Mediobanca Securities. The brokerage, which kept a price
estimate of 1.23 euros, said in a note that the phone company’s
domestic business remains “far from being stabilized.”  Tod’s SpA  (TOD IM) lost 1.5 percent to 67.99 euros, the
stock’s second consecutive decline. Intermonte Sim SpA cut its
recommendation on the luxury-goods maker to “neutral” from
“outperform,” citing the stock’s “excellent performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  