-- `Ninja Nightmare' for U.S. Homes May Lead to Double-Dip, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-10-15T10:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/-ninja-nightmare-for-u-s-homes-may-cause-double-dip-bnp-paribas-says.html
U.S. banks embroiled in an
investigation into faulty home foreclosures may be forced to
scale back lending, pushing the economy back into recession,
according to  BNP Paribas SA .  The probe into lending practices is fueling speculation of
even greater losses if mortgage-bond investors challenge the
underlying debt and force banks to buy them back. Ensuring the
right documents accompanied a loan through the securitization
process wasn’t a priority during the real-estate boom, according
to London-based BNP analysts  Mehernosh Engineer  and  Olivia Frieser  in a report titled “Ninja Nightmare.”  Lenders competed to make loans to so-called Ninja borrowers
-- those with no income, no job or assets -- and their
carelessness with documentation may now make a new recession
more likely, the analysts wrote. Ally Financial Inc., Bank of
America Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are among lenders that
have suspended some foreclosures or evictions while they review
their paperwork.  “Under the ultra-bearish scenario where fraud is proven,
originators will have to take significant losses and this will
seriously constrain loan-making ability, as well as economic
growth,” the analysts wrote. “The probability of a double-dip
scenario will rise very significantly.”  Concern mishandled loans will increase costs for lenders is
increasing after President  Barack Obama  endorsed a coordinated
investigation by attorneys general from all 50 states into
whether lenders used false documents to justify foreclosures.  Growth Hurt  The best possible outcome would be if bond originators
simply resolve missing paperwork over the next month, the
analysts wrote. In a “modestly bearish scenario,” the legal
costs will become “material” for the banks, while the inability
to foreclose will hobble their ability to lend, hurting growth,
the analysts wrote.  Investors aren’t attaching sufficient weight to the stress
in U.S. housing, the analysts wrote. The delinquency rate on
home loans is close to 9.5 percent and the foreclosure rate is
artificially low at 1.5 percent because banks aren’t willing to
take losses.  On top of that, 28 percent of mortgages are in negative
equity, where the loan is greater than the value of the asset,
meaning they can’t be refinanced, according to the report.  “The above picture will only deteriorate over the next two
years as mortgage resets take place,” the analysts wrote. In a
mortgage reset, a low initial interest rate resets to a higher
one.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  