-- T. Rex Smackdowns May Have Ended With Loser Becoming the Meal
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-15T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/t-rex-smackdowns-may-have-ended-with-loser-becoming-the-meal-study-says.html
Tyrannosaurus rex , one of the
largest carnivores ever to live, may have picked fights with his
own kind and eaten his slaughtered relatives for lunch,
according to a study.  The new insight into T. rex aggression and possible
cannibalism comes from an examination of bite marks on four sets
of tyrannosaur bones, published online today in the journal  PLoS
One.  The size of the marks suggest they could only have been
made by another T. rex, the study researchers said.  It’s not clear whether the T. rex, which went extinct about
65 million years ago, was scavenging already-dead members of its
own species or whether the 40-foot-tall dinosaur ate rivals it
felled in battle, according to the study published online today.
Large predators, such as  bears , hyenas, lions and alligators,
often feed on their own kind, the authors wrote. In some other
predatory species, such as the bald eagle, scavenging is a part
of the diet. The tyrannosaurus may be doing both, said Nicholas
Longrich, a geologist at Yale University.  “Predators take the path of least resistance, and if
there’s something dead, they’ll eat it,” said Longrich, the
first author of the study, in a telephone interview. “There’s
also a territorial pressure there, and if you want to settle the
argument, you might as well settle it permanently.”  In current predators, such as the  American alligator ,
cannibalism occurs because an established adult wants to fend
off rivals, and about half the deaths in young alligators are
due to cannibalism, Longrich said.  Bite Marks  The marks found on the T.rex bones vary in size, with
smaller marks from possible juveniles suggesting scavenging, and
larger marks suggesting the end result of fighting. All the
marks were definitely made after death, the paper said.  The bones were from fossils found in western North America
and dated to the late Maastrichtian period about 65 million
years ago. It’s unlikely that the marks could have been made by
other large predators because T. rex is the only large meat-
eater known from that period and location, the study said.  “I’ve seen other things biting tyrannosaur bones,”
Longrich said. “These are too big at that time and place for
anything else. There’s no other possibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 