-- `Shadow Parties' Share Leaders, Republican Roots in Congress Campaigns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/-shadow-parties-share-leaders-republican-roots-to-fuel-campaign-spending.html
The outside groups spending record
amounts to help elect Republicans this year are required to work
independently of the campaigns. The ties that bind them to the
party ensure that there isn’t too much distance.  Many of the leaders are veterans of President  George W. Bush ’s administration, former Republican elected officials, past
chairmen of the  Republican National Committee , or ex-aides to
Republican lawmakers, records show. And the groups themselves
share a political agenda, including opposition to the health-
care overhaul and tax increases. They also share personnel and
even office space.  While these tax-exempt organizations operate separately
from the political campaigns, they’re driving the Republican
fundraising machine because they can do what the party can’t:
take in unlimited amounts of funds from anonymous donors.  “It’s almost as if these are shadow parties,” said  Bill Allison , editorial director for the  Sunlight Foundation , a
Washington-based watchdog group. “They’ve found a way to
supplement what their colleagues are doing at the Republican
National Committee and the congressional committees without
having to play by the same rules.”  That freedom stems from their incorporation under 501(c)4
of the tax code, which allows the organizations to spend money
on campaign ads without saying who’s paying for them. These and
other Republican-leaning outside groups have spent about $73
million since Sept. 1, four times as much as Democratic-
supporting groups and a record for midterm elections,  Federal
Election Commission  records show.  ‘You Don’t Know’  President  Barack Obama  has led a Democratic Party attack on
the groups, demanding that they reveal their funders.  “It could be the oil industry,” Obama said at an Oct. 10
campaign rally. “It could be the insurance industry. It could
even be foreign-owned corporations. You don’t know because they
don’t have to disclose.”  Carl Forti , political director for  American Crossroads , one
of two groups advised by former Bush political strategist  Karl Rove , said the Democrats are guilty of hypocrisy, saying they
relied on outside groups when they took back Congress in 2006
and the White House in 2008.  Forti said the leaders of the various Republican-supporting
organizations meet regularly and that they find no shortage of
potential contributors.  “Donors are energized because of the opportunity that
exists right now,” he said. “Voters are angry. They want
change. The change they voted for two years ago isn’t enough.”  Interlocking Groups  Forti may illustrate the interconnectedness of the
Republican-leaning organizations better than anyone else: He has
links to a number of the groups.  He handles publicity for the  60 Plus Association , which
supports privatizing Social Security. His ex-boss sits on the
board of  American Action Network , which is headed by former
Republican Senator  Norm Coleman  of Minnesota. Michael Dubke, who
co-founded the consulting firm Black Rock Group with Forti, once
led  Americans for Job Security , which opposes the increase in
Bush-era tax rates scheduled for Jan. 1, and started a media
firm that places political ads for the organizations.  The two entities that Rove helped establish -- American
Crossroads, which discloses its donors, and  Crossroads GPS ,
which doesn’t -- share a chief executive,  Steven Law , a deputy
labor secretary under Bush. Both count on Rove and former Bush
White House aide  Ed Gillespie  for fundraising. American
Crossroads’ chairman is  Mike Duncan , who, like Gillespie, headed
the Republican National Committee under Bush.  Leasing Space  The Rove-backed groups lease space from Coleman’s American
Action Network, based in Washington.  American Action Network board members include former U.S.
Senator  Mel Martinez , a Florida Republican and now a  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  executive committee member; and former U.S.
Representative  Tom Reynolds  of New York, who led the National
Republican Congressional Committee when Forti was communications
director.  Also on the board is  Maria Cino , now a lobbyist for  Pfizer
Inc.  Cino was president of the 2008 Republican National
Convention. The convention chairwoman,  Jo Ann Davidson , is a
American Crossroads director.  Law left the Bush administration to become general counsel
of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has pledged to spend $75
million on the elections, mostly to support Republicans. Law,
chamber political director  Bill Miller  and senior vice president
 Rolf Lundberg  all worked for Republican lawmakers.  Coordinating Strategy  Besides American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, Forti works
for the Alexandria, Virginia-based 60 Plus Association, whose
chairman is former Republican congressional aide  James Martin .  The Crossroads strategists meet in their offices with
representatives of other groups, including the American Action
Network and the Chamber, said  Jonathan Collegio , a spokesman.
The organizations are “making sure that our ad buys don’t step
on an ad buy of another group,” he said.  Forti’s consulting firm partner Dubke is the founder of
Crossroads Media LLC of Alexandria, which has handled
advertising for American Crossroads, Crossroads GPS, American
Action Network and Americans for Job Security, FEC records show.
The group has received at least $15 million since Sept. 1,
though much of the money goes to the television stations running
the ads.  “This is the Holy Grail mechanism for untracked
independent expenditures,” said  Lisa Gilbert , a lobbyist for
the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, which supports stronger
campaign-finance disclosure laws. “Karl Rove figured out a neat
trick, and his friends are eager to emulate it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 