-- Ackman Makes Long Bet on Property Reversal With Howard Hughes
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ackman-makes-long-wager-on-property-reversal-with-general-growth-spinoff.html
William Ackman  is about to take a
bet on two of the hardest-hit sectors of the economy: housing
and commercial real estate development.  Ackman, who runs hedge fund Pershing Square Capital
Management LP, is one of the lead investors in a new company
that Chicago-based  General Growth Properties Inc.  is spinning
off as part of its bankruptcy reorganization. He also will be
chairman of the new firm, a money-losing collection of partially
built malls and housing developments.  While the stake in the company, to be known as Howard
Hughes Corp., may someday prove lucrative, it may be difficult
to value the spinoff’s real estate while the property market is
in a slump and the timing of a rebound unclear. The company’s
net asset value “can vary considerably in the hands of
different investors,”  Andrew Rosivach , an analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a Sept. 13 report.  “There’s value there, but the likelihood of this thing
trading above its net asset value is pretty close to zero,”
said  James S. Corl , managing director of real estate investments
at New York-based private-equity firm Siguler Guff & Co., and
former chief investment officer at Cohen & Steers Inc. “A group
of assets does not a strategy or a franchise make.”  Ackman’s role in the spinoff comes after Pershing,
Fairholme Capital Management LLC and  Brookfield Asset Management
Inc.  teamed up to bring General Growth out of bankruptcy,
defeating a takeover bid by rival mall owner  Simon Property
Group Inc.  The investor group committed as much as $6.55 billion
as part of the restructuring plan, scheduled for court approval
on Oct. 21. The spinoff is planned for early November.  ‘Irreplaceable Assets’  “It’s a phenomenal collection of irreplaceable assets and
they have a lot of long-term value,” Ackman said in an
interview. Pershing Square will have about a 24 percent stake in
the spinoff when General Growth, the second-largest U.S. mall
owner, exits bankruptcy.  Hughes Corp.’s assets will include Summerlin, a 22,500-acre
(9,100 hectare) master-planned community in Las Vegas, the city
with the highest foreclosure rate in the U.S. The development
isn’t projected to sell out until 2039, according to a
regulatory filing. Among other Hughes Corp. properties is South
Street Seaport, a shopping center in Manhattan that General
Growth tried to sell prior to the April 2009 bankruptcy.  “We acknowledge that, as a collection of assets, it will
take time for people to get their arms around the value that’s
in the portfolio,”  Thomas Nolan , General Growth’s president and
chief operating officer, said in a telephone interview. He
declined to speculate on how the company’s shares may trade.  Real Estate Hurt  Both home sales and commercial real estate development have
been hammered by the economic slump.  New  home sales in August
matched July as the second-lowest in data going back to 1963,
U.S. Commerce Department data on Sept. 24 showed. Sales of
 previously  owned homes were the second-lowest in records going
back a decade, the National Association of Realtors said.  Commercial real estate prices fell for a second straight
month in July, sending the Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property
Price  Index  43 percent below its 2007 peak.  General Growth’s ties to billionaire aviator Howard Hughes,
who died in 1976, stem from the company’s $11.3 billion purchase
of Rouse Co. in 2004. Rouse had acquired the remaining Hughes
assets, including about 22,500 acres of Nevada land, in 1996 and
agreed to pay heirs and other shareholders over time. Debt from
the Rouse takeover helped push General Growth into bankruptcy,
the biggest in real estate history.  General Growth’s restructuring, which requires about $8.4
billion in financing, will pay creditors in full and provide a
recovery to its shareholders, the company says. Each holder of a
General Growth share will receive one share of new General
Growth stock and 0.0983 share of Hughes Corp. common stock.  Pershing Square, Brookfield  Ackman’s Pershing Square, Brookfield and Fairholme have
committed $250 million for Hughes Corp., according to court
papers. Brookfield Advisors LP, an affiliate of Toronto-based
Brookfield Asset Management, will provide interim management for
Hughes Corp., according to a court filing.  Bruce Berkowitz , founder of Miami-based Fairholme, and
 David Arthur , Hughes Corp.’s interim chief executive officer and
managing partner of North American real estate investments for
Brookfield Asset Management, both declined to comment through
their spokesmen.  General Growth said in an Oct. 8 statement that a permanent
CEO would be announced after the spinoff is completed.  South Street Seaport  Nolan said there is a perception among some stockholders
that the separation of the  traditional mall  company from Hughes
Corp. is a “good bank, bad bank” plan. That isn’t the case, he
said. The spinoff’s investors are interested in building up the
company and developing such assets as South Street Seaport,
Nolan said.  “There is no intention other than putting the best long-
term value creation plan together,” he said.  Unlike General Growth, Hughes Corp. won’t be a real estate
investment trust, according to a registration statement filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. REITs are
required to distribute at least 90 percent of their income to
stockholders, and investors buy shares mainly for the dividends.  “Your classic REIT investor is less likely to invest in
Spinco,” said  Cedrik Lachance , managing director at Green
Street Advisors, a research firm in Newport Beach, California.
Spinco was a temporary name before the Howard Hughes Corp.
moniker was chosen for the spinoff. “What you’re buying is the
hope that over a long period of time a large number of
developments will prove successful.”  Mall Developments  The new company will own four mall-development projects.
Those include the partially built Shops at Summerlin Centre in
Las Vegas and 162 acres of vacant land southeast of Charlotte,
North Carolina. Among its other assets are a stake in the
Woodlands, a 28,400-acre master-planned community north of
Houston, and  Landmark Mall  in Alexandria, Virginia, where the
city council has authorized as much as 5.5 million square feet
of mixed-use development, according to General Growth.  Hughes Corp.’s net loss was $703.6 million in 2009 after
$680.3 million of impairments, mainly in its strategic
development business. It recorded a profit in two out of the
last five years, according to a regulatory filing. The company
had $340.5 million of debt as of June 30.  Among those that didn’t want shares in the new company were
Howard Hughes’s heirs, who fought General Growth over the
compensation they would receive for the Summerlin development.
The mall owner agreed to pay the heirs $230 million -- $10
million in cash and the remainder in cash or new General Growth
common stock -- soon after it leaves bankruptcy, the company
said on Sept. 20.  ‘Contrarian Investments’  The real estate owned by Hughes Corp., after suffering in
the slump, will bounce back eventually, said  Mark Jacobs , a
bankruptcy partner at Pryor Cashman LLP in New York.  “These are classic contrarian investments,” said Jacobs,
who isn’t involved in the General Growth case. “You’re buying
something that has gotten what I consider to be an unjustified
bad reputation for a low price, and you will ride it up.”  Pershing Square, based in New York, may hold its investment
in Hughes Corp. for as long as 10 years, according to Ackman.  “We’re long-term investors,” he said.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net . 