-- ACS Calls Meeting for Approval of Capital Increase Tied to Hochtief Bid
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2010-10-15T16:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/acs-asks-shareholders-to-back-capital-increase-to-pay-for-hochtief-offer.html
Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA , Spain’s largest builder, will seek investor
approval for a share sale in the event extra funds are needed
for its 2.7 billion-euro ($3.8 billion) bid for  Hochtief AG .  Board members today called an investors’ meeting for Nov.
19, though a share sale may not be necessary given the levels of
treasury stock, the company said in a regulatory filing.  “Everything is pointing toward ACS continuing with its bid
for Hochtief despite the strong opposition that it’s going to
come up against from the German company,” said  Juan Jose Figares , chief analyst at Link Securities in Madrid.  ACS built a stake of almost 30 percent in Hochtief before
announcing a bid for the remainder. The offer was below market
value to enable Madrid-based ACS to boost its stake further
without having to buy the entire company. Hochtief is resisting
the approach, saying it undervalues assets and that a merger
isn’t in the interest of shareholders.  ACS’s eight-for-five all-share offer, tabled on Sept. 16,
amounted to 55.68 euros per Hochtief share, or 1.1 percent less
than the stock’s closing price on the previous day. The Spanish
company wants to increase its stake to just over 50 percent over
time.  The company will use treasury stock to pay for Hochtief
shares first and may not need to sell additional shares,
depending on the level of acceptance of its offer, ACS said in a
press release today. The offer will be completed in January.  German takeover rules require an approach to all
outstanding shareholders once a stake exceeds 30 percent, with
the bidder offering at least the three-month average price.  At ACS’s request, German financial regulator BaFin granted
the Spanish company a four-week extension to submit its bid for
the whole of Hochtief, BaFin spokeswoman  Sabine Reimer  said. ACS
was originally supposed to submit its offer yesterday and an
extension of four weeks is standard practice, Reimer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon Smyth at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net  