-- Canada Stocks Decline as Gold Shares Drop on U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-15T20:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/aecon-cn-rail-hudbay-minerals-novagold-oromin-canada-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  fell, paring a
weekly gain, as gold producers declined after data on U.S.
retail sales and manufacturing surpassed economists’ forecasts.  Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest producer of the
metal, lost 1.1 percent as the U.S. dollar rose against the euro
for the first time in four days. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value,
dropped 1 percent after Reuters reported that Sinochem Group
won’t try to outbid BHP Billiton Ltd. for the company. Royal
Bank of Canada, the country’s largest bank, increased 0.7
percent as lenders climbed.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  slipped 10.62
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,609.07. For the week, the index
advanced 0.6 percent.  “We had a huge run in September and the third quarter in
general,” said  Murray Leith , who helps manage C$6.5 billion
($6.43 billion) as a money manager at Odlum Brown Ltd. in
Vancouver. “You’ve got to expect a period of consolidation
after a big run. Once people realize the economy is not going to
fall off the rails, more people will venture back into the stock
market.”  The S&P/TSX has gained five weeks in a row for the first
time since April 2009. The index has rallied 4.2 percent during
the streak, led by raw-materials companies. An index of
commodities has climbed 7.6 percent as the U.S. dollar weakened
on concerns that new Federal Reserve stimulus measures will
weaken the currency.  Canadian Factories  Canadian factory sales increased 2 percent in August,
Statistics Canada said today. Sales gained faster than they had
in 13 months and four times more than the median forecast of 13
analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  In the U.S.,  retail sales  advanced 0.6 percent in
September, the Commerce Department said today in Washington,
topping the median economist estimate of 0.4 percent. An index
of manufacturing in the New York region from that area’s Federal
Reserve bank climbed to more than twice the level forecast by
economists.  The increase in sales volume didn’t lead to higher consumer
prices. The U.S. consumer-price index rose 0.1 percent last
month, the Labor Department said today. Most economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast an increase of at least 0.2
percent.  Gold futures dropped 0.4 percent from a record high as the
U.S. dollar gained against 14 of 16 other major currencies.  Barrick slipped 1.1 percent to C$48.53. Yamana Gold Inc.,
Canada’s fourth-largest gold producer, declined 2.5 percent to
C$11.42. Kinross Gold Corp., the No. 3 producer by revenue, lost
1.3 percent to C$19.20.  Osisko Jumps  Osisko Mining Inc., which is developing a gold mine in
Quebec, jumped 5.6 percent to a record C$15.56 a day after
announcing drilling results it said “suggest there is excellent
potential to discover new, higher-grade ore.” Osisko has soared
84 percent this year and is now the eighth-largest company by
market value in the  S&P/TSX Gold Index  without having mined an
ounce.  Potash Corp. decreased 1 percent to C$146.78 after Reuters,
citing people with knowledge of the matter whom it didn’t
identify, said Sinochem has walked away from efforts to put
together a takeover offer.  Last week, two people with knowledge of the matter said
Sinochem, China’s largest fertilizer trader, may struggle to get
state financial backing for a takeover.  Taseko Mines Ltd., which produces copper in British
Columbia, surged 9.8 percent to C$6.82 after  plunging  11 percent
yesterday. The company said yesterday it was “unaware of any
information that would cause the price of the company’s stock to
change materially.”  Financials  Most financial stocks climbed, extending the  S&P/TSX
Financials Index ’s gain since Aug. 31 to 5.7 percent. Royal Bank
rose 0.7 percent to C$55.55. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
Canada’s fifth-largest bank, advanced 0.7 percent to C$77.27,
the highest since 2007. Money manager CI Financial Corp.
increased 3.4 percent, the most in nine months, to C$21.41.  Questerre Energy Corp., which is developing a shale-gas
project in Quebec, sank 14 percent to a  13-month low  of C$1.67.
The company and Talisman Energy Inc. delayed a plan for two
shale-gas test wells by at least six months, the Globe and Mail
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 