-- Thailand's Economy May Expand 7.5% This Year, 4% in 2011, IMF Report Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-10-15T10:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/thailand-s-economy-may-expand-7-5-this-year-4-in-2011-imf-report-says.html
Thailand’s economy may grow 7.5
percent this year because of increased global trade and
government spending, the International Monetary Fund said.  Gross domestic product is expected to reach 4 percent in
2011, the Washington-based lender said in a statement today,
unchanged from a July estimate.  The Bank of Thailand raised its  benchmark interest rate  for
a second straight meeting on Aug. 25 and signaled further
increases after the economy overcame political unrest to grow
faster than estimated in the second quarter. The finance
ministry last month said Thailand’s economy may expand as much
as 7.8 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in 15 years.  “Thailand has made a remarkable comeback from the affects
of the global crisis and the period of domestic political
turmoil,” supported by easing monetary and fiscal policies, a
revival of export demand and sound economic fundamentals, the
IMF said in its statement.  The government of Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva plans to
spend about a third of its 2.07 trillion-baht ($69.4 billion)
budget next year on measures to narrow a divide between rich and
poor that fueled deadly street protests in April and May.  The IMF said it supports the government’s plan to gradually
scale back stimulus spending, and welcomed the Bank of
Thailand’s decision to start raising  interest rates  from their
“exceptionally low levels.”  “The immediate challenge is to normalize the policy stance,
while ensuring that the recovery takes firm hold despite an
uncertain global environment,” the IMF said.  Curbing Capital Inflows  Capital inflows, which have helped push the baht to its
strongest level in 13 years, “could complicate policymaking,”
the IMF said.  The baht has strengthened 11.6 percent this year against
the dollar, the best performance in Asia outside Japan. Overseas
investors pumped $9.6 billion into stocks and bonds in Southeast
Asia’s second-largest economy, data from the nation’s stock
exchange and the  Thai Bond Market Association  show.  Bank of Thailand policy makers are facing pressure to keep
rates on hold when they meet Oct. 20 amid concern the baht’s
appreciation will threaten exports, the nation’s main driver of
economic growth.  The Cabinet this week removed a tax exemption for foreign
investment in Thai government bonds and plans to speed up public
investments to slow the baht’s gains after complaints from
industry groups. Commerce Minister Porntiva Nakasai last week
urged the central bank to take more aggressive action to curb
the baht’s strength and protect exporters.  Interest Rate Decision  The central bank’s monetary policy meeting next week will
consider the exchange rate in its decision on interest rates,
Bank of Thailand Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said today.  Thailand’s exchange rate should “serve as a buffer,” the
IMF said. “Should sustained inflows threaten to create asset
bubbles, consideration should be given to introducing prudential
measures and further liberalizing capital outflows,” it said.  Prasarn said the central bank is studying more measures in
addition to steps taken this month to curb volatility in the
baht.  “Whether we will introduce the new measures will depend on
the situation,” Prasarn said. “If the measures are too extreme,
there will be unfavorable consequences. So we have to be
careful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  