-- Airbus Said to Delay Decision on New Engines for A320 Planes
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-15T15:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/airbus-said-to-delay-decision-on-new-engines-for-a320-planes.html
Airbus  SAS has pushed back a
decision on whether to put more fuel-efficient engines on its
A320 single-aisle jets amid concern the move may overstretch
engineering resources at the world’s largest aircraft
manufacturer, two people familiar with the matter said.  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  met with the executive
committee this week, and the managers decided to delay an
announcement, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the plan has not been made public. While the
project has not been terminated, a decision has been put off for
several months, the people said.  The European planemaker had originally sought to complete a
study on the engineering demands of new engines by the end of
September. Chief Operating Officer  Fabrice Bregier  said last
month that Airbus is in final negotiations with suppliers about
a reworked version, suggesting a decision to proceed was close.  The cost of an all-new jet is about $10 billion, while
Airbus estimates new engines would cost no more than 1.5 billion
euros ($2.1 billion) and be ready for service around 2015.  “Airbus will decide whether to offer a new engine option
on the a320 by year-end,” said spokesman Stefan Schaffrath in
Toulouse, France, where Airbus is based. “We’ll announce when
ready. Ensuring the availability of sufficient engineering
resources is the decisive factor here.”  10 Managers  Airbus’s executive committee consists of 10 senior
managers, including Enders, Bregier, and Sales Chief  John Leahy ,
who has publicly said airlines want to see Airbus go ahead with
the project.  New engines on the A320 and related models could help
improve fuel efficiency by 15 percent, according to Airbus. The
A320 series is the airframe maker’s cash cow, providing the
money that Airbus needs to develop new programs, including the
wide-body A350 and the A380, which is already in production, as
well as the A400M military transport.  Airbus’s A350, slated for entry into production for
mid-2013, already shares engineers who specialize in structures
design and stress with the A380 and A400M programs. Airbus has
also increased production rates on its A320 jets, further
stretching resources to work on an additional program.  Boeing Co., Airbus’s rival in the large commercial aircraft
market, has also said it’s looking at the possibility of using
new engines to increase fuel efficiency. The company hasn’t
decided whether to proceed or develop an all-new plane to follow
its 737 single-aisle jet.  “We’ve gotten a mixed result,” Randy Tinseth, marketing
chief for Boeing’s commercial plane business, said at the ISTAT
conference of aircraft traders in Munich earlier this week.
“Some say, ‘do whatever you can today to improve performance of
the plane.’ Others have said the business case just doesn’t
close. Now we’re taking our time to be sure we do the right
thing.”  Editors:  Benedikt Kammel , Heather Harris  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France, at   aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 