-- Botox Migraine Approval May Gain Allergan $1 Billion in Sales
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-18T20:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/allergan-says-u-s-fda-approved-botox-as-treatment-for-chronic-migraines.html
Allergan Inc.  won U.S. regulatory
approval to sell its wrinkle-smoother Botox as a treatment for
chronic migraine headaches, an action that may help almost
double the drug’s annual sales to $2.3 billion.  Allergan, based in Irvine, California,  gained  $3.75, or 5.5
percent, to $72.61 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, for its biggest single-day increase in 11
weeks. The approval, announced by the company on Oct. 15, came
10 days after Allergan pleaded guilty to charges it marketed
Botox for unapproved uses, including pain.  The drug, a purified form of the poison botulinum, is given
as an injection. It was cleared for those who have migraines at
least 15 days a month, and whose pain lasts at least 4 hours,
said  Caroline Van Hove , an company spokeswoman, in a telephone
interview yesterday. Botox, which generated $1.3 billion in 2009
sales, may add $1 billion more in yearly revenue with the
migraine indication, said  Aaron Gal , a Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. analyst in New York, in a May report.  “This is the most meaningful market expansion that the
product has had since it was approved for cosmetic use” more
than 20 years ago, said  David Amsellem , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray & Co. in New York who rates the shares “overweight.”  Allergan shouldn’t have difficulty getting insurers to
cover the drug since “this is a population that hasn’t
responded to any of the conventional treatments,” Amsellem said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “I would imagine that they
will not have problems with managed-care access.”  Potential Patients  About 3.2 million Americans meet those criteria, Van Hove
said. Migraines are painful headaches that can last 4 to 72
hours, with symptoms that include sensitivity to light, noise
and odors, according to the  National Institutes of Health , in
Bethesda, Maryland.  Cleared for migraines in the U.K. in July, Botox works by
blocking nerve connections. Allergan expects the injection will
also be approved this year in other parts of Europe, and in
Canada, Van Hove said.  “Chronic migraine is one of the most disabling forms of
headache,” said  Russell Katz , director of the Food and Drug
Administration’s division of neurology products, in an Oct. 15
statement. “This condition can greatly affect family, work, and
social life, so it is important to have a variety of effective
treatment options available.”  Justice Department Allegations  Allergan on Oct. 5 settled a 2 1/2-year investigation of
its Botox marketing that analysts said held up FDA approval for
the migraine treatment.  Allergan was ordered by a judge to pay $375 million to
resolve Justice Department allegations it promoted Botox for
headache, pain and juvenile cerebral palsy from 2000 to 2005
without U.S. approval.  The plea was approved by U.S. District Judge  Orinda Evans 
in Atlanta. It includes a $350 million criminal fine and $25
million in forfeited assets, the Justice Department said.  The company also agreed to a five-year compliance plan
requiring it to disclose payments to doctors on its website and
provide annual certification by senior executives and board
members that divisions meet federal health-care requirements.  Patients with chronic migraines who took Botox had 7.8
fewer days per month with any headaches, including migraines,
compared with 6.4 fewer headache days on placebo, according to a
company-funded study released last year.  In separate research, patients getting Botox had 9 fewer
days of headaches a month, compared with 6.7 fewer on a placebo.  To treat migraines, Botox is given every 12 weeks in
multiple injections around the head and neck to reduce future
symptoms, the FDA said. The drug hasn’t been shown to work for
other types of headaches, or for migraines that occur less
frequently than 15 days a month, the agency said.  The FDA last year ordered manufacturers of all botulinum
products to strengthen warnings that the toxins may cause muscle
weakness and life-threatening breathing or swallowing
difficulties if the poison spreads beyond the injection site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 