-- Mantega Says Brazil May Take More Steps to Curb Currency If Gains Continue
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-10-15T18:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mantega-says-brazil-may-take-more-steps-to-curb-currency-if-gains-continue.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government is ready to take additional measures
to limit gains in the real, including stricter limits on risk
exposure for investors in the futures market, should the
currency continue to strengthen.  “Don’t worry, we have the weapons,” Mantega said in an
interview today with GloboNews. “We can limit exposure to risk,
limit the leveraging of companies” in the futures market.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration, in a
bid to stem a rally in the real, doubled a tax foreigners must
pay to buy local fixed-income securities earlier this month.
Policy makers also allowed the Treasury to step up dollar
purchases for debt payments.  The measures failed to prevent the real from gaining. The
currency has strengthened 1.6 percent since the higher tax was
implemented, making it the best performer over that period among
the seven Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Finance Minister said that Brazilian law
“unfortunately” doesn’t allow a capital inflow tax on the
derivatives market.  Earlier today, Mantega told reporters the government is
waiting to see if the real stabilizes before deciding whether to
take additional measures.  He said dollar inflows slowed this month after investors
brought $16 billion into the country to partake in Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s share offering in September.  The currency dropped 0.1 percent to 1.6626 per U.S. dollar
at 2:50 p.m. New York time.  The finance minister also said he sees no sign of asset
bubbles in Brazil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  