-- Manufacturing Growth in New York Area Tops Forecasts
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-15T13:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-expands-faster-than-economists-estimated.html
Manufacturing in the New York region
expanded in October at a faster pace than anticipated, signaling
factories will keep driving the recovery in the world’s largest
economy.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
 index  rose to 15.7, the highest level in four months and more
than twice the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Readings greater than zero signal gains in the
so-called Empire State Index covering New York, northern New
Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Overseas demand is spurring sales at manufacturers
including  Alcoa Inc. , bolstering the economy and laying the
ground for more hiring. At the same time,  unemployment  is
restraining household spending, indicating a sustained economic
revival will take time to develop.  “Manufacturing is the strongest pillar of the recovery
right now,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist
at State Street Global Markets LLC in Boston. “Businesses are
really focused on improving operational performance and spending
on capital equipment. This is a catalyst for sustained growth at
factories and in the economy.”  Retail sales climbed more than forecast in September, a
separate report showed today, easing concern consumer spending
will weaken and endanger the recovery.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent following a 0.7 percent gain in
August that was larger than previously estimated, the Commerce
Department said in Washington. The advance was broad-based, with
clothing stores the only major category to show a decline in
demand last month.  Stock Futures Gain  U.S. stock-index futures rose after the reports and after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech in Boston that
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation
is too low and unemployment too high.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
December rose 0.2 percent to 1,175.3 at 9:407 a.m. in New York
after declining as much as 0.3 percent.  Economists forecast the New York Fed’s index would increase
to 6 this month, according to the median of 50 projections in a
Bloomberg survey, after 4.1 in September.  Estimates  ranged from
zero to 12.5. Manufacturers account for about 6 percent of New
York’s economy.  New Factory Orders  The Empire State gauge of new factory orders jumped to 12.9
this month from 4.3 in the prior month. A measure of shipments
rose to 19.4 from minus 0.3. The index of inventories fell to
minus 11.7, the lowest level since January, from 1.5.  The employment measure increased to 21.7, from 14.9.  Manufacturers nationally have added 136,000 workers to
their payrolls since the start of the year, according to Labor
Department data. In September,  factory payrolls  fell 6,000, the
second consecutive decline, while the jobless rate held at 9.6
percent.  Today’s report showed an index of prices paid climbed to 30
from 22.4, while prices received increased to 8.3 from 1.5.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were more
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now gained to 40 from 31.3.  Exports rose 0.2 percent in August to $153.9 billion, the
highest level in two years, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday. The gain was swamped by a 2.1 percent jump in imports
that caused the trade deficit to widen 8.8 percent.  New York-based  Alcoa , the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said rising
demand abroad will help boost consumption of the metal.  China, Brazil  “In countries such as China, Brazil, India and Russia,
more and more people are moving into the middle class, driving
demand,” Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld  said in a
statement on Oct. 7.  The Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 said it’s prepared to ease
monetary policy further to support growth and support prices.
“Business spending on equipment and software is rising, though
less rapidly than earlier in the year,” the Federal Open Market
Committee said in its statement.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News project the
Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index, due Oct. 21, was
unchanged this month from minus 0.7 in September. Readings less
than zero signal a contraction.  Economists monitor the New York and  Philadelphia  Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
ISM data for October will be released Nov. 1. Manufacturing
makes up 11 percent of the U.S. economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  