-- U.S. Will Prosecute Marijuana Cases Even If California Voters Pass Measure
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-10-15T18:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/marijuana-legalization-measure-in-california-opposed-by-justice-department.html
The U.S. Justice Department will
prosecute possession and distribution of marijuana in California
even if voters approve a ballot measure to legalize the drug,
Attorney General  Eric Holder  said.  The department “strongly opposes” California’s
Proposition 19, Holder said in an Oct. 13 letter to former
administrators of the  Drug Enforcement Administration . The
measure would “complicate” U.S. drug enforcement efforts, he
said.  The Justice Department will “vigorously enforce” federal
drug law “against those individuals and organizations that
possess, manufacture or distribute marijuana for recreational
use, even if such activities are permitted under state law,”
Holder said in the letter.  The proposition, a referendum on the Nov. 2 ballot, would
make it legal for anyone age 21 or older to possess one ounce or
less of marijuana, and allow local governments to regulate and
tax sales even though it is illegal under U.S. law. California
allowed the use of marijuana for medical reasons under a ballot
measure passed in 1996 and more than a dozen other states have
followed suit.  A message left with California Attorney General  Jerry Brown ’s office for comment wasn’t immediately returned.  A number of California communities such as Rancho Cordova
outside Sacramento are considering local ordinances to tax
marijuana to help plug budget deficits.  A  Field Poll  released Sept. 26 said 49 percent of likely
voters who were surveyed support the ballot measure, compared
with 42 percent who opposed it. The survey canvassed 599 likely
voters from Sept. 14-21 and had a margin of error of plus or
minus 4.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  