-- Marketers Mine Facebook, Twitter Posts to Duck Brand Snafus
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/marketers-mine-facebook-twitter-posts-to-prevent-new-coke-gap-blunders.html
Jonathan Spier , chief executive
officer of social-media analytics company  NetBase Inc. , had the
chance to win multimillion-dollar contracts for his 25-person
firm if he could answer one question: Why do men sport stubble?  The query, posed by a consumer-product company to more than
100 firms, had to be answered by mining millions of postings by
men on social-media sites. NetBase’s software, which reads and
analyzes 50,000 sentences a minute, helped it seal the deal.  “The technology reads and understands every sentence of
every document that we touch from billions of Web sources,” said
Spier, whose Mountain View, California-based company now employs
50 and works with  Coca-Cola Co. , Kraft Foods Inc. and  Procter &
Gamble Co.  “It’s all oriented around what businesses need and
want from information. That’s our selling point.”  Companies may more than double the amount they’re spending
for online data to $840 million in 2012 from last year,
according to New York consulting firm  Winterberry Group LLC . At
the same time, social-media monitoring sites are being snapped
up by software and market-research firms. That’s because
Twitter, Facebook and blog postings can be windows into the
thinking process of consumers, said Debbie DeGabrielle, chief
marketing officer of  Visible Technologies .  “For years advertising was one-to-many, and then there was
all this big hoopla about how to do one-to-one advertising, with
the advent of the Web and Web metrics,” said DeGabrielle, whose
social-media analytics company is based in Bellevue, Washington.
“Social intelligence is the iteration beyond that -- it is not
mass personalization, it is personalization one-to-one, to
many.”  Getting the Message  Visible Technologies has increased revenue more than 18-
fold since 2006, posting $9.8 million in sales last year,
according to Inc. magazine, which  ranked  the company the 15th
fastest growing in its industry this year.  “Companies need to acknowledge that this social dialogue
will occur whether they like it or not, without their ability to
control it. But they can choose to participate in it,”
DeGabrielle said.  Advertisers in the U.S. are getting the message. They will
increase their spending on social-media sites by 24 percent next
year to $2.09 billion, according to  EMarketer Inc . in New York.  The information can help companies avoid product disasters.
When  Coca-Cola  released New Coke in 1985, it committed one of
biggest blunders in marketing history, “spawning consumer angst
the likes of which no business has ever seen,” the company says
on its  website . Some three months later, the company returned
its original soda to the market. Stan Sthanunathan, vice
president of marketing strategy and insights for Coca-Cola,
doubts it would have taken that long to react in today’s world.  Coke, Gap  “Back then people had to write letters and send it to us,
saying ‘please bring back old Coke,’” Sthanunathan said in an
interview from Atlanta. “It came out in large numbers, but it
came after a few days. Right now, people will tell you that in a
matter of two minutes, on their Facebook page.”  Gap Inc. experienced such a reaction this month when it
briefly replaced its iconic blue box logo with a new design. The
new logo was widely panned online, and the San Francisco-based
company pulled the plug on the project a week later.  “We did not go about this in the right way,”  Marka Hansen ,
the Gap brand president in North America, said in an Oct. 11
statement. “We recognize that we missed the opportunity to
engage with the online community.”  ‘On the Map’  Adobe Systems Inc.’s purchase of Omniture Inc. for $1.8
billion last year raised the profile of social-media analytics,
according to  John Lovett , a senior partner at Web Analytics
Demystified. Acquisitions in the industry have reached $2.5
billion, he said.  “That helped to a great extent to put our industry on the
map,” said Lovett, who is based in Merrimack, New Hampshire.
“The potential is that the companies that are swallowing the
companies are going to be swallowed by even bigger companies.”  Other deals over the past few years include Nielsen Co.’s
acquisition of BuzzMetrics Inc. in 2006. TNS Media Intelligence,
which bought Cymfony in 2007, was subsequently purchased by WPP
Plc unit Kantar Media. JD Power & Associates acquired Umbria
Inc. in 2008, and, last month, ComScore Inc. bought Amsterdam-
based Nedstat for $36.7 million.  “A big part of what this is, is large research companies,
the billion-dollar players, realizing they need to fill out
their portfolios,” said Joel Rubinson, president of  Rubinson
Partners Inc. , a marketing and research consulting firm in New
York. “You want to have a complete offering for a global
client.”  Loud Bloggers  Traditional market research, which involves surveys or
focus groups, can be backward-looking or shaped by the questions
asked, instead of tapping into what consumers themselves want to
discuss or comment about online, Rubinson said.  Monitoring social media for insights doesn’t always uncover
the next big thing, according to  Sandra Fathi , president of
Affect Strategies, a New York-based public-relations, strategic
marketing and social-media firm. There’s the issue of listening
to the “loudest” bloggers online instead of getting an aggregate
of consumer sentiment, she said.  “People tend to react when they have extreme emotion,
whether they absolutely love something or absolutely hate it.
Those who are indifferent tend to be a bit more silent on social
media,” Fathi said. “Companies can be mislead by listening too
closely to those voices on either end of those extremes.”  Another stumbling block is sarcasm, said NetBase CEO Spier.
And simple keyword searches for a product and words such as
good, bad, love and hate won’t necessarily tell you a consumer’s
true opinion.  Sexy Stubble  A sentence that declares a product “has never been good,”
versus one that states a product “has never been this good” have
completely different meanings, Spier said.  NetBase  has hired
several linguists to help. He says the company’s software is 90
percent accurate in determining a consumer’s opinion, compared
with 50 percent for a simple key-word search.  So why don’t men shave more often? A NetBase search found
77,000 mentions of stubble online in less than six seconds. The
company then isolated all the positive comments, categorized
them into themes, and built a chart in less than an hour
displaying the reasons according to percentage.  The answer: The main reason men wear stubble is because
they perceive it to be sexy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  