-- Asian Stocks Rise for Seventh Week on Improving Economic, Earnings Reports
-- B y   N i c o l a s   J o h n s o n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-15T21:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/asian-stocks-rise-for-seventh-week-on-improving-economic-earnings-reports.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a seventh
consecutive week, the longest winning streak in almost four
years, as strengthening economic and corporate earnings data
boosted confidence in a global recovery.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company,
advanced 1.6 percent in Sydney as copper surged to a 27-month
high. Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed 12 percent in Hong Kong and
Mitsubishi Corp., which gets about half its sales from
commodities, gained 2.6 percent in Tokyo. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest lender,
increased 7.4 percent in Hong Kong after reports showed China’s
exports, lending and currency reserves expanded.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.69 percent this week to
131.03, led by energy and materials companies. The gauge’s
seventh straight weekly increase is its longest stretch of gains
since December 2006.  “The positive tone of recent economic and earnings
releases is generating a growing momentum of confidence,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “Asian markets are attractive
because investors are increasingly looking to faster-growing
economies that are less reliant on policy stimulus to achieve
adequate rates of return.”  Japan’s was one of only three major regional equity markets
to decline this week, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  dropping
0.9 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index advanced 3.6 percent,
South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.3 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index jumped 8.5 percent.  Chinese Growth  China’s banks will report “solid” earnings growth in the
third quarter, Citigroup Inc. said this week. Exports grew 25.1
percent in September, capping the biggest quarterly trade
surplus since the global financial crisis in 2008, and new
lending growth beat estimates, the country’s customs office and
central bank said this week.  The country’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s
largest, surged by a record to $2.65 trillion at the end of
September, the central bank also said.  “China will boost demand globally,” said  Koichi Kurose ,
chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which manages
about $57 billion.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China advanced 7.4 percent
to HK$6.38.  PetroChina Co. , the nation’s biggest oil producer,
climbed 7 percent HK$10.10.  BHP Billiton rose 1.6 percent to A$41.65 in Sydney, and
rival Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
gained 4.6 percent to A$83.20. Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest
producer of the metal, advanced 12 percent to HK$22.85 in Hong
Kong. Mitsubishi Corp. climbed 2.6 percent to 2,088 yen in Tokyo.  ‘Receding Pessimism’  “China, which is a major source of demand, is unexpectedly
good,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $450 million
in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co.
“Global economic sentiment is moderately recovering and
excessive pessimism is receding.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen about 20 percent from
this year’s low on May 25 and has gained about 9 percent in 2010
on speculation profit growth will weather Europe’s debt crisis,
China’s steps to curb property-price gains and concern about the
pace of the U.S. economic recovery. Shares in the gauge are
valued at an average of about 14.5 times estimated  earnings ,
near their highest level since July.  CSX Corp. , the second-largest publicly traded U.S. railroad,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Intel Corp.  reported quarterly earnings
this week that exceeded average analysts’ estimates, adding to
signs the recovery is on track.  Palm-oil producers advanced after crude palm-oil futures
surged for a seventh week, the longest rally since May 2009.
 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd.  (GGR SP), the world’s second-biggest
palm-oil producer, jumped 16 percent to 66.5 Singapore cents.
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL SP), the world’s largest palm-oil
trader, climbed 6.7 percent to S$6.38.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Nicolas Johnson  in Tokyo at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 