-- Treasuries Fall, Dollar Gains on Bets Fed Will Stoke Inflation
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-10-15T20:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/asia-stocks-currencies-fall-on-growth-concern-dollar-rebounds.html
Treasuries fell, driving 30-year
yields to a two-month high, and the Dollar Index rebounded from
its 2010 low amid confidence Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will succeed in stoking inflation. U.S. stocks rose as
technology shares rallied, overshadowing losses in banks and
General Electric Co.  The 30-year Treasury yield rose seven basis points to 3.99
percent. The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency
against six major counterparts, climbed 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in
New York to snap a three-day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 0.2 percent to 1,176.19, extending a second
straight weekly advance, as Google Inc. and Seagate Technology
Plc drove an advance by technology companies. Bank of America
Corp. fell to a 15-month low and GE slumped 5 percent.  Bernanke’s comments today that more monetary stimulus may
be needed drove the yield  gap  between 30-year bonds and similar
maturity inflation-indexed debt to a five-month high of 2.61
points, a sign investors are betting the Fed will stoke price
gains. The S&P 500 has advanced 12 percent since Bernanke said
in August that he had the tools to prevent a recession.  Abby Joseph Cohen , a senior investment strategist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said yesterday that benefits from Fed action may
already be reflected in asset prices.  “The fact that inflation remains very low supports the Fed
argument to take action,” said  Alan Gayle , senior investment
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “To the extent that
Bernanke’s comments provide more clarity of goals for the Fed,
that helps the market fine tune its expectations on quantitative
easing. The effect was clear in global markets today.”  Retail Sales, Profits  U.S. economic reports showed that  retail sales  climbed more
than forecast in September, manufacturing in the New York region
expanded in October at a faster pace than anticipated and
consumer confidence trailed expectations. Quarterly reports
showed Google and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. earned more than
analysts projected, while GE’s revenue missed. More than 70
percent of S&P 500 companies have beaten the average analyst
profit estimate in the past five quarters, the longest streak in
Bloomberg data going back to 1993.  Bernanke said today that the central bank may expand asset
purchases in a technique known as quantitative easing because
inflation is too low and unemployment is too high. Labor
Department data released 15 minutes after he spoke showed the
U.S. consumer index rose 0.1 percent in September, half the
median economist estimate.  ‘Foregone Conclusion’  “He’s making the case that QE2 is a foregone conclusion,”
said  Frank Ingarra , a Stamford, Connecticut-based money manager
at Hennessy Advisors Inc.  The S&P 500 posted its biggest September rally since 1939
amid speculation the Fed will announce asset purchases after
policy makers meet in November. The central bank bought about
$1.73 trillion in government debt and mortgage securities in a
2009 program and about $44 billion of Treasuries since the
second round of buying began Aug. 17 to keep borrowing costs low
and bolster the housing market.  Most European stocks dropped, even as the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index added 0.1 percent. Old Mutual Plc led
financials lower after HSBC Holdings Plc abandoned its bid to
buy the South African insurer’s controlling stake in Nedbank
Group Ltd. Carrefour SA dropped 4.1 percent after the world’s
second-largest retailer lowered its full-year profit forecast.
Infineon Technologies AG paced advancing shares after AMD’s
earnings.  Asian Stocks, Commodities  Asian stocks fell, dragging the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
down 0.7 percent from a two-year high, on concern the U.S.
recovery is weakening.  Crude oil fell for a second day and cotton retreated from a
record as the dollar rebounded, eroding the investment appeal of
commodities. Oil for November delivery slipped 1.7 percent to
$81.25 a barrel in New York.  Cotton for December delivery dropped by the exchange’s 5-
cent limit, or 4.4 percent, to $1.0987 a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price climbed to $1.198, the
highest level ever. Before today, cotton surged 52 percent this
year, the biggest gain among components of the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, on speculation demand from China
will grow.  Copper rose, capping the fifth straight weekly gain, on
speculation that demand will improve amid the Fed’s steps to
spur economic growth. Copper futures for December delivery
gained 2.35 cents, or 0.6 percent, to close at $3.8390 a pound
on the Comex in New York. Yesterday, the price reached $3.8675,
the highest level for a most-active contract since July 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 