-- Asia Stocks, Currencies Fall on Concern Growth Is Slowing; Dollar Rebounds
-- B y   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 2010-10-15T02:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/asia-stocks-currencies-fall-on-concern-growth-is-slowing-dollar-rebounds.html
Asian stocks and currencies fell,
while the dollar strengthened and bond risk increased amid
concern that global growth is faltering.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slipped from a two-year high,
losing 0.6 percent to 131.22 at 11:52 a.m. in Tokyo. The dollar
and yen led gains against major counterparts, while copper
dropped from a 27-month high and gold fell for the first time in
three days. Australia’s dollar retreated after nearing parity
with the U.S. currency yesterday.  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said the central
bank is ready to take action as U.S. economic uncertainty adds
to downside risks, a day after data showed an unexpected
increase in Americans filing for jobless benefits. The Bank of
Korea yesterday cited currency appreciation and slowdowns in the
U.S. and Europe as reasons it held off on raising interest rates.  “There’s been good performance on rates and foreign
exchange in Asia, so end-of-week profit taking is likely,” said
 Wee-Khoon Chong , a Hong Kong-based rates strategist at Societe
Generale. “There are ongoing intervention concerns on the yen,
but the market is testing the will and levels in which the
government would act.”  About two shares fell for each that advanced on MSCI’s
Asian gauge, which yesterday reached the highest since July 2008.
The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slipped 0.7 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 declined 0.4 percent.  China Banks  Canon Inc. , the world’s No. 1 camera maker, slid 1.4
percent after the yen’s climb to a 15-year high against the
dollar yesterday hurt the outlook for export earnings. Panasonic
Corp., the biggest maker of plasma TVs, dropped 2.2 percent.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.8 percent,
heading for its biggest weekly advance in almost three months.
Banks gained, paced by  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , on the
prospect of increased fund flows and as Citigroup Inc. raised
their Hong Kong share-price estimates for some lenders.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s largest listed developer,
retreated 0.1 percent after an increase in property prices last
month underscored the need for extra government curbs to
discourage speculation and prevent asset bubbles.  Property prices  in 70 cities climbed 9.1 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau’s newspaper, China
Information News, reported today. That was faster than the
median 8.8 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six
economists. Prices rose 0.5 percent from August.  U.S. Jobs  “The pressure from property price increases still exists
and it looks like the government may do more to bring them
down,” said  Wu Kan , Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “Stocks may face
profit-taking pressure after a big rally these days.”  A report from the U.S. Labor Department showed the number
of Americans filing first-time applications for unemployment
benefits unexpectedly increased last week.  The dollar has dropped 5.5 percent against the euro since
Sept. 21, when the Federal Reserve said in a statement following
its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional
accommodation if needed” to support the recovery.  “As the uncertainty for the economic outlook, particularly
that of the U.S., is strong, we still need to pay attention to
the economy’s downside risks,” the BOJ’s Shirakawa said at a
quarterly meeting of the bank’s branch managers in Tokyo.  The greenback rebounded today after Federal Reserve Bank of
Minneapolis President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said additional
quantitative easing by the central bank may have a “more muted
effect” than anticipated. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
speak on monetary policy objectives and tools in Boston today.  ‘Further QE’  “Further QE in early November is looking increasingly
inevitable although doubts remain on the size of the package and
its effectiveness,”  Khoon Goh , head of market economics at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Wellington, wrote in a research note.  The dollar rose to $1.4033 per euro in Tokyo from $1.4084
in New York yesterday, when it reached $1.4122, the lowest level
since Jan. 26. The dollar was at 81.35 yen from 81.48 yesterday,
when it touched 80.89, the lowest since April 1995. The euro
slid to 114.15 yen from 114.76.  Australia’s currency was at 99.13 U.S. cents from 99.42
cents in New York yesterday, when it touched 99.94 cents, the
most since currency controls ended in 1983.  Copper and gold declined as the dollar’s rally eroded the
appeal of commodities as alternative investments.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange dropped as much as 0.7 percent to $8,340 a metric ton
and traded at $8,408. Yesterday the price reached $8,490, the
highest level for a most-active contract since July 2008.  Bond Risk  Bullion for immediate delivery lost as much as 0.3 percent
to $1,376.45 an ounce after reaching an all-time high of
$1,387.35 yesterday, and last traded at $1,377.85.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan rose 3 1/2 basis points to 103 basis
points in Singapore, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices. The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 2 1/2
basis points to 105 basis points in Sydney, according to Credit
Agricole. The Markit iTraxx Japan index was little changed at
103 1/2 basis points in Tokyo, Morgan Stanley price show.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Rocky Swift  in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu in Tokyo at   pachu@bloomberg.net . 