-- AT&T to Market IPad to Businesses to Gain New Market for Tablet
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-15T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/at-t-to-market-ipad-to-businesses-to-gain-new-market-for-tablet.html
AT&T Inc., the second-largest U.S.
mobile carrier, will start marketing  Apple Inc. ’s iPad to its
business customers, seeking to expand sales of the tablet
computer beyond consumers.  AT&T will also help businesses design applications for the
iPad, the Dallas-based carrier said today in a statement.
Domestic and international service for the device will be
available under corporate plans for customers whose bills are
paid by employers, AT&T said.  The carrier is starting the business iPad sales after its
largest competitor,  Verizon Wireless , said it would begin
selling the device in its stores this month. Tablet sales will
nearly triple next year, driven by iPad purchases worldwide,
Gartner Inc. said today in a report. Still, AT&T will have to
convince employees to adopt a third device, in addition to
smartphones and laptops, the researcher said.  “The majority of knowledge workers cannot use media
tablets to replace their notebooks,” Gartner said in the
report. “In the enterprise space, for the immediate future, the
main use of media tablets is as a notebook companion or a
secondary device to take on the road.”  The touch-screen devices were originally available through
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s stores, and AT&T was the
computer maker’s initial partner offering Web access for the
device. While Apple sells a version that connects directly to AT&T’s
network, Verizon and  Sprint Nextel Corp.  offer Wi-Fi devices
that let the iPad hook up to their service.  AT&T declined 17 cents to $28.33 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 1.1
percent this year. Apple, up 49 percent this year, gained
$12.43, or 4.1 percent, to $314.74 on the  Nasdaq Stock Market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  