-- Hatch Says Democrats Have Curbed Chances for Bipartisanship After Election
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/hatch-says-he-s-more-conservative-than-fellow-utah-u-s-senator-bennett.html
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  sees
fewer prospects for bipartisanship in the next Congress and says
he’s more conservative than fellow Utah Senator  Robert Bennett ,
who lost renomination to Tea Party opposition.  Hatch, who will be seeking a seventh term in 2012, said
he’s reaching out to activists in the political movement and is
more closely aligned with their views than Bennett was.  “I’m no  Bob Bennett ,” Hatch said in an interview on
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend on
Bloomberg Television. “I’m meeting with these folks, the Tea
Party people and others, and I’m holding extensive town hall
meetings.” Bennett lost his renomination bid in May during
voting at a state Republican convention.  Hatch is in line to be chairman of the tax-writing  Senate
Finance Committee  if Republicans win control of the chamber in
the Nov. 2 elections, an outcome he said is unlikely. He has a
reputation for working with Democrats, particularly the late
Massachusetts Senator  Edward Kennedy , on matters such as health
care and civil-rights legislation.  Still, Hatch said Democrats have damped his enthusiasm
for bipartisan deals. He said Democrats have created strains by
expanding government during the last two years, particularly
taking power from states under a health-care program he helped
establish for lower-income children.  “I’ve got to say, that was almost the final straw to me,”
he said. “But I’ll work with any Democrat that’s willing to
work in good faith on good issues in the right way and do it in
a fiscally responsible way.”  “I’m certainly not going to let them keep spending and
taxing us and building more government,” Hatch said.  Value-Added Tax  On tax policy, he dismissed the idea of moving the U.S. to
a value-added tax, which would impose a levy at each stage of
the manufacture of a product, with the total paid by the buyer.
The levy would either be embedded in a product’s price or added
on like a sales tax. Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels , a
Republican, has called for such a system.  “I disagree with Mitch on that,” Hatch said. “It is so
easy to increase taxes; it’s very difficult to reduce them under
a value-added tax. And just take a look at all the countries
that have value-added taxes. Their taxes have gone up regularly,
and they haven’t been able to keep them down.”  Hatch said a looming clash in Congress over income-tax cuts
approved under President  George W. Bush , now scheduled to expire
Dec. 31, will likely result in a simple one- or two-year
extension of all the reductions.  President  Barack Obama  and most congressional Democrats
want to extend the income-tax cuts only for households earning
up to $250,000, about 98 percent of all taxpayers. Most
Republicans, including Hatch, also want to extend them for
higher-income Americans.  Boost the Economy  Hatch predicted that when Congress returns to the tax-cut
debate after the elections, Democrats will be forced to accept
that the tax reductions must be extended for all income levels
to boost the economy.  “Even the Democrats are going to have to admit that we’re
going to extend them, no matter what happens,” Hatch said. “I
expect that they’re going to roll those over, at least for one
or two years, and they should do it, or they’re going to have
troubles.”  Looking ahead to November, Hatch said he doesn’t see much
chance of his party taking over the Senate, now controlled by
Democrats, 59-41. Instead, he said, it’s likely Republicans will
gain between six and eight seats.  “I don’t think most people feel that we’re going to get
control of the Senate, but, you know, things are popping out
there,” he said. “People are really upset. And anything could
happen, and it might very well happen. But I would suspect we’ll
get somewhere between six, seven, maybe even eight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  