-- Atlanta’s Lockhart Says More Easing Would Show Fed ‘On the Job’
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-15T14:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/atlanta-s-lockhart-says-further-easing-would-show-that-fed-is-on-the-job-.html
Atlanta Federal Reserve President
 Dennis Lockhart  said today that a second round of purchases of
Treasury securities would show the central bank’s commitment to
bringing employment and inflation closer to its goals.  “Markets and commentators are anticipating” that policy
makers might undertake “a second round of quantitative
easing,” Lockhart said in a panel discussion in Atlanta. More
quantitative easing “or another round of monetary stimulus at
least would provide some certainty that the central bank is on
the job and intends to take the necessary action to avoid”
possible deflation.  Lockhart’s comments echoed the view of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who today said additional monetary
stimulus may be warranted because inflation is too slow and
unemployment is too high. They were the Atlanta Fed president’s
first indication he also may favor more easing.  The Fed is considering the purchase of more Treasury
securities and efforts to boost inflation expectations to
stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment persisting near 10
percent, according to minutes of the Sept. 21 meeting of policy
makers released this week. The central bank was prepared to ease
monetary policy “before long,” the minutes said.  “We might be a bit more explicit about our inflation
objective” as another strategy, Lockhart said at a conference
hosted by Executive Women of Goizueta, a networking group
affiliated with the Goizueta Business School at Emory
University. The central bank’s objective is to “try to
alleviate uncertainty,” he said, adding the Fed may have to
take “measured risks.”  ‘Soft Spot’  “We are in a soft spot here in the middle of the year,”
Lockhart said in response to questions from  Carol Tome , chief
financial officer of Home Depot Inc. “The third quarter will
come in a similar fashion” as the second quarter, he said.
“The economy is growing but at a very slow pace.”  Slowing growth is raising the possibility of another slump.
Economic growth decelerated to an annualized 1.7 percent rate in
the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first quarter and 5
percent in the last three months of 2009, according to the
Commerce Department.  “At the moment, inflation is running too low,” Lockhart
said. “It is too close to the tipping point to a deflationary
environment. I am concerned. I think my colleagues share that.”  After cutting rates to near zero, the Fed turned to its
balance sheet as a primary tool of monetary policy. The Fed’s
total assets, which include loans and securities other than
those used for monetary-policy operations, have risen to $2.31
trillion from $878 billion at the start of 2007.  The central bank after its Sept. 21 meeting said inflation
is “somewhat below” levels consistent with its congressional
mandate for stable prices. The Fed said it was “prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Personal Consumption  Inflation, measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has been below
the Fed’s goal for five consecutive months. The price measure
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending August. Prices
excluding food and energy have gained at a 1 percent annual pace
in the three months through August.  The Fed’s goal has been to keep inflation rising annually at
about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  