-- Mattel's Profit Misses Analysts' Estimates on Fisher-Price Toys
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-15T20:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mattel-s-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-as-fisher-price-sales-decline.html
Mattel Inc. , the world’s largest
toymaker, fell 6.5 percent in Nasdaq trading after third-quarter
profit  missed  some analysts’ estimates because of a drop in
Fisher-Price sales.  Net income rose 23 percent to $283.3 million, or 77 cents a
share, the El Segundo, California-based company said today in a
statement. Profit excluding a tax benefit was 72 cents a share.
Analysts predicted 75 cents, the average of 12  estimates .  Fisher-Price revenue declined because the company delayed
marketing and some shipping compared with a year ago, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Eckert  said on a conference call with
analysts. U.S. retailers have pushed back orders in anticipation
of consumers waiting longer to shop during the holiday season,
Eckert said.  “Our shipments from retailers in the States were a bit
soft late in the quarter,” Eckert said. “From our supply side
standpoint, we are still struggling a bit with a few lines,
mostly in Fisher-Price.”  Mattel dropped $1.55 to $22.45 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading , the most since July. The stock has
gained 12 percent this year.  Fisher-Price Sales  Global sales of the Fisher-Price brand fell 5 percent after
gaining the previous two quarters, as a decline in Power Wheels
riding vehicles wiped out increases in Sing-A-Ma-Jigs dolls.
 Drew Crum , an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Cleveland,
Ohio, predicted an increase of 6 percent for that unit.  The introduction of toys tied to the “Toy Story 3” movie
and World Wrestling Entertainment have helped  sales  rebound this
year after plummeting during the recession. Mattel’s third-
quarter revenue rose 2.3 percent to $1.83 billion, a fourth
straight gain that includes unfavorable currency swings of 3
percentage points. Analysts  projected  $1.94 billion on average.  Fisher-Price caused Mattel’s revenue to miss estimates,
Crum, who recommends buying the shares, wrote in a note to
clients.  The company recalled almost 11 million toys under its
Fisher-Price brand on Sept. 30 after reports of children being
cut or choked. The recall probably lowered earnings by 1 cent a
share in the third quarter, the company said at the time in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Mattel has been expanding to international markets under
Eckert. Revenue from outside the U.S. made up about 47 percent
of 2009 sales, a jump from 30 percent a decade ago.  Net income was $229.8 million, or 63 cents a share, in last
year’s third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  