-- Aussie Hits Parity With U.S. Dollar for First Time Since 1983 Floatation
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2010-10-15T21:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/aussie-hits-parity-with-u-s-dollar-for-first-time-since-1983-floatation.html
Australia’s currency reached parity
with the U.S. dollar for the first time since exchange controls
ended in 1983 as the biggest mining boom in a century and U.S.
stimulus prospects spurred demand for the nation’s assets.  The so-called Aussie gained the most among the greenback’s
16 most-traded counterparts over the past three months as
China’s demand for Australian coal and iron ore helped drive
economic growth to the fastest pace in three years. Parity was
reached after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday additional monetary stimulus may be warranted.  “The Australian dollar is undergoing a significant
structural appreciation as the China-driven commodity price boom
boosts Australia’s economic growth rate and delivers record
trade surpluses,” said  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency
strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney.  Australia’s dollar slipped 0.4 percent to 99.07 U.S. cents
at 5 p.m. yesterday in New York, from 99.42 cents Oct. 14. It
rose as high as $1.0004, the most since the currency was freely
floated in 1983.  The median estimate of analysts polled by Bloomberg News is
for the Aussie to trade at 95 U.S. cents by year-end. Banks
including Credit Suisse Group AG and Wells Fargo & Co. forecast
the Aussie will remain at or above parity through 2011.  Controls on the currency ended on Dec. 12, 1983, and it
closed trading that day at 91.75 U.S., according to the Reserve
Bank of Australia. It was last equal to its U.S. counterpart on
July 28, 1982, when the Aussie was pegged to a trade-weighted
basket of currencies.  ‘Dollar Bears’  The Aussie gained for a ninth straight week, the longest
stretch of advances in more than a year, as speculation
intensifies that the Fed will boost bond purchases.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said yesterday in the text
of remarks given at a Boston Fed conference. He said the central
bank could expand asset purchases or change the language in its
statement, while saying “nonconventional policies have costs
and limitations that must be taken into account in judging
whether and how aggressively they should be used.”  Treasury two-year  yields  dropped to a record low on Oct. 12
after minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s September
meeting showed it was ready to expand credit-easing steps
“before long.” The  yield advantage  offered by benchmark
Australian government debt maturing in 2012 reached 4.53
percentage points more than similar-dated U.S. securities on
Oct. 7, the most since June 2008.  ‘Best Near-Term Bets’  “In the near term, Fed easing expectations will keep the
U.S. dollar weak,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the Singapore-based head
of global currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote Oct. 11 in a note
to clients. “The two currencies that seem to be the best near-
term bets for dollar bears ahead of the November FOMC meeting
are the Australian dollar and the Swiss franc.”  UBS forecasts that the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise
 rates  when policy makers meet in November.  Then-Prime Minister  Bob Hawke  and his Treasurer  Paul Keating  oversaw the decision to eliminate foreign-exchange
controls and announced early in December 1983 that they were
ending the Australian dollar’s peg to a basket of other
currencies.  Hawke and Keating floated the Aussie as part of financial
reforms which included licensing foreign banks to operate in
Australia and ending direct regulation of interest rates,
according to the Australian government’s website.  Hawke, who was included in the Guinness Book of World
Records in 1954 for drinking a so-called yard glass (2.5 pints)
of beer in 11 seconds, took office in March 1983 after defeating
Liberal Prime Minister  Malcolm Fraser  in national elections.  America’s Cup  The Aussie dropped by about a third within three years,
hitting a then-record low of 59.80 U.S. cents on July 31, 1986,
less than three months after Keating warned Australia could
become a “banana republic” unless it strengthened the nation’s
manufacturing industries.  The currency reached as high as 98.50 U.S. cents in July
2008 before falling to as low as 60.09 cents three months later
as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit
markets and prompted investors to dump riskier assets.  Australia’s  dollar has become a favorite for traders
because of the country’s relatively high interest rates. The
central bank has raised its benchmark borrowing rate to 4.5
percent from 3 percent over the past 12 months, as the Fed and
European Central Bank kept theirs unchanged at all-time lows.
The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut its rate to “virtually zero.”  Gains Accelerated  The Australian currency’s gains accelerated over the past
month on speculation the Fed will act to revive the U.S. economy
with bond purchases, so-called quantitative easing.  The Fed snapped up $300 billion of Treasuries last year. It
began reinvesting proceeds of its mortgage holdings into
government debt in August and said Oct. 13 it would  buy  about
$32 billion of U.S. government debt in that program over the
next month.  The Aussie passed the Swiss franc to become the world’s
fifth most-traded currency in April, according to the Bank for
International Settlements’ Triennial Central Bank Survey
released Sept. 1. It accounts for 7.6 percent of daily  trading 
though Australia makes up 1.6 percent of world gross domestic
product.  Twenty percent of Australia’s economy derives from exports,
led by iron ore and coal to countries including China, the
island nation’s largest trading partner.  ‘Patchwork Economy’  Australia’s dependence on commodities needs to be reduced
to broaden a “patchwork economy” where regions exposed to
mining boom grow while others go backward, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said on Oct. 12. The strong currency is hurting
manufacturers and farmers, she said, parts of the economy that
need to solidify so growth can be sustained in years ahead
“without putting upward pressure on inflation and interest
rates.”  Links with fast-growing markets, whose demand for
commodities have spurred prices higher, helped Australia skirt a
global recession after Lehman’s failure. Its economy  expanded 
1.2 percent in the second quarter of 2010, the quickest pace in
three years, sending the  jobless rate  to almost half the level
in the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Garfield Reynolds  in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 