-- Mayer Brown to Focus on Integration Not New Mergers, Chairman Krueger Says
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-10-15T00:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mayer-brown-to-focus-on-integration-not-mergers-chairman-krueger-jr-says.html
Mayer Brown LLP , the Chicago-based
law firm that has expanded in Brazil and Hong Kong in the past
three years, will focus on integrating existing operations
rather than combining with other firms, its chairman said.  “Our immediate strategy and focus is to build up what we
have in Asia, America and Europe,”  Herbert Krueger Jr . said
when asked if he were looking at expansion into other countries
like India and Russia.  The firm’s individual partners in Asia earn more profit
than those in the U.S. or U.K., he said. Mayer Brown combined
with Hong Kong’s Johnson Stokes & Master in 2008 and with
London’s Rowe & Maw in 2002. An association was announced in
December with Brazilian law firm Tauil & Chequer Advogados.  U.S. and U.K. firms have merged this year to form the
1,400-strong SNR Denton and 2,500-lawyer Hogan Lovells, and
consolidation in the legal industry will continue, Krueger said.
Mayer Brown and London-based Simmons & Simmons ended merger
talks in June saying a combination wasn’t “the right option.”  Restrictions on foreign law firms operating in India are
unlikely to change soon and Mayer Brown is focused on
integrating the U.S. and Asian partnerships rather than further
expansion, Krueger said.  Mayer Brown has three partnerships, with the Asian one
known as Mayer Brown JSM, a name that will be retained, Krueger
said.  New Clients  The combination with the Asian partnership has already
helped win new clients, advising such companies as Beijing
Automotive Industry Holding Co., on its acquisition of  General
Motor Co.’s Saab unit ’s technology, according to Mayer Brown
JSM’s Senior Partner  Elaine Lo . Lawyers in China, Germany and
Chicago worked on the deal, she said.  With 1,750 lawyers around the world, the number of Mayer
Brown’s Asia-based lawyers has grown by 10 percent since 2008,
to 294. Lo said its capital markets, structured finance, energy
and infrastructure, and funds practices still need to be
expanded.  The firm also plans to send Chinese-speaking lawyers to its
U.S. and European offices, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  