-- Mayor Daley's Schools Pay Price for Illinois Fiscal Problems: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mayor-daley-s-schools-pay-price-for-illinois-fiscal-problems-muni-credit.html
Chicago’s  Board of Education , stung
by delayed aid from Governor  Pat Quinn  and a credit-rating
downgrade, is paying almost twice as much as comparably rated
schools for taxable Qualified School Construction Bonds.  Fitch Ratings lowered its credit score on the board one
level last week to A+, fifth-highest, citing delays in state aid
payments and future rises in pension and debt-service costs.
Standard & Poor’s assigned AA-, fourth-highest, and revised its
outlook to negative. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt
Aa2, third-highest.  Yesterday’s $257 million issue of so-called QSCBs, the
third-largest sale of the federally subsidized debt, offered 19-
year bonds priced to yield 6.32 percent, or 2.5 percentage
points above  30-year  U.S. Treasuries. That’s about 82 percent
more than the 1.37 percentage-point spread the  Los Angeles
Unified School District  paid on its $190 million of the debt in
May. Chicago Public Schools, the nation’s third-largest
district, is paying the price for the fiscal problems the state
and city are having, said  Anthony Greco , a trader at Boston-
based Breckinridge Capital Advisors, which manages $13.5
billion.  “Illinois as a state is in the news, and it’s not positive
news,” Greco said. “Chicago has its own set of problems that
mimic the state and it’s making people nervous.”  The Board of Education also sold $125 million in Build
America Bonds, which carry a 35 percent subsidy. QSCBs are
eligible for a 100 percent subsidy on interest costs.  Build Americas  The board’s 30-year Build Americas were priced to yield
6.52 percent, or 270 basis points above  benchmark  Treasuries.
The board’s 30-year securities in a September 2009 sale were
priced 165 basis points above Treasuries. That spread widened to
as much as 232 basis points this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In August, Fitch and Moody’s each downgraded Chicago’s
general-obligation bond rating. Fitch lowered the rating to
third-highest AA from AA+, and Moody’s dropped it to Aa3,
fourth-highest, from Aa2. Fitch cited unfunded pension
liabilities and said it “expects economic recovery in the city
may lag that of the nation.”  Illinois  is the nation’s second-lowest rated state, with
general-obligation debt graded at A1 by Moody’s and A+ by S&P.  Daley’s Proposal  Chicago Mayor  Richard Daley  this week proposed closing a
projected $654.7 million deficit by dipping into cash reserves
and having businesses perform some municipal services while
leaving taxes as they are. Revenue from sales, income and real
estate taxes has plunged $1 billion from 2007 levels, Daley’s
budget said. Chicago Public Schools get about 75 percent of
 funding  from state and local revenue.  The state didn’t deliver $236 million of aid payments by
the end of fiscal 2010. As of Oct. 7, $210 million remained
unpaid, which the state says it will remit by Dec. 31, according
to S&P. The board has secured a $500 million line of credit, S&P
said.  The credit company’s revision “reflects our expectation
that the board will be hard-pressed to maintain balanced
operations and adequate reserves in the face of the state’s
ongoing fiscal problems and the board’s limited ability to
increase revenues,” analyst  John Kenward  wrote.  Yesterday’s sale was the school system’s entire  2010
allocation  of QSCBs. About $8.2 billion of the debt has been
offered nationwide since the program started in April 2009.  Sandra Deangelus, debt manager for Chicago’s schools,
didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY, which
serves 600,000 people in Washington, plans to sell $300 million
of Build America Bonds next week. The obligations are backed by
revenue from consumer water bills and will be used to preserve
and upgrade its water and wastewater systems. Underwriters led
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the issue, which is rated
Aa3 by Moody’s and AA- by both S&P and Fitch, all fourth-
highest. (Updated Oct. 15)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell $850 million in tax-exempt bonds next week.
The issue will fund construction at the trade center site.
Citigroup Inc. will market the issue, which is rated Aa2 by
Moody’s, third-highest, and AA- by S&P and Fitch, both fourth-
highest. (Added Oct. 15)  MISSISSIPPI , the 15th-most indebted state per capita, plans
to sell about $651 million in taxable bonds next week, including
$371.7 million in Build Americas and $45 million in Recovery
Zone Economic Development Bonds. The debt will be used to
finance highway and bridge construction and tourism projects.
Underwriters led by Morgan Stanley will market the taxables
while Bank of America Merrill Lynch handles the tax-exempts.
They are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by S&P, both third-highest
and one level below Fitch’s AA+ rating. (Added Oct. 15)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 