-- AZ Electronic Materials Starts $500 Million London Initial Public Offering
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-15T08:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/az-electronic-materials-starts-500-million-london-initial-public-offering.html
AZ Electronic Materials, a chemical
maker partly owned by private-equity firm Carlyle Group, started
a $500 million initial public offering in London, according to
terms of the deal obtained by Bloomberg News.  AZ has priced the shares at 200 pence to 280 pence apiece,
the document shows. The Luxembourg-based company seeks to raise
$400 million from the sale. Its major shareholders, including
Carlyle and Vestar Capital Partners, will sell a further $100
million worth of shares, the terms show.  Private-equity firms have struggled to sell assets in IPOs
after the financial crisis wiped out demand for new stocks. AZ
Electronic’s IPO is Carlyle’s first in Europe since 2007 when it
sold shares in Transics International NV, a Belgian maker of
vehicle-tracking devices. London-based Permira Advisers LLP
scrapped its IPO plan for the U.K. retailer New Look Group Ltd.
in February citing unfavorable market conditions.  The managers for AZ Electronic’s IPO, Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG, started taking orders
today. Potential shareholders have until Oct. 28, the terms
show. Societe Generale SA and Collins Stewart Plc are co-lead
managers, while Rothschild is acting as financial adviser to AZ
Electronic and the other shareholders.  The shares will start conditional trading on Oct. 29.
Carlyle and Vestar will retain stakes in the company, Charlie
Armitstead, a spokesman for AZ Electronic, said earlier this
month.  AZ Electronic’s IPO will be the biggest in London since
 Ocado Group Plc. , the U.K. online grocer, raised $565 million in
July. Betfair Group Ltd. will hold its own initial stock sale in
London which may value the company at as much as 1.48 billion
pounds ($2.38 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 