-- Bank of America Sued by Chicago Home Loan Bank Over Subprime Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-15T22:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bank-of-america-sued-by-chicago-home-loan-bank-over-subprime-mortgages.html
Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago
sued lenders including  Bank of America Corp.  claiming their
failure to disclose relaxed subprime mortgage underwriting
standards, led it to unknowingly buy risky mortgage-backed
securities.  The lawsuit was filed an Illinois state court in Chicago by
the congressionally chartered wholesale bank, which describes
itself on its website as one of 12 regional U.S. institutions
serving smaller retail home lenders.  Bank of America and the other defendant commercial banks,
including Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Wells
Fargo & Co., sold it more than $3.3 billion in residential
mortgage-backed securities, according to the complaint.  “The defendants did not tell the bank the truth about the
loans that comprised the mortgage pools,” underlying the
securities, the Federal Home Loan Bank alleged. While it
believed it was acquiring “safe” securities, “in fact the
bank purchased a toxic stew of doomed mortgage loans,”
according to the complaint.  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission members on Oct. 13
voted 4-1 to consider a requirement that Wall Street
underwriters scrutinize mortgages and other debt that is bundled
for the sale of bonds.  The federal Dodd-Frank law enacted in July required the SEC
to propose the rule after banks were faulted for selling debt to
investors without concern for whether the underlying loans would
go bad.  ‘Significant Losses’  “During the financial crisis, investors in the
securitization market suffered significant losses,” SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said. In response, lawmakers and
regulators are seeking to “provide investors with better
information about the loans backing” securities.  The SEC, which hasn’t announced specific rules on how the
reviews must be conducted, is planning to solicit public comment
on the matter.  The Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, claiming mortgage
originators abandoned good underwriting and appraisal standards
and engaged in predatory lending, is seeking a court order
voiding its purchase of the securities and directing the
defendants to repay it their value plus 10 percent annual
interest.  Lawsuit Comment  “We have not yet had an opportunity to review the lawsuit
filed today by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago and are
unable to address the specifics of its allegations,” said Tom
Goyda, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, in an e-
mailed statement.  Shirley Norton , a San Francisco-based spokeswoman for Bank
of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, and  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , a spokeswoman for New York-
based Citigroup, declined to comment.  Chicago’s Federal Home Loan serves retail banks in Illinois
and Wisconsin.  The case is Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Banc of
America Funding Corp., 10CH45033, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit
Court, Chancery Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 