-- Barclays May Need $11.7 Billion of Capital if U.K. Follows Swiss Example
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-15T11:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/barclays-may-need-11-7-billion-of-capital-if-u-k-follows-swiss-example.html
Barclays Plc  will be “substantially
undercapitalized” if the U.K. follows Switzerland in requiring
banks to have a minimum core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10 percent,
Evolution Securities Ltd. said.  Barclays would need to raise about 7 billion pounds ($11.2
billion) of capital if the U.K. follows suit as the bank’s core
Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial strength, will have
dwindled to 8.7 percent by 2012 from 10 percent now, Evolution
analysts including  Arturo de Frias  in London said in a note to
clients today. Barclays will most likely raise the money through
a “deal, cum rights issue,” the analysts said.  “Banks are very likely to move as quickly as possible to
fix any perceived capital deficit,” the analysts said. “We do
not envisage banks risking being perceived as the ‘weakest link’
for long periods if they wait for their retained earnings to do
the trick between now and 2019.”  Lenders including Standard Chartered Plc and Deutsche Bank
AG are raising capital as regulators weigh whether to force the
largest lenders to hold more than the minimum 7 percent agreed
by international regulators in Basel last month. Deutsche Bank
raised 10.2 billion euros ($14.4 billion) on Oct. 6, while
Standard Chartered announced a 3.3 billion-pound rights offer
earlier this week.  Barclays President  Robert Diamond  said on Sept. 29 that
while Basel III rules will affect the bank’s ability to generate
earnings, it won’t need additional funding from shareholders.  The U.K. bank is working on a new type of capital security
that would be written down if its Tier 1 ratio falls below 7
percent, Reuters reported today, citing an unidentified person
with knowledge of the situation. A Barclays’s spokesman declined
to comment on the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  