-- Swiss Stocks Close Little Changed; Slump in Banks Offsets Actelion Rally
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-15T15:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/basilea-richemont-panalpina-petroplus-syngenta-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks swung between gains and
losses as weaker-than-estimated consumer confidence in the U.S.
dragged banks shares lower, offsetting the Federal Reserve
saying more stimulus may be pumped in to support the economy.  UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG lost more than 1 percent.
 Actelion Ltd. , the biggest Swiss biotechnology company, rallied
3.5 percent after it was added to UBS’s “merger and acquisition
watch” list.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  was little changed at
6,443.01 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, having swung between
losses of as much as 0.4 percent and gains of 0.4 percent. The
gauge has climbed 1 percent this week amid speculation the Fed
will unveil plans to stimulate economic growth at its November
meeting. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  declined 0.2
percent today.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
October, with Americans more pessimistic about current economic
conditions. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 67.9, the
lowest since July, from 68.2 in September. Economists estimated
an October reading of 68.9, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said additional monetary stimulus
may be warranted because inflation is too low and unemployment
is too high.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said in the text of remarks
given at a Boston Fed conference. He said the central bank could
expand asset purchases or change the language in its statement,
while saying “nonconventional policies have costs and
limitations that must be taken into account in judging whether
and how aggressively they should be used.”  Banks Lose  UBS  lost 1.8 percent to 17.05 Swiss francs.  Credit Suisse 
declined 1.5 percent to 42 francs.  Actelion  rallied 3.5 percent to 54.85 Swiss francs as UBS
added the Swiss biotechnology company to its “mergers and
acquisition watch” list. The company has surged 11 percent this
week amid speculation that it may become a takeover target.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Roche
Holding AG and Amgen Inc. had informally contacted the company
about possible collaborations, a person with first-hand
knowledge said last week. Spokesmen for the companies declined
to comment.  Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd.  slumped 2.5 percent to 70.6
francs, its third drop this week. The biotechnology company was
cut to “sell” from “neutral” at UBS, which said it sees
“limited strong fundamental catalysts to drive the stock
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 