-- Battling Collectors Boost Record Sculpture at $61 Million Sale
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-15T02:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/battling-collectors-push-sculpture-to-record-at-61-million-sale-in-london.html
A bidding battle for a Marino Marini
sculpture last night was the highlight of back-to-back auctions
of contemporary and 20th-century Italian art that raised more
than double the total achieved in 2009.  Christie’s International’s  Frieze Week evening sales in
London made 38.2 million pounds ($61.15 million) as the bronze
statue of a horseman ecstatically throwing out his arms sold for
an artist record price of 4.5 million pounds, beating an
estimate of as much as 1.8 million pounds.  “It was a great cast and had never been on the market
before,” the Brussels and Paris-based dealer Paolo Vedovi said
of the Marini. “There’s demand for great sculpture, as was
shown by the Giacometti at  Sotheby’s  in February.”  Giacometti’s life-size statue “L’Homme Qui Marche I”
(Walking Man I) from Dresdner Bank AG’s collection sold for 65
million pounds in London on Feb. 3. Yesterday’s event showed
that art would sell with realistic estimates, particularly among
the 51 contemporary works selected to appeal to the collectors
in London for the  Frieze Art Fair  and other events, dealers said.  The Italian material contributed a record 18.6 million
pounds, beating a low estimate of 14.3 million pounds. Just 22
percent of the lots fell to Italian buyers, underlining the
extent to which artists such as Marini,  Lucio Fontana  and Piero
Manzoni appeal to international buyers, said the auction house.  The four-foot (1.2 meter) Marini, “Cavaliere,” one of an
edition of five cast before 1955, was sold by the Swedish trade
union, the Unionen, which had owned it for more than 50 years.
It fell to an unidentified telephone buyer.  Manzoni ‘Achrome’  Seventy-eight percent of the Italian lots sold, with a
1958-59 Manzoni “Achrome” selling to a telephone bid of 1.7
million pounds against a low estimate of 1.35 million pounds.  Christie’s  sold 86 percent of its contemporary pieces,
raising 19.6 million pounds against a low estimate of 16 million
pounds. A quarter of the works sold for hammer prices that were
above their high estimates.  “The auction house managed to keep the estimates more
realistic than June and there’s confidence among buyers,” the
New York-based dealer  Christophe van de Weghe  said. “People
really want to spend money on art again.”  Much presale attention had been focused on the 2006  Damien Hirst  “butterfly” painting, “I am become death, shatterer of
worlds.” The 17 foot (5 meter) abstract was estimated at as
much as 3.5 million pounds, making it the most valuable work by
the artist to have appeared at auction since 2008.  Featuring circular explosions of color inspired by nuclear
physicist  Robert Oppenheimer ’s quotation from the Bhagavad Gita,
it was being sold by a U.S. collector, Christie’s said.  Hirst ‘Butterfly’  On the night, it attracted little competition, selling to a
telephone bidder for 2.2 million pounds, against a low estimate
of 2.5 million pounds. Another Hirst butterfly work of the same
size sold for 4.7 million pounds at Phillips de Pury & Co. in
October 2007.  “We know that the market for Hirst is difficult,” van de
Weghe said. “It’s positive that it sold, and $3 million is a
lot of money for a painting.”  Four phone bidders fought for the 1991  Andreas Gursky 
photograph, “New York Stock Exchange,” that had formerly hung
in the London offices of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  It made
433,250 pounds, beating a top estimate of 150,000 pounds.  London-based dealer  Daniella Luxembourg  was a prominent
buyer. She paid 1.9 million pounds for a pair of 2005  Takashi Murakami  sculptures, “Kaikai Kiki” -- more than four times
their low estimate -- and 1.5 million pounds for the 1986  Jean- Michel Basquiat  mixed-media work, “Negro Period.”  Earlier in the day, dealers reported sales from the fourth
annual  Pavilion of Art & Design  fair in Berkeley Square.  Auerbach Nude  London-based dealer  Simon Dickinson  sold a 1965  Frank Auerbach  nude, “E.O.W. on Her Blue Eiderdown II,” as the fair
was opening to VIP visitors on Oct. 11. Dickinson wouldn’t
reveal the price of the thickly impasted oil; dealers said it
was marked between 1 million pounds and 2 million pounds.  The same price bracket was attached to each of the three
 Pablo Picasso  oil paintings sold by  Espace Nelombos  from Geneva.
The works, dating from the 1960s and consigned by private owners,
sold to collectors from Switzerland and the U.K.  The event in Mayfair is organized by French dealers and
comprises 50 traders in modern art, design and decorative arts.  “I want to live here,” the Pimlico Road design dealer
 Gordon Watson  said after selling 25 pieces by the fourth
afternoon of the event. “Initially it’s related to London-based
international shoppers, then a second group of rich clients who
don’t live in the U.K. come to the fair.”  Mick Jagger ’s girlfriend, fashion designer L’Wren Scott,
bought several pieces on the opening night, Watson said. Prices
at his booth range from 1,400 pounds to 24,000 pounds.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 