-- Bayer's Betaferon Extends MS Patient Lives, 21-Year Follow-Up Study Finds
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-10-15T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bayer-s-betaferon-extends-lives-21-year-follow-up-study-finds.html
Bayer AG ’s betaferon multiple
sclerosis treatment helped patients live longer when taken soon
after the onset of the disease in a study researchers said is
the first to show such a drug extends patients’ lives.  Patients who got betaferon soon after diagnosis were 39
percent less likely to be dead more than two decades later than
those who were given a placebo, researchers said in a study
released today at the  European Committee for Treatment and
Research in Multiple Sclerosis  meeting in Gothenburg, Sweden.  Long-term data establishing effectiveness and safety may
help differentiate older MS treatments like the Bayer drug,
approved in the U.S. in 1993, from newer treatments such as
Novartis AG’s pill Gilenya, lead researcher Anthony Reder,
director of the  University of Chicago MS Clinic , said in a
conference call with reporters.  “The number I’m giving you today is a bird in the hand,
here, with a very prominent effect,” Reder said.  Merck KGaA ’s Rebif and  Biogen Idec Inc. ’s Avonex, both beta
interferons in the same family as the Bayer drug, might also be
expected to show a similar survival benefit, Reder said. Merck,
based in Darmstadt, Germany, and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Biogen Idec haven’t tested survival over such a long time
window, he said. The data isn’t likely to come up in a shorter
trial because patients may live for a long time with the
debilitating neurological disease, he said.  With funding from Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany,
Reder and other researchers tracked down all but six of the 372
patients who participated in a betaferon trial in 1988, before
the drug was approved in the U.S. or Europe.  Initial Trial  In the initial trial, 249 patients were given a dose of
betaferon, while 123 were assigned to receive a placebo.
Patients were treated for a median of 3.8 years, with a maximum
of 5.1 years, before exiting the trial and getting a licensed
treatment, if any.  Bayer has said it expects sales of betaferon, sold in the
U.S. as betaseron, to drop between 5 percent and 10 percent this
year due to competition from generic copies and newer medicines.
The therapy was Bayer’s second-biggest-selling drug last year,
behind the Yaz family of birth-control pills, with 1.21 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) in sales.  Novartis’s Gilenya went on sale in the U.S. this month
after being approved Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.netnet  