-- Belarus Will `Undoubtedly' Sell Bonds in U.S., Asia as It Avoids IMF Loans
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-15T14:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/belarus-will-undoubtedly-sell-bonds-in-u-s-asia-as-it-avoids-imf-loans.html
Belarus plans to test the U.S. and
Asian debt markets, as well as selling ruble-denominated bonds,
as the government seeks to wean itself off international aid and
sustain economic growth.  “We will undoubtedly enter the Asian and the American
markets,” Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets said in an
interview today in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  Belarus is selling state-owned companies and Eurobonds to
help meet its financing needs after saying it won’t seek
additional loans from the International Monetary Fund. The IMF
agreed to loan Belarus $2.5 billion in December 2008 after
export revenue tumbled during the global financial crisis.  The economy is expected to grow 7.2 percent this year and
6.2 percent in 2011 after expanding 0.2 percent last year,
according to the IMF. The government had sought to achieve
growth of as much as 12 percent this year and keep inflation
below 10 percent, Economy Minister Nikolay Snopkov said May 18.  Belarus’s plan to sell as much as 15 billion rubles ($497
million) of bonds in November is a “logical step,” Kharkovets
said today. The government plans to sell ruble-denominated bonds
as it seeks “a new platform,” Kharkovets said.  “We use the ruble in common trade, so it’s a logical step
for us. In addition, it’s necessary to open this platform for
everyone. In this respect, this debut issue is of interest for
us and for the Russians.”  Moscow-based OAO Sberbank is organizing the first sale of
ruble-denominated sovereign bonds by a country other than
Russia.  Testing Markets  Belarus may also borrow in other currencies, Kharkovets
said.  “We undoubtedly will look at the market, consider it from
the point of view of our economy, and will issue in the currency
that will be optimal for us from the point of view of efficiency
of the deal,” he said. “I wouldn’t rush. Since we’ve entered
the market, we should test all the platforms.”  Belarus’ 8.75 percent bonds due 2015 yielded 7.74 percent
at 2:45 p.m. in Minsk. The country’s debt is rated B1, four
levels below investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service and
an equivalent B+ by Standard & Poor’s, the same level as Bosnia
& Herzegovina and Uganda.  “We are absolutely satisfied with how our paper is trading
today,” Kharkovets said. “We will work further to secure
reduction in the price.”  Last year, Belarus borrowed $230 million via bridge loan
from group of Russian banks because the country “didn’t have
time” to sell bonds, he said. It has no plans to borrow more
from Russian banks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  