-- Berkshire Billionaire's Son Battles Soros on California Ballot
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-15T15:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/berkshire-billionaire-munger-s-son-battles-soros-on-california-initiative.html
Charles Munger  Jr., son of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ’s  Charles Munger , is battling billionaire  George Soros , unions and Democratic Party leaders to strip
congressional redistricting powers from  California  lawmakers.  The younger Munger, 53, and his wife have spent $10 million
to win support on Nov. 2 for an initiative that puts the task of
reshaping California’s 53 U.S. representative districts into the
hands of the Citizens Redistricting Commission. A competing
measure backed by Soros and labor groups would erase the panel.  “I’m doing this to try to ensure voters have fair
districts where representatives will compete for offices,”
Munger said yesterday in a telephone interview from Palo Alto.
“Elected politicians are picking the voters, voters aren’t
picking their representatives.”  Munger has mailed 660,000 DVDs of  “Gerrymandering,”  a 77-
minute documentary, to regular voters in California in support
of  Proposition 20 , which would give the state panel, created by
a 2008 ballot measure, added power over congressional district
lines. With his wife, Charlotte Lowell, 53, they account for
most of the $10.5 million raised to support the initiative, the
California Secretary of State’s  website  shows.  Opponents also include  Haim Saban , the Los Angeles-based
media executive, and  Peter Angelos , the Baltimore Orioles owner.
State records show Soros and Angelos each gave $100,000 to back
Proposition 27, which would return legislative redistricting to
lawmakers. Saban loaned its supporters $2 million.  ‘Hasn’t Worked Out’  Saban supported the creation of the commission in 2008 but
now believes “it hasn’t worked out as intended because the
state’s diverse population has not been adequately represented
in the process of selecting members,” said a spokeswoman,
 Cassandra Bujarski , in an e-mail message.  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros in New York, didn’t
have an immediate comment when reached by telephone today.  Most of the $3.3 million raised for Proposition 27 came
from Democrats, their supporters and government unions such as
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees. AFSCME, as it’s known, donated $1.25 million, state
records show. The Democratic State Central Committee of
California gave $250,000 to the effort.  Calling the new commission “a boondoggle” that will cost
millions of dollars, U.S. Representative  Zoe Lofgren , a Democrat
from San Jose, said “it gives a boost to the Republican Party
out of proportion to their actual registration numbers.”  California records show about 7.53 million Democrats and
5.25 million Republicans among its 17 million  registered  voters.  ‘Unelected’ Body  Mandated by a 2008 ballot measure to draw state Assembly
and Senate districts, the panel will include five Republicans,
five Democrats and four members who aren’t from either party,
according to its  website . All will be chosen through a process
supervised by the state  auditor .  “The commission creates yet another unelected,
nonrepresentational, bureaucrat panel that will lead to even
more gridlock,” Lofgren said by e-mail.  Commissions redraw legislative districts or assist
lawmakers in doing so in 21 other U.S. states, according to the
Denver-based  National Conference of State Legislatures .  “None are exclusively drawn by citizens who aren’t
involved in politics,” said Eric McGhee, a research fellow at
the San Francisco-based  Public Policy Institute of California .
“Commission authorities are always constrained in some way.”  Previous ballot initiatives to change the way congressional
districts in California are designed have failed, according to
 Bruce Cain , who teaches politics at the  University of
California, Berkeley .  Outside the System  “It has often been the case that some maverick figure
introduces a redistricting measure,” Cain said in a telephone
interview. “It has always been people outside the system
offended by the process.”  Munger, a Republican, is a particle physics research
scientist with a doctorate from U.C. Berkeley. His father is
vice chairman of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway , where the
elder Munger has been a director since 1978. He owns about $1.64
billion in  shares , according to a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing this month.  The younger Munger said he never considered following his
father into the world of business. “Would you want to compete
with him?”  Munger was the largest individual contributor to the 2008
ballot initiative that created the redistricting panel, which is
still being constituted. He gave $1.3 million of the $6.5
million raised for it, according to state records. The
proposition won 51 percent of the vote.  Every 10 Years  Legislative districts are redrawn every 10 years based on
the decennial U.S. Census, to adjust for population shifts,
according to the California auditor’s website. Congressional
districts are also reshaped to account for changes in
population, based on the census.  Districts  designed by the new commission take effect for
the 2012 elections. Previously, state legislators designed the
districts.  Lowell, who said she isn’t a member of any political party,
said the couple believes extending the commission’s authority to
include  congressional districts  will lead to more competitive
elections and better representation for all.  “There’s no hidden agenda,” she said in a telephone
interview. “Neither of us has any intention of running for
office.”  “Gerrymandering,” which examines how politicians use the
 design of districts  to help them win elections, serves as an
educational tool for voters, Munger said.  “I thought it was a good movie and a nonpartisan look at
the problem,” he said yesterday, explaining why he paid to
distribute hundreds of thousands of copies in California. “It
was a useful way of educating the public.”  Chance Meeting  The film, begun in 2005, was independently financed,
director Jeffrey Reichert said in a telephone interview.
Reichert said he met Munger at a Republican election-night party
in California two years ago and later asked the scientist to
help finance distribution of the film. Reichert said he and the
film’s producers were initially reluctant to give away copies.
“You usually sell the DVD.”  They changed their minds after concluding more people would
see the film, which he said cost less to make than Munger’s
investment in distribution. Munger is also sponsoring its
theatrical  release  today in four California cities including Los
Angeles, Reichert said. It will also debut in New York.  ‘Patriotic Act’  More than 100 e-mails have been sent complementing him on
“Gerrymandering,” Reichert said. One called the movie “‘the
single most patriotic act ever committed off the battlefield,’”
he said.  In the event both propositions pass, the one with the
highest number of yes votes will take effect, according to a
voter information guide distributed by the state. There have
been no major voter surveys on the topic.  “It’s very difficult to predict which way it will go,”
said  Jack Pitney , a politics professor at Claremont McKenna
College in Claremont, California. “Most voters don’t have the
faintest idea of how districting is done in the first place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  