-- Bernanke Sees Case for `Further Action' With Too-Low Inflation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-10-15T16:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bernanke-sees-case-for-further-action-on-economy-with-too-low-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said additional monetary stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said today in remarks to a
Boston Fed conference. He said the central bank could expand
asset purchases or change the language in its statement, while
saying “nonconventional policies have costs and limitations
that must be taken into account in judging whether and how
aggressively they should be used.”  Bernanke’s speech fueled speculation that the Fed will
embark on a second round of monetary easing next month. By
emphasizing the Fed’s caution and inexperience with its
unconventional tools, Bernanke is indicating a preference for
taking a “buy-as-you-go approach” with purchases of bonds,
said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York.  “In light of the Fed’s move into uncharted territory,” it
“wants to maintain maximum flexibility,” LaVorgna said in a
note to clients. The Fed will probably announce another round of
large-scale asset purchases in November. Such a program may
include a monthly, quarterly or inter-meeting purchase target,
he said.  Bernanke didn’t offer new details on how those strategies
would be executed or signal the central bank will act at its
Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Stimulate Economy  After lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying
$1.7 trillion of securities, policy makers are discussing
expanding the Fed’s balance sheet by purchasing Treasuries and
strategies for raising inflation expectations, according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 21 meeting.  “At current rates of inflation, the constraint imposed by
the zero lower bound on nominal interest rates is too tight”
and the “risk of deflation is higher than desirable,” Bernanke
said. “High unemployment is currently forecast to persist for
some time.”  A smaller-than-forecast increase in the cost of living
reported today by the Labor Department punctuated Bernanke’s
concern that inflation is too low.  The consumer-price index rose 0.1 percent in September
after 0.3 percent gains in the prior two months, figures from
the Labor Department showed. Economists projected a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Excluding volatile food and fuel costs, the rate was
unchanged for a second month.  Fed’s Preference  Fed officials’ long-term preferred range for the inflation
rate is about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  “The CPI number will only add to the expectation” that
the Fed will take action,  Gary Jenkins , head of fixed-income at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail.
Bernanke is “saying, ‘We are going to do it, but we don’t quite
know exactly how we are going to do it.’”  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  rose 0.1 percent to
1,175.25 at 12:33 p.m. in New York trading. Treasuries fell
after data showed U.S. retail sales gained more than forecast in
September. The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note climbed four
basis points to 2.55 percent.  ‘Front-Run’ Decision  Bernanke “can’t front-run a decision if it hasn’t been
made yet, and he’s got a democratic committee, a committee that
has a wide range of views,”  Vincent Reinhart , former Fed
monetary-affairs director, said on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop with  Betty Liu .”  Since the FOMC’s last meeting in September, New York Fed
President  William Dudley , Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago’s
 Charles Evans  have indicated they favor further action.
Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser and Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  have suggested they oppose additional
measures. The Kansas City Fed’s  Thomas Hoenig  has voted against
the FOMC’s decisions for the past six meetings.  “Some of the specifics market participants want to hear
haven’t been decided on yet,” Reinhart said. Still, “the
decision to ease quantitatively is pretty much baked in the cake
unless the data turned out to be extremely surprising between
now” and the FOMC meeting.  Inflation Expectations  Fed officials, concerned that expectations of lower
inflation will become self-fulfilling, are debating whether to
encourage Americans to believe that prices will start rising at
a faster pace so that they would spend more of their money now,
the minutes from last month’s meeting showed. That would reduce
inflation-adjusted interest rates and stimulate the economy.  “Central bank communication provides additional means of
increasing the degree of policy accommodation,” Bernanke said.
“A step the Committee could consider, if conditions called for
it, would be to modify the language of the statement in some way
that indicates that  the Committee  expects to keep the target for
the federal funds rate low for longer than markets expect.”  Still, it “may be difficult to convey the Committee’s
policy intentions with sufficient precision and
conditionality,” he said.  The central bank could also expand its securities  holdings ,
which has in the past been “successful” at lowering interest
rates, Bernanke said. The Fed doesn’t have much experience with
that tool, which makes it difficult to decide the “appropriate
quantity and pace of purchases and to communicate this policy
response to the public,” he said.  Dual Objectives  Bernanke said that “despite these challenges, the Federal
Reserve remains committed to pursuing policies that promote our
dual objectives of maximum employment and price stability.”  The Fed’s September statement was the first in almost two
years of near-zero interest rates to say that too-low inflation
would merit looser monetary policy.  Low inflation means firms have little pricing power.
Target Corp., the second-biggest discount retailer behind Wal-
Mart Stores Inc., said last week that it would lower prices on
more than 1,000 toys to attract shoppers. Its larger rival
responded this week with its own discounts, advertising savings
on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  Fed staff economists reduced their U.S. growth forecast for
the third straight meeting in September. The economy will grow
at a slower pace than previously projected in the second half of
2010 and next year, the minutes said.  Fed governors  and regional
presidents last presented economic projections in June and will
revise their predictions at the Nov. 2-3 meeting.  ‘Less Vigorous’  “Overall economic growth has been proceeding at a pace
that is less vigorous than we would like,” Bernanke said.  “Consumer spending has been inhibited by the painfully
slow recovery in the labor market” and “with long-run
inflation expectations stable and with substantial resource
slack continuing to restrain cost pressures, it seems likely
that inflation trends will remain subdued for some time,” he
said.  Bernanke cast doubt on the notion that the unemployment
rate has stalled at or above 9.5 percent since August 2009
because of structural changes, a debate that has divided the
FOMC. Evans and Rosengren have downplayed the role of structural
changes in recent speeches, while Plosser and Minneapolis’s
 Narayana Kocherlakota  have said shifts in the labor market may
reduce the effectiveness of additional Treasury purchases.  “We see little evidence that the reallocation of workers
across industries and regions is particularly pronounced
relative to other periods of recession, suggesting that the pace
of structural change is not greater than normal,” Bernanke
said.  “Overall, my assessment is that the bulk of the increase
in  unemployment  since the recession began is attributable to the
sharp contraction in economic activity.”  Worst Recession  While the National Bureau of Economic Research said last
month that the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression
ended in June 2009, economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.7
percent rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first
period. The growth figures are adjusted for changes in prices;
nominal gross domestic product doesn’t adjust for inflation.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on Oct. 13 projected
growth will average 2.7 percent this year and 2.45 percent in
2011, according to the median forecast.  Bernanke echoed the language of the central bank’s
September statement by saying that “the FOMC is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery and to return inflation over time to levels
consistent with our mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  