-- Bernanke Ponders `Crapshoot' as Fed Seeks to Support Prices
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bernanke-considers-crapshoot-as-fed-seeks-to-keep-inflation-from-slowing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  once advocated setting an inflation target to keep
prices from rising too fast. Now he may get the Fed to adopt a
target to keep the inflation rate from falling.  Bernanke gives a speech on monetary-policy tools today,
three days after minutes of the Fed’s Sept. 21 meeting showed
policy makers discussed “providing more detailed information
about the rates of inflation” that officials consider
consistent with stable prices and maximum employment. The
objective would be to boost inflation expectations and stimulate
the economy, the minutes said.  Announcing an inflation goal as a way to accelerate rather
than slow price increases has a scant track record outside of
Japan’s efforts to beat deflation over the past decade. Fed
officials are considering the move alongside a resumption of
large-scale asset purchases intended to spur growth and lower
 unemployment  stuck near a 26-year high.  “It’s pretty much a crapshoot,” former Fed Governor  Lyle Gramley , now senior economic adviser at Potomac Research group
in Washington, said of using an inflation target to support
prices. “We don’t really have any background of history to know
how it’s going to work.” Still, “it’s worth trying.”  Bernanke, 56, is scheduled to speak at 8:15 a.m. at the
Boston Fed’s annual economic conference. His topic is “Monetary
Policy Objectives and Tools in a Low-Inflation Environment.”
The Fed’s  Open Market Committee  next meets in Washington Nov. 2-
3.  Little Pricing Power  The minutes of last month’s meeting signaled concern among
officials about too-low inflation: The report said businesses
had “little pricing power” to pass on costs of some
commodities and imported goods. Also, declining short-term
inflation expectations would increase short-term real interest
rates, after taking inflation into account, the minutes said.  Bond traders’ inflation expectations for the next five
years, measured by the breakeven rate between nominal and
inflation-indexed bonds, rose to 1.68 percent yesterday, the
highest level since June, from 1.47 percent on Oct. 12, when the
minutes were released.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
 confidence  survey showed consumers in September expected an
inflation rate of 2.2 percent over the next 12 months, the
lowest in a year and down from 2.7 percent in August.  New York Fed President  William Dudley , in an Oct. 1 speech,
listed setting a target for higher inflation as one option for
stimulating the economy. While the strategy may avert deflation,
or an outright decline in prices, it also risks pushing interest
rates higher if investors conclude the Fed “was tinkering with
its long-run inflation objective,” he said.  Ranks Low  Boosting inflation ranks low among incentives for companies
to increase investment, said  Martin Regalia , chief economist at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington.  “We’re starting to talk about some true  Buck Rogers 
monetary policy,” Regalia said, referring to the fictional
25th-century space explorer. “We haven’t spent a whole lot of
time dealing with these more esoteric approaches to Fed
policy.”  The Fed in March ended its program of large-scale asset
purchases after buying more than $1.7 trillion in Treasuries and
mortgage debt. In August, as the economy slowed, it decided to
buy Treasuries to replace maturing mortgage debt and keep asset
holdings stable at about $2 trillion.  Just two months ago, Bernanke dismissed a proposal by some
economists to raise the Fed’s inflation goal.  Squandering Credibility  “Such a strategy is inappropriate for the United States in
current circumstances” and could end up “squandering the Fed’s
hard-won inflation credibility,” Bernanke said in an Aug. 27
speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  The European Central Bank  and Bank of England are among
central banks that target an inflation rate through monetary
policy. The Fed, by contrast, has no formal inflation objective;
instead, Fed officials state a long-run inflation rate they see
as consistent with achieving stable prices and maximum
employment.  While Bernanke backed inflation targeting as an academic
and a Fed governor, he failed to gain a consensus for one after
becoming chairman. Instead, policy makers decided in 2007 to
expand their forecasts to include new “long run” projections
for growth, inflation and  unemployment . Currently, policy makers
prefer an inflation rate of about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  Bernanke may be drawing on work that he and other
economists did a decade ago, exploring solutions to deflation in
Japan.  ‘Foolproof’ Plan  Lars Svensson , a former Bernanke colleague at Princeton
University who is now deputy governor of Sweden’s central bank,
said in a 2000 paper that inflation targeting is part of a
“foolproof” plan for escaping a liquidity trap -- if paired
with devaluating the currency and pegging the exchange rate. In
a liquidity trap, additions to the money supply fail to
stimulate the economy.  In 2001, the Bank of Japan committed to keeping interest
rates low until  consumer prices , excluding fresh food,
stabilized at or above zero percent. The BOJ raised its key rate
from near zero in 2006 as the country emerged from more than
seven years of deflation and doubled it to 0.5 percent in 2007.  The BOJ lowered the rate again in 2008 to 0.1 percent, and
the country has since relapsed into deflation. On Oct. 5, the
central bank pledged to hold its benchmark rate at “virtually
zero” until officials foresee a sustained end to deflation.  The Bank of Japan could have been more effective if it had
targeted inflation of at least 1 percent,  Kazuo Ueda , a policy
maker there from 1998 to 2005, said in a paper prepared for the
Boston Fed conference, which concludes tomorrow.  Two Other Tools  In the September minutes, the Fed mentioned two other
possible ways to raise inflation expectations: targeting the
level of prices, as opposed to the rate of change, and targeting
nominal gross domestic product, which isn’t adjusted for
inflation. By targeting the price level, the central bank would
offset below-goal inflation in one period with faster price
increases later on.  Price-level targeting has almost no history outside of
Sweden, which in the 1930s used it to stop deflation, along with
abandoning the gold standard and cutting interest rates,
according to a 1998 paper by  Claes Berg  and  Lars Jonung  of
Sveriges Riksbank, the country’s central bank.  Allan Meltzer , a Fed historian and professor at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said a strategy of trying to
boost inflation would be “foolish.”  “We’ve known at least since the 1960s that higher
inflation will not give us a permanent reduction in
unemployment,” said Meltzer. “We’re not going to have high
inflation under any circumstances until people start to borrow
money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  