-- Best CPI-Linked Bonds Overlooking Data-Rigging Concerns: Argentina Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-15T19:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/best-cpi-linked-bonds-overlook-data-inaccuracy-concerns-argentina-credit.html
Argentine  inflation-linked bonds are
posting the best returns in emerging markets even as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Moody’s Investors Service say the
government’s data on  consumer prices  are inaccurate.  The securities returned 44 percent in local currency terms
this year, more than double the 15 percent gain in Barclays
Plc’s nine developing-country inflation debt index. Turkish debt
returned 20 percent, Mexican securities climbed 17 percent and
Brazilian notes rose 13 percent, according to the index.  While Goldman estimates Argentine inflation is running more
than twice as fast as the government says and Moody’s cites the
reliability of the statistics in holding back an upgrade, the
rate investors earn on the bonds is too high to pass up,
according to  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-income research at
Bulltick Capital Markets. Argentina’s consumer price-linked
bonds due in 2018 yield 7.58 percent, providing investors with
an annual payout of about 19 percent when adding the official
11.1 percent annual inflation rate in September.  “When you start looking around the world, you can’t find
anything that pays you the same kind of return, you just can’t
find it,” said  Bernal , who joined Bulltick, a Miami-based
brokerage that focuses on Latin America, in 2008. “Even if
nothing happens, if the government doesn’t change the way they
report inflation, yields are still attractive.”  ‘Serious Inflation’  The official inflation rate compares with the 25 percent
level estimated by  Alberto Ramos , a Goldman Sachs economist in
New York, and Ecolatina, a Buenos Aires-based research company
that tracks the prices of about 5,000 goods and services. South
America’s second-biggest economy faces a “serious inflation
challenge,” Ramos said in a Sept. 15 report.  Argentines expect prices to rise 30 percent over the next
year, according to a monthly survey published yesterday by
Buenos Aires-based  Torcuato Di Tella University . The Oct. 1-12
poll of 1,209 people had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage
points.  Barclays’s Emerging Markets Government Inflation-Linked
Bond Index tracks debt from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia,
Mexico, Poland, South Africa, South Korea and Turkey.  Yields on Argentina’s consumer price-linked bonds due in
2018 compare with 5.78 percent on government inflation-linked
debt due in 2017 in Brazil, where annual inflation was 4.7
percent in September. Argentina’s national statistics institute
reported today in Buenos Aires that consumer prices rose 11.1
percent in September from a year ago, meeting the median
estimate of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Officials at the Economy Ministry didn’t respond to
messages left by Bloomberg seeking a comment. Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  said in an April 14 interview that the data is
accurate.  20 Percent  “Whatever alternative estimates of inflation people work
with, in the end they match the formal ones pretty well because
in terms of the yield on these bonds you’re still getting
something in the 20 percent range,” said  Daniel Volberg , an
economist with Morgan Stanley in New York.  Doubts about the accuracy of official inflation in
Argentina makes the comparison of inflation-linked debt in the
country to other nations’ bonds not “valid,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who manages about $6 billion of emerging-market debt,
including Argentine inflation-linked securities, at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc in London.  “Argentine linkers are kind of a false construct,”
Gutierrez said. “Inflation in Argentina is what the government
wants it to be.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 575 at 3:37 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 21 basis points
yesterday to 689, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.08 cents to 12.45
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA, a Buenos Aires-based
manufacturer of turbines and generators, sold $50 million of
bonds in a re-opening of its 10.375 percent debt due in 2020,
according to a person familiar with the offering. The debt was
sold at 99 cents on the dollar to yield 10.54 percent, according
to the data.  Provincial Bonds  Buenos Aires province sold $250 million of bonds on Oct. 13
in a re-opening of its 11.75 percent securities due in 2015,
according to a person familiar with the offering. The province
sold the securities to yield 11.5 percent, said the person, who
declined to be identified because he’s not allowed to speak
publicly. Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG managed the
offering, the person said.  Argentina’s economy  expanded  an average of 8.5 percent per
year from 2003 to 2008 and grew 0.9 percent last year, amid a
global financial crisis that hurt the country’s exports. The
central bank said the economy will expand 9.5 percent this year,
the most since 1992, fueled by a record soybean crop, rising
industrial production and domestic consumption.  Doubts about the accuracy of Argentina’s inflation data is
one reason the country’s debt rating is unlikely to be raised in
the “short term,”  Gabriel Torres , an analyst at Moody’s, said
Oct. 7 at an event in Buenos Aires. Moody’s rates the country
B3, six levels below investment grade.  Inflation-linked bonds are surging in part because concerns
over the accuracy of the data will probably prevent the
government from selling more of the debt, Volberg said.  “Because of questions about the quality of the inflation
statistics in Argentina, there’s not a great deal of demand for
new issuance,” he said. “It’s unlikely that you’re going to
get a great deal of supply in the near term so the bonds benefit
from that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  