-- BG, Santos Maintain Target for Coal-to-Gas Project Approval in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-15T03:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bg-santos-maintain-target-for-coal-to-gas-project-approval-in-australia.html
BG Group Plc  said it “remains
confident” that Australian Environment Minister  Tony Burke  will
stick to his deadline and decide by Oct. 22 whether to approve
the company’s proposed Queensland state natural-gas project.  BG, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer, hasn’t
received any indication the decision will be delayed again, its
Brisbane-based unit said in an e-mail today.  Santos Ltd. , the
Adelaide-based company planning a rival liquefied natural gas
development in Queensland, also continues to expect an October
ruling, spokesman  Matthew Doman  said by phone.  Burke extended a review of the ventures after being
appointed to the post by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  on Sept.
11. The decisions previously had been expected by Oct. 11, after
a deferral in July by former Environment Minister  Peter Garrett .  BG and Santos are due to decide by the end of the year
whether to proceed with the projects, which would convert gas
extracted from coal seams into liquid.  Origin Energy Ltd.  and
ConocoPhillips also plan an LNG development in Queensland aimed
at tapping Asian demand for the cleaner-burning fuel.  While the Queensland state government already cleared the
BG and Santos ventures, then Coordinator-General Colin Jensen
raised concerns that the “significant” amount of water and
salt extracted in the process could pose environmental risks.  Australia’s new environment minister may again postpone a
decision to give BG and Santos approval for their projects, the
Australian Financial Review reported in its Street Talk column
today, without saying where it got the information.  The target of Oct. 22 hasn’t changed, the Australian
environment department said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 