-- BHP, Rio Likely to Abandon Iron-Ore Venture After Objections, Lawyers Say
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-15T14:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bhp-rio-likely-to-abandon-iron-ore-venture-amid-opposition-lawyers-say.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto
Group , the largest and third-largest mining companies, are
likely to abandon plans to create an iron-ore joint venture
after complaints from regulators, lawyers said.  Japanese and German antitrust authorities said yesterday
they oppose the deal. The European Commission will also raise
formal objections to the 50-50 venture, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  “There is such resistance on a global scale and it’s all
coming together at the same time,” said David Anderson, a
Brussels-based partner at Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP, who isn’t
involved in the deal. “It’s very difficult to imagine the
transaction going through as currently proposed.”  Rio and  BHP , the world’s second- and third-largest
producers of iron ore, say they would save at least $10 billion
in costs by combining their mines, railroads and ports in the
remote Pilbara region of Western Australia. The deal requires
regulatory and shareholder approval and has been opposed by
steelmakers in Europe and Asia.  European Union regulators informed the companies today
about the results of a preliminary antitrust probe, said  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the  commission  in Brussels. The EU
agency may issue a formal complaint within days, said people
with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been made public.  ‘Next Steps’  “We can confirm that both BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto met
the European Commission today,” BHP said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Both parties will be giving full consideration to
the matters discussed in the meeting. No decisions on next steps
have been made.”  Tony Shaffer , a London-based Rio Tinto spokesman, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  BHP, based in Melbourne, and London-based Rio said 
yesterday they “noted with disappointment yesterday’s statement
by the German Federal Cartel Office that its current intention
is to prohibit” the venture.  The European steelmakers’ group Eurofer said today that the
joint venture “could not be made to work in competition terms”
because “it effectively would have created a duopoly with the
global iron ore market in the hands of just two companies” with
Brazil’s Vale SA as the only major rival to BHP and Rio for
steel’s main ingredient.  Eurofer said it was “confident” the EU commission would
soon follow Germany and prohibit the deal.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “They were always on an uphill battle,” Matthew Hall, a
partner at  McGuireWoods LLP  in Brussels, said of the joint
venture. “These are obviously two of the biggest in the world
with huge concentration of very important production assets.”  Hall said the companies’ offer to keep selling steel
independently doesn’t seem to have done enough to allay
regulators’ concerns about lack of competition “because they
are selling from the same cost base.”  For BHP, this could be the second time that regulatory
fears have forced it to ditch plans for Rio. It abandoned a $66
billion hostile bid for Rio in 2008 after the EU objected unless
the companies sold off iron ore and coal assets. BHP blamed
Rio’s high level of debt and economic uncertainty for its change
of mind.  Paul Galloway , a mining analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London, said a full merger between the two companies could be
possible in several years’ time when he says new iron ore
suppliers may enter the market.  “You get a lower price environment where the steel mills
aren’t hopping up and down, a more deconsolidated market which
means the antitrust barriers are lowering,” Galloway said.  Takeover Offer  Ditching the joint venture makes it more likely that BHP
could try a takeover offer again and accept the divestments
demanded by regulators, Galloway said.  “The company would accept almost anything” to get higher
volumes in the iron ore market, Galloway said in a telephone
interview.  Berwin Leighton’s Anderson said the strong antitrust
concerns from several global regulators about the deal mean
there “would have to have a significant change in
circumstances” to alter the market power of major iron-ore
suppliers and make a deal possible.  The two companies agreed in June 2009 to the venture, with
BHP agreeing to pay Rio a $5.8 billion so-called equalization
payment. The original accord will terminate if the conditions of
the deal aren’t satisfied by Dec. 31, the companies said when
they announced the plan. The venture, initially due to be
completed by mid-2010, has been delayed as authorities from
Australia to Europe study the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 