-- BHP May Revive Rio Takeover Bid If Ore Venture Is Blocked, Bernstein Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-15T12:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bhp-may-revive-rio-takeover-bid-if-ore-venture-is-blocked-bernstein-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, may revive a takeover bid for  Rio Tinto
Group  in 2013 should their planned Australian iron-ore venture
fail to get approval, according to Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  The proposed joint venture, which received objections from
regulators in Japan and Germany yesterday, is now likely to be
blocked, Bernstein analyst  Paul Galloway  wrote in a report
today. BHP could revisit a takeover bid in 2013 as new iron-ore
supplies will have curbed price gains and Rio’s  shares  may
underperform  BHP ’s in such a scenario, he said.  The dominance of the three biggest iron-ore exporters,  Vale
SA , Rio and BHP, may also have waned by 2013, lowering antitrust
hurdles, and BHP should have repaid debt from its proposed
takeover of  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  by then, Bernstein
said. BHP abandoned a $66 billion hostile bid for Rio in 2008,
citing Rio’s high level of debt and economic uncertainty.  Any renewed takeover bid would again require it to dispose
of some assets to satisfy regulators, Bernstein said in the
report.  BHP and Rio yesterday “noted with disappointment” a
statement from the German Federal Cartel Office that it intended
to prohibit their proposed joint venture, which would combine
mines, railroads and ports in the Pilbara region of Western
Australia, saving the companies at least $10 billion in costs.
No decision on any “next steps” had been made, London-based
Rio and Melbourne-based BHP said in a joint statement.  Plan B  The 50-50 venture was agreed on in June 2009 with BHP
agreeing to pay Rio $5.8 billion in an equalization payment. The
two companies have already agreed on a so-called Plan B,
involving sharing infrastructure and blending ore, Bernstein
said.  BHP  probably has more to gain from such an arrangement,
according to the report.  Germany’s antitrust body told the mine operators of its
concerns and will send a letter of objection next week, the
regulator’s spokesman  Kay Weidner  said yesterday. European Union
steelmakers, who use iron ore to produce the metal, are
“confident” the EU will also oppose the plan following the
announcement from Germany, industry lobby group Eurofer said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The EU is “informing parties” of its findings in a
“preliminary investigation” into the venture, European
Commission spokeswoman  Amelia Torres  said in Brussels today. She
said the commission takes note of the German regulator’s
statement that it may block the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  