-- Bank Bonus Plans Fail to Curb Financial Risks, Regulators Say
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-15T08:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/big-banks-may-escape-capital-surcharge-as-global-regulators-fail-to-agree.html
Banks are failing to implement bonus
plans that rein in the types of risks blamed for contributing to
the financial crisis, a group of global banking regulators said.  The principle of matching pay to risk “has proven to be
challenging” the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
designed global bank capital rules, said in a statement on its
website yesterday. “As of October 2010, effective
implementation” of such bonus practices “has not been
achieved.”  Lawmakers around the world have blamed bonuses for the
excessive risk-taking that contributed to the worst financial
crisis since World War II. The  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  last week said that bankers should be able to get a
maximum of a quarter of their bonus in an immediate cash payout.  Banks should defer share awards to employees for “a
sufficiently long” time “to ensure that appropriate incentives
are built” and to “truly differentiate” the shares from a
cash payment, the committee recommended.  Regulators are still grappling with “the best feasible
way” to control guaranteed bonuses for new employees, the
report said. This “remains an open question,” the committee,
based in Basel, Switzerland said.  Limits on cash bonuses and “timelines of payouts in
themselves do little to curb individual incentives for excessive
risk-taking though they are steps in the right direction,” said
Sony Kapoor, managing director of policy think-tank Re-Define
Europe.  “Risk-Takers”  The Basel committee said that rules forcing bankers to pay
back their bonuses if the bank experiences a financial crisis
should apply to all “material risk-takers” in a bank, not just
“senior executives or traders.”  “These could be either individual employees or groups of
employees who may not pose a risk to the financial soundness of
an institution on an individual basis,” the report said.  The  Basel  Committee, which is made up of bank regulators
from around the world, reached an agreement Sept. 12 for rules
that more than double capital requirements for banks, while
giving them as long as eight years to comply. Germany had sought
to give firms a decade to make the transition, while the U.S.,
U.K. and Switzerland pushed for a maximum of five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 