-- BofA Says Added Foreclosure Costs `Grossly Distorted,' Stands by Policies
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-15T19:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bofa-says-added-foreclosure-costs-grossly-distorted-stands-by-policies.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s head of home
lending said outside estimates of costs stemming from delays in
foreclosures are “grossly distorted.”  Reviews of foreclosures will delay fewer than 30,000 sales,
said  Barbara Desoer , president of Bank of America’s home lending
and insurance unit. Desoer didn’t specify which estimates she
believes are imprecise. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based
lender will rework 102,000 pending foreclosure affidavits in 23
states and stands by the accuracy of its procedures, she said.  Bank of America shares  declined  about 9 percent this week,
reaching their lowest level in more than a year, amid growing
scrutiny of foreclosure practices and speculation that investors
may force lenders to buy back faulty loans. The lender, the
biggest in the U.S. by assets, said Oct. 8 it would stop
foreclosure sales nationally pending a review of its practices
over the next few weeks.  Federal banking regulators and a group assembled by
attorneys general from all 50 states are investigating whether
employees of lenders including  Ally Financial Inc.,   JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and Bank of America have falsified documents used in
foreclosure proceedings.  “We believe that our assessment shows the basis for past
foreclosure decisions is accurate,” Desoer said in an interview
today. “The type of borrower in that 30,000 is somebody who
hasn’t made a payment in an extended period of time.”  Outside Help  The bank has hired independent companies to study its loan
documents and processes, Desoer said, declining to elaborate.
Because of the bank’s  earnings announcement  scheduled for Oct.
19, she said she couldn’t provide more details on costs from
foreclosure delays.  “We are pulling 102,000 foreclosure affidavits that we
will rework and get reinserted so that the judgments can take
place,” she said. “We wanted to give all of our customers
confidence that they are being treated fairly.”  Delays tied to the probes may cost U.S. lenders $2 billion
for every month, said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia. He estimated the cost of
extending foreclosures is $1,000 monthly for each property in
the pipeline.  About 195,000 borrowers at Bank of America haven’t made a
mortgage payment in more than two years, Desoer said, which she
attributed to prolonged economic difficulties and high
unemployment. More than 56,000 of those borrowers have already
vacated their homes pending final foreclosure action, she said.  Valid Practices  Bank of America, which handles billing and collection for
1.4 million home loans, is also confident that industry
practices in transferring home loans to securitization trusts
are valid, Desoer said, citing comments from the bank’s outside
law firms and the American Securitization Forum, whose members
include banks, investors and ratings firms. Reports of defective
documents have raised concerns that courts will be jammed with
suits contesting property rights because procedural mistakes
cloud titles establishing ownership.  “I’m not sure there are any lost notes,” she said,
referring to the promissory notes that entitle the holder to
seek repayment of a mortgage. Attorneys seeking to help
borrowers avoid foreclosure have said banks have violated
federal and state laws by recreating notes when they can’t
locate the original documents.  Bank of America  declined  69 cents, or 5.5 percent, to
$11.91 at 3:11 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  