-- Bovespa Completes Longest Rally Since May 2009 as Serra Advances in Polls
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-15T20:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/bovespa-stock-index-futures-increase-on-china-foreign-direct-investment.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index climbed
for a fifth day, completing the longest stretch of weekly gains
since May 2009, as utilities rallied on speculation  Jose Serra 
may win the presidential election, boosting the outlook for
state companies.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA , the state-controlled
utility known as Eletrobras, posted the biggest three-day gain
since December as investors bet that a Serra victory would buoy
earnings in the industry. The MSCI gauges of Brazil utilities
and phone shares were the only two of nine industries to rise.
Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes  surged
to a record, defying a real-estate rout, as JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said it will gain more than peers as valuations rise.  The  Bovespa  gained 0.2 percent to 71,830.18 reais, the
highest level since June 2008, as of the 4 p.m. New York time
close. The measure rose 1.4 percent since Oct. 8 for its seventh
weekly gain. Twenty-seven stocks climbed on the index while 38
fell. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.6661 per dollar.  “With a Serra government, you have room for privatizations
and less pressure for companies to have political commitments,”
said  Fausto Gouveia , who helps manage 200 million reais ($121
million) in stocks at Legan Administracao de Recursos in Sao
Paulo. “The electricity sector is highly state-controlled.
Serra would be better for these stocks.”  Utilities Rally  Eletrobras , Latin America’s largest utility, rose 5.2
percent to 30.72 reais, climbing for a fifth day in the longest
streak since last November.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , the
state-controlled electricity utility serving Minas Gerais state,
gained 2.7 percent to 29.26 reais, the highest level in 10
months.  PDG Realty , the homebuilder that agreed to buy Agre
Empreendimentos Imobiliarios SA, gained 2.3 percent to 22.50
reais after JPMorgan said the company remains its top pick in
the industry, while cutting its recommendations on others after
they outperformed. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  surged 37
percent from June 30 through yesterday, compared to an increase
of 18 percent from the Bovespa.  The Bovespa slumped as much as 0.5 percent earlier today as
PDG’s rivals tumbled.  Gafisa SA  slid 0.1 percent to 14.64 reais
after being lowered to “neutral” at JPMorgan, while  Cyrela
Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  lost 1.2
percent to 25.56 reais after JPMorgan cut it to “underweight.”
 MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA  dropped 1.6 percent to 18
reais after being cut to “hold” from “buy” at Citigroup Inc.  Serra’s Surge  Serra’s surge in presidential election polls is also
sparking the biggest rally in Brazilian bonds in two months.
Brazilians are preparing for a second-round election later this
month after an Oct. 3 vote failed to produce a decisive winner.  Yields on real-denominated government bonds due in 2014
tumbled 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage point, yesterday,
the most since August, after polls in the past week by Sensus,
Ibope, Datafolha and Vox Populi showed Serra cut into a 14-
percentage point gap with  Dilma Rousseff  ahead of the Oct. 31
runoff vote.  Serra’s advance is buoying bonds because he has pledged to
be fiscally “responsible” while Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked successor, said in August that
promoting spending cuts was a “crime,” according to  Jerry Brewin , who manages $2 billion of emerging-market assets at
Aviva Investors in London.  The  Bovespa  index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 11 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 14.4 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.3 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  