-- Brazil Clown's Record Vote May Not Be Enough to Take Congressional Seat
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-10-15T22:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/brazil-clown-s-record-vote-may-not-be-enough-to-take-congressional-seat.html
A Brazilian clown’s record vote in
this month’s congressional elections shouldn’t be enough to
ensure him a  seat  in the legislature if he can’t prove he knows
how to read and write, a Sao Paulo public  prosecutor  said.  Francisco Everardo Oliveira Silva, widely known as his
character Tiririca, garnered 1.4 million votes in the Oct. 3
vote, more than any other candidate nationwide. He won the lower
house seat for the state of Sao Paulo after appearing as a clown
in campaign ads and using the punch line “It can’t get any
worse.”  Tiririca has until Oct. 23 to defend himself from charges
of forging a hand-written document used to prove he is not
illiterate, public prosecutor Mauricio Lopes said in an
interview today.  “I have technical analysis that shows the document was
possibly written by someone else, not him,” Lopes said in a
telephone interview today. “Presenting false documents is an
electoral crime.”  Brazilian law prohibits  illiterate people  from running for
office. The electoral court of Sao Paulo, Brazil’s wealthiest
and most populous state, accepted on Oct. 4 formal charges that
the handwriting on Tiririca’s autograph is different from court
documents in which he says he can read and write.  Assuming His Seat  The charges don’t prevent the clown from assuming his seat
in Congress, judge Aloisio Rezende said, according to a
statement on the electoral court’s  website . Only a conviction
sustained on appeal would bar him from serving out his term,
Rezende said.  Tiririca is a member of the Party of the Republic, or PR,
which forms part of President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s
governing coalition in congress. On Oct. 13, a spokesman for his
party, Vladimir Porfirio, said the clown is literate and that
the PR was working on his defense.  Under Brazil’s open-list proportional representations
system, Tiririca’s vote total was enough to elect three PR
representatives besides him to the 513-seat lower house. Should
the clown eventually be barred from Congress, all votes he got
should be considered null and his three party cohorts removed,
prosecutor Lopes said.  Tiririca, a slang term that means “grumpy” in Portuguese,
was the nickname given to Francisco by his mother because he was
constantly in a bad mood as a child. Born in the northeastern
state of Ceara, one of seven brothers, he started working as a
clown as a child and owned his own circus at the age of 16,
according to his website.  In the 1990’s, he became popular in Brazil with a song that
won him a record deal and several roles on national TV programs.  “What does a federal representative do? Actually, I don’t
know,” Tiririca said in TV ads during the campaign. “But vote
for me and I’ll find out,” he vowed, while  dancing  around and
saying that if elected he would help the most needy, including
his own family.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  