-- Broadcom, CSR, SpeechSwitch: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-15T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/broadcom-speechswitch-lime-wire-j-k-rowling-intellectual-property.html
Broadcom Corp. , a microchip maker,
was sued by the U.K.’s  CSR Plc  alleging infringement of four
U.S. patents protecting global positioning system and telephone
headset inventions.  CSR, with offices in Cambridge, England, asked for a jury
trial, unspecified damages and an order to stop Broadcom from
using the technology, in a complaint filed Oct. 13 in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “Broadcom has caused, and will continue to cause, CSR
irreparable injury and damages” including “lost profits and
diminution of the rights granted” by the patents, CSR said in
court papers.  The technology is used for mobile telephones, media players
and  Bluetooth  devices, CSR contends in the suit.  A U.S. appeals court in April upheld a finding that SiRF
violated Broadcom patents and an import ban on the chips and
devices containing them imposed by the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  SiRF altered its products to avoid using Broadcom
technology, and the alterations were approved by U.S. customs
officials, SiRF’s founder Kanwar Chadha said in an April phone
interview.  Broadcom filed a new complaint Oct. 8 against CSR and SiRF
at the ITC, claiming that SiRF’s new products also infringe the
patents and that SiRF ignored an order to stop selling products
that infringe the patents.  It is seeking an order blocking imports of the redesigned
chips as well as civil penalties.  The case is CSR Plc v. Broadcom Corp., 1:10-cv-00876, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  SpeechSwitch Gets Wind-Generated Energy Management Patent  SpeechSwitch Inc. , a former unit of  iVoice Inc. , received a
patent related to alternative energy solutions, the Flemington,
New Jersey-based company said in a statement.  The technology covered by patent 7,808,121, which was
issued Oct. 5, related to battery recharging by micro wind
turbines.  The turbines generate power for a vehicle, according to the
patent. The power generation occurs only during periods of
deceleration and rest, and supplements the vehicle’s braking
power.  Application for the patent was filed in September 2009 by
Kenneth P. Glynn of Flemington, New Jersey. Glynn is also the
inventor and the president of SpeechSwitch.  Fulbright & Jaworski Study Indicates More Patent Litigation  Patent litigation increased in 2010, with companies in
manufacturing, engineering and real estate experiencing a
doubling of infringement filings from the previous year,
according to a litigation-trends  study  conducted by a Houston-
based law firm.  Fulbright & Jaworski LLP ’s annual survey found that 52
percent of the companies in those industrial sectors filed
patent-infringement claims in 2010, the firm said in an Oct. 13
statement.  Patent-infringement filings by companies in the
technology/communications sector declined, according to the
survey. In 2009, 38 percent of the technology/communications
companies surveyed said they had filed a lawsuit, while in 2010
only 15 percent had.  The firm surveyed 403 in-house counsel in the U.K. and the
U.S. Respondents said health-care and manufacturing companies
will likely file more patent-infringement suits in 2011.  Companies in the retail/wholesale and manufacturing sectors
told Fulbright & Jaworski they expect to be targets of
infringement litigation, with 21 percent of those in
retail/wholesale and 20 percent in manufacturing preparing for
an increase in suits in which they are defendants.  More than half the respondents to the survey said they use
some kind of alternative-fee arrangement for some of their
litigation.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Lime Wire Seeks to Reduce Liability in Copyright Case  Lime Wire LLC , operator of a website found guilty of
inducing the infringement of music copyrights, is seeking to
reduce the number of recordings it’s liable for, as the case
moves toward trial on damages to be paid to labels.  Lime Wire plans to file motions that would decrease the
number of recordings on which it would pay damages from about
10,000 to fewer than 1,000, lawyers for the New York-based
company said at a hearing yesterday in Manhattan.  “In the list they provided us, they used the same
copyright for each track on an album,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
for Lime Wire, told the judge. Lime Wire will argue that an
album with 10 tracks should be counted as one infringed work not
10.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in May found Lime Wire
liable for inducing copyright infringement by allowing users to
download recordings without authorization. Wood said a trial in
January will determine the damages to be paid by Lime Wire and
its founder, Mark Gorton. The amount of damages will depend on
the number of infringed works.  Wood’s ruling pertained to only 30 recordings. The
plaintiffs, the four largest record companies, have been able to
add thousands more recordings to the list of those infringed.
The labels have said in court papers that damages may top $1
billion. Statutory damages for each infringed work could be as
high as $150,000.  Bringing suit against 10-year-old Lime Wire were labels
operated by Vivendi SA’s Universal Music Group, Sony Corp.’s
Sony Music Entertainment, Warner Music Group Corp. and Terra
Firma Capital Partners’ EMI Group.  Music publishers, which control the copyrights to the songs
themselves rather than the recordings, sued Lime Wire separately
in June for copyright infringement.  The labels’ case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC.,
06-05936, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The publishers’ case is EMI April Music Inc. v.
Lime Wire LLC, 10-04695, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  ‘Willy the Wizard’ Can Continue Court Duel Over ‘Harry Potter’  J.K. Rowling, the world’s richest author, lost a bid to
dismiss a U.K. lawsuit over claims that parts of her “Harry
Potter” wizard novels were copied from an earlier book about
“Willy the Wizard.”  While Justice David Kitchin at the High Court in London
declined to dismiss the case, he said that it was “improbable”
the lawsuit would ultimately succeed. He said he plans to issue
an order forcing the estate of “Willy the Wizard” author
Adrian Jacobs to meet certain conditions as part of the case if
it continues.  Jacobs’s estate claims in the suit that part of the 1987
book, “The Adventures of Willy the Wizard” was copied by
Rowling. A year of wizard contests in the book was similar to a
central theme of “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,” the
estate says.  Schillings, Rowling’s law firm, said she “welcomes” the
ruling in a statement distributed at the court. Rowling said
that the claims are “not only unfounded, but absurd,”
according to the statement.  Jacobs’s estate claims that Christopher Little, who manages
the Harry Potter brand worldwide, was given a copy of “Willy
the Wizard,” which he passed on to Rowling eight years later.  Kitchin said in his ruling that “it is inherently
improbable that Mr. Little would have thought it worth giving a
copy to Ms. Rowling some eight years later.”  Kitchin said he plans to make a so-called conditional order
-- a court order making the estate agree to take specified steps
such as paying a security if the case is continued. He said the
conditions will be worked out at another hearing.  A spokesman for the law firm  DMH Stallard LLP , which is
representing the author’s estate in the suit, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment. A similar lawsuit was
filed in New York in July.  The U.K. case is GLC 72/10 Allen v Bloomsbury Publishing
Plc.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Tampa Team Settles Trademark Dispute, Quits Using ‘Rowdies’  Citrus Sports Group LLC is changing the name of its soccer
club, the Tampa, Florida, organization said in a statement
yesterday.  The team, formerly known as the  Tampa Bay Rowdies , became
embroiled in a trademark dispute with a Dallas-based maker of
sports clothing.  Classic Ink Inc. claimed it had exclusive
ownership  of the team name and sued in federal court in Dallas
in April 2009, alleging the mark was infringed.  A federal court ruled Sept. 13 that the team and its owners
were barred from use of “Tampa Bay Rowdies,” “Rowdies” or
“TBR,” according to court papers.  The court ordered the team to remove any use of the
disputed terms from its website and all other promotional
material by Oct. 14. When accessed yesterday, a  statement  posted
in the team website acknowledged that the team agreed to cease
using the Rowdies name.  “Our organization has seen positive developments in this
process and we look forward to a quick resolution,” the club
president and owner Andrew Nestor said in the statement.  The website now refers to the team as FCTB. Merchandise for
sale on the site doesn’t bear any Tampa Bay Rowdies marks.  Classic Ink was represented by  D. Scott Hemingway  and
 Eugenia S. Hansen  of Dallas-based  Hemingway & Hansen LLP . The
team’s lawyers were  Michael D. Pegues  and  Jason A. Wietjes  of
 Bracewell & Giuliani LLP  of Houston.  The case is Classic Ink Inc. v. Tampa Bay Rowdies, 3:09-cv-
00784, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Mattel Lodges Trade-Secret Theft Allegations Against MGA  Mattel Inc. , the world’s largest toymaker, has responded to
trade-secret theft allegations in a case involving Bratz dolls
by accusing MGA Entertainment Inc. of similar conduct.  In an Oct. 13 court filing, Mattel said MGA employees
“repeatedly gained access to Mattel toy fair showrooms and
reported on Mattel’s unreleased products.” MGA accused Mattel
of the same actions in papers filed with the court in August.  Mattel, based in El Segundo, California, also accused Isaac
Larian, MGA’s chief executive officer, of praising in writing an
MGA employee who said he had stolen Mattel price lists and
pricing information from a showroom in 2004. One MGA executive
gave Larian non-public Mattel information “he had obtained by
spying on a Mattel employee while on an airplane,” according to
the Mattel court documents.  Claims by Van Nuys, California-based MGA in its court
filings are a “baseless tale of wrongdoing,” Mattel said.  The underlying dispute is related to a fight over the line
of Bratz dolls that were found to have infringed Mattel’s
copyrights. The case was filed in federal court in Los Angeles
in November 2004.  The case is Carter Bryant v. Mattel, 2:04-cv-09049-DOC-RNB,
U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 