-- Burundi Troop Deployment to Bolster Somali Peacekeeping Force Within Weeks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-15T15:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/burundi-troop-deployment-to-bolster-somali-peacekeeping-force-within-weeks.html
Somalia’s African Union peacekeeping
force will be bolstered by an extra 800 troops from Burundi
within a “matter of weeks,” according to  Ramtane Lamamra , the
Commissioner of the African Union Peace and Security Council.  A further 4,000 soldiers will then be deployed to the war-
torn Horn of Africa nation within “months,” he told reporters
after a meeting today in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia.  The current African Union force of 7,200 troops consists of
eight battalions, five from Uganda and three from Burundi, while
Kenya, Djibouti, Uganda and Guinea may also provide soldiers.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
The Western-backed Transitional Federal Government has been
battling insurgents since 2007.  Most of southern and central Somalia has been seized by the
rebels, while President  Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s  government
controls only parts of the capital, Mogadishu. The AU’s Peace
and Security Council plans to eventually raise the number of
peacekeepers in Somalia to 20,000.  The security situation in Somalia is “dangerous and
perilous,” and there’s a need for the United Nations to be
involved in Somalia “as it has been in Sudan and Congo,”
Kenyan Foreign Minister  Moses Wetangula , chairman of the
council, told reporters today.  ‘Recurrent Wrangling’  The “idea of the United Nations taking over hasn’t been
abandoned,”  Augustine Mahiga , the UN’s Special Representative
of the Secretary-General, said at the meeting. The proposal is
“still on the table.”  Somali President Sharif Sheikh Ahmed yesterday appointed
 Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed  as prime minister, after his
predecessor,  Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmake , resigned after
repeated clashes with the president.  Progress in Somalia has been “challenged by recurrent and
intermittent wrangling” amongst members of the transitional
government, Wetangula said in his report, handed to reporters
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  