-- Buy Peabody Options Due to Quarterly Profit, Supply Disruption, UBS Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-15T13:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/buy-peabody-options-due-to-quarterly-profit-supply-disruption-ubs-says.html
Investors should buy bullish Peabody
Energy Corp.  options  because the largest U.S. coal producer may
advance on better-than-estimated quarterly results on Oct. 19
and supply disruptions in Australia, UBS AG said.  Equity derivatives strategist  Mitchell Revsine  recommended
buying a December $55 call while selling a December $47 put, a
strategy known as a risk reversal that is a proxy for owning the
stock. The shares fell 0.5 percent to $51.53 yesterday to pare
this year’s advance to 14 percent.  “Our recommended trade could be suited for an investor who
is not currently long BTU but would like to gain upside
exposure, or for an investor who is already long BTU but would
like to gain additional exposure,” the New York-based
strategist wrote, referring to the company by its stock symbol.
“We would like to position ourselves for additional potential
upside through year-end.”  Peabody may present "positive commentary" about the coal
market and report profits that beat analyst forecasts, industry
analyst  Shneur Gershuni  wrote in the report.  The New York-based analyst rates the shares at “buy” and
has a $60 share-price forecast. The St. Louis-based company may
report  third-quarter profit  of 91 cents a share, the average of
23 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Queensland Rain  Queensland’s wettest September in 100 years has prompted
concern that further rainfall may crimp coal output from the
Australian state and drive up prices, according to an Oct. 7
report from Glyn Lawcock, a Sydney-based analyst at UBS,
Switzerland’s biggest bank.  Xstrata Plc, the world’s biggest thermal coal exporter,
suspended some deliveries from a mine in Queensland Oct. 11
after halting production because of rain. Anglo American Plc
this week said heavy rain hit coal output at some of its mines
in Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of the fuel.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 