-- Cablevision's Customers May Lose Fox, Miss Giants Game in Payment Dispute
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-15T20:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/cablevision-s-n-y-viewers-may-lose-giants-lions-fox-telecast-in-fee-spat.html
Cablevision Systems Corp.  customers
in New York City may lose  News Corp. ’s Fox broadcast signal,
including this weekend’s Giants football telecast, if the two
companies fail to agree on a new transmission contract.  Cablevision’s contract to carry WNYW Channel 5 and WWOR 9
in New York, WTXF 9 in Philadelphia, and Fox Business, Nat Geo
Wild and Fox Deportes expires at midnight tonight, meaning the
channels may go dark for 3 million customers ahead of the New
York Giants vs. Detroit Lions football game on Oct. 17.  Broadcasters like Fox are trying to extract fees from pay-
TV operators for signals that were once free. Pay-TV operators
are resisting the charges, which are typically passed to the
customer, arguing the channels are free over the public airwaves
and on the Internet. The talks between Cablevision and News
Corp. don’t affect Fox News, FX and local sports channels.  Cablevision said News Corp. wants more than $150 million a
year in fees for the Fox stations and some cable channels, up
from $70 million a year it already pays the media company. Fox
said it’s asking for “fair compensation.”  This year, squabbles between channel owners and
distributors over fees have led to the most TV blackouts in at
least a decade.  In March, subscribers of Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision lost access to  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC network and the
start of the annual Oscars telecast before a deal was struck.
The cable operator also lost the Food Network and HGTV for about
two weeks before a deal was made and the channels restored.  No to Arbitration  Cablevision agreed yesterday to binding arbitration with
Fox that would allow them to continue the negotiations without
the threat of a blackout. U.S. Representatives  Steve Israel , a
New York Democrat, and  Peter King , a New York Republican, sought
the commitment in a letter to both companies.  Fox, in a statement, rejected that approach, saying
arbitration would “reward Cablevision for refusing to negotiate
fairly,” and would “ensure that more unnecessary disputes
arise in the future.” Fox said direct negotiation was the only
way to resolve the issue. Both sides continue to talk.  Separately,  Dish Network Corp. , based in Englewood,
Colorado, is battling with News Corp. over costs to carry Fox
regional sports networks and two cable channels. Those networks
went dark on the satellite operators’ system on Oct. 1 and
remain off while the two parties negotiate. The dispute may
intensify later this month when Dish’s contract to carry the Fox
broadcast network, the home of “The Simpsons,” expires.  FCC ‘Concerned’  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said at a news conference yesterday the commission
continues “to be concerned about the potential effect” these
battles have on consumers, and that the FCC wants “greater
information and notice to consumers” as these negotiations
affect subscribers’ viewing options.  The  FCC  hasn’t intervened in the negotiations.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , gained 11 cents to $14.19 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Class A shares of the
New York-based company has increased 3.6 percent this year.  Cablevision , controlled by the Dolan family, rose 14 cents
to $26.66 on the New York Stock Exchange and has risen 25
percent this year.  News Corp. was in a similar dispute with Time Warner Cable
Inc., the nation’s second-largest cable operator, late last
year. News Corp. sought $1 a month per subscriber for its Fox
stations, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  The two sides reached a deal without any channels being
pulled in a multiyear contract that climbs to 75 cents a
subscriber, said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC.  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York,
estimates News Corp. is seeking $62.6 million a year from
Cablevision for its Fox broadcast channels.  The media company is also seeking $18.4 million a year for
Fox Business, $14.7 million for Nat Geo Wild, and $2.3 million
for Fox Deportes, Joyce wrote in an Oct. 13 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 