-- Carney May Halt Rate Increases to Spur Investment Rather Than Consumption
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/carney-may-halt-rate-increases-to-spur-investment-rather-than-consumption.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
wants to use low interest rates to stimulate growth -- just not
too much growth through borrowing by debt-laden households.  Canada emerged from recession faster than other Group of
Seven nations as consumers, spurred by low  interest rates ,
boosted spending and added to record debts. Carney has lifted
his policy rate three times since June to 1 percent, with the
next announcement set for Oct 19.  Economists expect Carney will pause the tightening cycle
after the U.S. Federal Reserve indicated it may add new
stimulus, which may strengthen the Canadian dollar and hurt
exports. Carney has used speeches and public appearances to
warn consumers about borrowing too much, while urging businesses
to make “bold moves” to increase productivity.  “The Bank of Canada is in a really tough position,” said
 Francis Fong , an economist with  Toronto-Dominion Bank . With
“the household indebtedness issue threatening consumer
spending,” Fong said “the onus is now shifting to businesses
to take advantage” of low interest rates.  The central bank said in July it’s relying on consumers to
contribute about half of the 2.9 percent  economic growth  next
year, while forecasting investment will add 0.7 percentage point
to growth in 2011, up from 0.1 percentage point this year.
Government spending will probably become a drag next year, the
bank said, and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has repeatedly said
he plans to end stimulus spending in March.  Company Disappointment  Carney said in a Sept. 30 speech that companies have
“disappointed” with investment plans and expects they will
spend more to spur the economy. Business gross fixed  investment 
was still 13 percent below the pre-recession peak in the second
quarter, according to Statistics Canada.  The bank’s growth outlook will be updated on Oct. 20, and
Carney has said he will cut the outlook for the second half of
this year. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict growth
of 2.5 percent in 2011, down from 3.1 percent this year.  Carney also warned consumers in that speech to make sure
they aren’t overburdened after debt reached a record 146 percent
of disposable income. Households have already run net financial
deficits for nine straight years, instead of the surpluses they
had from the 1960s through the 1990s, Carney said.  “Frankly it’s easier to make monetary policy in the U.S.
right now -- it’s clear where they have to go with the next
step,” said  Glen Hodgson , chief economist at the Conference
Board of Canada in Ottawa, a non-partisan research group. Carney
“doesn’t want to be accused of choking off the recovery by
raising rates too fast,” he said, adding “the danger is the
illusion of low rates and people loading on debt and thinking
they can finance it forever.”  Investment Plans  The central bank’s third-quarter survey of executives found
46 percent of companies plan to increase machinery and equipment
 investment  over the next 12 months, while 10 percent predicted
less, the bank said Oct. 8. This was the widest gap since
executives were first asked the question in 1998.  A separate central bank survey of senior lending officers
found that overall credit conditions had  eased , with more of the
benefits going to larger companies.  “The recovery gets that much slower” if business lending
lags, said  Malcolm J. Jones , a portfolio manager at Adroit
Investment Management Ltd. in Edmonton, Alberta, who oversees
about C$350 million of fixed-income securities. He predicts the
bank will say next week “we are vigilant, we are watching, we
don’t need to raise rates this time.”  ‘Save It’  Some firms are struggling to get loans and others are
reluctant to expand as global growth falters, said  Jayson Myers ,
president of Canadian Manufacturers & Exporters, a lobby group.
“If you had a choice between spending a million dollars in a
new venture, product line or market versus taking that million
dollars and saving it in case things don’t go well, right now I
think a lot of companies would tend to save it,” he said.  Rona Inc. , Canada’s largest home improvement retailer,
doesn’t need new loans to finance its expansion plans, said
Chief Financial Officer  Claude Guevin . “Financing isn’t a
problem and I’m sure it’s the case for many other companies,”
he said in an Oct. 8 interview.  There are signs consumers are heeding Carney’s message.
Consumer confidence fell “significantly” last month, according
to an Oct. 1 Royal Bank of Canada survey that showed Canadians
are worried about personal debt and global economic growth.
Thirty-nine percent of those asked plan to spend less over the
next year, and 51 percent want to reduce debt, the survey found.  Rona customers are holding back on some purchases because
they are worried the global slowdown will spill into Canada,
Guevin said.  Consumer stocks have  lagged  gains on Canada’s main exchange
this month. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX’s consumer staples index
has declined 0.08 percent and the consumer discretionary index
has increased 0.73 percent, trailing the composite index’s gain
of 2.03 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 