-- Chile 33 Broker Deals to Tell Story of Mine Ordeal For as Much as $20,000
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-15T19:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/chile-s-33-rescued-miners-cutting-deals-to-tell-story-of-two-month-trial.html
Chile’s freed miners are negotiating
with media to sell their accounts of the world’s longest
underground rescue, according to a family member of one of the
miners.  Some of the 33 men have brokered interview deals of as much
as $20,000, said Arnoldo Plaza Vega, 46, whose cousin Alex Vega
was the tenth man hoisted to the surface on Oct. 13 in a rescue
watched by more than 1 billion people.  “Alex hasn’t decided how much he is going to charge,”
Plaza said today in an interview from Copiapo, where most of the
miners are still recovering in hospital from the two-month
ordeal. “We’ve heard others have received $20,000.”  Until now the rescued miners haven’t told their full story
publicly of the first 17 days before they were discovered alive.
The men reached a pact about what they will make public and what
will remain private, Plaza said.  The agreement may be hard to keep as the world’s media
compete to tell their story, said  Jonathan Franklin , who signed
a deal to publish a book on the miners.  “There are some secrets that they should keep,” Franklin
said in an interview. “I know things that I’m never going to
publish in my book. But we’re going to know what happened down
there.”  Chilean authorities gave the men some media training before
their rescue, conducting classes over phone lines. They have
been invited to make appearances in Spain, England and Greece,
and mining entrepreneur Leonardo Farkas gave each 5 million
pesos ($10,400).  Television Rights  The television rights to the miners’ story could be worth
as much as $10,000 up front and $50,000 to $100,000 at the time
of production, said Scott Manville, founder of TVFilmRights.com,
an online marketplace for buying and selling the rights to real-
life stories. The movie rights could eventually come with a
“purchase price” of $100,000 to $500,000, Manville said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  At least 10 more of the men are preparing to leave Copiapo
Hospital today, a medical official said. The first three were
released last night, Jorge Montes, the hospital’s deputy
director, said in televised remarks today. The health of the
other miners is progressing satisfactorily, he said.  “My companions are all well,” Osman Araya, the sixth man
to emerge from the San Jose mine, said today in an interview
with state television channel TVN. “They’ve done the required
tests and are all just about ready to go home.”  The last of the 33 men was hoisted to the surface in a
four-meter long capsule on Oct. 13,  sparking celebrations 
throughout the country.  “I never lost hope or faith because I’m a child of God,”
Araya, 34, said of his 69-day stay half a mile underground.  More than 1 billion people watched the rescue live on
television networks around the world, TVN reported. It beat a
previous record set during a 25-day rescue of three coal workers
from a flooded mine in Guizhou, China, in 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  