-- Chile Set to Slide in Global Mining Ranking on Tax Increase, Fraser Says
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-10-15T17:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/chile-set-to-slide-in-global-mining-ranking-on-tax-increase-fraser-says.html
Chile is set to become a less
attractive destination for mineral exploration because of an
increase in taxes, according to the  Canadian research group  that
conducts surveys of global mining companies.  Chile, the world’s biggest producer of copper, probably
will fall in the Fraser Institute’s next survey,  Fred McMahon ,
vice-president of international research, said today in an e-
mailed response.  “I would expect Chile to decline,” McMahon said. “What
miners really hate is uncertainty.”  Chile’s lower house approved on Oct. 13 a government
proposal to raise royalties paid by companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  and  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc . About $8
billion in planned investments may be shelved because of the
changes, according to the country’s mining council.  This year Chile was seventh out of 72 jurisdictions in the
survey’s Policy Potential Index. The Fraser Institute’s poll
aims to gauge how mineral endowments and policies including tax
and regulation affect exploration spending, its website says.  The royalty changes would raise more than $1 billion over
three years to help fund earthquake reconstruction and President
 Sebastian Pinera ’s education and health programs. Pinera may
sign the bill as soon as next week, allowing it to become law by
the end of the month, Policy Coordination Minister  Cristian Larroulet  said today in an interview.  Sliding Scale  Under terms of the bill, companies would opt to transfer
from today’s fixed rate of 4 percent or 5 percent of operating
profit to a sliding scale of 4 percent to 9 percent through
2012. They would return to a fixed rate of 4 percent or 5
percent from 2013 to 2017 and move to a sliding scale of 5
percent to 14 percent through 2023.  Chile generated $3.92 billion from copper exports last
month, a 47 percent gain from a year ago and the most since
March 2008, as output and prices increased, the central bank
said on its website today.  An estimated 25 percent of investment, or $8 billion, could
be lost because of the law, and eight projects are already being
reconsidered,  Miguel Angel Duran , president of Chile’s mining
council, said in a Oct. 13 telephone interview.  “Exploration companies are more interested in the regime
in 10 years time than in the regime when they first stick a
shovel into the ground,” McMahon said. “It is a blow to the
future.”  The government is working on legislation to provide tax
incentives for mining companies to list on the Santiago Stock
Exchange, Deputy Mining Minister  Pablo Wagner  said in an April
27 interview. Mining-exploration projects with a combined value
of about $2.5 billion are seeking financing alternatives, he
said at the time. The government is also studying incentive
models used in Australia, Canada and Peru for exploration
companies, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  