-- Chile's Central Bank May Be Heading Toward Peso Intervention, Celfin Says
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-10-15T19:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/chile-nearer-to-intervening-in-peso-after-rate-rise-slowdown-celfin-says.html
The Chilean central bank’s decision
to slow the pace of  interest-rate rises  makes measures to weaken
the peso more likely, according to  Mario Arend , an economist at
Celfin Capital SA in Santiago.  The peso fell for a third day today, sliding 0.1 percent to
479.26 per U.S. dollar from 478.95 yesterday. The last time the
bank intervened to weaken the currency it did so by buying $50
million U.S. dollars a day.  At their monthly meeting yesterday, policy makers voted to
slow the pace of rate rises, lifting by 25 basis points after
four straight 50 basis-point increases. The dollar is
depreciating worldwide and borrowing costs are falling in the
largest economies, the central bank said in its policy
statement, while promising to keep lifting its own rate.  “Given the fundamental strengths that affect the exchange
rate and that will continue for a prolonged period, we could see
the rate reaching levels where the central bank intervenes,”
Arend said. “That probability is higher than yesterday. The
central bank doesn’t have as much room to moderate future rate
rises.”  The peso may reach 460 per dollar,  Diego Donadio , a
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in Sao Paulo wrote in a note to
clients after the bank’s decision last night. He recommended
clients short the dollar against the peso at 479.  Boosted Bets  The net short position of foreign banks versus Chilean
banks in the U.S. dollar against the peso rose to $1.3 billion
on Oct. 13, the latest figures available. That implies foreign
investors have boosted bets on the peso to the highest since the
central bank began publishing daily data two years ago.  The central bank has discussed intervening, its President
 Jose De Gregorio  said on Oct. 6 and government ministers have
expressed concern with the currency’s rise, which pushes up the
dollar cost of Chile’s exports. The peso has gained 14 percent
this half, more than any other Latin American currency tracked
by Bloomberg. The price of copper, the country’s biggest export
has risen 29 percent in the same period.  The central bank “should intervene and will intervene” by
buying dollars, said  Sebastian Edwards , a Chilean economist at
the University of California, Los Angeles and former World Bank
chief economist for Latin America. Such an intervention need not
push the dollar higher against the peso, as long as it slows the
dollar’s descent, he told reporters today after a conference in
Santiago.  “The dollar will depreciate against a basket of
currencies,” he said. “We don’t need to follow the herd.”  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  