-- Liverpool, J&J, Chinese Drywall, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-15T11:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/chinese-drywall-medtronic-deutsche-telekom-ncr-ubs-bp-in-court-news.html
Judges on both sides of the Atlantic
Ocean are moving toward a resolution of the legal dispute
blocking the sale of Liverpool soccer club to the owners of
baseball’s Boston Red Sox.  With a deadline looming today for repayment of a loan owed
by the club’s current owners, a judge in Dallas scheduled a
hearing this morning to reconsider his 2-day-old order that
temporarily halted the sale of one of the world’s most popular
sports teams.  Hours after a judge in London ordered current Liverpool
owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett to end their Texas lawsuit,
state court Judge Jim Jordan in Dallas said he would hear
arguments about whether to continue his injunction.  “This smacks of forum-shopping,” Jordan said during
yesterday’s hearing.  The soccer club, a five-time European champion, is off to
its worst start in more than 50 years. The team is in 18th place
in the 20-club league, putting it at risk of relegation -- at
the end of each season, the bottom three teams in the Premier
League standings swap places with three teams in the second
division of English soccer.  American businessmen Hicks and Gillett went to the Dallas
judge to block the forced 300 million pound ($475 million) sale
of Liverpool to John W. Henry’s New England Sports Ventures LLC,
which controls the Red Sox.  Liverpool’s board has approved the sale. Hicks and Gillett
say the offer is too low, and have accused the independent board
members of ignoring more attractive bids.  Since their 219 million pound leveraged buyout in 2007,
Hicks and Gillett have clashed with each other and have angered
Liverpool fans because of rising debt and their failure to build
a promised new stadium.  Hicks and Gillett were granted a six-month extension to
repay by lenders  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Wells
Fargo & Co. in April, with the agreement that the club be put up
for sale and that independent Chairman Martin Broughton be
appointed.  Hicks and Gillett have until today to pay back the 237
million pound loan. The bid from the New England group would
repay 200 million pounds of the debt on completion.  Yesterday, RBS won a U.K. court ruling preventing Hicks and
Gillett from proceeding with the Texas lawsuit. Justice
Christopher Floyd gave the pair until today to end the suit.  The Texas lawsuit by Hicks, 64, and Gillett, 71, seeks $1.6
billion in damages from RBS and independent club board members.  The case is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Hicks;
HC10C03206; High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  J&J Must Pay $257.7 Million Over Risperdal Marketing  Johnson & Johnson  must pay $257.7 million to the state of
Louisiana for making misleading claims about the safety of the
Risperdal antipsychotic drug, a jury concluded.  Jurors in state court in Opelousas, Louisiana, found that
J&J officials defrauded the state’s Medicaid system by
wrongfully touting Risperdal as superior to competing
antipsychotic drugs and minimizing its links to diabetes.  The verdict is the second trial loss in a state lawsuit
brought over Risperdal marketing. A West Virginia judge in a
non-jury trial last year awarded $3.95 million, finding the
company misled doctors about the risks and benefits of
Risperdal. New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J appealed.  Michael Heinley, a spokesman for J&J’s Ortho-McNeil Janssen
Pharmaceuticals unit, said the company is disappointed with the
jury’s decision and will appeal.  “We believe the jury was not appropriately instructed on
applicable legal standards and that critical and highly relevant
evidence was excluded,” he said in an interview.  The jury found 35,542 violations of the state’s Medical
Assistance Programs Integrity Law and imposed a penalty of
$7,250 for each. The total $257.7 million verdict is the fifth-
largest in the U.S. so far in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The state’s case centered on drug safety claims that J&J
and Ortho-McNeil Janssen made in November 2003 correspondence to
700,000 doctors. In those letters, J&J touted Risperdal as safer
than competing antipsychotics such as  Indianapolis-based Eli
Lilly & Co. ’s Zyprexa and London-based AstraZeneca Plc’s
Seroquel. Risperdal global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007,
declining after the company lost patent protection.  The case is Caldwell ex rel. State of Louisiana v. Janssen
Pharmaceutical, 04-C-3967, 27th Judicial Court, St. Landry
Parish, Louisiana (Opelousas).  Chinese Drywall Home-Repair Deal Wins Court Approval  A federal judge endorsed a plan for a Knauf Group unit to
help repair 300 homes damaged by defective drywall, the first
step toward a potential settlement of legal claims estimated by
plaintiffs at as much as $500 million.  Repairs will begin as soon as next week on dozens of homes
in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi, Russ Herman, an
attorney for homeowners suing the company, told the court. The
program may expand to 3,000 homes if it’s successful.  “We’ve got the first step in the global resolution
reporting today,” U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon said during
a hearing yesterday in New Orleans.  The cases, part of  coordinated litigation  over allegedly
defective drywall, had been intended as a bellwether to help
determine property damage issues in cases against other
manufacturers and importers, including Chicago-based USG Corp.
More than 1.1 million sheets of harmful Chinese drywall were
used in Louisiana rebuilding projects after hurricanes Katrina
and Rita struck in 2005, state Attorney General Buddy Caldwell
said in January.  The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  CA’s Richards Gets Sentence Cut to Time Served for Scheme  Stephen Richards, the former top sales executive at  CA Inc. 
who was given a seven-year prison term after pleading guilty to
securities fraud at the software company, was resentenced to
time served.  U.S. District Judge I. Leo Glasser in Brooklyn, New York,
resentenced Richards at a hearing today after an appeals panel
reversed his original punishment. Richards, 45, participated in
the hearing by phone from prison in Taft, California, which he
entered on Feb. 27, 2007.  “The time that he served is sufficient given all that has
transpired since sentence was imposed,” Glasser said.  The  U.S. appeals court  in Manhattan reversed Richards’s
seven-year sentence in an Aug. 12 ruling. He and former  CA Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Kumar pleaded guilty in 2006 to
inflating revenue by backdating sales contracts as part of a
$2.2 billion fraud. CA, based in Islandia, New York, was known
as  Computer Associates International Inc.  when Kumar ran the
company.  Richards told Glasser by phone how much his family means to
him. “I will never again place them in a situation where they
pay the price for my stupidity,” he said.  The appeals court affirmed Kumar’s and Richards’s
convictions. It upheld Kumar’s 12-year sentence and reversed
Richards’s sentence.  The appeals court said Glasser failed to give Richards
credit for accepting responsibility for his crimes. It said
Kumar wasn’t entitled to a similar credit because his statement
during his guilty plea and his objections to the facts of the
case in the probation department’s sentencing report showed he
didn’t accept full responsibility.  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 04-CR-846, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Medtronic to Pay $268 Million, End Heart-Wires Suits  Medtronic Inc.  the world’s biggest maker of heart devices,
agreed to pay $268 million to settle lawsuits over claims that
fractured wires in a line of its cardiac defibrillators caused
at least 13 deaths.  Medtronic said it is resolving claims that wires connecting
implantable Sprint Fidelis defibrillators to patients’ hearts
were defective. The Minneapolis-based company halted sales of
the so-called defibrillator leads in October 2007 after they
were linked to users’ deaths.  “Both the plaintiffs and Medtronic realized this was the
best resolution for people injured by these wires,” Hunter
Shkolnik, a New York-based lawyer for injured defibrillator
users, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Medtronic is pleased we were able to negotiate terms that
were mutually agreeable to the parties,” Christopher Garland, a
company spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The settlement
covers about 8,100 cases, or “virtually all” U.S. claims,
Garland said.  The settlement resolves cases in both federal and state
courts.  The consolidated case involving yesterday’s heart-wire
settlement is In Re Medtronic Inc. Sprint Fidelis Leads Products
Liability Litigation, 08-1905, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Telekom Loses Challenge to EU Monopoly Fine  Deutsche Telekom AG , Europe’s biggest phone company, lost
an appeal against a 12.6 million-euro ($17.8 million) antitrust
fine.  The European Union’s competition regulator was right to
fine the phone company for abusing its dominant market position
in Germany, the EU’s highest court said yesterday.  The Brussels-based European Commission accused Deutsche
Telekom in May 2003 of overcharging competitors for access to
its local phone network. The regulator said so-called margin
squeeze by the Bonn-based operator deterred other companies from
entering the market. Deutsche Telekom, which appealed two months
later, agreed to cut its fees in 2004.  The change in the fees system means the “consequences of
the judgment are quite limited,” Andreas Middel, a Deutsche
Telekom spokesman, said in a phone interview from Berlin.  The case is C-280/08 P Deutsche Telekom v. Commission.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  U.S. Sues Nine Companies, Seeks $1 Billion for Cleanup  The U.S. sued nine companies, including  Kimberly-Clark
Corp.  and  NCR Corp. , and two city agencies to force a clean-up
of toxic chemicals from the  Lower Fox River  and Green Bay in
Wisconsin at a cost of $1 billion.  The lawsuit stems from contamination by polychlorinated
biphenyls, a banned carcinogen, in sediment, banks and shoreline
during production of “carbonless” copy paper from the mid-
1950s until 1971, the  Justice Department  said in a statement.
Wisconsin joined the suit, which was filed after the companies
balked at taking responsibility, according to the statement.  An estimated $300 million in cleaning has been completed
and further dredging to remove PCBs may cost $550 million, the
department said in the statement. Restoring natural resources
may cost $400 million, according to the statement. The area is
home for 270,000 people, the Environmental Protection Agency
said in a statement.  Cameron Smith, an NCR spokesman, said the company has been
“consistently complying” with clean-up of the Fox River. He
said the company is reviewing the lawsuit.  Georgia-Pacific Consumer Products LP, which was added to
the case, in a separate agreement settled with the U.S.,
accepting responsibility for some clean-up near its paper mill
on the Fox River in Green Bay.  The company will pay $7 million to reimburse a portion of
the government’s costs, according to the Justice Department.  Defendants in the lawsuit are NCR, Kimberly Clark, Appleton
Papers Inc., CBC Coating Inc., the city of Appleton, Menasha
Corp., Neenah-Menasha Sewerage Commission, NewPage Wisconsin
Systems Inc., P.H. Glatfelter Co., U.S. Paper Mills Corp. and
WTM I Co.  Palm Beach Firm Sued by SEC Over Petters Investments  Palm Beach Capital Management LP was sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for allegedly funneling
investor money to Thomas Petters’s $3.5 billion Ponzi scheme.  The firm, Palm Beach Capital Management LLC and principals
Bruce Prevost and David Harrold were accused of deceiving
investors in a lawsuit filed by the regulator yesterday in
federal court in Minneapolis.  “Of the approximately $3.65 billion invested in the
Petters Ponzi scheme at the time  of its collapse, the Palm
Beach funds accounted for more than $1 billion,” according to
the complaint. The SEC seeks a court order directing the
defendants to disgorge any ill-gotten gain from their venture.  Petters, who led Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Petters Group
Worldwide LLC, was sentenced last year to 50 years in prison
after his fraud conviction. Prosecutors said he conned investors
into underwriting fake purchase orders for consumer goods and
used the money to support a lavish lifestyle.  Prevost and Harrold used money from investors to buy more
than 2,000 promissory notes from Petters, the SEC said. When the
notes came due, rather than redeem them, the defendants
exchanged them for new notes purportedly backed by different
collateral, while concealing the swap agreements from investors,
according to the complaint.  Harrold’s attorney, Mitchell Herr, a Miami-based attorney
in New York’s Holland & Knight LLP, and Prevost’s lawyer,
Michael Band, each declined to comment on the allegations.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Prevost, 10cv4235, U.S. District Court for Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Florida Subpoenas Records of Foreclosure Companies  Lender Processing Services Inc. , which provides foreclosure
services, was subpoenaed by the Florida attorney general as part
of an investigation into possible foreclosure-document fraud.  Attorney General Bill McCollum told the Jacksonville,
Florida-based company and affiliate Docx LLC to provide
documents related to any contracts with four Florida law firms
under investigation, as well as other documents.  Lender Processing Services has produced numerous documents
in foreclosure cases that appear to be fabricated, according to
McCollum. The documents, called mortgage assignments, are
produced to give financial institutions the right to sue to
foreclose, his office said.  Michelle Kersch, a spokeswoman for Lender Processing
Services, said yesterday she hadn’t reviewed the subpoena.  “We were made aware based on their website several months
ago that they had an inquiry open for LPS,” she said, referring
to the attorney general’s office. “As we’ve always said in the
past, we will continue to cooperate fully with the inquiry that
they’ve made and we look forward to having the opportunity to
help them understand our business.”  McCollum’s subpoena of the company comes as his probe of
the four law firms proceeded following split decisions by two
judges on his office’s subpoenas.  Judge Eileen O’Connor in Fort Lauderdale refused a request
by one of the law firms -- the Law Offices of David J. Stern --
to quash a subpoena from the attorney general, according to a
court order dated Oct. 13. O’Connor didn’t give a reason for her
ruling.  Judge Jack Cox in West Palm Beach, Florida, denied the
state’s request that he reconsider an earlier order blocking a
subpoena sent to law firm Shapiro & Fishman LLP, according to an
order dated yesterday.  “Our attorneys are discussing and weighing our options,”
Ryan Wiggins, a spokeswoman for McCollum, said in an e-mail.  In his subpoena to Docx, McCollum demanded any documentation
that allowed employee Linda Green to sign documents on behalf of
vice presidents of  Wells Fargo & Co. , American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc. and  Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
Inc. , the national mortgage electronic record-keeping system.  For more, click here.  Drug Executives May Be FDA Targets for Off-Label Promotion  Drugmaker executives whose companies promote unauthorized
uses of their medicines may be targeted by U.S. regulators for
misdemeanor prosecutions, Food and Drug Administration Deputy
Chief for Litigation Eric Blumberg said.  Blumberg didn’t offer a timetable for the agency to take
such actions during remarks Oct. 13 at a Washington conference.
He cited  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s largest drugmaker, for
violations of a federal law that bars manufacturers from
promoting drugs for uses other than those approved by the
agency, a practice called off-label marketing.  Pfizer, based in New York, struck the largest off-label
promotion settlement to date in September 2009, agreeing to pay
$2.3 billion for unauthorized marketing of its recalled
painkiller Bextra and three other drugs. Pfizer acquired Bextra
when it purchased Pharmacia Corp. in 2003. The settlement only
involved sales practices and not the safety of the drug.  “It’s clear we’re not getting the job done with large,
monetary settlements,” Blumberg said. “Unless the government
shows more resolve to criminally charge individuals at all
levels in the company, we cannot expect to make progress in
deterring off-label promotion.”  “Over the past several years, we have invested substantial
resources in order to create a compliance program that consists
of mandatory training for every one of our employees, proactive
monitoring and surveillance, and strict enforcement of all
federal and state health-care laws,” said Pfizer spokesman Ray
Kerins. He didn’t directly address Blumberg’s remarks.  For more, click here.  UBS Won’t Take Legal Action Against Former Executives  UBS AG  defended its decision not to take any legal action
against former executives and board members, saying
Switzerland’s biggest bank “learnt the lessons” from the
credit crisis and a dispute with U.S. tax authorities.  “With our decision to refrain from legal proceedings, we
do not want to gloss over the mistakes made by UBS or absolve
those involved of their corporate responsibility,” Chairman
Kaspar Villiger, 69, said in a statement yesterday. “We have
learnt the lessons of the past and the new management is now
placing UBS’s focus on sustainable success. It is important that
we can now concentrate on the future.”  Shareholder groups Deminor, Actares and Euroshareholders
sent a letter last month to Villiger, urging him to file charges
against former executives after shareholders at the annual
meeting in April refused to approve actions of the management
and board of directors for 2007. UBS yesterday published a 76-
page  report  summarizing what went wrong and why the bank doesn’t
want to pursue any legal action.  The Swiss government propped up UBS in October 2008 after
the bank had amassed the biggest writedowns and losses from the
credit crisis among European lenders at the time. Four months
later, Switzerland had to hand over data on about 300 UBS
clients to the U.S. authorities in an unprecedented move to
avoid a criminal indictment of the bank on charges that it
helped Americans evade taxes. UBS later agreed to pass along
information on as many as 4,450 more accounts.  For more, click here.  BP Employee Savings Suits Sent to Texas Federal Court  Lawsuits by workers claiming  BP Plc’s  North American unit
mismanaged their retirement savings plan will be sent to the
Texas federal court already handling investor claims prompted by
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The employees asked that the suits be combined in Chicago,
where the retirement plan is administered. BP said the cases,
brought under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security
Act, or  ERISA , belong in Houston because the claims are similar
to those in other investor suits.  In the suits, filed as class actions on behalf of all U.S.
employees participating in the company’s retirement savings
plan, workers claim  losses  of more than $1 billion from the
stock plunge after the April 20 spill. BP’s pre-spill safety
record made the London-based company a risky investment, the
employees say.  “Certainly, there are differences between the securities
actions and the ERISA actions,” the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation said yesterday. “Notwithstanding those
differences, there is significant overlap between the ERISA and
securities actions warranting their concentration in a single
docket.” U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison will oversee the
lawsuits.  The lawsuits are In Re BP Plc Securities Litigation, 10-md-
2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston),
and In Re BP Securities, Derivative and Employment Retirement
Income Security (ERISA) Litigation.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Nomura Hires Tung as Asia Ex-Japan General Counsel, Memo Says  Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, named
Wanda Chang Tung to succeed Clifford Levy as its top lawyer in
Asia outside Japan, according to a company memo seen by
Bloomberg.  Tung, who had led Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s legal
department in Asia outside Japan, starts work in Hong Kong on
Oct. 18, according to the memo.  Levy, 47, will become a senior adviser to the regional
management team, after having “played a critical role” in the
integration of the brokerage with Lehman’s businesses in Asia,
Philip Lynch, the regional chief executive officer, wrote in the
memo.  Sunny Tucker, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Nomura,
confirmed the memo’s content and declined to comment further.  Tung will head Nomura’s legal and compliance division in
the region, overseeing lawyers in corporate, transactions and
compliance departments. Before Lehman, she was assistant general
counsel in Asia at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 