-- Foreign Investment in China Rises 6.1%, Underscoring Confidence in Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T03:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/china-sees-6-1-gain-in-foreign-direct-investment-as-growth-lures-renault.html
Foreign direct investment  in China
increased at a faster pace in September, underscoring confidence
in the outlook for the fastest-growing major economy and adding
to pressures on the nation’s exchange rate.  Investment  rose 6.1 percent from a year earlier to $8.4
billion after a 1.4 percent gain in August, the Ministry of
Commerce said in a statement in Beijing today. Investment in the
first nine months of 2010 climbed 16.6 percent to $74.3 billion.  Companies from clothing retailer  Esprit Holdings Ltd.  to
carmaker Renault SA are seeking to expand in China amid elevated
U.S. unemployment and European budget cuts. The flood of money
into China, including from speculative cash, forced the central
bank to buy foreign currency and avert faster gains in the yuan,
helping spur a record jump in reserves last quarter.  “The favorable near-term economic outlook combined with
rising consumer prices increasingly resemble the period of
currency appreciation between 2005 and 2008,” when the yuan
soared 21 percent versus the dollar,  Bill Adams , resident
economist for the Conference Board China Center in Beijing, said
in a statement today. Adams’s New York-based research group
today reported that its gauge of the Chinese economy’s outlook
rose for a fourth straight month in August.  Rising Yuan  The People’s Bank of China set today’s reference rate for
yuan trading at 6.6497 per dollar, the highest since a dollar
peg was ended in July 2005, and the currency was headed for a
sixth weekly advance.  “The FDI inflow will certainly increase pressure on yuan
appreciation in the short term,”  Sun Chi , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd.  Asia’s role as leader of the world recovery has lured $2
billion of capital inflows daily since 2009, spurring record
gains in foreign-exchange reserves, a report this month by DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. showed.  China’s economy will grow 9.6 percent next year, four times
the U.S. pace and six times the euro area, the International
Monetary Fund estimates.  “The biggest attraction for investment: the growth,”  Yao Wei , a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA, said
before today’s report. “Investment will grow at a robust
pace.”  Liquidity Measures  That’s complicating monetary policy in China, which this
week reported that its  currency holdings , the world’s biggest,
swelled to $2.65 trillion. The central bank told six banks to
temporarily set aside more cash as reserves, people with
knowledge of the matter said this week, draining money out of
the financial system to limit asset bubbles and inflation.  China is ranked the top destination for FDI for 2010-2012,
the  United Nations  said last month, while the Chinese commerce
ministry estimates inbound investment may exceed $100 billion
this year.  Esprit, the biggest Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer,
said last month that it plans to expand its operations to 400
Chinese cities, with store numbers rising 83 percent to 1,700
within five years because China “represents the biggest growth
opportunity.”  Renault, France’s second-largest carmaker, plans to expand
in the nation through a partnership with Dongfeng Motor Group
Co., Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said Sept. 20 in
Zhengzhou, central China.  Leading Index  The Conference Board’s leading index rose 0.7 percent to
149.9, according to a preliminary report from the Conference
Board posted on its website today. The reading compared with a
0.8 percent gain in July.  Today’s report also showed that the coincident economic
index, a measure of current activity, increased 1.0 percent in
August after gaining 0.5 percent in July.  August’s increase in the leading index “suggests
continuing growth and receding risks of a slowdown in coming
months,” says Ataman Ozyildirim, an economist at the Conference
Board, said in the statement. “Still, half of our indicators
are showing a decline rather than a rise in August from July.”  China’s growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from the 11.9 percent pace in
the first three months of this year after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
took measures to curb credit growth and cool property market.
Third-quarter figures will be released next week.  A separate report today showed that property prices rose
and transactions jumped in September from the previous month,
underscoring the need for further government curbs to discourage
speculation.  Prices in 70 cities climbed 0.5 percent from August and the
value of property sales soared 56 percent, according to data
from the statistics bureau today. Prices rebounded for the first
time since May on a monthly basis after staying unchanged in the
previous two months and declining in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
 Yanping Li  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  