-- Chinese Splurge on $130,000 Watches to Boost Hong Kong Retail
-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-15T09:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/chinese-snap-up-130-000-watches-to-boost-golden-week-sales-in-hong-kong.html
Chinese shoppers visited Hong Kong
in record numbers last week to splurge on $130,000 watches,
vintage wine and diamonds, boosting sales for Sotheby’s and
retailers including Omega retailer  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd.   Merchants’ sales gained as much as 30 percent from a year
ago during China’s Golden Week holiday, according to the  Hong
Kong Retail Management Association . Sales jumped more than
60 percent in the Oct. 1-7 holiday,  Hengdeli  Board Secretary
Tan Li said in an interview.  Swatch Group AG  partner Hengdeli and  Emperor Watch &
Jewellery Ltd.  are opening shops in Hong Kong as  record tourist
 arrivals and a stronger yuan boosted sales for 12 straight 
months. Hong Kong, host of the second-most expensive retail rent 
district after New York’s Fifth Avenue, stands to benefit from 
China’s drive to boost domestic consumption as the nation’s
households accumulate $16.5 trillion of assets.  “The spending power of  Chinese consumers  is amazingly
strong and the rising yuan helped a lot,” Emperor Watch
Executive Director Henry Chan said in an interview. “What they
pursue in jewelries and watches are no longer middle-priced
pieces, but the expensive, sophisticated and limited items.”  Hengdeli  has gained 50 percent in Hong Kong trading this
year, beating the 8.6 percent rise in the city’s benchmark Hang
Seng Index. Emperor Watch, which sells Cartier and Rolex watches,
 surged  85 percent in the same period.  HK$1 Million Watches  Hengdeli  rose 1.4 percent to close at a record HK$4.40 at
4:00 p.m. in Hong Kong and  Emperor  lost 1 percent.  Sotheby’s broke its record for a jewelry auction in Hong
Kong during the week, garnering HK$423 million ($54.5 million).
A 6.43-carat pink diamond set in a Van Cleef & Arpels ring was
sold for HK$60 million.  “Mainland Chinese spending more than HK$1 million on
watches today is not something unusual,” Emperor’s Chan said.
“We sold one or two every day during the Golden Week.” The
company’s same-store revenue advanced as much as 70 percent in
the first four days of the holiday, he said.  Hong Kong is the biggest market for Swiss watchmakers,
purchasing 199.5 million Swiss francs ($209 million) worth of
timepieces in August, almost double the amount sold to the U.S.,
according to  the  Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  “There are a lot of mainland Chinese customers with strong
consumption power,” Hengdeli’s Tan said.  Yuan’s Rise  Visitor  arrivals  from mainland China jumped 21 percent to a
record 662,248 during the week, from the same period a year ago,
the Hong Kong Tourism Board said. The yuan advanced to the
highest level against the dollar since 1993 on Oct. 14, spurring
purchases in Hong Kong, which pegged its currency to the dollar.
Mainland China excludes Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.  China’s household wealth may more than double to $35
trillion by 2015, surpassing Japan to become the second highest
in the world, Credit Suisse AG said Oct. 8. China is now ranked
third.  “Record mainland visitor arrivals are helping to keep a
feel-good factor circulating through HK,” said  Donna Kwok , a
Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Chinese
visitors offer higher-end retail outlets an easier source of
demand to tap, spending on average 35% more than their American
counterpart.”  Causeway Bay  That’s helping landlords charge retailers more in the
former British colony. Rents in Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay jumped
9.6 percent this year, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
That means the district maintains its ranking as the world’s
second-most expensive store-rental area, behind New York’s Fifth
Avenue, the broker said in its annual survey in September.  China’s tourist departures may reach 130 million in 2015
from almost 50 million last year,  Frederic Neumann  and Song-yi
Kim, economists for HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a  research note 
today. Spending by mainland Chinese overseas travelers may grow
to more than $110 billion from $43 billion, they said. Between
$80 billion and $100 billion will be spent in Asia, according to
the report.  Sales of  Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd ., which sells
make-up and hair-care products, rose 13 percent in its outlets
in Hong Kong and Macau during the holiday, according to a
statement from the company.  “China has got a huge population to support the demand for
whatever they want,” Tsao Shiao Tien, a Taiwanese who bought a
soapstone seal from the Qing Dynasty at a Sotheby’s auction for
HK$5.78 million. “There are so many mainland Chinese people
around, and they’re driving up prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  