-- China's Communist Party Elite Meet to Discuss Leadership Changes, Poverty
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T07:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/china-s-communists-meet-in-beijing-as-xinhua-decries-widening-wealth-gap.html
China’s Communist Party  leaders 
clustered behind closed doors in Beijing today to discuss
economic planning and personnel changes that may decide the
nation’s next leader and the scope of any political reforms.  Dozens of black Audi A6 sedans, the official cars of the
nation’s top leaders, were parked outside the Jingxi Hotel in
the western part of the capital. Security guards shooed away
reporters and insisted they erase photographs of the building.  Tackling China’s gaping wealth gap is likely to dominate
the agenda, the official Xinhua News  reported . The agency, often
a mouthpiece for the government, released a feature story to
coincide with the opening of the four-day Central Committee
plenum that highlighted a man in Beijing scavenging for plastic
bottles next to apartments selling for $11,200 per square meter.  “The widening gap between rich and poor is the severe
social reality faced by China’s Communist Party and
government,” Xinhua said. “It hinders the harmonious
development of the world’s most populous country.”  President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao are concerned
that rising income gaps in China threaten to spark more riots,
strikes and other social unrest that might threaten the 61-year
rule of the Communist Party. A study released in August by
Credit Suisse AG reported that Chinese households had 9.3
trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) in hidden income, with most of
that concentrated among the wealthiest.  The top 10 percent of China’s households earn 139,000 yuan
a year, more than triple the official figures, according to the
Credit Suisse report. In contrast, the bottom 10 percent earns
5,350 yuan, the study written by Wang Xiaolu of the Beijing-
based China Reform Foundation said. China’s statistics bureau
called the methodology flawed.  ‘Inclusive Growth’  Xinhua earlier this week said the party is expected to
endorse Hu’s call for an  “inclusive growth”  model to address
inequality. The agency cited the World Bank’s finding that the
Gini coefficient -- a measure of inequality -- reached 0.47 in
2009, exceeding the 0.4 mark that is a predictor of social
unrest. The figure was 0.21-0.27 three decades ago, Xinhua said.  Street scenes across China lend credence to the Credit
Suisse report. The country is now the biggest market for  Porsche
SE’s  Cayenne sport-utility vehicle. The cars, the turbo version
of which sells in China for as much as 2.35 million yuan, are
increasingly seen on Beijing roads. Paris-based PPR’s Gucci
brand has six stores within 6.7 kilometers (4.2 miles) of
Beijing’s center, the same number as within 30 kilometers of
downtown Manhattan, according to Gucci’s  Web site .  The 200-odd Central Committee  members  and 160 alternate
members are set to discuss personnel changes and a new five-year
economic plan that starts in 2011.  Xi Jinping  Vice President Xi Jinping will likely take a position on
the party’s military commission, paving the way for him to
replace Hu as the country’s top leader when he begins stepping
down from his posts in late 2012, three political analysts,
including Northwestern University Professor Victor Shih, say. Hu
is chairman of the commission.  Politics will also be high on the agenda at the closed-door
plenum as leaders jockey to have their protégés promoted within
the party and government. In the run-up to the plenum, Wen has
called for a relaxation of state control of social and political
affairs. At last year’s session, Hu advocated more “intra-party
democracy,” to give lower-level officials a greater hand in
appointments and policymaking.  A group of retired officials drawn from the military, state
media and academia, this week accused “invisible black hands”
of suppressing a speech last month in which Wen called for
greater political openness to match economic gains. The open
 letter  by party elders including Li Rui, Chairman Mao Zedong’s
former secretary, was published on the Internet Oct. 11.  ‘What Right’  “What right does the  Central Propaganda Department  have to
muzzle the speech of the premier?” the letter said, referring
to the party branch that focuses on ideology. “What right does
it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know
what the premier said?”  The central committee named in 2007 had 204 members and 167
alternates. In addition to the top leaders, members include
China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Shang Fulin  and
China Construction Bank Corp. Chairman  Guo Shuqing .  China’s next five-year plan, which will be enacted at a
meeting of the country’s legislature in March, will be discussed
at the plenum, Xinhua said.  During the plan’s period, from 2011-2015, China will spend
more than 4 trillion yuan on tax cuts and support in areas
including alternative energy, environmental protection,
information technology and advanced manufacturing, the  South
China Morning Post  reported today, citing two officials involved
in the drafting.  -- Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Ben Richardson , Bill Austin  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  