-- China Says Japan in No Position to Criticize Yuan Policy After Surpluses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T09:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/china-rebuffs-japan-s-unreasonable-yuan-exchange-rate-policy-criticism.html
China rebuffed Japan’s calls for
it to make its exchange rate more flexible, signaling
increased tension among Asia’s largest economies on
currencies.  It’s “unreasonable” for Japan to criticize China on
the value of the yuan considering its trade surpluses with
China,  Yao Jian , spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce,
said at a briefing in Beijing today. “China has been acting
responsibly on currency policies.”  The official’s comments come after South Korea also
rebuked Japan yesterday for criticizing its foreign exchange
policy. Finance ministers and central bank governors of the
Group of 20 nations are due to meet next week in South Korea,
and competitive devaluation is expected to be a major topic,
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said this week.  “Currency tension is growing in Asia as many nations
enjoy current account surpluses -- no one wants to be a
scapegoat,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at
Norinchukin Research Institute in Tokyo. “These comments by
China and South Korea serve as a warning to Japan before the
G-20.”  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said two days ago that
guiding currencies lower is against the “coordination
process” of the G-20. “We’d like South Korea and China to
take responsible actions according to the common rules,” he
said.  China Trade  Yao said that Japan has been posting trade surpluses with
China for eight years between 2003 and 2010. Japan uses a
different calculation method for the trade figures, and
Ministry of Finance data show it has been running trade
deficits with China since at least 1997.  Addressing another area of tension with trading partners,
China’s Yao also said today the country’s restrictions on the
exports and manufacturing of rare-earth minerals are in line
with World Trade Organization policy.  U.S. and European policy makers have criticized Asian
governments for holding down their currencies to aid exports,
while emerging economies have complained about near-zero
interest rates in the U.S. leading to capital flooding their
markets. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  renewed
his call for China to let its currency rise in a speech last
week to the International Monetary Fund.  Scapegoat  Yao said the yuan shouldn’t be a scapegoat for American
economic and unemployment problems, speaking a day after the
U.S. reported a record trade deficit with China. China’s
exports to the U.S. climbed to a record $35.3 billion, while
U.S. exports dipped to $7.3 billion, the Commerce Department
said.  Other countries shouldn’t judge what is an appropriate
level for China’s trade surplus, Yao said, noting that the
country’s current-account surplus is about 5 percent of gross
domestic product this year, a level he termed appropriate.  China will continue with yuan reform as a responsible
nation, Yao said. Yuan policy is for China’s own decision
based on the domestic economic situation, he said.  China’s currency has risen 2.7 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when the central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate after blocking
appreciation for almost two years.  Financial Cooperation  Japan’s Noda today called on G-20 nations to strengthen
cooperation on financial markets when they meet in South
Korea next week.  “We have to cooperate and share our wisdom to
strengthen order in the global currency system” at the
gathering, Yoshihiko Noda said at a press conference in Tokyo
today. “We have to make the most of the wisdom of each
nation as it’s hard for one country to address currency
issues.”  Yao signaled that China doesn’t want to repeat Japan’s
experiences dealing with a strengthening domestic currency
after the Plaza Accord in 1985. The agreement prompted a
decline in the dollar against its Japanese and German
counterparts, with the U.S. currency weakening about 38
percent against the yen in two years.  ‘Lecture Us’  “If we recall Japan’s economic policies in the 1980s,
many scholars and economists have said that led to economic
disorder and it’s a lesson to take,” Yao said. “Japan’s rapid
currency appreciation led exports to plunge, as well as
unemployment and an economic slowdown. The subsequent policy
loosening led to economic bubbles in the decade that
followed.”  “After those lessons, how could Japan lecture us?”  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo.
Editors:  Ken McCallum ,  Chris Anstey .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  