-- Citigroup, JPMorgan `Well Positioned' in Mortgages, Goldman Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-15T14:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/citigroup-jpmorgan-are-well-positioned-in-mortgages-goldman-sachs-says.html
Citigroup Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  are “well positioned” to manage through mortgage-related
problems such as so-called put-backs from Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac and private investors,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said.  The total cost to the banking industry of having to buy
back faulty mortgages from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other
government-sponsored entities could be between $29 billion and
$44 billion, analysts led by  Richard Ramsden  in New York wrote
in a note to investors today. The cost from private-label
mortgage-backed securities put-backs could reach $34 billion,
the analysts estimated.  U.S. bank stocks fell for a second day on concern costs for
the put-backs will escalate and as a freeze on home foreclosures
because of faulty paperwork led to a nationwide investigation of
banks’ practices. The Goldman Sachs analysts said the
foreclosure freeze represents a “temporary problem,” although
the size of potential penalties and costs “are difficult to
assess.”  Citigroup and JPMorgan, both based in New York, “appear
well positioned, given their total exposure and accumulated
reserves,” the analysts wrote. “While the increased time
certainly represents a cost to the banks, we do not ultimately
believe that the outcome will be materially different from the
current outlook, as the documentation appears to be complete and
appears to be more of a technical issue than a fundamental one.”  Litton Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business
owned by Goldman Sachs, said a week ago that it suspended
foreclosures in some cases to review its procedures.  Goldman Sachs analysts have buy ratings on  Bank of America
Corp. , JPMorgan and Citigroup, the three biggest U.S. banks by
assets, and a neutral rating on  Wells Fargo & Co. , the fourth-
largest. Goldman Sachs is No. 5.  Bank of America dropped 64 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $11.96
at 10:17 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after
dropping 5.2 percent yesterday. JPMorgan fell $1.79, or 4.6
percent, to $36.94, while Citigroup lost 11 cents, or 2.6
percent, to $3.96. Wells Fargo slid 97 cents, or 3.9 percent, to
$23.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 