-- Colombia Peso Falls to Three-Week Low on Bets Bank to Buy Dollars Directly
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-15T18:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/colombia-peso-falls-to-three-week-low-on-bets-bank-to-buy-dollars-directly.html
Colombia’s peso fell to its weakest
level in three weeks on speculation the central bank will begin
buying dollars directly in the market in a bid to ease the local
currency’s rally.  The peso dropped for a fourth day, falling 0.4 percent to
1,808.63 per dollar at 2:15 p.m. New York time, from 1,801.80
yesterday. The peso is up 13 percent this year, the second-best
performance after Japan’s yen among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  In a  bulletin  published on its website yesterday, Banco de
la Republica updated its regulations on how it “intervenes” in
the currency market. The modification allows the central bank to
more easily buy dollars directly in the market, according to
 Camilo Perez , head analyst at Banco de Bogota, Colombia’s
second-biggest bank.  “The market is reading this as if the central bank is
getting ready to intervene discretionally and it will do so at
any moment,” said Perez. “If it does so or not, it is
definitely sending a clear signal, playing with market
psychology and scaring people.”  Government and central bank officials are seeking to ease a
rally in the peso that the country’s business associations said
in a letter this week threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the
Colombian economy’s positive outlook.”  Dollar Purchase Auctions  Colombia’s central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily for at least four months. While Banco de la
Republica has purchased an average daily of $20 million through
auctions, central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  has said the bank
can buy “much more” or extend purchases beyond the currently
scheduled four months.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said earlier this
week the government will keep $1.4 billion in dividend payments
from state oil company Ecopetrol SA overseas in a bid to ease
the peso’s rally. The August dividend was left abroad and the
same will be done with $700 million from the December dividend,
he said.  In their letter to the government and central bank, the
group of Colombian business associations including ANDI, the
country’s biggest, asked that officials impose capital controls
and increase dollar purchases in the currency market.  Banco de la Republica will likely seek to impose limits on
borrowing abroad, according to Perez.  “The risk of capital controls is on everyone’s mind,” he
said.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.07
percent today, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The
bond’s price rose 0.164 centavo to 126.999 centavos per peso.
The yield increased 9 basis points this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  