-- Computer Sciences, Tyson Broke Rules, Still Won U.S. Contracts, GAO Finds
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-15T15:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/computer-sciences-tyson-broke-rules-still-won-u-s-contracts-gao-finds.html
Computer Sciences Corp ., an
information-technology company that relies on government
business for almost 40 percent of its revenue, won $4 billion in
U.S. contracts in fiscal 2009 after failing to pay more than 250
employees the wages and benefits they were owed.  Computer Sciences, based in the Washington suburb of Falls
Church, Virginia, topped a list of 15 companies that received
more than $6 billion in federal contracts despite records of
wage, health or safety violations, according to a report by the
Government Accountability Office.  Tyson Foods Inc ., the largest U.S. chicken processor;
 Corrections Corp. of America , the nation’s biggest private
operator of prisons; and Wackenhut Services Inc., owned by U.K.-
based security contractor  G4S Plc , are also among the
contractors identified.  The names of the companies, not revealed in the public
report released Oct. 1, were provided by Representative  Robert Andrews , a New Jersey Democrat who criticized the awarding of
contracts to companies that didn’t meet required standards.  “If a company has a pattern of violations, at the very
least, it should raise greater scrutiny before they get
government contracts,” Andrews, chairman of the panel that
requested the investigation, said in a telephone interview.
“There doesn’t seem to be much incentive to follow the laws
because you can still get a contract anyway.”  The report by the GAO, the investigative arm of Congress,
covered a sample of contracts in the fiscal year that ended on
Sept. 30, 2009.  ‘Work to Do’  Computer Sciences, which was awarded the $4 billion from
the Defense Department and NASA, was assessed $1.6 million in
back pay by the Labor Department covering a five-year period.  Tyson, with more than $500 million in Defense, Agriculture
and Justice department contracts, was cited for more than 100
health and safety violations by the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the GAO said.  Wackenhut, which received $200 million in security
contracts with the Defense, Agriculture and Homeland Security
departments and NASA, violated fair-labor laws, according to
Labor Department data cited by the GAO.  “Some companies that continue to receive lucrative
government contracts not only pay rock-bottom wages, but have
long histories of labor and workplace safety violations,”
Representative  Patrick Murphy , a Pennsylvania Democrat who
joined in requesting the GAO report, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have a lot of work to do to ensure that the
federal contracting process encourages safe and good-paying
jobs.”  Workers Misclassified  In addition to the pay violations, Computer Sciences didn’t
provide protections against cave-ins for employees working in a
trench more than 10 feet (3 meters) deep, according to a 2006
inspection by the occupational safety agency cited by the GAO.  Chris Grandis , a company spokesman, said Computer Sciences
paid the back wages to employees assigned to a U.S. immigration
office in Vermont in 2009, after the Labor Department found they
had been misclassified as contract workers entitled to less
compensation. The company also received a minor citation from
the occupational safety agency and agreed to pay a small fine,
he said.  Computer Sciences, a government contractor since 1961,
received 37 percent of its $16.1 billion in revenue from federal
contracts in the fiscal year ended April 2, according to a
regulatory filing.  Army, Immigration  It ranked 12th in U.S. government contracts in fiscal 2009,
the year studied by the GAO, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its biggest federal contract that year was with the
U.S. Army to provide engineering and logistics support for the
Communications-Electronics Life Cycle Management Command.  Computer Sciences also has a contract with the Homeland
Security Department for a processing system used in applications
for immigration benefits and services.  The company said on Oct. 4 that it was one of four firms
that will share in a $2.8 billion contract by the Social
Security Administration for consulting and information
technology services.  Tyson has received more than 100 U.S. health and safety
citations, including for an incident in which a worker died
after being asphyxiated in a pit of wastewater debris, according
to the GAO report. Last year, Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson
won $500 million in federal contracts, the GAO’s report showed.  Gary Mickelson , a Tyson spokesman, said the company seeks
to comply with federal regulations and the report doesn’t give
“the full context of the issues involved, nor does it report
the measures our company takes to operate responsibly.”  Corrections Corp.  Corrections Corp., based in Nashville, Tennessee, was cited
for five safety violations since 2005 and for failing to follow
labor laws when firing an employee for union participation,
according to the GAO. Last year, it was awarded $800 million in
contracts, the agency said.  Steve Owen, a Corrections Corp. spokesman, said the U.S.
contracts are subject to oversight and accountability. He
declined to comment on safety and labor violations cited in the
GAO report.  Wackenhut, based in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, received
$200 million in contracts, the GAO said. From 2005 through 2009,
the Labor Department said the company owed $4.4 million in back
wages to more than 2,100 employees, and OSHA cited the company
for seven cases of health and safety violations, resulting in
$9,000 in fines. The company agreed this year to pay $290,000 in
back pay and interest to 446 rejected black job applicants.  Susan Pitcher, a Wackenhut spokeswoman, said the company
had no response to the report.  Violations by other federal contractors included hiring
undocumented workers, failing to meet environmental standards
and fraudulently billing Medicare or Medicaid, according to the
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at  at
 acapaccio@bloomnberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 