-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Rise 0.1% in September; Core Unchanged
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-15T12:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-rise-0-1-in-september-core-unchanged.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in September, indicating companies are
keeping a lid on price increases to stoke demand.  The consumer-price index rose 0.1 percent after 0.3 percent
gains in the prior two months, figures from the Labor Department
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.2 percent
gain, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Excluding  volatile food and fuel costs, the so-called
core rate was unchanged for a second month.  Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are among retailers
offering more discounted items in a bid to attract shoppers.
With few signs of accelerating inflation, the Federal Reserve
has room to ease monetary policy further to help rev up a
recovery in which unemployment is close to a 26-year high.  “The immediate concern is not for additional price
pressure,” said Robert Dye, a senior economist at PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, who accurately forecast the
rise in the CPI. “In a weak-growth environment, retailers in
particular will have difficulty raising prices.”  Retail sales  climbed more than forecast in September,
easing concern consumer spending will weaken and endanger the
recovery. Purchases rose 0.6 percent following a 0.7 percent
gain in August that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
advance was broad-based, with clothing stores the only major
category to show a decline in demand last month.  Stock-Index Futures  Stock-index futures increased after the reports. Futures on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to 1,177 at
8:43 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
was little changed at 2.51 percent.  The forecast gain in consumer prices was based on the
median of 79 economists in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates
ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 0.4 percent.  In the 12 months ended in September, prices rose 1.1
percent, matching the year-over-year gain the prior month.  The core rate rose 0.8 percent from September 2009, the
smallest year-over-year gain since 1961.  Energy costs increased 0.7 percent from a month earlier,
and food costs rose 0.3 percent.  Rental Prices  Owners-equivalent rent, one of the categories designed to
track rental prices, was unchanged for a second month. Apparel
prices fell 0.6 percent, the most since April, and electricity
costs declined.  The cost of medical care increased 0.6 percent, the most
since July 2007, including the biggest jump in medical care
services since December 1991. New-car prices rose 0.1 percent.  The lack of overall price pressures is one reason
economists in a Bloomberg survey taken Oct. 4 to Oct. 12 pushed
back the timing of the Fed’s first increase in the benchmark
interest rate to the first quarter of 2012, from the prior three
months as predicted in September. The lending rate target has
been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  U.S. central bankers are debating the effects additional
monetary stimulus would have on prices as they try to speed up
the economy. The Fed’s statement on Sept. 21 was the first in
almost two years of near-zero interest rates to say too-low
inflation would warrant looser monetary policy.  Fed Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.
Minutes from its Sept. 21 meeting, released this week, showed
policy makers discussed “several possible approaches” to
supporting economic growth, mainly purchasing longer-term
Treasury securities. Policy makers “saw only small odds of
deflation,” according to the minutes.  Some retailers are piling on discounts ahead of the holiday
season, typically their biggest sales period.  Target  said last
week that it would lower prices on more than 1,000 toys to
attract shoppers. Wal-Mart responded with its own discounts,
advertising savings on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
the Labor Department, because it includes goods and services.
Almost 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for
services ranging from medical visits to airline fares and movie
tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the  producer-
price  index in September increased 0.4 percent, matching the
previous month’s gain. The cost of goods  imported  into the U.S.,
reported earlier this week, fell 0.3 percent from the prior
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  