-- Constellation Offers to Sell Nuclear Project to EDF
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-10-15T20:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/constellation-offers-to-sell-its-50-stake-in-u-s-nuclear-venture-to-edf.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. 
offered to sell its stake in a U.S. nuclear-power joint venture
to  Electricite de France SA , while refusing to forgo an option
to sell EDF its old power plants.  Constellation said it would sell 50 percent of UniStar
Nuclear Energy to Paris-based EDF for $1 plus $117 million in
cost reimbursement, according to a letter today from Chief
Operating Officer  Michael Wallace  to EDF Executive Vice
President  Thomas Piquemal .  EDF, Europe’s largest power producer, already owns half of
UniStar and offered to buy the remaining half on Oct. 13 for
“fair market value” if Constellation agreed not to exercise an
option to sell 12 of its non-nuclear plants to EDF for $2
billion. The option, which expires in December, was put in place
in 2008 when the companies were fighting off a bid by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. to buy Constellation.  “This is part of the PR war that’s going on between the
two companies,” said  Paul Patterson , an analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC in New York, who doesn’t own shares of either
company. “It appears to be more public posturing than it is a
bona fide negotiation process, simply by its very public
nature.”  Constellation, based in Baltimore, said in the letter the
option to sell the coal, hydroelectric and natural-gas plants to
EDF should be handled separately.  Constellation fell 8 cents to $32.72 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. EDF shares fell 19 cents to
30.80 euros at 5:37 p.m. in Paris.  Negotiating by Letters  The two companies have been negotiating via publicly
released letters since Constellation Chief Executive Officer
 Mayo A. Shattuck  on Oct. 9 decided to withdraw an application
for a $7.5 billion federal loan guarantee to support building a
new reactor in Maryland because it was too expensive.  EDF has received the letter and is reviewing it, the
company said in e-mailed statement.  The Constellation offer is a “sign of ongoing talks, and
that’s a good thing,” said  Shaun Adamec , a spokesman for
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley . “The endgame for the
governor is that the project, Calvert Cliffs 3, and the jobs
that are associated with it, are saved.”  If EDF agreed to buy the rest of UniStar it would need a
U.S. partner to get a license for a new reactor. Under U.S. law,
a foreign company cannot “own, control or dominate” the holder
of a nuclear power plant license. EDF said on Oct. 13 it will
look for a new partner “at the appropriate time.”  French-Designed Reactors  Constellation and EDF created the UniStar Nuclear Energy
venture in 2007 to build as many as four French-designed nuclear
reactors in New York and at the Calvert Cliffs site in Maryland.
At the time, EDF’s former CEO, Pierre Gadonneix, was seeking to
develop and operate 10 reactors around the world by 2020.  Henri Proglio , EDF’s chief executive officer who took over
last year, has been scaling back his predecessor’s international
expansion plans to cut debt. In July, Proglio agreed to sell
EDF’s U.K. power networks for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.3 billion)
to a group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at  susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 