-- Convicted KB Home Ex-CEO Bruce Karatz Loses Bid for New Backdating Trial
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-15T22:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/convicted-kb-home-ex-ceo-bruce-karatz-loses-bid-for-new-backdating-trial.html
Former KB Home Chief Executive
Officer  Bruce Karatz  lost his bid for a new trial six months
after a jury convicted him of hiding backdated stock options
from auditors and regulators.  U.S. District Judge  Otis D. Wright II , at a hearing today
in Los Angeles, upheld three of the four counts on which Karatz
was found guilty, setting aside one count of mail fraud.
Prosecutors had failed to provide sufficient evidence that any
mailing had actually taken place to support the conviction on
that count, the judge said.  “I don’t find we’ve established at this point that there’s
been a miscarriage of justice,” Wright said in denying the
request for a new trial. “And I don’t find that Mr. Karatz
didn’t get a fair trial.”  In April, jurors found Karatz guilty of two counts of mail
fraud and two counts of making a false statement. He was
acquitted of 16 charges, including mail and wire fraud,
securities fraud and filing false proxy statements. He faced as
many as 80 years in prison based on the jury conviction.  The government, in a filing yesterday, objected to a
presentence report from the U.S. Probation Office that
recommended no prison time based Karatz’s conviction on the four
counts.  ‘Bel-Air Mansion’  The Probation Office’s conclusion is that Karatz “should
receive a sentence of five years probation, eight months of
which is to be served as ‘home confinement’ in defendant’s 24-
room Bel-Air mansion situated on a one acre estate,”
prosecutors said.  The government wants Wright to sentence the former chief
executive to a “substantial term of imprisonment,” according
to the filing. Karatz is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 10.  Prosecutors accused him of unauthorized and undisclosed
backdating of stock options that brought him $6.62 million in
compensation he wasn’t entitled to from 1999 to 2005. He stepped
down as chief executive at Los Angeles-based KB Home in 2006
after 20 years in charge of the homebuilder.  Elliot Peters , a lawyer for Karatz, declined to comment
after the hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Karatz, 09-203, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 