-- Cotton Futures Decline From Record as Dollar Rebounds, Commodities Fall
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-15T20:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/cotton-futures-decline-from-record-as-dollar-rebounds-commodities-fall.html
Cotton prices plummeted from a
record, dropping the most allowed by ICE Futures U.S., as a
rebound in the dollar eroded the investment appeal of
commodities.  The  greenback  rose from a 10-month low against a basket of
major currencies, and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials dropped after reaching a two-year high
yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation
is low and unemployment is high.  "Cotton is way too high," said  Sid Love , the president of
Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting Services LLC in Overland Park,
Kansas. People were buying cotton "because of the weakness of
the dollar," he said.  Cotton for December delivery dropped by the exchange’s 5-
cent limit, or 4.4 percent, to settle at $1.0987 a pound at 2:30
p.m. in New York. Earlier, the price climbed to $1.198, the
highest level ever. The fiber gained 2.5 percent this week and
45 percent in 2010.  “While a lot of folks may say the top is in, the jury is
still out,”  Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville,
Louisiana said today in an e-mailed note.  Prices soared after demand in China, the world’s biggest
consumer, climbed, while inventories plunged in the U.S., the
largest exporter.  China is forecast to import 13 million bales in the season
that began Aug. 1, up 19 percent from last year, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said Oct. 8. A bale weighs 480 pounds,
or 218 kilograms.  As of yesterday, cotton  stockpiles  held at warehouses
monitored by ICE have plunged 99 percent since June 1.  “Prices are likely to stay elevated over $1 well into
2011,” said  Gary Raines , an economist at FCStone Fibers &
Textiles in Nashville, Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 