-- Crude Oil Futures Drop to Lowest Level in Two Weeks as Dollar Strengthens
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-10-15T20:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/crude-oil-fluctuates-as-bernanke-says-u-s-economy-may-need-further-action.html
Crude oil fell to the lowest level
in two weeks as the dollar strengthened, curbing the appeal of
commodities as an alternative investment.  Oil retreated as the  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S.
currency against six of its major peers, rebounded from a 10-
month low after technical indicators suggested further declines
would be difficult to sustain. The dollar declined earlier today
after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted.  “The dollar focus is taking any sort of fundamental trade
out of the market,” said  Carl Larry , president of Oil Outlooks
& Opinions LLC in Houston. “Crude’s kind of floating where it’s
at. I think it’s close to fair value with demand and supply.”  Crude for November delivery fell $1.44, or 1.7 percent, to
settle at $81.25 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Prices have dropped 1.7 percent since Oct. 8, their first weekly
decline in four weeks. Futures have risen 4.7 percent in the
past year.  Brent crude for December settlement fell $1.75, or 2.1
percent, to $82.45 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London.  New York futures have gained 1.6 percent this month as the
Dollar Index declined 2.1 percent. The index increased 0.5
percent to 77.046 today after touching a 10-month low of 76.144
in intraday trading.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  in the U.S. climbed more than forecast in
September, easing concern consumer spending will weaken and
endanger the recovery.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent following a 0.7 percent gain in
August that was larger than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. Other reports
showed inflation cooled even further last month and
manufacturing in the New York region accelerated.  Futures increased as much as 0.8 percent earlier today as
the dollar weakened after Bernanke said the central bank could
expand asset purchases to support the recovery, an action known
as quantitative easing.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” he said today in the text of remarks
given at a Boston Fed conference.  Bernanke said Oct. 4 that the central bank’s first round of
large-scale asset purchases aided the economy and further buying
is likely to help more.  “We’re still consolidating and didn’t get much of a bump
off of the Federal Reserve chairman’s statement,” said  Jim Ritterbusch , president of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena,
Illinois-based consulting company.  $100 Oil  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . forecast “substantially higher
prices” for oil in the second half of 2011 as global stockpiles
fall, according to a report dated yesterday. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. raised its forecast for 2011 oil prices to $85 a barrel from
$80,  David Martin , a senior oil analyst at the bank, said at a
conference in Istanbul today.  Oil prices may rise above $100 a barrel within the next
year if the Fed enacts a second round of quantitative easing,
according to a report today from Nomura International, a unit of
Japan’s largest brokerage.  “We believe the recent increase in oil prices does not
fully factor in the potential” of quantitative easing to spur
prices, Michael Lo and  Cheng Khoo , Hong Kong-based analysts,
said in the report. The first round of bond purchases caused oil
to shoot up 74 percent, and the second “will lift oil prices,
as it will attract a bigger share of new fund flows.”  Dollar Slide  Oil at $100 a barrel would compensate producers for a slide
in the dollar without derailing the global economic recovery,
officials from Venezuela and Libya said yesterday at a meeting
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna.  The Energy Department reported  fuel consumption  in the
world’s largest oil-consuming country fell 0.7 percent to 18.3
million barrels a day last week, the lowest level since
November. Crude inventories were 13 percent above the five-year
average, according to the department.  The global inventory surplus will “be exhausted” by the
second half of 2011, Goldman Sachs said in its report.  Analysts polled by Bloomberg News were split over whether
oil in New York will rise or fall next week amid speculation the
dollar will decline further and the Fed may act to support the
economy.  U.S. consumption of refined products rose 1.8 percent in
September from the year before, signaling demand is recovering
as the economy rebounds, according to a report today by the
American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based industry group.
Fuel deliveries, a measure of demand, averaged 18.9 million
barrels a day, up from 18.6 million in September 2009.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 661,368
contracts as of 3:19 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 751,982
contracts yesterday, 9.8 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts, the
highest level in five months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 