-- Daimler Wins $324 Million Appeal in Shareholder Case Over Chrysler Merger
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-15T09:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/daimler-wins-324-million-appeal-in-shareholder-case-over-chrysler-merger.html
Daimler AG  won an appeals court
ruling overturning a 230 million-euro ($324 million) award to
former Daimler-Benz AG shareholders who claimed they weren’t
adequately compensated in the 1998 merger with Chrysler Corp.  The shareholders’ interests were taken care of when the
companies negotiated the deal, which gave 1.005 shares of
DaimlerChrysler AG for each share of the old Dailmer-Benz AG,
the Higher Regional Court in Stuttgart, Germany, said in an e-
mailed statement today. Shareholders at a Daimler-Benz meeting
overwhelmingly approved the merger, the court said.  “If the agreement is result of a negotiation process which
is backed by a large majority of shareholders, that’s the best
warranty that the executives took adequate care of the economic
interests of their respective investors,” the court said. “A
court has only limited powers of review in these cases.”  The suit stems from the $36 billion takeover of Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler, which created DaimlerChrysler
AG. The merger was unwound 2007 with the sale of 80.1 percent of
the U.S. division to Cerberus Capital Management LP. Daimler
later dropped “Chrysler” from its name.  The tribunal’s decision overturned a lower court ruling
that gave investors an additional 22.15 euros per share.  At a 2008 court hearing, Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Schrempp  denied allegations that Daimler-Benz downplayed its
value when negotiating its 1998 merger with Chrysler to
facilitate the transaction.  Schrempp told the court that Daimler-Benz’s value was
determined by independent auditors according to German merger
rules. He denied there were any orders to find a certain value
to downplay Daimler-Benz’s worth to make the merger possible.  The lower court had argued that the amount of shares the
plaintiffs received in the merged company under the formula
didn’t match the value of the stakes they had in Daimler-Benz.  The case is OLG Stuttgart, 20 W 16/06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Munich via the Berlin newsroom at +49-
   kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 