-- Damon’s Psychic Fancies Dickens; Mirren’s Killer Agent: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/damon-s-doughy-psychic-fancies-dickens-mirren-s-killer-agent-rick-warner.html
Clint Eastwood ’s “ Hereafter ” opens
with a heart-stopping scene: A tsunami crashes into an
Indonesian resort town, engulfing terrified tourists and
residents as they run for their lives. A Frenchwoman is dragged
underwater and knocked unconscious.  Then we’re conked with three alternating stories -- the
French TV journalist who miraculously survives the disaster, a
San Francisco construction worker with psychic powers that allow
him to talk to the dead, and a London boy whose twin brother is
fatally struck by a car. By the time the characters intersect --
in a seriously strained way --“Hereafter” is on life support.  Even  Matt Damon ’s star power can’t rescue this earnest
drama. As the Dickens-loving psychic George, he’s so low-key
that you expect him to nod off in the middle of a sentence. With
his puffed-up face and doughy body, Damon also looks like he’s
been sampling too much at the cooking class where George meets a
woman ( Bryce Dallas Howard ) with her own dark secret.  Eastwood and screenwriter  Peter Morgan  (“The Queen,”
“Frost/Nixon”) never figure out how to mesh these disparate
stories into a comprehensible film. When George grasps someone’s
hands at the start of a seance, his vision of the deceased is
bathed in a white blur. Similarly, the ill-defined characters
wander around pondering the afterlife.  Quack Psychics  The strongest section involves Marcus, who tries to
communicate with his dead brother (the two are played by real
twins, George and Frankie McLaren), only to encounter a bunch of
quack psychics whose real talent is fleecing grieving customers.  Journalist Marie (Cecile de France) goes into a downward
spiral after she and her boyfriend escape the tsunami. She
visits an afterlife researcher at a hospice in the Alps and
writes a memoir about her near-death experience. Marie promotes
the book in London, where the three main characters improbably
cross paths.  If there is an afterlife, I hope it’s livelier than this.  “Hereafter,” from Warner Bros. Pictures, is playing in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: *1/2  ‘Red’  The Queen fires a mean submachine gun.  Helen Mirren , the classy British actress who won an Oscar
for her title role in “The Queen,” plays a cunning assassin in
“ Red ,” a spy spoof about a group of aging CIA agents who come
out of retirement and uncover a nefarious murder plot involving
the U.S. vice president.  Along with  Bruce Willis ,  Morgan Freeman  and  John Malkovich ,
Mirren is targeted by a hit squad sanctioned by the CIA and a
dirty government contractor ( Richard Dreyfuss ), who’s trying to
cover up some messy business that took place in Guatemala
decades earlier. Bullets fly, bombs explode and Willis
dispatches one bad guy with a lethal chop to the neck.  The tongue-in-cheek style befits a film based on a comic-
book series.  Willis is preternaturally calm in the midst of mayhem, and
Malkovich displays the acute paranoia of someone who took
thousands of acid trips as an unwitting government guinea pig.  Mary-Louise Parker  adds to the deadpan humor as a casual
acquaintance of Willis’s who gets ensnared in his bizarre world,
while Brian Cox plays a Russian spy whose onetime romance with
Mirren included some near fatal gunplay. A cameo by 93-year-old
 Ernest Borgnine  reminds us that Lieutenant McHale is still very
much alive.  “Red,” directed by Robert Schwentke (“The Time
Traveler’s Wife”), has some funny moments -- just not enough of
them -- and the cartoonish violence sometimes overwhelms the
flippant tone.  “Red,” from Summit Entertainment, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 