-- Germany's DAX Index Gains for Third Day, Extends 25-Month High; VW Gains
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-10-15T16:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/dax-benchmark-set-for-second-weekly-gain-e-on-shares-climb-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks advanced as signals
from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the central
bank may inject more monetary stimulus to bolster the economy
outweighed an unexpected decline in U.S. consumer confidence.  Infineon Technologies AG  climbed 3.4 percent as  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc . posted better-than-estimated revenue because
of rising demand from China. Deutsche Boerse AG gained 2.1
percent as Commerzbank AG upgraded the stock. Volkswagen AG
added 1.2 percent after saying deliveries rose 7.9 percent in
September because of growth in China and the U.S.  The benchmark  DAX Index  advanced 0.6 percent to 6,492.3 at
the 5.30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the highest close since
September 2008. The measure has climbed 3.2 percent this week
amid rising speculation that the Fed will announce plans to
stimulate economic growth at its November meeting. The broader
 HDAX Index  added 0.5 percent today.  “We broke the sideways trading trend, which is very
important,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at  Baader Bank
AG  in Frankfurt. “We are getting good earnings and quantitative
easing will give full speed to get rid of any bad mood.”  U.S. retail sales rose 0.6 percent in September following a
0.7 percent gain in August that was larger than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today. Other
reports showed inflation cooled even further last month and
manufacturing in the New York region accelerated.  Bernanke Comments  Bernanke said gains in spending would probably be
“uneven” because unemployment was too high, and indicated that
additional monetary stimulus may be needed.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said today in the text of
remarks given at a Boston Fed conference. He said the Fed could
expand asset purchases or change the language of its statement.  German stocks pared earlier gains after the U.S. Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  index of consumer
sentiment  decreased to 67.9 in October from 68.2 last month.
Economists had estimated a reading of 68.9, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Infineon, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, climbed 3.4
percent to 5.63 euros, the highest close since June 2008. AMD,
the world’s second-biggest maker of computer microprocessors,
reported third-quarter sales of $1.62 billion, topping analysts’
estimates as demand increased in China. AMD also narrowed its
net loss to $118 million from $128 million a year earlier.  Deutsche Boerse Upgrade  Deutsche Boerse increased 2.1 percent to 50.56 euros as
Commerzbank raised the operator of the Frankfurt exchange to
“add” from “hold.”  Preferred shares of Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker,
rose 1.2 percent to 92.20 euros. Deliveries at Volkswagen’s
seven car brands including luxury unit Audi and Czech division
Skoda increased to 663,100 vehicles in September from 614,800 a
year earlier, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer said.
Nine-month sales gained 13 percent to a record 5.37 million
cars, sport-utility vehicles and light commercial vans.  Software AG , Germany’s second-largest software maker, slid
2.9 percent to 94.31 euros as the shares were cut to “reduce”
from “neutral” at WestLB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 