-- Delta Air to Add 1,000 Attendants on New Jobs, Furlough Recalls
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-15T19:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/delta-to-add-700-flight-attendant-jobs-as-travel-demand-improves-ceo-says.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  is adding 1,000
flight attendants, many of them to work on more profitable
international routes, as global demand for travel improves.  About 600 of the positions will be new hires and Delta has
received 85,000 applications, said  Betsy Talton , a spokeswoman
for the Atlanta-based company. Many of the jobs require
candidates to speak Dutch, Spanish, Japanese or Mandarin, she
said.  Delta is focusing on long-haul international flights that
are more lucrative than domestic trips as it tries to reverse
two years of losses while a weak U.S. economy damped travel.
Delta said in July it would add 1,000 airport and customer-
service workers at its biggest hubs to help with planes flying
with near-record percentages of seats filled.  The company first offered the jobs to attendants who were
on furlough and 425 accepted, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in his weekly recorded message to employees. The
company expects to interview about 90 candidates a day through
the end of the year, he said.  Delta, the world’s second-biggest carrier, has about 20,000
attendants, and the new positions would be a 5 percent increase
for that work group. Current attendants are voting through Nov.
3 on whether to be represented by the Association of Flight
Attendants. That union handled bargaining for Northwest Airlines
Corp. attendants before Delta bought the smaller carrier in
2008.  Pre-merger Delta flight attendants have twice rejected
union drives. A change by the U.S. National Mediation Board now
allows the majority of votes cast to determine the outcome of an
election. Previously, abstaining from voting was counted as a
“no,” setting a higher threshold for unions to win approval.  United Airlines and Continental Airlines merged in October
to form  United Continental Holdings Inc.,  surpassing Delta in
size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 