-- Jeter as Sinatra of Shortstops Means Big Payday
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/derek-jeter-as-sinatra-of-shortstops-means-yankees-provide-big-payday.html
Start spreadin’ the news:  Derek Jeter  is so valuable to the New York Yankees that he’ll be
able to demand a contract for close to the $19 million a
year he gets now, according to compensation consultants.  “Derek Jeter is  Frank Sinatra ,”  Alan Johnson ,
founder of New York-based Johnson Associates Inc., a
compensation analysis firm, said in a telephone interview.
“He’s  Madonna . He’s being paid as an entertainer rather
than as a sports guy.”  The 36-year-old shortstop’s stature as captain of the
Yankees and the face of North America’s most successful
sports franchise may outweigh any decline in hits, runs or
fielding range when he and team management negotiate a new
contract as soon as next month.  As the Yankees open baseball’s American League
Championship Series tonight at the Texas Rangers in
Arlington, Texas, Jeter is in the final days of a 10-year,
$189 million deal. His performance, while important for the
team, shouldn’t be more than a footnote when his new
contract is discussed, Johnson said.  Sinatra, the singer and actor who  died in 1998  at 82
and whose version of “New York, New York” is played after
each home victory at Yankee Stadium, had annual income a
decade before his death estimated at $12 million by Forbes.
Madonna’s 2008-2009 “Sticky and Sweet Tour,” which began
a week after her 50th birthday in August 2008, grossed $222
million, according to Billboard magazine.  Las Vegas bookmakers have New York the second favorite
to win the World Series behind the Philadelphia Phillies,
who face the San Francisco Giants for the National League
pennant beginning tomorrow. A successful title defense by
the Yankees would give Jeter his sixth championship ring
and the team its record-extending 28th title.  Wynn, Lauren  Jeter is a brand ambassador the likes of casino mogul
 Steve Wynn  or fashion designer  Ralph Lauren , according to
 Graef Crystal , who studies executive compensation. Wynn,
the chairman and chief executive officer of  Wynn Resorts
Ltd ., received $8.4 million in 2009 pay, while Lauren, who
heads  Polo Ralph Lauren Corp ., earned $27.7 million, said
Crystal, a consultant to Bloomberg News.  Jeter was selected as the team’s 11th captain in 2003.
He manned the microphone to close the old Yankee Stadium in
September 2008 and again represented the team at a July
ceremony marking the deaths of owner  George Steinbrenner 
and public address announcer  Bob Sheppard . He is the
Yankees’ career hits leader, needing 74 to reach 3,000.  Endorsement Lineup  His endorsement agreements include  Ford Motor Co . and
Procter & Gamble Co.’s Gillette razors, helping make Jeter
the  eighth-highest earning  American athlete this year with
$31 million, according to SI.com.  Jeter would be eligible for free agency and could sign
with any team once his contract expires.  “He’ll never be in another uniform,” former teammate
 Tino Martinez , now a special assistant to Yankees General
Manager  Brian Cashman , said in an interview, offering what
he said is only his opinion. “I’m sure he’ll get a three-
year deal, probably making the same money.”  The only 34-and-older shortstops since the 1990-91
offseason to sign contracts in excess of $5 million were
 Marco Scutaro , who received $12.5 million over two years
from the Boston Red Sox in 2009, and  Miguel Tejada , who got
a one-year, $5 million deal with the Baltimore Orioles this
season, according to ESPN.  Yankee Lifer  Jeter said in February he “never envisioned playing
anywhere else” and that he wouldn’t discuss his contract
status again this season. He has since refused any attempt
to talk about his future. The Yankees have a policy of not
negotiating with players until their contracts are
complete.  Jeter’s agent,  Casey Close , didn’t return a message
left at his office seeking comment about Jeter’s contract
status.  A  career .314 hitter , Jeter batted .270 this season,
the lowest since he became a starter in 1996. His .370
slugging percentage was the worst of his career, signaling
dwindling power. With his range at shortstop also
diminishing, as measured by  FanGraphs.com , it might be
difficult to move him to a less-demanding position, with
third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  signed through 2017 and first
baseman  Mark Teixeira  through 2016.  “Production might be off, but he’s still, to many,
the face of that organization,” said  David Carter ,
executive director of the Los Angeles-based Sports Business
Group. “Both sides have to step back and say there is
unlikely to be a solution outside of getting a deal done
that’s going to be beneficial long term to either party.”  Phillies Favored  The Yankees have 8-5 odds to win the World Series,
trailing the Phillies, who are 6-5 favorites, according to
the Hilton Race and Sports Book in Las Vegas. The Rangers
are 5-1 and San Francisco is 8-1, meaning a $10 bet on the
Giants to win would net $80 plus the original wager.  Jeter holds the mark for postseason games played with
141, and he’s due to pass  Manny Ramirez  atop the league
championship series list, with 50, on Oct. 18. He’s the
career playoff leader in hits (179) and runs (99), and
third in home runs with 20. During the regular season he’s
hit a homer once every 45 plate appearances, while in the
playoffs his numbers improve to one every 33. The team has
missed the playoffs only once in his career, in 2008.  “Derek is used to being in this situation,” manager
 Joe Girardi  said this week at a news conference. “It’s
what he’s experienced his whole career. I don’t know if you
expect more, you just expect him to be Derek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  