-- Asia Tops North America as Biggest Derivatives Market for the First Time
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-15T07:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/derivatives-trading-in-asia-overtakes-north-american-level-for-first-time.html
The Asia-Pacific has overtaken North
America as the world’s biggest derivatives market amid
increasing demand for futures and options contracts in the
region’s fast-growing economies.  Derivatives contracts traded in Asia-Pacific accounted for
38 percent of the global total in the six months to June,
according to  data  from the Washington-based Futures Industry
Association. That compares with 33 percent in North America, it
said.  It is the first time Asia has surpassed North America in
derivatives trading volumes since the group started tracking the
data in the 1980s,  Will Acworth , a spokesman for the association,
said in an e-mailed statement. Derivatives are financial
instruments derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities, or linked to specific events such as changes in the
weather or interest rates.  “This is the culmination of a long-term growth trend in
countries like Korea and Taiwan and more recently China and
India,” Acworth said. “At the same time, the steady growth
that we have been seeing for many years in North America was
interrupted by the credit crisis, which took some players out of
the market and continues to depress trading activity.”  Derivatives contracts traded in the Asia-Pacific region
climbed 52 percent to 4.2 billion contracts in the six months to
June from a year earlier, while those that changed hands in
North America increased 16 percent to 3.7 billion, the
association’s data showed.  China, India  Korea accounted for 42 percent of derivatives traded across
the Asia-Pacific region in the first half of 2010, while those
changing hands in Indian exchanges accounted for 32 percent, the
association said. China’s exchanges made up 16 percent.  The rapid growth in demand for commodity futures contracts
in China and India should help the world’s biggest consumers of
raw materials to eventually overtake Korea as the region’s top
derivatives exchange, according to  Geoff Howie , a senior vice
president in Singapore at MF Global Holdings Ltd., a futures and
options broker.  Contracts traded on the four Indian derivatives exchanges
more than doubled to 1.36 billion in the first half of 2010,
compared with 542.4 million a year earlier, according to the
association’s data. In China, contracts that changed hands on
three exchanges climbed 60 percent to 672 million in the same
period, it said.  Demand Rising  “Investor demand for derivatives in Asia had been rising
given the region’s rapid economic growth,”  Julien Le Noble ,
chief executive officer of brokerage Newedge Group’s Japan unit,
said in an interview in Singapore. “This is sustainable as
Asian markets are maturing. There is a growing need from Asian
corporate and financial institutions to have access to hedge
their risks.”  Exchanges around Asia have been developing new products to
capitalize on growing investor demand. China introduced a stock
futures contract in April, while India Commodity Exchange Ltd.
has announced plans to trade iron-ore futures.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. , operator of the derivatives and
securities exchange in the city, announced in July plans to
introduce metals futures contracts based on London Metal
Exchange prices and also stock futures linked to the  Euro Stoxx
50 Index .  “This part of the world is growing much faster than the
others,” said  Magnus Bocker , chief executive officer of
Singapore Exchange and former president Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
“Capital is needed in order for the region to continue to grow
and develop countries in this part of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 