-- Dollar Near 15-Year Low Versus Yen as Investors Anticipate Bernanke Speech
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-15T09:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/dollar-near-15-year-low-versus-yen-as-investors-anticipate-bernanke-speech.html
The dollar traded near its weakest
level in 15 years against the yen before a speech by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that may indicate whether the
central bank will ease monetary policy further.  The yen advanced against all of its 16 most-actively traded
peers as declines in stocks around the world and a U.S. probe
into home foreclosures boosted demand for the Japanese currency
as a refuge. The dollar was close to its weakest level against
the euro since January. Minutes of last month’s Federal Open
Market Committee meeting released this week suggested the Fed
may pump more cash into the economy.  “Focus is clearly on Bernanke’s speech, which will be
closely scrutinized for clues about the tools and size of
quantitative easing,” said  Stephan Maier , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Expectations of further
monetary easing have intensified since the release of the Fed
minutes.”  The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to 81.19 yen at 9:46 a.m.
in London from 81.48 yesterday, when it touched 80.89, the
lowest since April 1995. The Japanese currency was set for its
fourth straight weekly gain against the dollar.  The U.S. currency was little changed at $1.4104 per euro
from $1.4084 in New York yesterday after strengthening earlier
to $1.4009. It reached $1.4122 yesterday, the weakest since Jan.
26. The 16-nation single currency headed for its longest weekly
winning streak since December 2008 against the dollar. The euro
weakened 0.2 percent to 114.49 yen from 114.76 yen.  Bernanke will speak later today at the Boston Fed
conference.  Asian Stocks Fall  The U.S. currency had been boosted by remarks from Federal
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota, who
said late yesterday that additional asset purchases by the
central bank may have a “more muted effect” than anticipated.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said today in parliament
he is “very concerned” about the yen’s rise to a 15-year high.
Kan last month authorized Japan’s first currency intervention
since 2004.  The Japanese currency gained after the MSCI Asia Pacific
 Index  fell 0.6 percent.  U.S. stocks declined yesterday, dragging benchmark indexes
down from five-month highs, as financial companies slumped on
concern a regulatory probe into mortgage practices will harm
their earnings. Top legal officers from all 50 U.S. states this
week opened a joint investigation into home foreclosures, saying
they will seek an immediate halt to any improper practices.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against currencies including the euro, yen
and Swiss franc, fell 0.2 percent to 76.487. It has dropped 4.9
percent since Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement
following its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide
additional accommodation if needed” to support the recovery.  “Financial markets are functioning much better in late
2010 than they were in early 2009,” Kocherlakota said
yesterday. As a result, “the relevant spreads are lower and I
suspect it will be somewhat more challenging for the Fed to
impact them.”  A former top Japanese currency official said today gains in
the yen may be “coming to an end” as investors have priced in
another round of monetary easing by the Fed.  “There’s no fundamental reason for the yen to
strengthen,” said Makoto Utsumi, who led currency policy from
1989 to 1991 and conducted currency intervention after the
signing the Plaza Accord in 1985. “The more the yen
strengthens, the bigger the reversal could be.”  ‘Reflect Fundamentals’  The euro slipped from near an eight-month high versus the
dollar after European Central Bank Governing Council member
 Christian Noyer  said yesterday that global authorities need to
find a joint solution to prevent disorderly currency moves.  European Union Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
“exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals,” in an
e-mailed copy of a speech given in Helsinki yesterday. EU
President Herman Van Rompuy speaks later today in Brussels.  “European officials seem worried over the euro’s rapid
appreciation,” said  Yoh Nihei , a Tokyo-based trading group
manager at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Its recent gains are
probably too fast, and it could hurt exports. There’s a downside
risk for the euro.”  The dollar still headed for a fifth weekly decline versus
the euro on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is faltering,
adding to traders’ bets the Fed will ease policy to support
growth and spur price gains.  Fed ‘Elephant’  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September after a 0.3
percent gain the prior month, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s report.
Prices excluding food and energy increased in September for a
sixth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent, matching the
slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966, the Labor
Department is forecast to say.  “The Fed is the elephant in the room,” said Rebecca
Patterson, global head of foreign exchange at the private
banking unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The consensus is building that we are going to get
more quantitative easing from the Fed. Right now a weaker dollar
is definitely in America’s interest.”  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 34 percent chance Fed policy makers would cut the
target lending rate to zero by year-end. The probability was 26
percent a month ago. The key U.S. rate has been at a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  