-- Dollar Advances as U.S. Stock Losses, Foreclosure Probe Spur Safety Demand
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-15T06:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/dollar-advances-as-u-s-stock-losses-foreclosure-probe-spur-safety-demand.html
The dollar rose for the first time
in four days versus the euro as declines in stocks around the
world and a U.S. probe into home foreclosures boosted demand for
the greenback as a refuge.  The U.S. currency strengthened versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts as Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
Narayana Kocherlakota said late yesterday that additional asset
purchases by the central bank may have a “more muted effect”
than anticipated. The euro fell on speculation European
officials may signal discomfort with the currency’s strength as
it heads for its longest weekly winning streak since December
2008 against the greenback.  “Worries over the probe appear to be weighing on
equities,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-exchange
department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank in
Tokyo. “This may lead to risk aversion, which could cause some
buying of the dollar and the yen.”  The dollar rose to $1.4059 per euro at 7:08 a.m. in London
from $1.4084 in New York yesterday, when it reached $1.4122, the
weakest since Jan. 26. Today’s advance pared to 0.9 percent the
U.S. currency’s decline since Oct. 8. The dollar was at 81.22
yen from 81.48 yesterday, when it touched 80.89, the lowest
since April 1995. The euro slid to 114.20 yen from 114.76 yen.  Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan said today in parliament
he is “very concerned” about the yen’s rise to a 15-year high.
Kan last month authorized Japan’s first currency intervention
since 2004.  Asian Stocks Fall  The U.S. and Japanese currencies gained after the MSCI Asia
Pacific  Index  fell 0.7 percent. U.S. stocks declined yesterday,
dragging benchmark indexes down from five-month highs, as
financial companies slumped.  Top legal officers of all 50 U.S. states opened this week a
joint investigation into home foreclosures, saying they will
seek an immediate halt to any improper practices. The group
intends to establish independent monitoring, Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller, who is leading the probe, said Oct. 13 in a
statement.  “U.S. bank shares were hit as investors grew increasingly
concerned over how a nationwide probe into the mortgage
industry’s foreclosure practices will affect earnings,”  Khoon Goh , head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington, wrote in a research note.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against currencies including the euro, yen
and Swiss franc, was little changed at 76.583. It has dropped
4.8 percent since Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement
following its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide
additional accommodation if needed” to support the recovery.  “Financial markets are functioning much better in late
2010 than they were in early 2009,” Kocherlakota said
yesterday. As a result, “the relevant spreads are lower and I
suspect it will be somewhat more challenging for the Fed to
impact them.”  His remarks place Kocherlakota closer to Fed officials like
Richard Fisher of Dallas and Thomas Hoenig of Kansas City in
questioning the effectiveness of further quantitative easing
steps. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak on policy
objectives and tools in Boston today.  A former top Japanese currency official said today gains in
the yen may be “coming to an end” as investors have priced in
another round of monetary easing by the Fed.  “There’s no fundamental reason for the yen to
strengthen,” said Makoto Utsumi, who led currency policy from
1989 to 1991 and conducted currency intervention after the
signing the Plaza Accord in 1985. “The more the yen
strengthens, the bigger the reversal could be.”  The euro fell from near an eight-month high versus the
dollar after European Central Bank Governing Council member
Christian Noyer said yesterday that global authorities need to
find a joint solution to prevent disorderly currency moves.  ‘Reflect Economic Fundamentals’  European Union Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said
“exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals,” in an
e-mailed copy of a speech given in Helsinki yesterday. EU
President Herman Van Rompuy speaks later today in Brussels.  “European officials seem worried over the euro’s rapid
appreciation,” said  Yoh Nihei , a Tokyo-based trading group
manager at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Its recent gains are
probably too fast, and it could hurt exports. There’s a downside
risk for the euro.”  The dollar still headed for a fifth weekly decline versus
the euro on speculation the U.S. economic recovery is faltering,
adding to traders’ bets the Fed will ease policy to support
growth and spur price gains.  Fed ‘Elephant’  Consumer prices rose 0.2 percent in September after a 0.3
percent gain the prior month, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s report.
Prices excluding food and energy increased in September for a
sixth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent, matching the
slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966, the Labor
Department is forecast to say.  “The Fed is the elephant in the room,” said  Rebecca Patterson , global head of foreign exchange at the private
banking unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “The consensus is building that we are going to get
more quantitative easing from the Fed. Right now a weaker dollar
is definitely in America’s interest.”  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 34 percent chance Fed policy makers would cut the
target lending rate to zero by year-end. The probability was 26
percent a month ago. The key U.S. rate has been at a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 