-- Medvedev Needs Role Models to Spur Innovation in Russia, CMEA Capital Says
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m
-- 2010-10-15T03:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/medvedev-needs-role-models-to-spur-innovation-in-russia-cmea-capital-says.html
Russia needs role models of
successful entrepreneurs if President  Dmitry Medvedev  is to
succeed in recreating Silicon Valley in Russia, said  Faysal Sohail , a venture capitalist who accompanied California Governor
 Arnold Schwarzenegger  to Moscow this week.  “You need some role models, people who are self-created,
who’ve made something from scratch,” Sohail, a managing
director at  CMEA Capital  in San Francisco, said in an interview.
“Often soft investments are missed by countries that want to
become innovation economies. That was my central message to the
president.”  Medvedev, 45, took Schwarzenegger to the future site of the
Skolkovo technology hub outside Moscow on Oct. 11, accompanied
by two dozen executives from California. Sohail, on his first
visit to Russia, was one of the visitors asked to share his
experience in financing innovation.  The president, who succeeded current Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  in 2008, is calling for an end to Russia’s
resource dependence and the transformation of the country into a
knowledge-based economy. Improved ties to the U.S., based on
Medvedev’s relationships with President  Barack Obama  and
Schwarzenegger, are key to making Skolkovo a success.  Providing “hard infrastructure” such as buildings and
roads is just the first step, said Sohail, who toured a
technology park in Kazan, 700 kilometers (430 miles) east of
Moscow on Oct 13. Other Silicon Valley investors in the group
included  Dick Kramlich , chairman of New Enterprise Associates,
and  Franklin Johnson , founding partner of  Asset Management Co.   “Create those things and then get out of the way,” Sohail
said he told the president. “Let the entrepreneurs loose.”  Two barriers to success in Russia are the country’s
resource wealth and a culture that for 70 years stifled
entrepreneurship, Sohail said. Russia is the world’s largest
energy producer and had a communist command economy for most of
the 20th century.  “That can change quickly as soon as you have role
models,” Sohail said. “But it doesn’t happen overnight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  