-- Medvedev Chooses Sobyanin as Moscow Mayor After Firing Luzhkov
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-15T18:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/medvedev-names-putin-aide-sobyanin-to-be-moscow-mayor-after-firing-luzhkov.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  nominated
 Sergei Sobyanin , Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s chief of staff,
to run the Russian capital 2 1/2 weeks after firing the former
mayor,  Yury Luzhkov .  Sobyanin, 52, was governor of his native Tyumen region in
the Ural Mountains for four years before Putin, then president,
brought him to  Moscow  as Kremlin chief of staff in 2005. When
Putin became prime minister in 2008, he took Sobyanin with him.  The new mayor will have to focus on issues such as traffic
and corruption, Medvedev said today after announcing Sobyanin’s
nomination. Medvedev ousted Luzhkov after media reports accusing
him of corruption and favoritism toward his wife, billionaire
developer  Yelena Baturina . The couple denied the allegations.  Sobyanin should work to make “the economic life in Moscow
more transparent and competitive,” Medvedev said at a meeting
broadcast by state-run Rossiya 24 television. “Unfortunately,
few steps have been taken in this direction lately. In some
cases, schemes that raise legal questions have been used.”  Medvedev cited a “loss of confidence” in Luzhkov when he
dismissed the former mayor after 18 years in office. Luzhkov,
74, said he was fired because Medvedev couldn’t be sure of his
support in a possible power struggle with Putin before the 2012
presidential election, when Putin will be eligible to seek a
third term as president.  ‘Right-Hand Man’  “Sobyanin is Putin’s right-hand man,” Mikhail Remizov,
president of the Moscow-based Institute for National Strategy,
said today before the nomination was announced. “If Medvedev
doesn’t nominate Sobyanin now it will reveal another crack” in
his relationship with Putin.  Remizov said Sobyanin is acceptable to both Putin and
Medvedev, as well as to “the financial and industrial groups
that matter to both men.” He is considered an “effective
leader and manager,” Remizov said.  Sobyanin will assume control of Moscow’s budget of more
than 1 trillion rubles ($33.3 billion). The city accounted for
23.8 percent of Russia’s gross domestic product in 2008, the
last year for which data is available, according to the Federal
State Statistics Service.  One of the issues facing Sobyanin will be the capital’s
worsening traffic, Medvedev said.  Moscow drivers suffer the longest traffic jams of the
world’s 20 major cities, and an average Muscovite motorist spent
2 1/2 hours stuck in traffic at least once in the last three
years, International Business Machines Corp. said in a study
this year.  ‘Difficult to Move’  “Everyone talks about it; it is very difficult to move
around in Moscow,” Medvedev said. “Despite growing population
and an increasing number of cars, I am sure the traffic
situation in Moscow can be improved even if the problem cannot
be removed completely.”  Moscow’s  city council  must approve Sobyanin’s nomination.
Putin’s United Russia party, which submitted a list of four
candidates from which Medvedev made his selection, holds 32 of
the chamber’s 35 seats.  The announcement of Sobyanin’s appointment came a little
more than 12 hours after Rossiya 24 reported Sobyanin’s
appointment on its website. The Kremlin had said the station
made “a technical mistake” in reporting the news and that the
president hadn’t chosen from among four candidates as of this
morning.  Putin’s United Russia on Oct. 9 proposed three candidates
in addition to Sobyanin: Transport Minister  Igor Levitin , Nizhny
Novgorod Governor  Valery Shantsev  and Moscow First Deputy Mayor
Lyudmila Shvetsova. Medvedev had 10 days to make his decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 