-- Lehman Brothers's U.K. Administrators Billed $420 Million Since Collapse
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-15T10:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/lehman-brothers-s-u-k-administrators-billed-420-million-since-collapse.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ’s
European administrators have billed 262 million pounds ($420
million) for work since the bank sought bankruptcy protection in
September 2008.  The administrators have recovered 11.9 billion pounds in
cash in the 24 months since the bank’s collapse and more than
350 trading counterparties have settled what they owed according
to a  report  today on the PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP website.  “We have achieved exceptional progress in the
administration, dealing with some 29 billion pounds of
securities and cash, having now returned almost 12 billion
pounds of this to clients,”  Tony Lomas , the PwC partner on the
Lehman administration, said in a statement. “Whilst there are
still numerous major challenges to address, our actions to date
have generated significant realizations for creditors which will
be paid to them in due course.”  Lehman filed the  biggest bankruptcy  in U.S. history in
September 2008 after mounting losses on mortgage-backed
securities spooked investors and creditors. The Wall Street
investment bank’s failure helped trigger a freeze of global
credit markets.  The administrators expect to recover as much as 1.3 billion
pounds more for creditors, not including possible awards in
lawsuits or other situations where amounts are disputed,
according to the report.  Court Cases  The administrators have lost court rulings that have
delayed payments and may reduce creditor recoveries in the U.K.
and Germany.  A U.K. appeals court ruling forced the administrators to
delay a dividend payment scheduled for Feb. 28, the report said.
PwC is waiting for permission to challenge the ruling at the
U.K. Supreme Court and a hearing could take place as soon as the
second quarter of next year.  The administrators are considering appealing Lehman
Brothers Bankhaus AG’s Oct. 7 victory at the Frankfurt Regional
Court, and will reject “outright” Bankhaus’s $1 billion
counterclaim, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 