-- Telkom's 8ta Service Aiming for 15% of South Africa's Mobile Phone Market
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-15T11:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/telkom-s-8ta-service-aims-for-15-of-south-africa-s-mobile-phone-market.html
Telkom South Africa Ltd. , Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, aims to capture 15 percent of
South Africa’s mobile-phone market in five years after its
wireless service starts on Oct. 18.  Telkom ’s 8ta mobile unit will seek clients among the
company’s 4.3 million fixed-line users, of which 2.1 million are
businesses, Amith Maharaj, the division’s managing executive,
said in an interview in Johannesburg today.  The company’s mobile offering has been in development for
two years and is part of its strategy to offset the fixed-line
business’s falling revenue and market share. Telkom’s voice
traffic fell 9.3 percent in the year ended March 31 because of
competition from fixed-line rivals and wireless services.  8ta’s call charges will be about 60 percent lower than the
average rates South African mobile-phone users now pay, Maharaj
said. Customers will earn free air time by receiving calls, and
50 free text messages for the rest of the day after sending at
least five messages, Maharaj said.  “We are targeting as many users as possible,” he said,
adding Telkom wants users to talk more on the phone. South
Africa has an average of 90 minutes of monthly use per client,
compared with 160 minutes in Chile and 190 minutes in Turkey,
countries with similar levels of gross domestic product per
capita, he said.  Telkom is spending 6 billion rand ($880 million) on
building its mobile network. It has constructed 800 base
stations and plans 3,200 more. It has a national roaming
agreement with  MTN Group Ltd. , Africa’s largest mobile phone
operator.  Telkom will be the fourth mobile operator in South Africa
and will compete with MTN,  Vodacom Group Ltd. , the largest
provider of mobile phone services to South Africans, and Cell C
Ltd., which is the third-largest operator. Telkom previously
owned a 50 percent stake in Vodacom, which it disposed of
through a sale and spinoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  