-- Emerging Stocks Fall From 28-Month High After U.S. Jobless Claims Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T06:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/emerging-market-stocks-decline-from-28-month-high-on-u-s-economy-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
dragging the benchmark index from its highest level since June
2008, as investors speculated the recent rally was overdone and
U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly rose.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.3 percent to
1,123.54 as of 1:16 p.m. in Shanghai, paring its weekly advance
to 2 percent. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  lost
0.6 percent after trading close to a record high. Malaysia’s
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index slipped 0.5 percent, trimming its
annual advance to 17 percent.  The developing-nation gauge has climbed 4.6 percent this
month on speculation central banks in developed countries will
increase efforts to boost economic growth. Japan last week cut
its benchmark interest rate and Australia unexpectedly kept its
key rate unchanged.  “The U.S. may be heading for a long period of low growth
given the jobs market isn’t showing signs of recovery,” said
Lim Chang Gue, a fund manager at Samsung Asset Management in
Seoul, which manages $27 billion. “Emerging markets are taking
a pause today after their recent strong performance.”  The number of Americans filing claims for jobless benefits
unexpectedly climbed last week, increasing to 462,000, according
to the Labor Department.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  headed for its biggest
weekly advance since February 2009, gaining 7.7 percent, as the
nation’s markets reopened following a weeklong holiday and the
country’s expanding economy lured higher fund inflows. The
benchmark gauge climbed 2.3 percent today.  Emerging-market equity funds attracted more cash for a
sixth straight week as overseas investors sought faster growth
amid expectations the U.S. Federal Reserve will add stimulus,
according to EPFR Global.  Developing-nation stock funds took in $4.1 billion for the
week ended Oct. 13, more than half the $7.63 billion total
investors put into equity funds, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research company said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
sshin15$bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  