-- Emerging Equity Funds Draw Flows for Sixth Week on Possible U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T02:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/emerging-equity-funds-draw-flows-for-sixth-week-on-possible-u-s-stimulus.html
Emerging-market equity funds
attracted more cash for a sixth straight week as overseas
investors sought faster growth amid expectations the U.S.
Federal Reserve will add stimulus, according to EPFR Global.  Developing-nation stock funds took in $4.1 billion for the
week ended Oct. 13, more than half the $7.63 billion total
investors put into equity funds, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research company said in an e-mailed statement. Investors
added $1.5 billion to funds dedicated to emerging markets debt,
while withdrawing money from Japan stock funds for a 15th week
in the past 16 weeks, it said.  “Global easy money is a big factor here,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which oversees about $85 billion. Liquidity
resulting from additional stimulus by developed countries “has
to find a home and a big chunk of it is going into regional
share markets,” Oliver said.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has climbed 4.6 percent
this month on speculation central banks in developed countries
will increase efforts to boost economic growth after Japan last
week cut its benchmark interest rate and Australia unexpectedly
kept its key rate unchanged.  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against currencies including the euro, yen
and Swiss france, has dropped 4.7 percent since Sept. 21, when
the Federal Reserve said in a statement following its policy
meeting that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation
if needed” to support the recovery.  Quantitative Easing  “Expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve will initiate
a second round of quantitative easing -- the so-called QE2 --
continued to occupy investors,” EPFR said. “Emerging market
equity funds again enjoyed solid inflows during the second week
of October as investors gravitated to the faster growth rates
and appreciating currencies offered by this asset class.”  Emerging markets equity funds have taken in more than $60
billion in net inflows this year, with $23.3 billion coming
since the beginning of September, EPFR said. Investors have put
$41 billion in net funds into developing-nation bond funds this
year, it said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans in Sydney at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  