-- Mercedes Convertible Drivers Get Most Tickets, Buick SUV Owners the Least
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-10-15T13:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mercedes-convertible-drivers-most-prone-to-getting-ticketed-verisk-says.html
Drivers of Mercedes-Benz SL-Class
convertibles are the most likely to receive traffic tickets and
are cited about four times as often as the average U.S.
motorist, according to  Verisk Analytics Inc.   Mercedes had three car models among the 10 most-cited per
mile driven, said Jersey City, New Jersey-based Verisk, a
supplier of data to insurers. Drivers of the Toyota Camry-Solara
and Scion tC had the second- and third-highest violation rates,
Verisk said yesterday in a  statement  on its website.  The cars on the most-ticketed list tend to attract either
drivers looking for speed or younger, less-experienced
motorists, Verisk said. Vehicles built to transport more people
were among the least cited, with eight sport-utility vehicles
and minivans among the 10 with the fewest violations. The
Rainier, an SUV from  General Motors Co. ’s Buick, had the lowest
rate of tickets.  “Carrying passengers, and possibly younger passengers in
car seats, makes a noticeable difference in how one drives,”
Verisk said. “SUVs and hatchbacks showed lower violations on
average than traditional two- and four-door vehicles.”  Mercedes, a unit of Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler AG ,
sold more cars than the Toyota Motor Corp.’s Lexus in the U.S.
in September, almost overtaking the Japanese brand to become the
U.S. luxury car leader. The SL-Class was “born to win races,”
according to a brochure on the carmaker’s  website .  “These are fun-to-drive cars, and sometimes people have a
little too much fun enjoying them,” said  Robert Moran , a
spokesman for Mercedes in the U.S.  Verisk’s Quality Planning unit analyzed records on traffic
violations for 12 months through February. U.S. car insurers
including No. 1 State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.,
Allstate Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Geico Corp. weigh
actuarial data in setting rates for policyholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  