-- ESPN to Web Simulcast, Make Pay TV Online Gatekeeper
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-10-15T20:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/espn-to-stream-channels-to-time-warner-cable-users-to-combat-web-rivals.html
Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN will begin
streaming its sports channels online to  Time Warner Cable Inc. 
customers as soon as Oct. 25, part of the pay-TV industry’s
strategy to fend off Internet competitors.  Time Warner Cable customers with ESPN will be able to watch
on computers with Web access,  John Kosner , general manager of
digital media at the Bristol, Connecticut-based sports network,
said in an interview. Service on mobile devices is also planned.  With the move, ESPN gives Time Warner Cable subscribers
online access to its channels at no additional cost. ESPN is
backing the  cable  industry’s push to extend programs to the Web
and combat the loss of viewers to companies such as Netflix Inc.
As the network shifts to “TV Everywhere,”  ESPN.com  will make
fewer videos available to users of its services who don’t
subscribe to Time Warner Cable, Kosner said.  “We believe this ‘TV Everywhere’ model is going to be what
the industry at large is going to pursue,” Kosner said. “We’re
going to make similar deals with lots of distributors.”  For the first time, programs such as “SportsCenter,”
archived shows and live feeds of the channels will be available
at ESPN.com to Time Warner Cable customers with verification,
Kosner said. Some videos, including game highlights, will stay
on the free portion of the website, he said. Cable networks are
Disney’s biggest profit contributor.  People will be less likely to end their cable service if
they’re able to get TV shows online at no additional cost, said
 David Bank , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York.  ‘Cord-Cutting Defense’  “This is exactly what they need to be doing,” Bank said
in an interview. “This is the most logical cord-cutting defense
they could take.”  Disney and New York-based Verizon Communications Inc. said
on Oct. 7 that Verizon’s FiOS television customers will also
gain online access to ESPN, which reaches 100.7 million homes,
according to  SNL Kagan . Disney and Time Warner Cable, also based
in New York, announced their accord on Sept. 2.  The world’s largest media company is approaching TV
Everywhere with three priorities, Disney Chief Financial Officer
 Jay Rasulo  said at a Sept. 16 investor conference. The company
will agree if it’s compensated fairly, can continue selling
directly to consumers and doesn’t hurt existing businesses.  “We believe that at the end of the day, the consumer is
going to want portability, the consumer is going to want access
on their own terms,” Rasulo said. “We think they’ll be willing
to pay for that, because it delivers value.”  Viewer Control  The Sept. 2 accord with Time Warner Cable didn’t include
streaming rights to the ABC Family or Disney channels, or the
ABC broadcast network. Some programs from those networks are
available at their respective websites.  Kevin Brockman , a spokesman for Burbank, California-based
Disney’s media networks, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “The ability to watch this programming online is an all-
around win,”  Maureen Huff , a spokeswoman at Time Warner Cable,
said in an e-mail. “It gives our customers more control over
content and allows them greater access to programs they are
already paying for.”  Disney gained 3 cents to $34.88 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen 8.2
percent this year. Time Warner Cable, with 12.7 million video
customers as of June 30, gained 42 cents to $56.60 and has
advanced 37 percent this year.  Pay-TV providers such as Time Warner Cable and FiOS face
more competition as companies including  Apple Inc. , Netflix and
Roku Inc. deliver films and TV shows on the Internet.  Using cable, satellite and telecom companies to distribute
programming on the Web offers more control, Kosner said. Ad
sales alone won’t support online programming, he said.  More Than Ads  “We couldn’t figure out a way in an ad-supported model
where that was going to make sense,” he said.  Kosner said concerns that customers may replace cable-TV
with Web services including  Netflix  and Hulu.com, which is
partly owned by Disney, are exaggerated.  “The existing model built around the video subscription
has been a very positive business, not just for ESPN, but for
basic cable networks and cable operators,” Kosner said.  ESPN.com had 25.4 million visitors in August, according to
Reston,  Virginia-based ComScore Inc. , an Internet researcher.  “You’re going in to be in a world where you’re working at
a computer, turning one on at home to watch TV, and carrying one
around with you,” Kosner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 