-- Essar Group Says It's Searching For `Business Opportunities' in Nigeria
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-15T06:41:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/essar-group-says-it-s-searching-for-business-opportunities-in-nigeria.html
India’s Essar Group, controlled by
billionaires  Shashi  and  Ravi Ruia , is looking at opportunities
to expand in Nigeria as its London-listed energy unit seeks to
tap lower-cost funding abroad for international acquisitions.  The group, which owns steel, mining, power, and oil and gas
businesses, is considering “growth and investment
opportunities,” it said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
are looking at business opportunities in Nigeria.”  “The sectors or the investment plans have not yet been
finalized,” it said. Essar Group is planning an investment of
at least $2 billion in Nigerian power plants, the Financial
Times reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  Essar Energy Plc  in April raised 1.27 billion pounds ($2
billion) in its initial public offering in London to help expand
the group’s refining, energy exploration and power businesses,
which include an offshore oil block in Nigeria and a 50 percent-
stake in Kenya Petroleum Refinery Ltd, according to its  website.   “We want to tap these international fund raising
opportunities on the debt side,” made possible by the overseas
listing, Essar Energy Chief Financial Officer  P. Sampath  said in
an interview on Oct. 7. The company may issue its first foreign
currency bond next year, he said.  Essar Energy is considering international acquisitions in
three areas: coal mines to secure fuel for its Indian power
plant expansion, overseas oil refineries, and overseas fuel-
marketing assets, Sampath said.  Essar Energy plans to reduce its stake in its Nigeria block
to 63 percent from 100 percent by selling to a local partner,
the company said  in June . That sale is close to being completed,
Sampath said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 