-- MetLife Bank Has Foreclosure `Irregularities,' Moody's Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-15T20:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/metlife-bank-has-foreclosure-irregularities-moody-s-says.html
MetLife Inc. , the insurer with more
than 200 home-loan offices in the U.S., is delaying the sale of
some foreclosed properties and found “irregularities” in its
processes of taking over houses, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “MetLife Home Loans temporarily postponed foreclosure
sales in some states,” Moody’s said in a statement late
yesterday. “Foreclosure process irregularities” could force
the company to hold property longer, Moody’s said.  President  Barack Obama  this week endorsed a coordinated
investigation by attorneys general from all 50 states into
whether lenders used false documents to justify seizing homes.
Last week,  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, froze
foreclosures nationwide. MetLife Home Loans may have its
servicer-quality grade cut by Moody’s, the rating firm said.  “Irregularities in foreclosure processes could result in
legal challenges to previously completed foreclosures and
reputational risk for the servicing operation,” Moody’s said.  MetLife slipped 42 cents to $39.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America fell 4.9 percent, while Wells Fargo & Co.
declined 4.6 percent.  “MetLife Home Loans verifies mortgage information included
in affidavits filed in foreclosure proceedings and is satisfied
that the information is accurate,” said  John Calagna , a
spokesman for the New York-based insurer, in an e-mailed
statement today. “Like many banks, MetLife Home Loans has been
asked to closely review these procedures at this time and is
doing so. MetLife Home Loans will take all appropriate action as
a result of this review.”  Building the Bank  Delays and litigation may cost banks $10 billion,  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia, said yesterday. That’s up from his previous estimate
of $6 billion.  MetLife has owned a bank for about 10 years, Chief
Financial Officer  William Wheeler  said in December. The company
announced two acquisitions in 2008, and had more than 4,000
employees near the end of last year,  Donnalee DeMaio , president
of MetLife Bank, said in December.  The bank in March named former Countrywide Financial Corp.
executive  Brian Hale  as national production president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 