-- European Stocks Gain for Second Week as Fed Backs Up Monetary Easing Bets
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-15T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/european-stocks-gain-for-second-week-as-fed-backs-up-monetary-easing-bets.html
European stocks  rose for a second
week as minutes from last month’s Federal Reserve meeting showed
U.S. officials were prepared to ease monetary policy further.  Porsche SE  advanced 18 percent as it narrowed its full-year
loss. Oil drilling stocks surged after the U.S. lifted a ban on
deepwater oil and gas drilling ahead of schedule.  ASML Holding
NV  rose 11 percent after posting better-than-estimated profit.
 Actelion Ltd.  gained 11 percent after it hired investment
bankers at Moelis & Co. for advice as the drugmaker considers a
potential sale.  The  Stoxx 600  Index rose 1.4 percent to 265.83 this week,
taking this year’s gain to 4.7 percent and the increase from its
2010 low in May to 15 percent as concern eased that the region’s
sovereign debt crisis and slowing growth in China and the U.S.
will curb corporate profits.  “Rather than tone down our view on Europe, given currency
risks and sovereign issues, we reiterate our buy,” UBS AG’s
London-based strategists Karen Olney, Nick Nelson and Matthew
Gilman wrote in a report. “QE-2 should be good for risk
assets” and “if history is any guide at these sorts of
valuation levels buying the equity market would yield ten years
of average annual returns of between 10 and 15 percent.”  Quantitative Easing  The Fed on Oct. 12 published minutes from its Sept. 21
meeting showing that it will be ready “before long” to
increase purchases of Treasuries. The U.S. central bank also
discussed boosting inflation expectations as a way to prop up
the economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said additional monetary
stimulus may be warranted because inflation is too low and
unemployment is too high. He didn’t offer new details on how the
Fed would undertake those strategies or give assurances the
central bank will act at its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  In the U.S., a report showed an unexpected increase in
jobless-benefit claims in the week ended Oct. 9 and the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary index of consumer
sentiment unexpectedly decreased this month, while retail sales
climbed more than forecast in September and manufacturing in the
New York region expanded in October at a faster pace than
anticipated.  In Europe, the number of U.K. real-estate agents and
surveyors saying house prices fell exceeded those reporting
gains by 36 percentage points last month, down from minus 32
points in August.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes rose in 16 out of 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index gained 3.2 percent, while
the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  increased 0.8 percent. France’s CAC 40
Index advanced 1.7 percent.  Porsche surged 18 percent after the maker of the 911 sports
car reported a full-year net loss of 454 million euros ($637
million) compared with last year’s 3.56 billion-euro loss.  The carmaker forecast that it will break even for the last
five months of 2010, and make a profit in 2011 when the carmaker
switches to calendar-year reporting.  Cie. Generale de Geophysique-Veritas , the world’s largest
seismic surveyor for oil and gas, and  TGS-Nopec Geophysical Co. 
climbed 8.1 percent and 13 percent, respectively, after the U.S.
lifted a ban on deepwater oil and gas drilling ahead of
schedule.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  halted drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP Plc’s Macondo well
off Louisiana blew out April 20, killing 11 workers and causing
the biggest U.S. oil spill. On Oct. 12, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  ended the ban, which was scheduled to expire Nov. 30,
while saying companies must meet new safety requirements.  ASML, Actelion  ASML Holding increased 11 percent. Europe’s biggest
semiconductor equipment maker said third-quarter profit rose and
reiterated that 2010 sales will advance to a record, helped by
strong order intake.  Net income increased to 268.5 million euros in the quarter
from 19.8 million euros a year earlier. That beat the 247
million-euro average of 20 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Actelion surged 11 percent. The Swiss biotechnology company
that’s considering strategic alternatives hired investment
bankers at Moelis for advice as the drugmaker considers
alternatives including a potential sale, people with knowledge
of the matter said this week.  UBS AG added the stock to its “merger and acquisition
watch” list.  Banks, Soco  Banking shares were the worst-performing industry in Europe
this week, amid renewed concern that banks may have to raise
more capital.  Bank of Ireland Plc  lost 8 percent, while  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  fell 4.4 percent and  Barclays Plc  retreated 4.1
percent. Barclays, the U.K.’s third-biggest lender, will be
“substantially undercapitalized” if the U.K. follows
Switzerland in requiring banks to have a minimum core Tier 1
capital ratio of 10 percent, Evolution Securities Ltd. wrote in
a note.  Soco International Plc  was the worst performer in the Stoxx
600 Index, dropping 23 percent. The U.K. energy explorer in
Africa and Southeast Asia said it will plug and abandon its
appraisal well off the coast of Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 