-- European Exports Increase, Inflation Accelerates to Highest in 22 Months
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-15T09:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/european-exports-increase-inflation-accelerates-to-highest-in-22-months.html
European exports increased in
August, suggesting the euro-region economy is weathering a
global slowdown and a stronger euro.  Exports from the economy of the 16 nations that use the
single currency rose a seasonally adjusted 1 percent from July,
when they slipped 0.2 percent, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today.  Inflation  accelerated to 1.8
percent in September from 1.6 percent in the previous month, it
said in a separate statement. That’s the highest since November
2008 and in line with an initial estimate on Sept. 30.  Exporters may struggle to maintain their sales growth as an
appreciating euro makes goods less competitive outside the
currency region just as governments tackle budget deficits.
European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  said on Oct. 12
that the European economy is “on a stable path toward
recovery” and that the danger of renewed recession is
“negligible.”  “The rise in the euro and slower global demand will lead
to a further slowdown in exports,” said  Nick Kounis , an
economist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. “Given that significant
fiscal tightening is on the cards, it’s unlikely that domestic
demand will fully be able to take up the slack.”  Euro-region imports rose 1.8 percent from the previous
month and the  trade deficit  was 1.4 billion euros ($2 billion),
up from a shortfall of 200 million euros in July.  The euro was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was at $1.4104 as of 10:01 a.m. in London, compared
with $1.4084 yesterday.  ‘Weak’ Sales  Global growth may weaken to 4.2 percent in 2011 from 4.8
percent in 2010, the International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6.
The fund also cut the 2011 growth forecast for every Group of
Seven industrial nation except  Germany  and France, and projected
 euro-region  growth to cool to 1.5 percent from 1.7 percent.  Adding to signs of slowdown, European services and
manufacturing industries expanded at the slowest pace in seven
months in September and  unemployment  held at 10.1 percent in
August, the highest in more than 12 years.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of  Renault SA ,
France’s second-largest carmaker, said on Sept. 30 that the
region’s automotive market may shrink 2 percent in 2011.  Nick Reilly , head of  General Motors Co. ’s Opel division said the same
day that industry sales in the region remain “very weak.”  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  With growth weakening and job cuts hurting  consumer demand ,
companies may find it difficult to pass on higher costs. Euro-
region  consumer prices  rose 0.2 percent from August, today’s
report showed. Energy-price inflation accelerated to 7.7 percent
from 6.1 percent.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile costs
such as energy, remained at 1 percent.  The euro’s 8.9 percent ascent against the dollar over the
past three months has helped offset price increases by making
imports more affordable. The European Commission said last month
that the region’s growth rate probably halved to 0.5 percent in
the third quarter.  Countries from China to Japan are already seeking to
restrain their exchange rates to secure a trade advantage,
prompting Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to say on
Sept. 27 that there’s a worldwide “currency war.”  “There are tensions on markets,” ECB council member
 Christian Noyer  told RTL radio in an interview yesterday. “What
everyone accepts is that we need to have orderly exchange-rate
developments.”  Euro-area exports to the U.S. rose 14 percent in the seven
months through July from a year earlier, today’s report showed.
Shipments to the U.K., the euro area’s largest market, increased
11 percent, while exports to China surged 42 percent. Exports to
Japan increased 17 percent, while Russia bought 19 percent more
goods. The country data are published with a one-month lag.  “There is a recovery, but it is fragile and uneven,” ECB
council member  Guy Quaden  said in an interview at the Oct. 8-10
IMF meeting in Washington. “Fragile because uneven, at the
world level, across the different regions of the world but also
across countries” within the euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  