-- Euro Will Gain on ECB’s Success, Aviva Investors Says
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-15T12:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/euro-to-hit-1-45-on-ecb-success-stabilizing-markets-aviva-investors-say.html
The euro’s gains since June are a
sign of confidence that the European Central Bank has succeeded
in stabilizing financial markets, and the currency may climb
another 4 percent, according to Aviva Investors.  “The ECB has done a good job,”  Pierre Lequeux , head of
currency management at the investment-fund arm of British
insurer  Aviva Plc , which manages about $371 billion, said in an
interview in London. This year’s sovereign-debt crisis “was a
strong test of the ECB’s credibility. They’ve come out of the
fight with their head up, winning. We are bullish on the euro.”  He forecasts the euro will climb to $1.45 by year-end.
That’s more bullish than the $1.33 median of 44 forecasts from
analysts and economists compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts’
predictions have ranged from $1.45 at the end of the year to
$1.18 in July. The currency shared by 16 European nations traded
at $1.4115 at 1:35 p.m. in London.  The common currency slumped in June to its weakest level
since 2006 as concern that countries from Greece to Spain would
default on their debts roiled markets. The euro has climbed 19
percent against the dollar since then amid speculation the U.S.
will engage in a second round of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, that will devalue the greenback.  EU Package  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke today said
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted because inflation
is too low and unemployment is too high. His remarks sent the
dollar down against most currencies, including the euro.  The European Union approved a rescue package for some of
the most indebted nations in May and the ECB, led by President
 Jean-Claude Trichet , extended an offer of unlimited cash to
banks through September. Trichet signaled last week he won’t
slow the exit from emergency stimulus measures.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
government bonds instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed to
less than 700 basis points this week for the first time since
June. Portuguese institutions’ financing from the ECB declined
19 percent in September from a month earlier, while Spanish
lenders reduced their borrowing from the Frankfurt-based central
bank by 11 percent, the countries’ central banks said this week.  “The market is normalizing and spreads are stabilizing,”
Lequeux said. “Now you have investors going back to the
European market, and that’s helpful for the euro.”  The ECB has no reason to be concerned about the pace of
recent gains versus the dollar, Lequeux said, given the currency
is trading near its level at the beginning of the year. That
level was acceptable to the central bank at the time, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  