-- Most European Stocks Fall as U.S. Consumer Confidence Drops; Banks Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-15T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/european-stocks-advance-before-retail-sales-report-u-s-futures-fluctuate.html
Most  European stocks  dropped after
worse-than-estimated U.S. consumer confidence data overshadowed
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s signal that the
central bank may use further stimulus to bolster the economy.  Old Mutual Plc led financials lower after HSBC Holdings Plc
abandoned its bid to buy the South African insurer’s controlling
stake in Nedbank Group Ltd. Carrefour SA dropped 4.1 percent
after the world’s second-largest retailer lowered its full-year
profit forecast. Infineon Technologies AG paced advancing shares
after Advanced Micro Devices Inc. posted earnings that topped
analyst estimates.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.1 percent to
265.83 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. More European stocks
dropped than rose. The gauge gained 1.4 percent this week as
companies from Intel Corp. to JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported
earnings and the minutes of the Fed’s September meeting boosted
optimism that the central bank will announce further stimulus
measures next month.  “There is still a real danger of double dip in the U.S.
and more stimulus measures will have to be introduced as the
economy is not recovering as expected,” said  Stefan Risse , a
strategist at CMC Markets in Hamburg. “The U.S. economy is not
really competitive compared with others.”  Stocks erased gains after consumer confidence in the
world’s largest economy unexpectedly declined in October. The
Thomson Reuters/ University of Michigan preliminary index  of
consumer sentiment fell to 67.9, its lowest level since July,
from 68.2 in September.  Bernanke Speech  Earlier today, indexes rallied after Bernanke said that low
inflation and high unemployment in the U.S. economy may warrant
additional monetary stimulus.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said in a speech at a Boston
Fed conference. The Fed could expand asset purchases or change
the language in its statement, he said.  Separate figures today showed that U.S. retail sales
increased more than estimated in September as inflation cooled
further and manufacturing in the New York region accelerated.  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index added 0.2 percent, while
Germany’s DAX Index rose 0.6 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
retreated 0.4 percent.  Old Mutual, Carrefour  Old Mutual  dropped 4.8 percent to 138.3 pence after HSBC
abandoned its bid to buy a $7.3 billion controlling stake in
South Africa’s Nedbank after eight weeks of talks.  HSBC had been in negotiations to purchase as much as 70
percent of Nedbank, including the 52 percent stake owned by Old
Mutual, Africa’s biggest insurer. HSBC lost 1.4 percent to 653.3
pence in London.  Carrefour  retreated 4.1 percent to 38.51 euros after the
retailer cut its full-year forecast of so-called activity
contribution, a measure of operating profit, to about 3 billion
euros ($4.2 billion) from 3.1 billion euros because of a 100
million-euro charge related to Brazil.  Pernod-Ricard SA fell 2.7 percent to 62.11 euros in Paris
after Credit Suisse Group AG lowered its recommendation for the
maker of Beefeater gin and Jacob’s Creek wine to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  Tryg A/S  plunged 9.1 percent to 288 kroner, the shares’
lowest price in 18 months. Denmark’s largest non-life insurer
said its third-quarter results were hurt by weather claims and a
court decision that boosted workers’ compensation, costing the
company 500 million kroner ($93.8 million).  Infineon Climbs  Infineon Technologies, Europe’s second-biggest chipmaker,
paced advancing shares, climbing 3.4 percent to 5.63 euros.  AMD , the second-largest maker of computer microprocessors,
reported third-quarter sales of $1.62 billion, beating analysts’
estimates as demand increased in China. The company also
narrowed its net loss.  Of the 19  Standard & Poor’s 500 companies  to have posted
results since Oct. 8, 15 have beaten analysts’ earnings per
share estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PSA Peugeot Citroen  jumped 4.2 percent to 27.88 euros. The
shares jumped as much as 6.7 percent amid speculation that
France’s largest carmaker plans to reduce its stake in Faurecia
SA. Company spokesman Pierre-Olivier Salmon said that Peugeot
had no plans to sell any of its 57 percent stake.  ITV, Actelion Gain  ITV Plc  surged 6 percent to 66.7 pence after Morgan Stanley
raised its recommendation for the U.K.’s biggest commercial
broadcaster to “overweight” from “equal weight.” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. also reiterated its “conviction buy”
recommendation for the shares today.  Actelion Ltd.  rallied 3.5 percent to 54.85 Swiss francs as
UBS AG added the Swiss biotechnology company to its mergers and
acquisitions watch list. The stock surged 6.6 percent yesterday
amid speculation that the company may become a takeover target.  A person with first-hand knowledge said last week that
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Roche Holding AG
and Amgen Inc. had informally contacted the company about
possible collaborations.  People with knowledge of the matter said this week that
Actelion had hired investment bank Moelis & Co. to advise it on
strategic alternatives including a potential sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 