-- Leveraged-Loan Rally Propels Debt Refinancings as Fed Prepares for Easing
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-10-15T11:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/leveraged-loan-rally-propels-debt-refinancings-as-fed-prepares-for-easing.html
Investor demand for leveraged loans
is pushing prices to the highest in five months, enabling
companies to refinance debt at the fastest pace since August.  Fifth Third Processing Solutions LLC, the closely held
payment services provider, initiated lender talks yesterday to
raise $1.9 billion to repay debt and fund an acquisition.
 Univision Communications Inc. , the private-equity owned Spanish-
language media company, this week revised the terms for an
amendment to extend the maturity of $2.5 billion of its loans.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  climbed to 91.14
cents on the dollar this week, the highest since May 13,
extending seven-weeks of  gains  as the Federal Reserve
contemplates another round of quantitative easing that would
keep interest rates at record lows. Speculative-grade companies
with $324.5 billion of bank debt through the 2014 peak of the
so-called maturity wall are tapping investor appetite even as
yields on leveraged loans drop to a five-month low.  “We have definitely noticed an increase in the amount of
refinancing transactions,” said  Paul Kauffman , partner and
senior portfolio manager at Highland Capital Management LP, with
$18 billion in loan investments. “With spreads coming in a
little bit in both the secondary and new issue markets,
companies see it as a good time to come to market.”  In October, banks arranged or started marketing $3.9
billion of high-risk, high-yield loans to refinance debt,
according to Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.
The transactions make up 34 percent of the volume this month, up
from 21 percent with $6.3 billion for all of September, the data
show.  High-risk, high-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  Loan Yields Decline  Yields on the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, representing
about 95 percent of the institutional U.S. bank debt market,
declined to 7.07 percent as of Oct. 7, from this year’s month-
end peak of 8.13 percent on June 30, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. Institutional loans are mainly bought by non-bank lenders
such as collateralized loan obligations, mutual funds and hedge
funds.  Central bankers are considering raising inflation
expectations and purchasing Treasuries to boost flagging growth
and reduce the 9.6 percent  unemployment rate , according to
minutes of the Fed’s Sept. 21 meeting released this week. The
officials cut the federal funds rate for overnight loans among
banks to a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent in December
2008 and have kept it there to help stimulate lending.  Libor Curve  Investors are speculating that the three-month London
interbank offered rate, which banks charge to lend to each
other, will rise from 0.29 percent as of yesterday to more than
1 percent by October 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. At the beginning of this year they bet  Libor  would
breach that level by last month and climb to 3.75 percent two
years from now.  “As the economy moderates, expectations of a slower
recovery and hence extended quantitative easing, have shifted
the forward Libor curve lower,” said  Gautam Kakodkar  , a credit
strategist at Barclays Capital, the investment banking division
of Barclays Plc.  Borrowers seeking loans this month to refinance debt
proposed Libor floors ranging from 1.5 percent to 2 percent to
protect investors against all-time low rates on the benchmark,
Bloomberg data show.  “While expectations for lower rates across the curve have
been a negative for loans, those with Libor floors are
shielded,” Kakodkar said.  Fifth Third Loan  Fifth Third Processing is seeking a $1.5 billion first-lien
term loan, a $275 million second-lien term piece and a $150
million revolving credit line to repay existing debt and
purchase National Processing Co. of Louisville, Kentucky.  The company, a joint venture between private-equity firm
Advent International Corp. and Cincinnati-based  Fifth Third
Bancorp , offered margins ranging from 3.5 percentage points to
7.25 percentage points over Libor for the loans, with the
lending benchmark floor varying from 1.5 percent to 1.75
percent.  Univision, taken private by Madison Dearborn Partners LLC,
Providence Equity Partners LLC , Saban Capital Group Inc.,
Thomas H. Lee Partners and TPG Capital for $12.3 billion in
2007, boosted the interest rate it’s offering lenders to delay
the due date on $2.5 billion of its LBO loan.  The New York-based company raised the interest rate on the
extended portion by 0.25 percentage point to 4.25 percentage
points over Libor. The amendment would push out the maturity
date by 2.5 years to March 2017.  Maturity Wall  During the first three quarters of this year, borrowers
repaid or extended maturities on $95.6 billion of loans due
through 2014, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Since the end of 2008, issuers addressed 60 percent of debt that
had to be repaid by the end of 2013, the data show.  “The maturity wall can be manageable and provides
opportunities for investors,” Highland’s Kauffman said. “There
are issuers that we think are going to have no problem
refinancing their debt and provide a great investment
opportunity, but there are others that aren’t going to have the
same ability.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 