-- Texas Instruments Buys China Plant to Start Local Semiconductor Production
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-15T20:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/texas-instruments-buys-china-plant-to-start-local-semiconductor-production.html
Texas Instruments Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, bought a plant in China and will begin
making semiconductors in the country for the first time as it
adds overseas capacity to increase market share.  The company bought a 200-millimeter wafer facility from
Cension Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp. in the southwestern
Chinese city of Chengdu and will use it to make analog chips,
Texas Instruments Senior Vice President  Gregg Lowe  said in a
telephone interview. Texas Instruments didn’t disclose how much
it paid for the factory, which was operated by Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp.  The purchase adds to an expansion push by Texas Instruments
that included buying plants and equipment in Japan and fitting
out another facility in Richardson, Texas, near its
headquarters. The move underscores the chipmaker’s determination
to increase its market share at a time when  rivals  aren’t adding
capacity, Lowe said yesterday.  “It was at a price point that made it very interesting for
us,” he said. “I am unaware of any other analog company that
has made an announcement of any significance” regarding new
facilities, Lowe said.  Texas Instruments is the largest maker of analog chips,
semiconductors that convert physical inputs such as touch and
sound into electronic signals and are used in products from
washing machines to supercomputers.  The Chengdu plant, which employs about 700 people, will be
used to make power-management chips. It comes with an additional
empty space that can be equipped later to expand production,
Lowe said.  Texas Instruments  rose  41 cents to $28.72 in New York Stock
Exchange trading yesterday. The shares have climbed 10 percent
this year. Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker, has
declined 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  