-- Mexico May Keep Overnight Rate at 4.5% on Signs of U.S. Fed Policy Easing
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-15T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mexico-may-keep-overnight-rate-at-4-5-on-signs-of-u-s-fed-policy-easing.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today on expectations
the Federal Reserve’s easing of monetary policy will help
strengthen the peso and restrain inflation.  Central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said in an Oct. 3
interview that monetary policy in Mexico would be “relatively
stronger” if Mexican borrowing costs stay unchanged and the Fed
continues quantitative easing.  Tighter monetary policy in Mexico compared with the Fed
would encourage foreign investors to send more capital to
Mexico, prompting the peso to gain, said  Sergio Luna , an
economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City. A
stronger peso may slow inflation because imports would become
cheaper, deterring the bank from raising rates, Luna said.  “A stronger peso is good for inflation prospects,” Luna
said in a telephone interview. “It would reinforce the message
of rate stability in the coming months.”  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Carstens, will
extend its longest ever interest rate pause and keep the
 benchmark interest rate  at 4.5 percent, according to all 17
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The bank will release its
decision at 10 a.m. New York time.  “The greater differential will allow more flows to come to
Mexico,”  Luis Flores , an economist at Ixe Grupo Financiero in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “The logical
consequence could be a stronger peso.”  The peso fell 0.2 percent yesterday to 12.4125 per U.S.
dollar.  Rate Horizon, Fed  Economists in an Oct. 5 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex
unit forecast the bank, known as Banxico, will remain on hold
until August 2011.  “If we don’t do anything and the U.S. weakens its stance,
there is a relatively stronger monetary policy situation in
Mexico,” Carstens said in the interview. “We still don’t know
how we will react, because at the same time we still don’t know
exactly what the U.S. will do.”  The Fed said Sept. 21 it was willing to ease policy
further, moving it closer to a second wave of unconventional
monetary easing. It said that too-low inflation, in addition to
sluggish growth, would warrant action.  Foreign investors seeking higher-yielding assets have
turned to Mexican government peso debt, pushing yields on the
benchmark bond to a record low this week. Citigroup Inc. added
the peso debt to its World Government Bond Index, helping to
attract investors.  Bond Yield  The yield on the benchmark 10 percent peso bond due in 2024
rose to 6.3 percent yesterday. So far this year, the yield has
declined 197 basis points. The peso has gained 5.5 percent this
year.  Mexico has accumulated more reserves than policy makers
expected because of strong oil  exports  and more debt sales,
Carstens said in the interview. His comments signaled that the
bank’s policy of buying dollars to boost reserves may be as far
as it’s willing to go to intervene in the currency market, said
JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Gabriel Casillas .  Mexico has bought as much as $600 million dollars monthly
through options since March in a push to boost foreign reserves
after last year’s tumble of the peso led policy makers to turn
to the IMF for a $47 billion credit line.  Mexico’s currency market interventions are “market-
friendly” compared with countries such as Brazil and South
Korea that are stepping up attempts to control their currencies
as investors pour a record amount of money into emerging
markets, Casillas said.  Bank ‘Complacency’  “Banxico’s relative complacency in regards to intervention
is in stark contrast to the rest of the region,” RBS Securities
Inc. analysts  Siobhan Morden ,  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky  and  Zeina Latif  said in a report yesterday. “Without more aggressive
intervention, the door is wide open for currency gains in
Mexico.”  Investors should buy the peso and sell the U.S. dollar as
the former may strengthen to about 12 per dollar “in the next
couple of months,” the RBS report said.  While the relatively tighter monetary policy in Mexico will
help strengthen the peso, it’s unlikely the currency will trade
beyond 12 per dollar because foreign investors will pour more
money into other emerging markets such as Brazil, said  Sergio Martin , chief economist for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc.  Martin forecasts the peso will strengthen to 12.25 per
dollar at the end of the year.  “Even if we have an attractive rate differential, that
doesn’t mean an easing in the U.S. would inundate Mexico with
dollars,” Martin said.  Inflation in Mexico remained within the bank’s  forecast  in
the second and third quarters. Consumer prices rose  3.7 percent 
in September from a year earlier, a slower rate than the range
of 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent forecast by the bank for the
third quarter.  Growth in Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy,
will be 4 percent to 5 percent, the central bank says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  