-- Mexico Central Bank Keeps 4.5% Rate to Bolster Demand Amid Tame Inflation
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-15T15:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/mexico-central-bank-keeps-4-5-rate-to-bolster-demand-amid-tame-inflation.html
Mexico’s central bank extended its
longest-ever interest rate pause, saying that inflation will
stay below policy makers’ forecasts while the economy remains
vulnerable to the U.S. slowdown.  Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 4.5
percent for a 14th straight meeting. The decision matched the
forecasts of all 18 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The statement accompanying the bank’s decision reflected a
shift in sentiment from prior statements as policy makers
emphasized slower growth worldwide and acknowledged that a
stronger peso had restrained core goods prices, said Rafael de
la Fuente, a senior economist at UBS AG.  “It’s more dovish,” de la Fuente said from Stamford,
Connecticut. “There’s a recognition that growth is slowing in
developed and developing markets. Mexico’s not immune to that.”  Mexico’s peso rose 0.1 percent to 12.4009 per U.S. dollar
at 11:48 a.m. New York time, reversing earlier declines.  Consumer demand and investment are weak even as industrial
output and exports grow, policy makers said in their statement.
A stronger peso and economic growth that trails potential have
kept a lid on inflation, they said.  “Industrial production and manufacturing exports have
continued growing at a high rate, although this may be affected
by the slowdown in the U.S. economy,” the bank said. “Consumer
spending is still growing slowly and investment has only shown
incipient increases.”  Mexico, Latin America’s second-largest economy, will grow 4
percent to 5 percent this year, the central bank says. Brazil’s
central bank, by comparison, forecasts expansion of 7.3 percent
while Peru’s finance minister has predicted gross domestic
product may rise as much as 8.5 percent.  Inflation  Mexico’s annual inflation rate was  3.7 percent  in
September, below the 4.75 percent to 5.25 percent range forecast
by the bank for the third quarter. Prices rose 0.52 percent from
a month earlier, less than analysts had forecast.  Higher borrowing costs would hurt growth amid uncertainty
about whether Mexico can stage a full recovery from last year’s
recession, said  Sergio Luna , an economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit. Mexico is vulnerable to economic weakness in the
U.S., the country’s biggest trading partner, he said.  “The local economy is moving well,” Luna said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “But there’s still the
doubt about how strongly the U.S. economy will impact us.”  Central bank policy makers kept rates unchanged as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that additional
monetary stimulus may be warranted because U.S. inflation is too
low and unemployment is too high.  Fed Easing  Additional easing by the Fed would encourage foreign
investors to send more capital to Mexico, prompting the peso to
gain, Luna said. A stronger peso may slow inflation because
imports would become cheaper, deterring the bank from raising
rates, he said.  Foreign investors seeking higher-yielding assets have
turned to Mexican government peso debt, pushing yields on the
benchmark peso debt to a record low this week.  Mexico has accumulated more reserves than policy makers
expected because of strong oil  exports  and more debt sales,
Carstens said in an Oct. 3 interview. His comments signaled that
the bank’s policy of buying dollars to boost reserves may be as
far as it’s willing to go to intervene in the currency market,
said JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist  Gabriel Casillas .  Mexico has bought as much as $600 million dollars monthly
through options since March in a push to boost foreign reserves
after last year’s tumble of the peso led policy makers to turn
to the IMF for a $47 billion credit line.  Peso Market  The currency market interventions in Mexico are “market-
friendly” compared with countries such as Brazil and South
Korea that are stepping up attempts to control their currencies
as investors pour a record amount of money into emerging
markets, Casillas said.  “Banxico’s relative complacency in regards to intervention
is in stark contrast to the rest of the region,” RBS Securities
Inc. analysts  Siobhan Morden ,  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky  and  Zeina Latif  said in a report yesterday. “Without more aggressive
intervention, the door is wide open for currency gains in
Mexico.”  Investors should buy the peso and sell the U.S. dollar as
the former may strengthen to about 12 per dollar “in the next
couple of months,” the RBS report said.  While the relatively tighter monetary policy in Mexico will
help strengthen the peso, it’s unlikely the currency will trade
beyond 12 per dollar because foreign investors will pour more
money into other emerging markets such as Brazil, said  Sergio Martin , chief economist for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc.  Martin forecasts the peso will strengthen to 12.25 per
dollar at the end of the year.  “Even if we have an attractive rate differential, that
doesn’t mean an easing in the U.S. would inundate Mexico with
dollars,” Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  