-- Farm Commodity Demand to Offset Effect of Australian Dollar Gain, CBA Says
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-15T07:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/farm-commodity-demand-to-offset-effect-of-australian-dollar-gain-cba-says.html
Rising global prices and demand for
farm commodities would help offset the effect of a stronger
Australian dollar on the country’s agricultural exports, a
Commonwealth Bank of Australia analyst said.  “The rise in the dollar takes some of the potential
benefit away from the Australian farm sector but we have to look
in the light of the entire world supply and price situation,”
bank agri-commodity strategist  Luke Mathews  said. “Australia
remains an extremely attractive option for international buyers
of commodities because of our supply situation.”  Wheat, sugar and cotton prices have rallied this year on
supply concerns and as  commodities  have gained on demand for an
alternative investment as the greenback slumped. Australia’s
dollar has approached parity with the greenback, increasing
prices of the country’s farm exports in U.S.-dollar terms.  “Australian farmgate prices will have to fall to ensure
that we remain competitive on the international stage but that
doesn’t mean that demand per se for Australian agricultural
products will fall,” Mathews said by phone from Sydney.  Cotton for December delivery rose to a record $1.1794 a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York today. Sugar prices
yesterday reached the highest level since February.  The Australian dollar traded at 99.14 U.S. cents at 4:36
p.m. in Melbourne. It touched 99.94 yesterday, the most since
Australia’s currency controls ended in 1983.  Wheat, Cotton  The country is forecast to harvest its third-largest wheat
crop this season and farmers are planting a cotton crop that may
at least double last season’s output.  The strength of the dollar would squeeze beef exporters
after rain reduced cattle supply and boosted prices this year,
and was contributing to a shift in shipment destinations, Meat &
Livestock Australia economist Tim McRae said.  Exports to the U.S. this year may be “just above” 200,000
metric tons, he said, compared with a mid-year forecast of
240,000 tons and shipments of 251,500 tons last year. The change
also reflects reduced Australian supply of manufacturing beef,
weak U.S. conditions and rising demand in other markets, he said.  “We are sending much less product there and redirecting
our exports to other markets at the moment and that includes
Russia and Indonesia,” he said. Beef and veal exports were
expected to meet the mid-year forecast of 900,000 tons, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  