-- Kohn Sees Better Growth in 2011, Headwinds `Abating'
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-15T18:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/fed-s-kohn-sees-stronger-economic-growth-in-2011-says-headwinds-abating-.html
Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
 Donald Kohn  said impediments to economic growth are fading and
the recovery should quicken next year.  “A number of those headwinds are abating,” Kohn said
today at a meeting of the Urban Land Institute in Washington.
Households are spending more, banks are beginning to “ease up”
on lending and demand for labor will rise as productivity growth
slows, he said.  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed more than forecast in
September, easing concern that unemployment near a 26-year high
will bring the recovery to a halt. Purchases rose 0.6 percent
following a 0.7 percent gain in August that was larger than
previously estimated, according to Commerce Department data
issued today in Washington.  Kohn said the U.S. probably won’t relapse into recession
and face a period of deflation, or a broad-based decline in
prices. “Not a deflation, just very low inflation,” he said.
“Not a recession, but sluggish growth.”  “My view is that deflation is a small risk, very small
risk right now,” he said.  Treasuries fell, pushing up 30-year yields nine basis
points to 4 percent at 2:03 p.m. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
declined 0.2 percent to 1,171.65 in New York.  The U.S. can’t rely on exports to sustain the recovery,
Kohn said, while expressing hope that “we get some loosening
in” the valuation of yuan.  “The other countries that are running surpluses in their
current accounts and have room to expand their domestic demand
have to step into that void if the global economy is going to
rise,” he said.  Into A ‘Void’  “It’s important for the global economy, as the U.S.
consumer is not going to be the engine of spending and growth
that we have been from the mid 90s to the late 2000s, that other
countries are going to have to step into that void,” he said.  Kohn, 67, retired Sept. 1 after serving as the top
monetary-policy strategist for former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s chief lieutenant,
guiding central bank efforts to stem the financial crisis,
including unprecedented emergency credit programs.  Kohn is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a
research organization based in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  