-- Fed, Japan Treasury Holdings Set to Surpass China: Chart of the Day
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-15T04:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/fed-japan-treasury-holdings-set-to-surpass-china-chart-of-the-day.html
The Federal Reserve and Japanese
investors are poised to pass China and become America’s largest
creditors following efforts from U.S. policy makers and the Bank
of Japan to stimulate growth.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the U.S. central bank’s Treasury
holdings have risen to a record $821.2 billion, approaching
China’s $846.7 billion. The figure for Japan is $821 billion,
the most ever. China overtook both the Fed and Japan in 2008 as
the communist nation bought dollars to hold down the yuan as a
way to aid exporters, funneling the greenbacks into U.S. debt.  “Since August, the Fed has been buying Treasuries,” said
Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor at Mizuho Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo, which manages the equivalent of $36.8 billion and
is part of Japan’s second-largest bank. “After the Bank of
Japan’s intervention, maybe they will invest in Treasuries.
China is diversifying its assets. They may buy the bonds of
other countries."  The Fed plans to purchase $32 billion of Treasuries
starting today through Nov. 8 as it reinvests proceeds from its
mortgage holdings in government debt, according to the central
bank website. It will probably end up buying at least $1
trillion more of the securities to sustain the recovery, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that are
authorized to trade directly with the central bank, said in a
report yesterday in the U.S.  Japan sold the yen to weaken it on Sept. 15 for the first
time in six years, stoking speculation it bought dollars and
invested them in Treasuries. The nation has been a net purchaser
of overseas bonds every week since the five days ended May 14,
Ministry of Finance data showed today.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves rose to a record $2.65
trillion on Sept. 30, according to the central bank, as the
nation bought dollars to keep its currency from appreciating.
The bank said in June would allow a more flexible exchange rate.  (For a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 Greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 