-- Fed Wants to Hoodwink Public, Only Fools Itself: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-10-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/fed-wants-to-hoodwink-public-fools-itself-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
If I were a central banker, I would
be afraid.  If I were a central banker getting ready to embark on
another round of quantitative easing, I would be very afraid.  Here’s why. Central bankers in the U.S. are being bombarded
with market-based signals suggesting their fears of deflation,
or falling economy-wide prices, may be misplaced.  Gold prices continue to set new highs. The U.S.  dollar , the
global reserve currency, keeps sinking amid expectations the
Federal Reserve will dilute the existing stock starting at its
Nov. 2 to 3 meeting.  Commodity prices, both industrial and agricultural, are on
a tear. The CRB Spot Raw Industrial Price Index, which includes
scrap metals, cotton and rubber -- but not oil -- hit an all-
time high this week.  Junk bond issuance already set a record for the year, with
demand for high-yield debt narrowing spreads to Treasuries.
Investors are pouring money into  emerging markets debt  issued in
local currencies by countries that used to be considered banana
republics. Mexico sold $1 billion of 100-year bonds last week,
double the announced issue size, at a yield of 6.1 percent. Just
ask yourself: Would you lend money to Mexico for 100 years?
Exactly.  Blowing Bubbles  If the Fed’s goal was to make investors move out the risk
curve, it succeeded. An alternate interpretation: Zero-percent
interest  rates  are causing a misallocation of capital, a nice
way of saying, “asset bubbles.”  The markets aren’t validating the Federal Reserve’s
preoccupation with a deflationary spiral. In fact, the message
is just the opposite.  And why not? The Fed has told us inflation is below the
level it considers consistent with maximum employment and price
stability. For the record, various measures of inflation show
prices rising anywhere from 0.9 percent to 1.5 percent on a
year-over-year basis.  As a general rule, if a central bank wants higher
inflation, it gets higher inflation, sometimes more than it
bargained for. Inflation is a  monetary  phenomenon -- something
easy to forget amid the preoccupation with inflation
expectations -- and the Fed is the proprietor of the U.S. dollar
printing press.  After 30 years of price stability uber alles, the Fed now
wants us to believe that it wants higher inflation (wink-wink,
nudge-nudge)?  Fed Sharp Shooters?  And that’s not all. We’re asked to believe the Fed can hit
a precise inflation target. (How’d that money supply targeting
work out in decades past?)  “If inflation in 2011 were a 0.5 percentage point below
the Fed’s inflation objective, the Fed might aim to offset this
miss by an additional 0.5 percentage point rise in the price
level in future years,” New York Fed President  Bill Dudley  said
in an Oct. 1  speech .  To invoke price level targeting -- stabilizing the price
level, or the consumer price index, not the percent change in
the CPI -- at this point is disingenuous at best and dishonest
at worst.  Take a look at the upward sloping CPI, even during the
Great Moderation starting in the mid-1980s, and you will see the
price level is anything but stable. The U.S.  dollar buys  less
than half of what it did in 1982-1984, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics.  Textbook Reality  For more than 40 years, the price level has been rising,
year in, year out. And now policy makers want to compensate for
what they claim is a one-year undershoot in the rate of change
in the CPI?  That’s only part of the Fed’s strategy, as outlined in the
minutes from the Sept. 21 meeting, released Tuesday.  With the benchmark rate already near zero, “an increase in
inflation expectations lowers short-term real interest rates,
stimulating the economy,” according to the minutes.  What about lowering  real long-term rates , the Fed’s
motivation for QE2? For that to happen, nominal rates would have
to stay stable, which is fine for a textbook but not in the real
world, says  Jim Glassman , senior U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Lost in Translation  Perhaps Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  will sort through this
tortured logic when he speaks about monetary policy in a low-
inflation environment at a Boston Fed conference today. Here’s
the Cliffs Notes version to help in translation:  “You know the Fed is committed to price stability in the
long run. In the short run, we want you to think that we want
higher inflation, which we really don’t and don’t intend to
deliver. Just believe what we say, not what we do, and
everything will work out fine.”  Every time policy makers talk about  inflation expectations ,
I want to know just whose expectations they are targeting. The
man on the street? The 14.8 million Americans who are
 unemployed ? Small businesses, which are more concerned about the
rising cost of health care and taxes than higher prices? Or is
it bond traders’ expectations, reflected in the price of
Treasury securities? The Fed never makes that clear.  These Fed folks and their academic acolytes need to step
away from their models and get out in the real world. (For an
alternative view of inflation expectations, see my March 2007
survey.)  Maybe the Fed can fool some of the people some of the time,
but it can’t fool all of the people all of the time. In the
process, policy makers may end up fooling themselves that they
can create expectations of a little more inflation without
delivering a lot of the real thing.  ( Caroline Baum  , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  