-- Ford, Mazda Say Capital Tie-Up Unchanged After Nikkei Share Sale Report
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-16T07:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ford-says-mazda-stake-isn-t-changed-after-nikkei-report-of-planned-sale.html
Ford Motor Co.  and  Mazda Motor Corp. 
said there has been no change in their capital relationship
after the Nikkei newspaper reported the U.S. automaker plans to
cut its Mazda holding to less than 3 percent.  Ford reached a tentative agreement to sell Mazda shares to
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.,  Sumitomo Corp.  and suppliers of
the Japanese automaker, the Nikkei said today, without citing
anyone. Ford plans to reduce its Mazda stake to 3 percent or
less from its current level of 11 percent, Nikkei said.  “Ford’s ownership stake in Mazda remains unchanged,”  Mark Truby , a Ford spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Ford continues to have a close strategic
relationship with Mazda, and we cooperate in areas of mutual
benefit. We have no further comment on the speculation.”  Ford owns more than 195 million Mazda shares, valued at
about $512 million, based on the closing price in Tokyo
yesterday. The report about a change in the capital relationship
between the two automakers is speculation, Mazda said a in faxed
statement today. The agreement between the companies to continue
a strategic partnership is unchanged, the statement said.  Were the bank to purchase the stake, it would become the
automaker’s largest shareholder, the Nikkei said in separate
report. Ford cut its stake in Mazda from 33 percent in November
2008 as it raised cash to avoid bankruptcy.  End Development  The second-largest U.S. automaker has signaled it intended
to end developing cars and trucks jointly with Mazda. Ford’s new
Fiesta small car is based on the mechanical foundation of the
Mazda2 subcompact. Ford’s Fusion family sedan is based on the
Mazda6 platform and its new Ranger pickup truck is built
alongside its mechanical twin, the Mazda BT-50, at a factory in
Thailand the automakers jointly own.  “For a lot of designing and engineering, we’re going to be
focused on Ford,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president for the
Americas and former Mazda chief executive, said last December.
“Our efforts will be focused on the Ford system, as opposed to
relying on others such as Mazda.”  Since arriving from Boeing Co. in 2006, Ford Chief
Executive Officer Alan Mulally has revived the automaker by
focusing on the namesake brand and selling off Volvo, Jaguar,
Land Rover and Aston Martin. The Dearborn, Michigan-based
carmaker earned $4.7 billion in the year’s first six months, its
largest first-half profit since 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan at   Knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 