-- Foreclosure Error May Bring Home Break-In by Bank: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-10-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/foreclosure-error-may-lead-to-break-in-by-bank-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
For all the scandalous news about
systemically sloppy foreclosure documentation, bankers are
trying to reassure the public that no undeserved evictions
resulted.  “At the end of the day, the underlying substance was
accurate,” JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
told reporters on a conference call this week. “There’s almost
no chance that we’ve made a mistake.”  That misses a key point, which I’ll get to shortly.  But first, consider the words, “almost no chance.” I
wrote about one homeowner faced with foreclosure even though he
didn’t have a mortgage, having paid cash for his house. He can’t
be the only one.  Foreclosure documents show bank employees didn’t get their
own names, titles or employer names right or figure out who
owned the note. Does it make sense that the only thing these
folks got correct in thousands of foreclosures was each
borrower’s payment record?  Secondly, there’s no way to know how substantial the errors
were until the banks sift through their work, with the feds and
state attorneys general looking over their shoulders.  There are many cases where homeowners were seeking loan
modifications so that they could make good on their mortgages
when they found themselves in foreclosure proceedings.  “They want to pay their loan,” said  Tom Ice , a bankruptcy
and foreclosure lawyer in Royal Palm Beach, Florida, who
represents hundreds of homeowners fighting property seizures.  Merits Punishment  Some delinquent borrowers can resume making payments after
a temporary job loss but can’t make up the arrearage, and the
banks won’t let them keep their mortgages unless they can.  ABC News reported on a homeowner whose bank had agreed to
modify her loan, but her home was auctioned out from under her.  Here’s the thing. If it were demonstrably true that the
foreclosure debacle forced no homeowner onto the streets who
hadn’t actually defaulted, what the banks did here still
deserves punishment.  There is a reason states require a process for foreclosures
and why notaries must swear that they actually witness the
signatures they notarize. It’s because this offers a tad more
protection against bogus foreclosures. It is supposed to force a
little more care, attention to detail and respect for property
rights before forcing a homeowner to give up shelter.  You’ve read about cases where a judge tosses out evidence,
say, a murder weapon or cocaine, because police busted into
someone’s home without a proper warrant. Anyone who has watched
a single episode of “ Law & Order”  knows the importance of
doing things right.  Otherwise, the case is dismissed and the suspect walks
free, all because of a so-called technicality.  Constitutional Rights  Critics complain that crime goes unpunished because of nit-
picking judges. But that technicality is a constitutional
prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures. It aims to
make it less likely that your door will be bashed in one night
for no good reason.  The  4th Amendment  of the U.S. Constitution protects only
against government searches. When someone else barges in, it’s
called breaking and entering.  That’s what Nancy Jacobini thought was happening when she
heard someone breaking into her home, so she locked herself in
the bathroom and called police, according to  ABC .  Not to worry. The intruder wasn’t there to steal her TV,
hunt for jewels or to rape her. The man who broke into her house
in Orlando, Florida, was doing it for  JPMorgan Chase  and was
there to change the locks.  ‘Alarming Frequency’  He thought the home had been foreclosed on and vacated. It
was neither. Jacobini had been paying down her mortgage for 18
years, according to her lawyer,  Matthew Weidner .  And while it’s true she was about four months behind in
payments, foreclosure proceedings hadn’t begun much less
finished, and she was still living there, Weidner says.  These break-ins happen with “alarming frequency,” he
says.  You would think that banks, which by the way are reaping
billions of dollars of profits and awarding record bonuses,
might have taken the time to be more careful about that sort of
thing, especially these days.  Banks naturally want to protect vacant houses they own and
hire firms to help them do that. But they have no right to break
into homes they don’t own.  Chase  has acknowleged its error, ABC
reported. The bank is examining foreclosure files in 41 states.  The list keeps growing of ways that lenders and their
employees show cavalier disregard for process and the law.
Whether it’s technical or substantive error, banks have got to
fix it, and fix it soon.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  