-- Ex-Hypo Real Estate CEO Funke Wins Ruling, $211,000 in Suit Over Dismissal
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-15T11:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/former-hypo-real-estate-ceo-funke-wins-order-211-000-in-case-over-firing.html
Former  Hypo Real Estate Holding AG 
Chief Executive Officer  Georg Funke  won a preliminary ruling and
was awarded 150,000 euros ($211,000) in a suit over claims he
was wrongfully dismissed after the 2008 bailout of the lender.  The Munich Regional Court today awarded Funke, 55, two
months of pay in a verdict issued under a special procedure that
only allows documents as evidence. The court also granted former
Chief Financial Officer  Markus Fell  one month of pay of about
40,000 euros.  “This ruling will only be the last word if Hypo Real
Estate won’t ask me to move to a second phase where I can hear
more evidence,” Presiding Judge Helmut Krenek said after
delivering the verdict. “It’s very likely that we will see that
second stage.”  The German government took over Hypo Real Estate in 2009
after the lender’s Dublin-based Depfa Bank Plc unit couldn’t
raise financing when the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. froze credit markets. Hypo got another 40 billion euros of
state guarantees in September, shortly before it sparked public
outcry for granting a 25 million-euro bonus to employees. The
Munich-based has obtained 142 billion euros in guarantees.  Hypo Real Estate considers Funke’s and Fell’s claims
unfounded and it will start proceedings allowing it to present
more evidence, the lender’s spokesman,  Oliver Gruss , said in a
statement distributed after the ruling.  Depfa Acquisition  The Munich-based lender had argued that Funke violated his
duties by not properly preparing the 5.3 billion-euro 2007
acquisition of Dublin-based  Depfa Bank Plc  and by failing to
change the bank’s refinancing strategy, Krenek said. Other
claims are that Funke’s risk management was flawed and that he
had to correct the lender’s capital needs between rescue
meetings in September and October 2008, the judge said.  “These could all be viable reasons for a dismissal if they
can be proved at the later stage,” said Krenek. “But just
firing him because the German government had asked for it,
wouldn’t be enough. Ministers and heads of governments are bound
by the rule of law like anybody else.”  Funke and Fell were dismissed in December 2008. Today’s
ruling concerned their January 2009 payments and Funke’s salary
for February of that year.  Pension Plan  In a separate suit that is also pending before the same
court, Funke has asked the court to rule he was wrongfully
dismissed. His contract was to run until 2013 with an annual
payment of 800,000 euros.  Funke is also seeking to regain a pension plan under which
he would get an annual payment of about 560,000 euros.  Funke and Fell could have filed a single lawsuit seeking
the full amount of their claims, said  Peter Groll , an employment
lawyer in Frankfurt who said he isn’t involved in the case.
Filing for just two-months’ pay may have been a tactic to test
the waters without risking potentially large court fees, which
in Germany are a function of the amount sought, he said.  “Using the special procedure may not give them a final
ruling, but it grants them a nice show effect,” said Groll.
“They win at least for now in court and in the headlines.”  Experts’ Testimony  Krenek has said in a May hearing that he needs to hear
experts’ testimony and witnesses to decide whether there was
cause to fire Funke, Fell and ex-management board member  Frank Lamby , who has also sued.  It may be difficult for Hypo Real Estate to prove that
Funke failed in the Depfa acquisition process, said  Manuel
Rhotert , an employment lawyer based in Frankfurt, who said he
isn’t involved in the case.  “If you buy a bank you hire legions of lawyers and
auditors in the due diligence process and every stone get’s
turned around,” said Rhotert. “Later it’s usually difficult to
show that an executive, who relied on their work, should have
done something differently in that process.”  The contracts of all three executives were terminated in
December 2008. Funke had stepped down in October of that year
after Munich-based Hypo Real Estate almost collapsed during the
credit crunch that followed Lehman’s bankruptcy.  Today’s cases are LG Muenchen, 5 HK O 2122/09 and 5 HK O
1762/09.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 