-- Mozilo to Settle SEC Fraud Claims for $67.5 Million
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-10-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/former-countrywide-officials-mozilo-sieracki-sambol-to-settle-sec-claims.html
Former Countrywide Financial Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Angelo Mozilo  agreed to a record $67.5
million settlement to resolve U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that he misled investors.  Mozilo, 71, will pay a $22.5 million penalty and disgorge
$45 million in gains from the sale of shares at inflated prices
under the terms of the settlement read yesterday at a hearing in
federal court in Los Angeles. Former Chief Financial Officer
 Eric Sieracki  and former Chief Operating Officer  David Sambol 
also reached settlements. None of the men, who had been
scheduled to go on trial Oct. 19, admitted wrongdoing.  The SEC sued the three in June 2009, saying they publicly
reassured investors about the quality of Countrywide’s loans
while knowing that the mortgage lender was fueling its growth at
least since the beginning of 2005 by letting its underwriting
guidelines deteriorate and originating an increasing number of
risky subprime loans.  Mozilo’s penalty is the biggest ever to be paid by a senior
executive of a publicly traded company in an SEC settlement, the
agency said in a statement. He’s also barred from serving as an
officer or director of a public company, according to the SEC.  “Mozilo’s record penalty is the fitting outcome for a
corporate executive who deliberately disregarded his duties to
investors by concealing what he saw from inside the executive
suite, a looming disaster in which Countrywide was buckling
under the weight of increasing risky mortgage underwriting,
mounting defaults and delinquencies, and a deteriorating
business model,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s
enforcement division, said in the statement.  Sold Shares  The SEC said Mozilo sold $140 million in Countrywide shares
from November 2006 through October 2007 at an inflated price
because he hadn’t disclosed the increasing risk he knew the
lender faced from defaulting mortgages.  Mozilo is the most prominent executive targeted by U.S.
regulators examining the subprime mortgage crisis. He co-founded
 Countrywide  in 1969 and built it into the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender. Mounting loan defaults slashed the company’s
stock price, prompting its sale to  Bank of America Corp.  in
2008.  David Siegel, Mozilo’s lawyer, declined to comment after
the hearing, saying the agreement speaks for itself.  Sambol agreed to pay a $520,000 penalty and $5 million in
disgorgement, and Sieracki agreed to pay a $130,000 penalty.
U.S. District Judge  John F. Walter  said the settlements were
“fair, reasonable, and in the public interest.”  ‘Behind Him’  “Mr. Sambol has agreed to settle the SEC lawsuit and put
the matter behind him for the benefit of his family and loved
ones,” Sambol’s lawyer, Walter Brown, said in a statement.  Bank of America said in a statement that the events covered
in the suit occurred before the takeover and that neither it nor
Countrywide was sued.  “Countrywide Financial Corporation will advance funds to
Mozilo and Sambol as required by the indemnification provisions
of its corporate bylaws in these circumstances,” according to
the bank’s statement. “Those funds will be used by the
defendants to pay the non-penalty amounts ordered by the
Court.”  The penalty and disgorgement payments will go to the
settlement fund for the Countrywide securities class action that
Bank of America agreed to settle in April for $600 million.  “The SEC decided not to pursue any of the fraud or aiding
and abetting fraud claims alleged in its complaint against Mr.
Sieracki, and decided not to pursue its request that Mr.
Sieracki be barred in the future from serving as a director or
officer of a public company,” Sieracki’s lawyer,  Shirli Fabbri Weiss , said in a statement.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation started investigating
Countrywide officials for possible securities fraud in 2008.
 Thom Mrozek , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Los
Angeles, declined to comment on the investigation.  The case is SEC v. Mozilo, 09-3994, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 