-- Former Portuguese Monopolies Prove Safer Than Sovereign Debt: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-15T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/former-portuguese-monopolies-prove-safer-than-sovereign-debt-euro-credit.html
EDP-Energias de Portugal SA  and
 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  yield less than the government debt of
Portugal, unlike neighboring Spain, as investors see a bigger
risk of sovereign default than for the former state-controlled
monopolies.  Portuguese debt maturing in 2019 yields 56 basis points
more than similar-maturity Portugal Telecom securities. Bonds
due in 2016 yield 40 points more than EDP’s 4.75 percent debt
for that year. In Germany, 10-year bunds yield 88 basis points
less than debt of E.ON AG, the nation’s largest utility.
Portugal’s 10-year bonds yield 6.2 percent, about 400 basis
points  more than  bunds.  “It’s quite possible that we will have this exceptional
circumstance in which the sovereign trades weaker than the
companies for some time,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “We don’t see
Portuguese government yield spreads to German bunds narrowing
sustainably soon.”  The spread to German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, may narrow
if Portugal can convince investors it can cut the euro region’s
fourth-biggest budget deficit and avoid following Greece in
seeking emergency aid. Prime Minister Jose Socrates’s Cabinet
last night passed its budget plan that includes wage cuts and
higher taxes to tackle the deficit, paving the way for a debate
in parliament.  “There’s a feeling that the 2011 budget will pass and then
you could see yields coming down and some narrowing in
spreads,” said  Phyllis Reed , head of bond research at Kleinwort
Benson Private Bank in London, who helps manage about $32
billion. “We could see 10-year bond yields return to below 6
percent levels.”  Spanish Bonds  In Spain, debt due in 2019 of former monopoly phone company
Telefonica SA yields almost 10 basis points over similar
maturity government bonds. Bonds of utility Endesa SA due 2013
yield 36 basis points more than Spanish two-year debt.  The bonds of Portugal’s two Lisbon-based former monopolies
have fared better than government securities because the
country’s largest telephone company and its biggest electric
utility get much of their earnings outside the country after
expanding abroad in markets such as Brazil.  “Because they are global players, these Portuguese
companies have had a better performance than the Portuguese
state,” said Filipe Silva, who has investments in debt
securities, including Portuguese government bonds and Portugal
Telecom bonds, at Banco Carregosa SA in Oporto, northern
Portugal. “They don’t depend exclusively on the country.”  Growth Lags  Economic growth  in Portugal averaged less than 1 percent a
year in the past decade, compared with 1.3 percent for the euro
region. The Bank of Portugal forecasts gross domestic product
will expand 1.2 percent this year, less than the 1.6 percent
growth for the 16-member euro region projected by the European
Central Bank in September.  The Portuguese market provided EDP with 48 percent of 2009
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
while it accounted for 56 percent of Portugal Telecom’s profit
last year. Besides Brazil, EDP increased its presence in the
U.S. with the 2007 acquisition of Houston-based Horizon Wind
Energy LLC from U.S. investment bank  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   It costs more to insure against the default of Portugal’s
sovereign debt than it does for EDP or Portugal Telecom.  Credit
default swaps on Portuguese debt declined to 376 basis points
from the record 472.6 on Sept. 29, according to data provider
CMA. That compares with 246 basis points on EDP swaps and 219
basis points for Portugal Telecom.  Credit Ratings  “That shows the market also understands that today we have
business abroad that is relatively significant,” EDP Chief
Executive Officer  Antonio Mexia  said at a conference in Lisbon
on Oct. 12. “There is enormous discipline on capital
expenditure. The market is also giving value to the fact that we
have financed ourselves two years in advance.”  Credit rating companies don’t share investors’ views on the
relative default risks between Portugal’s sovereign and
corporate debt. Moody’s Investors Service, which cut Portugal
two notches on July 13, rates government debt at A1, two grades
above EDP’s A3. Standard & Poor’s has Portugal at A-, higher
than its BBB ranking for Portugal Telecom.  The government controls about  25 percent  of EDP, through
stakes held by state holding company Parpublica SGPS SA and
state-owned bank Caixa Geral de Depositos SA. Caixa Geral owns
7.3 percent of Portugal Telecom.  Proxy for Portugal  “For good and bad, we are related and in many cases EDP is
a proxy of Portugal for some investors,” EDP’s Mexia said.
“Any increase in spreads at the level of the Republic has a
consequence in all those in the Portuguese market, be it the
financial sector and also Portuguese companies.”  The difference in yield between Portuguese 10-year bonds
and German bunds rose to a euro-era record 441 basis points on
Sept. 28 on doubts about whether the government was doing enough
to cut the deficit. The next day, the government announced it
would cut wages of public workers and freeze investment to show
it’s serious about narrowing the shortfall. The spread with
Germany has since narrowed to 379 basis points.  Socrates’s cabinet signed off last night on the plan, which
includes a 5 percent reduction in the wage bill for public
workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month and a cap on
promotions and hiring. The government also plans to raise the
value-added tax rate to 23 percent from 21 percent.  The budget is scheduled to be debated in parliament
starting on Oct. 28, and Socrates, who leads a minority
Socialist government, has tried to secure support from the
opposition Social Democrats to turn the plan into law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 