-- France to Tap Strategic Fuel Reserves in Swaps as Strike Curbs Production
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-15T06:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/france-to-use-fuel-reserves-as-striking-refinery-port-workers-cut-supply.html
France authorized the release of
fuel stockpiles to counter potential shortages caused by
striking refinery and port workers as police moved in to unblock
depots.  Gas stations in some regions are running low of supplies as
consumers bought higher-than-normal quantities of fuel on
concern about shortages, French television LCI reported today,
adding that police moved to lift barricades from some fuel
depots that were set up by strikers to prevent deliveries.  French refinery and oil terminal workers have extended a
strike led by the CGT union over a government plan to raise the
retirement age and a local dispute in Marseille over a 2008 port
overhaul. The government will release fuel reserves held by oil
companies to service stations, the National Road Haulage
Federation, or FNTR and the refiners’ group Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, known as UFIP, said yesterday.  “While France has not drawn down emergency stocks in
response to this situation, stocks held for emergency purposes
have been utilized in a technique referred to as ‘re-
localization,” the International Energy Agency said. “Reserves
in the needed area are swapped with commercial stocks held
elsewhere in France such that the total emergency reserves do
not change.”  Eight of the country’s 12 crude-processing plants are being
halted because of the strike, the UFIP said. France had oil
stocks equivalent to 95 days of net imports at the end of July,
according to a report by the IEA this week. About 60 days of
supplies are held as public stocks and the rest as strategic
stocks “held by industry for emergency use,” it said.  Industrial Action  Fuel use climbed 50 percent this week as motorists rushed
to fill cars, according to Junior Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau .  The labor unrest is set to extend into next week as unions
voted to strike Oct. 19, the eve of a Senate vote on President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill to raise the retirement age.  Unions are extending the standoff as Sarkozy refuses to
back down from plans to increase the minimum retirement age to
62 from 60. Unions have walked out three times since mid-
September.  “The government has to address the fundamentals of the
problem,” CGT secretary general  Bernard Thibault  said in an
interview on LCI. He called for the government to withdraw its
pension overhaul and refrain from using “excess” police
invention on demonstrators.  Meanwhile, Workers at Le Havre oil terminal joined a strike
that has cut crude imports and affected 11 of the country’s 12
refineries, the CGT union said. The work stoppage at the
Marseille oil import hub to contest plans by the government to
restructure operations entered its 19th day.  Oil Companies  Total SA , Europe’s biggest refiner, has started to halt
units at Donges, Feyzin, Grandpuits, Normandy and La Mede as a
result of the strike. Its plant near Dunkirk was halted last
year and is slated for closure. LyondellBasell Industries NV
said yesterday it started to halt its Berre refinery in southern
France because of a lack of crude supplies as did Petroplus
Holdings AG at its Petit Couronne plant.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  won’t stop its refinery at Fos at the end
of the week, according to  Catherine Brun , a company spokeswoman.
Deliveries were halted by a strike yesterday, she said.  The strike at the port of Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil
terminals, which has blocked crude oil imports, left 60 vessels
stranded as of yesterday. These included 45 crude and refined
fuel tankers and 10 gas transporters, according to a statement
from the port.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  