-- French Police Move In to Break Through Strikers' Blockades at Fuel Depots
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-15T14:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/french-police-unblock-fuel-depots-as-refinery-port-strikes-cut-supplies.html
French police moved in to open fuel
depots to release oil supplies blocked by strikers as walkouts
at ports and refineries across the nation shut down crude
imports and sparked shortages at filling stations.  Police ordered protesters to lift barricades at a depot in
Fos-sur-Mer near Marseille today to let trucks deliver fuel, a
spokeswoman for the Prefecture des Bouches-du-Rhone said. Two
other depots were also cleared, including one near Bordeaux,
while others remain blocked, the CGT union said.  A “few hundred” service stations are experiencing fuel
shortages out of about 12,000 nationwide, according to Alexandre
de Benoist, head of the Independent Fuel Importers Union, whose
members are supermarkets with fuel outlets. “It’s enough to
create worry among consumers and push some into panic-buying.”  Refinery and oil terminal workers have extended a strike
over plans to raise the pension age and a dispute in Marseille
over a port overhaul. A wider walkout this week disrupted
transport, schools, power supplies and public services and is
now largely confined to the fuel and ports sectors.  Oil import points at Le Havre, Marseille and near Nantes
have all been blocked by the labor action. The three points are
the only means that crude normally enters France, a spokesman
for Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, the refiner’s
group, said today by phone from Paris.  Airport Shortages  All French refineries have stopped deliveries because of
the strike, said  Charles Foulard , a CGT leader. Fuel consumption
jumped 50 percent this week as motorists rushed to fill cars,
according to Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau .  A fuel pipeline to the Paris region, including to Roissy-
Charles de Gaulle and Orly airports, stopped operating due to a
refinery strike at Grandpuits, Agence-France Presse reported,
citing pipeline operator Trapil. Roissy has enough fuel until
next week and Orly for 17 days, the report said.  “We aren’t trying to cause fuel shortages,” CGT Secretary
General  Bernard Thibault  said today on LCI television. Police
mustn’t use “excessive” force breaking barricades, he said.
“This isn’t the way we will get out of this impasse.”  Unions have voted to widen the strike again on Oct. 19, the
eve of a Senate vote on President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill to
raise the retirement age from 60 to 62. Sarkozy has refused to
back down, and unions have walked out three times since mid-
September. The lower house has passed the bill, and the Senate
has approved key measures.  The strike, which brought as many as 1.23 million people to
the streets in the nation of 65 million residents on Oct. 12, is
now evident mostly in the rush to gas stations to stock up on
fuel, television reports showed.  Releasing Reserves  The government will release fuel reserves held by oil
companies to service stations, the National Road Haulage
Federation and the refiners’ group, the UFIP, said yesterday.  France isn’t drawing on strategic reserves, the
International Energy Agency said in its monthly  Oil Market
Report . Instead it’s switching reserves in areas where fuel is
needed with commercial stocks from elsewhere in the country so
the total emergency stockpile remains the same.  France had oil stocks equivalent to 95 days of net imports
at the end of July, according to the IEA. About 60 days of
supplies are held as public stocks and the rest as strategic
reserves “held by industry for emergency use,” it said.  The labor action has blocked crude tankers at the Le Havre
oil terminal, where the strike entered its third day, and at
Marseille, now in the 19th day, port officials said.  Tankers Stranded  Tankers also can’t unload at the Donges refinery near
Nantes or to a nearby pipeline, according to a spokesman for
Compagnie Industriel Maritime, which operates the Le Havre oil
terminal.  Le Havre supplies crude to  Exxon Mobil Corp. ’s Gravenchon
refinery, Petroplus Holding AG’s Petit Couronne plant as well as
Total SA’s Grandpuits and Normandy sites, he said.  Total, Europe’s biggest refiner, has started to shut down
units at Donges, Feyzin, Grandpuits, Normandy and La Mede as a
result of the strike. Its plant near Dunkirk was halted last
year and is slated for closure.  LyondellBasell Industries NV said yesterday it started to
shut down its Berre refinery in southern France because of a
lack of crude supplies. Petroplus Holdings AG is halting its
Petit Couronne plant. The CGT union said Petroplus’ Reichsett
plant is also being stopped.  Exxon Mobil Corp. won’t stop its refinery at Fos at the end
of the week, according to  Catherine Brun , a company spokeswoman.
Deliveries are blocked by a strike there and production is
disrupted by labor action at Gravenchon, she said.  Ineos Group Holdings Plc is operating its Lavera refinery
at reduced rates,  Richard Longden , a U.K.-based spokesman, said
today by phone. “We’re still monitoring the situation.”  The strike at Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil terminals left
62 vessels stranded as of today. These included 46 crude and
refined fuel tankers and 10 gas transporters, according to a
statement from the port.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  