-- French Police Unblock Fuel Depots as Labor Unrest Cuts Supplies
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-15T07:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/french-police-unblock-fuel-depots-as-labor-unrest-cuts-supplies.html
Police moved in to unblock oil
depots across France as the government authorized the release of
fuel stockpiles to counter potential shortages caused by
striking refinery and port workers.  Protesters were ordered by police to lift barricades
preventing access to a depot in Fos-sur-Mer near Marseille
today, letting trucks deliver fuel, a spokeswoman for the
Prefecture des Bouches-du-Rhone said. Two other depots were
similarly cleared, one near Bordeaux, the CGT union said.  “The government has sent the police,” said  Charles Foulard , a CGT leader. “It has decided to crush the protest.”
All French refineries have joined the strike, he said.  French refinery and oil terminal workers have extended a
strike led by the union over a government plan to raise the
retirement age and a local dispute in Marseille over a 2008 port
overhaul. The wider strike that this week disrupted transport,
schools, power supplies and other public services, is now
largely confined to the oil and port sectors.  Unions voted to strike again on Oct. 19, the eve of a
Senate vote on President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s bill to raise the
retirement age. Sarkozy has refused to back down from plans to
increase the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60. Unions have
walked out three times since mid-September.  “The government has to address the fundamentals of the
problem,” CGT secretary general  Bernard Thibault  said in on LCI
television today. “We aren’t trying to cause fuel shortages.”
He said the government has to withdraw its pension overhaul and
not use “excessive” police force, adding, that “this isn’t
the way we will get out of this impasse.”  Oil Reserves  The retirement reform bill has been approved by the lower
house of parliament, the National Assembly, while the Senate has
approved key planks, such as raising the minimum age for a
pension to 62 from 60 and the age for a full pension to 67 from
65. A final vote on the bill is scheduled for Oct. 20.  The strike, which brought as many as 1.23 million people to
the streets across the country on Oct. 12, is now evident mostly
in the rush to gas stations to stock up on fuel, television
reports showed.  The government will release fuel reserves held by oil
companies to service stations, the National Road Haulage
Federation, or FNTR and the refiners’ group Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, known as UFIP, said yesterday.  “While France has not drawn down emergency stocks in
response to this situation, stocks held for emergency purposes
have been utilized in a technique referred to as ‘re-
localization,’” the International Energy Agency said.
“Reserves in the needed area are swapped with commercial stocks
held elsewhere in France such that the total emergency reserves
do not change.”  Industrial Action  Eight of the country’s 12 crude-processing plants are being
halted because of the strike, the UFIP said. France had oil
stocks equivalent to 95 days of net imports at the end of July,
according to a report by the IEA this week. About 60 days of
supplies are held as public stocks and the rest as strategic
stocks “held by industry for emergency use,” it said.  Fuel use climbed 50 percent this week as motorists rushed
to fill cars, according to Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau .  Meanwhile, workers at Le Havre oil terminal joined a strike
that has stopped crude imports through Marseille, blocking
supplies to the country’s 12 refineries, the CGT said. The work
stoppage at the Marseille oil import hub to contest plans by the
government to restructure operations entered its 19th day.  Oil Companies  Total SA , Europe’s biggest refiner, has started to halt
units at Donges, Feyzin, Grandpuits, Normandy and La Mede as a
result of the strike. Its plant near Dunkirk was halted last
year and is slated for closure. LyondellBasell Industries NV
said yesterday it started to halt its Berre refinery in southern
France because of a lack of crude supplies as did Petroplus
Holdings AG at its Petit Couronne plant.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  won’t stop its refinery at Fos at the end
of the week, according to  Catherine Brun , a company spokeswoman.
Deliveries were halted by a strike yesterday, she said.  The strike at the port of Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil
terminals, which has blocked crude oil imports, left 60 vessels
stranded as of yesterday. These included 45 crude and refined
fuel tankers and 10 gas transporters, according to a statement
from the port.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkenned3@bloomberg.net  