-- Gannett Drops After Revenue Misses Analysts' Estimates on Newspaper Slump
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-10-15T15:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/gannett-profit-beats-estimates-on-increasing-television-advertising-demand.html
Gannett Co. , the owner of USA Today
and television stations, fell as much as 11 percent in New York
trading after third-quarter revenue missed analysts’ estimates
on slumping demand for newspaper advertising.  Sales were little changed at $1.31 billion, the McLean,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected $1.32 billion, the  average of estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey.  Gannett, the first large newspaper publisher to report its
results for the quarter, is watched by investors as an indicator
of how the industry at large is faring. While Gannett’s total
 revenue  snapped a string of declines that had lasted for more
than three years, newspaper sales declined 4.8 percent, led by a
5.1 percent slump in advertising revenue.  “While the results show some areas of improvement, we do
not believe it will be enough to support the stock, which has
traded up into this earnings release,”  Alexia Quadrani , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a research note.
National newspaper advertising, which was up 2.4 percent on a
constant currency basis, “was the bright spot in newspaper
advertising.”  Gannett  fell  $1.21 cents, or 8.6 percent, to $12.88 at
11:41 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after
declining as low as $12.47. The shares had lost 5.1 percent this
year before today.  Net income  advanced 38 percent to $101.4 million, or 42
cents a share, from $73.8 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier.
Earnings excluding some items were 52 cents a share. Analysts
projected 50 cents on average.  This week, Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook
for the U.S. newspaper industry to negative from stable on
concern about declining sales.  (Gannett held a conference call at 10 a.m. New York time.
To listen, go to  http://www.gannett.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net  