-- Gates Saw `Significant Harm' in WikiLeaks' Posting of Afghan War Reports
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-15T20:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/gates-saw-significant-harm-in-wikileaks-posting-of-afghan-war-reports.html
The release of secret military
reports on the WikiLeaks website, which included the names of
Afghan nationals cooperating with the U.S., is “likely to cause
significant harm” to America’s security interests, Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said in a letter to a lawmaker.  Gates, in an Aug. 16 letter to Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said the
Pentagon was examining ways to mitigate the risks.  Pentagon spokesman Marine Colonel  David Lapan  told
reporters today the military is concerned that WikiLeaks, as
early as Monday, might be releasing thousands of tactical-level
military documents from Iraq.  WikiLeaks.org  receives confidential material that
governments and businesses want to keep secret and posts the
information on the Web.  The website in late July published more than 91,000 secret
U.S. military reports from Afghanistan. Reports on the memos
appeared in the  New York Times , Britain’s  Guardian  and Germany’s
Der Spiegel.  An “initial review” showed that most of the Afghanistan
information “relates to tactical military operations,” Gates
wrote to Levin. The review “to date has not revealed any
sensitive intelligence sources and methods compromised by this
disclosure,” he wrote.  Still, the documents contained the names of cooperative
Afghans and the Pentagon “takes very seriously” reports of
possible Taliban reprisals, Gates wrote.  “We assess this risk as likely to cause significant harm
or damage to the national security interests of the United
States,” Gates wrote.  The views expressed by Gates in August remain valid, Lapan
said today in an e-mail.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  said July 28 that the Justice
Department, which includes the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
is investigating the source of the leaks. Whether criminal
charges are brought depends on the course of the probe, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  