-- GE Falls as Sales Miss Estimate on Equipment, Finance
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-10-15T14:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ge-profit-rises-as-finance-health-care-show-rebound.html
(Corrects size of NBC profit decline in 19th paragraph.)  General Electric Co.  fell in early
trading after posting third-quarter sales that trailed analysts’
estimates, driven by lower shipments of equipment including wind
turbines and the planned shrinking of the finance unit.  Third-quarter profit from continuing operations rose 29
percent to $3.16 billion, or 29 cents a share, buoyed by a
rebound at its finance unit and health care, GE said today in a
statement. That beat the 27-cent  average estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 analysts. Sales slid 5 percent to $35.9 billion.  “Today’s results are unlikely to assuage stakeholders,”
said  Joel Levington , a managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York. “GE is in
the early stages of climbing up the credibility mountain.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is expanding
industrial businesses while paring finance as he invests some of
the $20 billion in discretionary cash GE expects by year-end. He
increased the  dividend  and resumed share buybacks in July, then
restarted multibillion-dollar purchases by buying Dresser Inc.
for $3 billion last week.  The shares dropped 40 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $16.76 at
8:48 a.m. in New York before U.S. markets opened. Analysts
including UBS AG’s  Jason Feldman  predicted the stock may decline
today once the results were released, following a recent
pattern.  GE  climbed 14 percent this year through yesterday.  ‘Operational Miss’  “This is an operational miss,” said  Jeffrey Sprague , co-
founder of Stamford, Connecticut-based Vertical Research
Partners. He has a “hold”  rating  on the stock.  He said profit at industrial units fell short of his
estimate, along with reserves at GE Capital. Lower tax rates
also helped results, he said in a note to clients.  Analysts expected GE to post  sales  of $37.4 billion, based
on the average of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income 
fell 18 percent to $2.06 billion, or 18 cents a share, from
$2.49 billion, or 23 cents.  Total equipment orders rose 9 percent, while the industrial
backlog remained unchanged at $172 billion. Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE is the world’s biggest producer of power-
plant turbines, jet engines and medical-imaging machines.  “The environment continues to get better,” Immelt said on
a call with analysts. “Some things we look at like media buys,
credit demand, our losses are declining, equipment orders
growing -- I think those are positives for GE. Slow recovery in
a few areas.”  GE ended the quarter with cash and equivalents of $78
billion. Cash flow from industrial operations is “on track”
for $14 billion to $15 billion this year, the high end of
company expectations, Immelt said in the statement. GE amassed
its discretionary funds by hoarding cash during the recession
and agreeing to sell a majority stake in NBC Universal.  Industrial Cash  Cash generated from GE industrial operating activities in
the first nine months of 2010 totaled $10.1 billion, down 11
percent. Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said GE had
projected declines in industrial sales based on orders in the
past 18 months. The company continues to shrink GE Capital’s
assets, he said.  “Given the portfolio that Jeff has, this is the right move
for him to strengthen those businesses, but you’ve got to win,”
 Steven Winoker , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. “You’ve got to win orders
and you’ve got to build that business.”  Profit at  GE Capital  rose sixfold to $871 million as
consumer units rebounded and the unit’s reserves were little
changed.  GE Real Estate ’s loss narrowed to $405 million, while
Commercial Lending and Leasing, the division that lends to small
and medium-sized businesses, saw profit more than triple on a 4
percent revenue decline.  GE Energy Infrastructure, which includes the world’s
biggest power-generation equipment maker and the oil & gas
 equipment unit , had little-changed profit at $1.66 billion while
sales fell 14 percent. Profit at the oil and gas division fell
15 percent on a 9 percent revenue drop, while the main energy
segment posted a 4 percent profit rise to $1.39 billion on a 15
percent sales decline to $6.8 billion.  Oil and gas equipment shipments that were delayed should
be booked in the fourth quarter instead of the third, Immelt
said on the call.  GE Technology Infrastructure, which includes the world’s
biggest makers of medical imaging and information-technology
systems, jet-engines and locomotives, fell 10 percent to $1.47
billion on $9.21 billion in sales.  Health-care profit  climbed 14
percent on a 4 percent sales rise, while aviation declined 17
percent on a 3 percent revenue drop. Transportation posted a 43
percent decline as revenue slid 10 percent.  Profit at NBC Universal declined 15 percent to $625 million
as sales fell less than 1 percent.  GE Home & Business Solutions, which includes lighting and
appliances, had little-changed profit at $104 million on $2.13
billion in sales, a 1 percent decline.  GE Capital increased its reserves by $1.1 billion, recorded
in discontinued operations, as part of a loss-sharing agreement
related to the 2008 sale of its Japanese consumer businesses to
Shinsei Bank Ltd. Those reserves should complete what’s needed,
GE said.  When Shinsei acquired the unit, GE agreed to compensate
Shinsei for any losses in excess of 203.9 billion yen tied to
excess interest refund claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  