-- U.S. Delays Currency Report, Cites Chinese Progress on Yuan
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-15T19:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/geithner-delays-global-currency-report-cites-chinese-progress-on-yuan.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
will delay a report on international currencies, including
China’s, while citing progress in the acceleration of the yuan’s
 rise .  The report will be delayed until after meetings of the
Group of 20 nations in the coming weeks, according to a
statement from the Treasury today.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  “recognized China’s
actions since early September to accelerate the pace of currency
appreciation, while noting it is important to sustain this
course,” according to the statement.  Geithner has  increased  pressure on China to allow the yuan
to strengthen, saying last week the nation is contributing to a
“damaging dynamic” of countries keeping their currencies weak
to spur exports. Record imports from China are fueling calls by
U.S. lawmakers for action to protect American jobs as next
month’s elections approach.  The yuan, also known as the renminbi, has risen about 2.8
percent since June 19, when China announced it would drop its
peg to the dollar.  China’s strengthening of domestic demand and allowing the
yuan rate to move higher “will make a significant, positive
contribution to the global rebalancing effort,” according to
the  Treasury statement .  It said the G-20 meetings will “provide an opportunity to
make additional progress on the important challenge of securing
stronger and more balanced growth.”  Geithner will travel to Gyeongju, South Korea, next week to
meet with G-20 finance ministers to discuss currencies,
government stimulus efforts and other economic policies ahead of
a leaders’ summit on Nov. 11-12 in Seoul.  Congress Report  The Treasury’s currency report was due to be sent to
Congress today.  The yuan rose to the strongest level since 1993 on
speculation American lawmakers will step up calls for faster
appreciation after the U.S. yesterday said its trade deficit
with China widened to a record $28 billion in August.  The People’s Bank of China set today’s reference rate for
yuan trading at 6.6497 per dollar, as the currency completed a
sixth weekly advance.  Geithner last week called for international cooperation to
rebalance currency markets and warned that lopsided trade flows
threaten to limit global growth.  ‘Stronger Pressure’  “More and more countries face stronger pressure to lean
against the market forces pushing up the value of their
currencies,” Geithner said in an Oct. 6 speech in Washington.
Currencies are “inherently a multilateral issue” that is
“much easier to solve if countries come together.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration also faces pressure
from U.S. companies and lawmakers who say the yuan’s weakness
makes Chinese goods cheaper in the U.S., putting American
manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage. With unemployment
near a 26-year high, disapproval of Obama’s handling of the
economy is likely to contribute to Republican gains in the Nov.
2 elections, polls show.  “In the U.S. election campaign, China is a useful
scapegoat,” said  Jacob Funk Kirkegaard , a fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics.  In a report yesterday, U.S. steelmakers including  Nucor
Corp.  and  U.S. Steel Corp.  said companies in China get unfair
government subsidies that violate World Trade Organization
rules. The House of Representatives on Sept. 29 passed a bill to
let U.S. companies seek duties on Chinese products to compensate
for a weak yuan.  U.S. Imports  U.S. imports from China climbed to a record $35.3 billion
in August, pushing the trade shortfall with the Asian nation to
$28 billion, the highest since comparable data began in 1992,
according to a report yesterday from the Commerce Department.  “While the Chinese government is announcing record
exports, Ohio workers are facing layoffs and our manufacturing
facilities are shuttering,” Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat
from Ohio, said yesterday in a statement. “China’s unfair
manipulation of its currency allows its underpriced imports to
undermine American-made products.”  The Treasury released its previous currency report in July
after a three-month delay, which Geithner said was to allow
discussion within the G-20, which includes the largest developed
and emerging economies.  The July report said the yuan “remains undervalued” and
pledged to monitor it closely over the next three months for
signs that Asia’s fastest-growing market is living up to its
commitments to help rebalance the global economy.  “There is a consensus that the renminbi is significantly
undervalued,” Kirkegaard said. “Where there’s not consensus is
whether or not that valuation and the associated trade imbalance
between the U.S. and China is the root cause of all the problems
in the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net 
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 