-- General Motors Said to Proceed With Plans Toward Stock Offering Next Month
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   J e f f   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-15T17:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/general-motors-is-said-to-proceed-with-plans-toward-share-sale-next-month.html
General Motors Co.  is pushing ahead
with a plan to sell shares to the public next month and is
slated to start meetings with investors after the November
elections, said people with knowledge of the matter.  GM  shares would probably be priced on Nov. 17 or Nov. 18
and begin trading the next day, said two of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the plans are private. The
Detroit-based automaker and the U.S. Treasury, which owns 61
percent of the company, don’t want the offering to slip beyond
Nov. 19 into the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday week, they said.  GM executives  and their bankers will begin a roadshow after
the Nov. 2 election to present the offering in Europe and the
U.S., the two said. The various teams would finish up in New
York, after refining their sales pitch in smaller cities, a few
days before the pricing, they said.  The schedule isn’t final and GM advisers have said the
offering may benefit from a post-election stock  market  rally,
they said. GM and the U.S. Treasury aim to hold an $8 billion to
$10 billion IPO, said two of the people. It won’t be smaller
than $6 billion, two people have said. The initial sale could be
as large as $13 billion, one person said this week.  One concern of GM’s advisers is that October new-vehicle
sales may come in lower than expected when they are reported the
day before the mid-term elections.  Rising Sales  U.S. auto sales may reach a 12.3 million  annual rate  in
October, the fastest pace this year,  Don Esmond , Toyota Motor
Corp.’s North American sales chief, said yesterday at an event
in Detroit.  “The good news is last month was about 11.8 million,”
Esmond said. “So far this month, knock on wood, it could go
over 12.”  A $10 billion share sale by GM would be the biggest U.S.
IPO since  Visa Inc. ’s $19.7 billion raised in March 2008. It
would be the third-largest in the U.S., also trailing AT&T
Wireless Group’s $10.6 billion offering in 2000.  A large GM offering at a lower share price would place more
pressure on the government to win higher prices in future
offerings, two people said. GM and its investment banks had
considered a deal worth $12 billion to $16 billion, people
familiar with the plans said in August.  For the U.S. to recoup its $50 billion investment in GM, it
needs to sell at an average price, before splits, of $131 a
share, said a person familiar with the matter. The stock will be
split to sell at an initial price of around $20 a share, said
that person and two others.  Neil Barofsky , the special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, put the breakeven figure at
$133.78, before splits. While the U.S. bailout was paid for with
TARP money, only a portion of the government’s stake will be
sold in the initial offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net  