-- German Fund Behind the Year's Biggest Spanish Property Purchase Wants More
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-10-15T09:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/german-fund-behind-year-s-biggest-spanish-property-purchase-wants-more.html
The German  real estate fund  manager
that completed Spain’s biggest property purchase this year plans
further acquisitions in the country to take advantage of lower
prices.  “It’s a very good point in time to go for those really
good properties in Madrid or Barcelona that we were never able
to obtain in the past four years or so,” said  Matthias Danne ,
the DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale management board member who
heads its property-fund arm. “We are working on Spain.”  Prime office values in Spain’s two largest cities have
fallen since mid-2007 after the financial crisis plunged the
economy into its worst slump in 60 years. The slide, combined
with a slower decline in rents, meant that rental income as a
proportion of the price rose by about 2 percentage points to 6
percent, according to property adviser Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  DekaBank’s Deka Immobilien, Germany’s largest real-estate
mutual fund manager, acquired an office building known as D640
in Barcelona’s financial district for 145 million euros ($202
million) in August and bought Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA’s main office in the same city in 2009 for 82 million euros.
The property was leased back to the bank.  Prices for prime offices in the two Spanish cities have
fallen about 35 percent from their peak, while rents are down
about 27 percent from mid-2008, according to Madrid-based broker
Aguirre Newman SA.  The deals in Spain and January’s 36 million-euro purchase
of a distribution center in Prague show that Frankfurt-based
Deka Immobilien is prepared to invest in less liquid markets for
the right property, Danne said.  Poland ‘Attractive’  “We’re also looking at Poland, where we already have a
significant portfolio,” Danne said in an interview last week at
Munich’s annual Expo Real property trade fair. “Maybe there are
one or two further deals there that might be attractive.”  Most purchases in Europe this year have been in the largest
markets such as France, the Netherlands and the U.K. Germany has
been less of a target because Deka has ample investments there,
Danne said.  The fund focuses on properties that deliver reliable rental
income for its investors, targeting the highest quality
buildings in prime locations with tenants on long leases.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Caja Madrid, Spain’s second-
largest savings bank, are tenants at D640 in Barcelona.  Deka Immobilien is owned by Germany’s regional savings
banks, which drive sales of the four mutual property funds that
it runs. The funds attracted a net 1.25 billion euros in the
first eight months of the year, according to Frankfurt-based  BVI 
Bundesverband Investment & Asset Management.  Cash Rich  As a result, almost 25 percent of the 11 billion-euro Deka-
 ImmobilienEuropa  fund was in cash or equivalents at the end of
September.  “It’s a lot of liquidity,” Danne said. “We’re looking to
reduce that, if we can find the right kinds of properties.”  He ruled out acquisitions in most of central and eastern
Europe and Turkey.  Deka Immobilien sold the City Cronan office complex in
Stockholm last month, taking advantage of high prices in what it
said was Sweden’s largest single property transaction in at
least three years. No price was disclosed.  Office prices in the U.S. are attractive for the 2.5
billion-euro Deka- ImmobilienGlobal  fund, chiefly in the five
largest cities, Danne said. Last month, the fund bought an
office building near New York’s Grand Central Station for the
equivalent of 95 million euros.  The same fund also sold an office complex in Seoul for 123
million euros in June -- one of two properties it owns in South
Korea -- to take advantage of current prices, Danne said.  Some of the proceeds may be used to buy in Singapore, a
market in which Deka Immobilien has been looking to invest “for
months,” Danne said. “I’m optimistic that we will be able to
do that quickly,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  