-- Giambi Will Testify at Barry Bonds's Trial About Drug Use, U.S. Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-16T00:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/giambi-will-testify-at-barry-bonds-s-trial-about-drug-use-u-s-says.html
Baseball player  Barry Bonds ’s former
teammate and ex-girlfriend may testify at his March perjury
trial that the slugger said he used performance-enhancing drugs,
U.S. prosecutors said in a court filing.  A witness list filed today in federal court in San
Francisco said the government may call former San Francisco
Giant  Bobby Estalella , who will testify that Bonds admitted
using the substances. Kimberly Bell, Bonds’s ex-girlfriend, will
testify that Bonds told her he was taking steroids prior to the
2000 Major League Baseball season and that she observed physical
changes in him after 2000, including testicle shrinkage,
according to the filing.  Former New York Yankee  Jason Giambi  will testify that he
received performance-enhancing drugs from Bonds’s trainer,  Greg Anderson , prosecutors said. Kathy Hoskins, Bonds’s former
assistant and personal shopper, will testify that she saw
Anderson give Bonds an injection, according to the filing. The
potential witnesses are the same ones that prosecutors had
planned to call at a March 2009 trial that was postponed.  Bonds, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, is scheduled to go on trial March 21 on
charges of obstruction and lying to a federal grand jury in 2003
when he said he never knowingly took steroids.  Bonds’s attorneys said they may call two trainers to
testify about interactions with Bonds, Anderson and other
government witnesses, according to a separate court filing. A
medical doctor who is an expert on the effects of steroids may
also be called to testify for Bonds, according to the filing.  Allen Ruby , Bonds’s attorney, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left after regular business hours today.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 