-- Golden Gate Said to Hire Moelis to Find Buyer for Orchard Brands Retailer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-15T17:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/golden-gate-said-to-hire-moelis-to-find-buyer-for-orchard-brands-retailer.html
Golden Gate Capital Corp. hired
Moelis & Co. to find a buyer for Orchard Brands Corp., a
retailer that sells clothing to people 55 and older, as it
weighs restructuring the company’s debt, said three people with
knowledge of the situation.  Offers may not top the more than $700 million Orchard
Brands owes to lenders, said two of the people, who asked not to
be named because the process isn’t public. Lenders are poised to
take control of the retailer in a restructuring if the offers
are too low, the people said.  Initial bids for the Beverly, Massachusetts-based company,
which is operating under a forbearance agreement with its
lenders, are due late next week, two of the people said. The
retailer has annual sales of about $1 billion and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are about
$50 million, they said.  “We are working collaboratively and consensually with all
of our key creditors to fix the balance sheet,” said  Denise DesChenes , a spokeswoman for Orchard Brands.  Golden Gate, a San Francisco-based private-equity firm that
manages $9 billion in capital, has invested in retailers such as
Express Inc., Eddie Bauer Holdings Inc. and Zale Corp.  Appleseed’s, Gold Violin  Orchard Brands  markets apparel and home products to women
and men through 17 brands including Appleseed’s, Draper’s &
Damon’s, Gold Violin, Haband and Norm Thompson. The company
publishes catalogs and has stores under its Appleseed’s and
Draper’s & Damon’s brands.  The company is exploring all financial options, including
restructuring its debt, and has received initial interest from
strategic and private-equity bidders, a person familiar with the
process said.  Orchard Brands has $325 million of first-lien loans,
according to one of the people, held by hedge funds including
Cerberus Capital Management LP, Highland Capital Management LP
and Canyon Capital Advisors LLC. The first-lien lenders are
being advised by Loughlin Meghji & Co. and Sidley Austin LLP,
the person said.  American Capital Ltd. , the Bethesda, Maryland-based asset
manager, holds the company’s first-lien debt in addition to some
of its second-lien loans, the person said.  Representatives of Golden Gate, Moelis, Cerberus, Highland
and Loughlin Meghji declined to comment. Representatives for
American Capital, Canyon and Sidley Austin didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 