-- Goldman Sachs Almost Doubles Its Forecast for Returns From Precious Metals
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-15T08:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/goldman-sachs-almost-doubles-its-forecast-for-returns-from-precious-metals.html
Returns from precious metals will be
almost twice as strong as predicted last month, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said, citing an increased chance of further Federal
Reserve actions to spur U.S. economic growth.  Precious metals will generate a 12-month return of 30
percent, more than September’s 17 percent estimate, according to
a Goldman Sachs report dated yesterday by analyst  Jeffrey Currie . Industrial metals will return 25 percent, above the
prior 15 percent prediction, and the forecast for energy was
maintained at 27 percent, the report shows.  Fed officials were prepared in September to ease monetary
policy “before long,” minutes of their Sept. 21 session showed
this month. Policy makers will meet next on Nov. 2-3.
Speculation that the Fed will engage in a second round of so-
called quantitative easing has helped to lift gold to a record
and copper to the highest level in more than two years.  “As the likelihood of QE2 has helped diminish market
concerns about sharp macro deterioration, relative commodity
performance has been increasingly tied to fundamentals,” Currie
said in the report. “In addition to gold and platinum, we are
most constructive on copper, zinc, corn and crude oil.”  Goldman Sachs this week raised three-month and one-year
estimates for gold prices to $1,400 an ounce and $1,650 an
ounce, respectively. Copper may climb to $11,000 a metric ton by
the end of 2011 as stockpiles shrink, the bank said last week.
Today Goldman Sachs increased its 12-month estimate for corn to
$6.25 a bushel from $5.  “We expect the recent tightening of corn balances on
strong demand growth from ethanol, as well as sharply lower U.S.
yields, will lend further support to corn prices despite the
recent rally,” Goldman said. Wheat prices will remain elevated
and volatile for now and will drop in the “medium term,” the
bank said.  Goldman Sachs forecast a 20 percent return from the S&P
GSCI Enhanced Commodity Total Return Index over 12 months,
compared with the prior 19 percent. The gauge is up 2.3 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 