-- Google Jumps Most Since 2008 as Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-15T20:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/google-soars-after-third-quarter-sales-earnings-top-analysts-estimates.html
Google Inc.  rose the most in two
years in Nasdaq trading after reporting third-quarter sales and
profit that topped analysts’ estimates, evidence the leader in
Web search is benefiting from display and mobile advertising.  Net income rose 32 percent to $2.17 billion, or $6.72 a
share, from $1.64 billion, or $5.13, a year earlier, Google said
on its  website . Revenue, excluding sales passed on to partner
sites, was $5.48 billion, exceeding the $5.26 billion average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Google  is pursuing sources of revenue growth beyond search
as it grapples with competition from Facebook Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. Advertisers spent $6.15 billion in the U.S. on Internet
ads in the third quarter, up 11.8 percent from the year-earlier
period, according to EMarketer Inc.  “The digital economy is running on its own path,” Google
Chief Financial Officer  Patrick Pichette  said in an interview
yesterday. “It is growing very rapidly, and we are
participating in that space.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $60.52, or
11 percent, to $601.45 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the steepest jump since Oct. 28, 2008. The gains
helped trim the stock’s decline this year to 3 percent.  Profit excluding some items was $7.64 a share, exceeding
the $6.68 average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Bottom Line  “They showed upside on the bottom line, which they haven’t
done in a while,” said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at ThinkEquity
LLC in San Francisco, who recommends investors buy the stock and
doesn’t own it.  Paid clicks -- which relate to the number of times users
click on an ad -- rose about 16 percent from a year earlier and
about 4 percent from the second quarter. The cost per click
increased about 3 percent from a year earlier and about 2
percent from the second quarter, Google said.  Cash and short-term investments  totaled $33.4 billion at
the end of the third quarter, Google said. It had $30.1 billion
as of June 30, up from $26.5 billion at the end of March.  The results show “this continues to be a growth story when
people didn’t think it was going to be,” said  Gene Munster , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis, who has an
“overweight” rating on Google stock. “Despite the fact that
they haven’t been successful in emerging markets like China and
Russia, Google is finding a way to grow its business.”  Display, Mobile  Google is seeking new revenue streams, including searches
on mobile phones. Its Android software has surged in popularity
among consumers, overtaking  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
to become the top smartphone operating system in the U.S. in the
second quarter, according to research firm  Gartner Inc .  Display revenue is on pace to top $2.5 billion annually,
and mobile-ad sales should exceed $1 billion,  Jonathan Rosenberg , senior vice president for product management, said on
the conference call. CFO Pichette said there is some overlap in
mobile and display advertising, though he called it “small.”  On Google’s YouTube video site, the number of videos being
watched that can be monetized -- or targeted with ads -- exceed
2 billion on a weekly basis, up more than 50 percent from a year
earlier, he said.  Google doesn’t typically reveal revenue rates for display
and mobile.  “You guys often ask me, ‘Jonathan, where’s the next
multibillion dollar business after search?’ There’s your
answer,” he said on the call. “It’s display, and it’s already
here clocking in at over $2.5 billion run rate. So clearly we’re
firing on all cylinders in display.”  Market-Share Gains  After three months of market-share losses, Google boosted
its U.S. search share in September to 66.1 percent from 65.4
percent a month earlier, according to researcher  ComScore Inc. 
in Reston, Virginia. The gains came after Google unveiled its
Instant service that gives users search results as they type in
their queries.  Yahoo! Inc. fell to 16.7 percent from 17.4 percent, and
third-place  Microsoft  edged up to 11.2 percent from 11.1
percent. Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, is merging its
search operations with Yahoo this year to challenge Google’s
dominance. Under the deal, Microsoft is providing its Bing
search technology for Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo’s sites.  Search-based advertising is the biggest piece of the U.S.
Internet market, making up almost 49 percent of total online ad
spending in 2010, according to  EMarketer . Advertisers are
expected to spend $12.4 billion on search advertisements, up
from $10.7 billion in 2009.  There is room for growth across the company’s businesses
and Google will continue to spend on areas such as mobile and
display advertising, Pichette said.  “This is a well-managed company,” he said. “It’s investing
because it sees massive opportunities all around it --and why
would we not take advantage of them?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  