-- Guangzhou Limits New Home Purchases to One Unit a Household, Bureau Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-16T05:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/guangzhou-limits-new-home-purchases-to-one-unit-a-household-bureau-says.html
China’s southern city of Guangzhou
limited new home purchases to one unit for each household,
joining eight cities that have issued buying rules in an effort
to curb property speculation in the country.  The city also banned home purchases from non-Guangzhou
residents who haven’t lived in the city for a full year, the
Guangzhou Land Resources and House Management Bureau said in a
 statement  posted on its website yesterday.  “The government will firmly curb unreasonable home
purchases demand and strictly limit speculation in property
market,” the bureau said, adding that the new measures are
aimed at “restraining the over-rapid growth of property
prices.”  China’s property prices rose and transactions jumped in
September from the previous month, underscoring the need for
more government curbs to discourage speculation and prevent
asset bubbles in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Prices  in 70 cities climbed 0.5 percent from August and the
value of property sales soared 56 percent, according to  data 
from the statistics bureau yesterday. Prices rebounded for the
first time since May on a monthly basis after staying unchanged
in the previous two months and declining in June.  The data adds to challenges faced by Premier  Wen Jiabao  and
policymakers who this year tightened down-payment requirements,
suspended loans for third-home purchases, and pledged to speed
trials of a property tax that may be rolled out nationwide.  The Guangzhou bureau said people under 18 years old aren’t
allowed to a purchase home independently and the restrictions
apply to both newly-built and second-hand homes.  Eight Cities  The cities of Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hangzhou,
Nanjing, Ningbo, Fuzhou and Xiamen have already issued rules
limiting the number of new homes that households can buy.  China’s government has called for restrictions on the
number of new home purchases by a household in cities with high
property prices and tight supply. The central government will
talk to local governments who fail to stabilize prices,
according to a  report  from the Ministry of Land and Resources’
newspaper posted on the ministry’s website.  China’s Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
also  warned  home buyers against economic and legal risks if they
purchase more new homes allowed under local government limits.
Newly bought homes that exceed the limits won’t receive
government registration, it said in a statement on its website
yesterday.  China Securities Regulatory Commission said yesterday it
will suspend property developers’ restructuring plans in a move
to support the State Council’s decision in April to curb rising
residential prices.  The regulator is studying new policies aimed at regulating
developers’ mergers and acquisitions and the suspension will be
lifted after the measures are implemented.  -- Huang Zhe , with assistance from  Li Yanping  and  Zhao Yidi  in
Beijing. Editors: Paul Tighe, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhe Huang in Beijing at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  