-- Iceland Pension Funds to Block $2 Billion Debt Relief Proposal
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-15T10:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/iceland-pension-funds-prepare-to-block-2-billion-debt-relief-proposal.html
Iceland’s pension funds, which hold
the bonds behind most of the country’s mortgage debt, will try
to block proposals to forgive as much as $2 billion in bad loans
that the government says it is considering.  A group that represents households demanding debt relief
says lenders should write off up to 220 billion kronur ($1.99
billion) in mortgage loans to help the 39 percent of homeowners
who are technically insolvent. The government this week said it
may back the proposal as it responds to protests that drew
bigger crowds than in the weeks before former Prime Minister
 Geir H. Haarde ’s administration was ousted in January 2009.  “We don’t support the ideas of the Interest Group of the
Homes on general write-offs on loans,” said Hrafn Magnusson,
managing director of the Icelandic Pension Funds Association,
which has assets of about $16 billion, in an interview
yesterday. “The measure would mean that members will see their
pensions cut.”  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir ’s assurances after
the Oct. 4 protests that home owners will get swift debt relief
may leave the state more indebted and breach a clause in the
island’s loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund.
The government has yet to discuss the proposals with the IMF,
Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  said in an interview.  A ‘Perfect Mess’  Failure to secure backing from the country’s pension funds
would jeopardize any government plans to grant a general write-
down of mortgage debt,  Morgunbladid  cited Sigurdardottir as
saying today. Any agreement would require losses to be divided
between the pension funds, the banks and the Treasury, she said,
according to the newspaper.  The government’s vacillation on the subject of debt relief
may disappoint voters who had expected a quick response after
last week’s protests, said Eirikur Bergmann, a professor of
political science at Bifrost University in Reykjavik.  “The idea to give a flat reduction of mortgage debt is
some kind of a panic reflex to the protests,” Bergmann said in
an interview. “Then it turns out there’s nothing behind this
idea and they’ve given people false hopes, which the government
now has to wind down. This is, of course, a perfect mess.”  Iceland, which is ranked “junk” at Fitch Ratings, also
risks putting its credit grade under further pressure if it
agrees to measures that add to Treasury debt.  Ratings ‘Downsides’  “I think the government is very aware that its option to
pick up the bill again is limited,” said Moody’s Investors
Service analyst Kathrin Muehlbronner, in an interview.
“Iceland’s current position has more downsides than upsides.”  Moody’s ranks Iceland’s foreign debt Baa3, the lowest
investment grade. The rating carries a negative outlook.
Standard & Poor’s also ranks the island one level above junk at
BBB-.  “Fitch continually monitors Iceland’s sovereign ratings
and they could be subject to change at any time,” Fitch Senior
Director  Paul Rawkins  said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Sigurdardottir has already extended by five months a
moratorium on foreclosures due to expire in October, a measure
that may breach the terms of her government’s agreement with the
IMF. The fund won’t be “allowed” to hinder Iceland’s efforts
to reduce household debts, she said on Oct. 8.  The country’s banks are state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago. The
resolution committees of  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
agreed on behalf of creditors to take stakes in the new lenders,
Arion hf and Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their claims.
Creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir and  Landsbanki Islands hf  are
owed as much as $86 billion in total.  ‘Very Harmful’  Though most of the country’s non-performing loans stem from
Arion, Islandsbanki and Landsbanki successor NBI, according to
the IMF, the biggest provider of home loans is the state-backed
Housing Financing Fund. The HFF accounted for 64 percent of
Iceland’s 1.23 trillion kronur in outstanding mortgage debt at
the end of June, according to the  Financial Supervisory
Authority .  HFF Director  Asta H. Bragadottir  said the mortgage lender
isn’t able to withstand a flat reduction of all its home loans,
in an Oct. 13 interview. If it is forced to write down the debt,
the government will need to cover the loss or the country’s
pension funds would need to agree to the write-down, she said.  Sigurdardottir’s administration has already agreed to
recapitalize the HFF before the end of the year to make up for
existing losses on bad loans. That agreement doesn’t take the
impact of the current debt relief proposals into account.  The government plans to present a bill this week allowing
debtors to walk away from obligations that exceed asset values
and to nullify personal bankruptcies after four years, Internal
Affairs Minister  Ogmundur Jonasson  said in an Oct. 11 interview.  “We have to clarify very quickly what it is that people
are willing to do and how we can execute that, as uncertainty
and delays are very harmful,” Sigfusson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  