-- Midsize M&A Deals Are Back, Barclays's Paul Parker Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-10-15T16:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/midsize-m-a-deals-are-back-set-to-top-2009-pace-barclays-s-parker-says.html
The “bread and butter” merger and
acquisitions market of midsize deals is back, said  Paul Parker , head of global M&A at Barclays Capital, the investment-
banking unit of London-based Barclays Plc.  Deals of $1 billion to $5 billion have increased by 60
percent this year in terms of number of transactions, a
“telltale sign of where the market is headed,” Parker said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
With  Margaret Brennan .”  There have been $1.59 trillion worth of deals announced in
2010, on pace to top last year’s $1.78 trillion, according to
Bloomberg data. Acquisitions of $1 billion and $5 billion made
up 34 percent of the total, the highest in four years, while the
percentage of transactions of more than $5 billion fell to 27
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The third quarter was the busiest in two years, with $562.6
billion of announced transactions, led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s
unsolicited $43 billion offer for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., the largest deal announced this year. The average deal
premium paid in 2010 has fallen three percentage points to 22
percent from last year.  “You have a lot of structural reasons why people can pay a
bit more and still have it be a good transaction,” Parker said.
“We’re not seeing frothiness in the market.”  There is a “need and a desire” to get transactions done
by Dec. 31 before anticipated changes in capital gains taxes,
said Parker, who is attempting to close “a number” of sell-
side transactions by year’s end.  Barclays Capital is No. 6 globally in M&A market share,
advising 110 deals this year worth $231.9 billion. Parker has
advised some of the largest telecommunications deals over the
past 15 years, including WorldCom Inc.’s $47.1 billion
acquisition of MCI Communications Corp. and Sprint Corp.’s $45.9
billion deal for Nextel Communications Inc., including net debt,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 