-- Tim Participacoes Chief Luciani Sees Mobile Data Sales Doubling in 3 Years
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-15T20:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/tim-participacoes-chief-luciani-sees-mobile-data-sales-doubling-in-3-years.html
Tim Participacoes SA  Chief Executive
Officer  Luca Luciani  said Brazil’s third-biggest wireless
carrier will double its revenue from data services such as text
messages and Internet access over the next three years, helping
fend off rivals Telefonica SA and America Movil SAB.  The carrier, controlled by  Telecom Italia SpA , is betting
that high-speed Internet service over mobile devices will be
more attractive to Brazilians than the landline connections its
bigger rivals have acquired. Tim is spending 7 billion reais
($4.21 billion) this year through 2012 to improve its network
for data service, Luciani said yesterday in a phone interview.  To encourage users to spend more on data, Tim is offering
its users Web access on mobile phones for 50 centavos (30 cents)
a day. That might help Tim compete against landline Internet
providers, who only offer high-speed service over about 20
percent of the nation’s fixed phone connections, Luciani said.  “We are already offering, even to prepaid customers,
access to the Internet for everybody,” said Luciani, 42, who
was  named  CEO in January 2009. “It is a much more competitive
platform.”  Tim, based in Rio de Janeiro, will have about 50 million
customers by the end of the year, including 10 million
possessing handsets compatible with its 50-centavo-a-day
Internet access plan, Luciani estimated.  Wireless Businesses  Data service will account for about 20 percent of the
company’s sales by the end of the year, he said. Tim had 6.8
billion reais in  revenue  through the first half of 2010.  Telefonica,  America Movil  and Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA’s plan to combine their wireless and landline
phone businesses will likely increase competition for Tim, said
 Alex Pardellas , an analyst with Banif Corretora in Sao Paulo.  “They will offer pay TV, fixed and wireless service, long
distance, 3G and basically Tim is only in wireless service,”
said Pardellas, who recommends buying Tim’s voting shares and is
neutral on the the non-voting shares. While Tim’s forecast for
growth in data services sales is plausible, the company is
starting from a small base, he said.  Vivo Participacoes SA, Telefonica’s mobile unit, is
Brazil’s largest mobile-phone carrier with 30 percent of
subscribers, followed by America Movil, Tim and Rio de Janeiro-
based Tele Norte Leste, which has 19 percent of the market,
according to government statistics. Vivo has had the fastest
growth in subscribers over the past year, at 18 percent,
followed by Tim at 17 percent.  Tim’s preferred shares, which don’t carry voting rights,
fell 6 centavos to 5.46 reais at 4 p.m. New York time in Sao
Paulo trading. The shares have gained 6.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  