-- India's Inflation Unexpectedly Quickens, Increasing Interest Rate Pressure
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-15T07:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/india-s-inflation-unexpectedly-quickens-increasing-interest-rate-pressure.html
India’s  inflation  unexpectedly
accelerated, increasing pressure on the central bank to extend
the most aggressive monetary policy tightening in Asia.  The benchmark wholesale-price index rose 8.62 percent in
September from a year earlier after an 8.5 percent gain in
August, according to a commerce ministry statement in New Delhi
today. The median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for the gauge to remain unchanged at 8.5 percent.  Prices are rising even after the Reserve Bank of India
raised interest rates five times this year and allowed the rupee
to be the best performer in Asia in the past month. Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  may tighten monetary policy further, in
contrast to central banks from Australia to South Korea, which
kept borrowing costs unchanged this month to assess the risk of
a slowdown in the global economy.  “We may see a rate hike next month and thereafter an
extended pause unless inflation continues to remain rigid,”
 Shubhada Rao , chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, said
before the report. Rao expects the central bank to increase
rates by a quarter of a percentage point in the Nov. 2 monetary
policy announcement.  Bonds, Stocks  Bonds, the rupee and stocks were little changed after the
report. Ten-year government bond yields held at 8.05 percent at
12:05 p.m. in Mumbai, three basis points higher than yesterday’s
close. The rupee traded at 44.07 against the dollar while the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  fell 0.8 percent to
20,337.64.  Subbarao has boosted borrowing costs the most number of
times among Asian central banks this year as he tries to cool
inflation to 6 percent by March 31. The bank’s  reverse
repurchase rate  is 5 percent and the repurchase rate is 6
percent.  The Bank of Korea left its benchmark unchanged for a third
straight month on Oct. 14, while the Reserve Bank of Australia
kept its key rate unchanged for a fifth month on Oct. 5.  Subbarao said last week that inflation in India is being
“quite stubborn,” a sign that controlling prices remains the
central bank’s priority.  Manufactured-product inflation slowed to 4.59 percent in
September from 4.78 percent in August, today’s report showed.
Food-price inflation accelerated to 16.37 percent in the week
ended Oct. 2 from 16.24 percent in the previous week, the
commerce ministry said in a separate report.  Stronger Rupee  The local currency gained 5.2 percent in the past 30 days
as global investors poured a record $23 billion this year into
local shares and $10 billion in rupee debt to profit from an
economy growing at an annual pace exceeding 8 percent.  Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  yesterday
signaled the central bank may intervene in the currency markets
to shield exporters from the strengthening rupee.  His comments came after manufacturing and services in
September grew at the slowest pace in 10 months, according to
the purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics.  India’s  industrial production  expanded 5.6 percent in
August, the least in 15 months, a government report showed on
Oct. 12.  Abheek Barua , a Mumbai-based economist at HDFC Bank Ltd.,
said the factory output data is a “little dodgy” to prompt the
central bank to pause in raising rates.  Industrial Output  India’s industrial output has fluctuated since May, when it
registered an 11.5 percent expansion. The growth dropped to 5.8
percent in June and rebounded to 15.2 percent in July, according
to government data.  The central bank said last month that the “high
volatility” in the data “raises some doubts” about how
effectively the index reflects the underlying growth momentum.  Rising car and cement sales provide evidence of growing
consumption in the South Asian nation.  India’s automaking association last week doubled its
forecast for car-sales growth this fiscal year as rising incomes
prompted drivers to buy a record number of vehicles for a third
straight month.  Car sales may gain about 23 percent in the year ending
March, compared with the 12 percent growth predicted in July,
the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said. Sales by
companies including  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.  and Ford Motor Co.
rose 30 percent in September, the group said.  Ambuja Cements Ltd., a unit of Holcim Ltd., the world’s
second-largest cement maker, said this month sales rose 8.8
percent in September than a year earlier.  “Sequentially manufacturing inflation has stabilized, so
the case for a more aggressive rate hike is reasonably weak,”
HDFC’s Barua said. “There is one more interest-rate hike left
in the current cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 