-- Rupee Gains `Not a Concern' as Infosys Calls for Intervention
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   R u c h i k a   T u l s h y a n
-- 2010-10-15T22:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/india-need-not-press-panic-button-on-rupee-gains-finance-minister-says.html
A rally in the Indian rupee, Asia’s
best performer in the past month, is “not a matter of
concern,” yet, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said, allaying
concerns expressed by  Infosys Technologies Ltd.  that a
strengthening currency will hurt exports.  “I would not like to have any unrealistic appreciations or
depreciations,” Mukherjee, 74, said in an interview to
Bloomberg UTV at Birbhum in the eastern Indian state of West
Bengal yesterday. “We should watch the situation but it’s not a
matter of concern. We need not press the panic button.”  The local currency has advanced 5.2 percent in the past
month and become Asia’s best performer, prompting Infosys, the
nation’s second-largest software maker, to say the trend will
“kill the export industry.” Reserve Bank of India Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  said yesterday the central bank will intervene
if inflows are “lumpy and volatile” and disrupt the economy.  Subbarao said on Oct.9 that India’s  current-account deficit 
has boosted the nation’s ability to absorb inflows and therefore
the central bank “did not feel” the need to intervene like
most emerging markets.  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record $13.7
billion in the three months ended June 30 as an accelerating
economy boosted imports of oil and machinery. The International
Monetary Fund on Oct. 6 raised its 2010 economic growth forecast
for India to 9.7 percent from 9.4 percent it estimated in July.  Foreign Flows  The rupee gained as global investors poured a record $23
billion into local shares and $10 billion in rupee debt this
year to profit from India’s  economic expansion .  Exchange rates dominated the annual meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington last week on concern
that officials are relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth,
risking retaliatory devaluations and trade barriers. Central
banks intervene by buying or selling their currencies to
influence exchange rates.  Infosys called on the central bank to intervene and reduce
the volatility of the currency.  “We’ve seen the rupee go from 52 to 39 and back and
forth,” Chief Financial Officer  V. Balakrishnan  said yesterday
in Bangalore, where Infosys is based. “It will kill the whole
export industry. The RBI has no choice but to intervene at some
point in time, like every other country. I’m not the RBI
governor, but if I was, I’d do it now.”  India has allowed its currency to gain even as central
banks from Brazil to Israel and Thailand intervened in foreign-
exchange markets. Japan sold yen last month for the first time
since 2004 and Brazil warned of a global “currency war.”  Intervention Signal  Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  signaled
yesterday the central bank may intervene in the currency markets
to shield exporters.  “It comes down to a balancing act between making sure
there’s enough money to finance your current-account deficit,
but at the same time not do any serious damage to people whose
competitiveness is undermined for no fault of their own,”
Gokarn said at a conference organized by Bloomberg UTV in the
north Indian city of Chandigarh.  Subbarao said yesterday that the Reserve Bank may intervene
if the inflows disrupt the economy.  “That remains our policy but I cannot comment when we will
intervene or when we will not,” Subbarao said after the central
bank’s board meeting in Chandigarh.  Economists including  Jahangir Aziz  of JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said recent concerns about the strengthening currency “appear
to be overblown.”  ‘Little Sensitivity’  “Exports show little sensitivity to changes in the
exchange rate,” Aziz wrote in a note dated Oct. 14. “Changes
in external demand have a much larger impact.”  India’s  merchandise exports  have grown 28.6 percent in the
five months through August, according to commerce ministry data.  Mukherjee said funds are flowing into emerging markets such
as India because of a “slow recovery” in the U.S. and Europe.  “As soon as the recovery in Europe and America begins, I
think the inflow will be a little reduced,” he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  has rallied 15
percent this year to near a record, making it the best performer
among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets.  “Of course, I would not like to have any volatility in the
stock market. Already it is there little bit,” Mukherjee said,
when asked if the government plans to check foreign investments
into the stock market. “At what time the cap is to be put, that
is a matter of assessment.”  He said the central bank, the stock market regulator and
the government are all “watching this” and “as and when the
situation demands, we will intervene.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Ruchika Tulshyan in Mumbai 
 rtulshyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  