-- Rupee's Volatility `Will Kill' India Exporters, Infosys' Balakrishnan Says
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-15T10:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/infosys-says-central-bank-must-intervene-in-currency-to-assist-exporters.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s
second-largest software exporter, said the central bank must
intervene to reduce the volatility of the rupee, Asia’s best
performing currency in the past month, to assist exporters.  “We’ve seen the rupee go from 52 to 39 and back and
forth,” Chief Financial Officer  V. Balakrishnan  said today in
Bangalore, where the company is based. “It will kill the whole
export industry. The RBI has no choice but to intervene at some
point in time, like every other country.”  Central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  said today that the
Reserve Bank of India may intervene if inflows are lumpy and
volatile and disrupt the economy. India is among the latest to
signal it will stem currency gains after central banks from
Brazil to Israel and Thailand intervened in foreign-exchange
markets.  Infosys, which draws the majority of its revenue in dollars
and euros from clients based in the U.S. and Europe, suffers a
40 basis points drop in  operating margin  for every one percent
movement in the rupee against the dollar, the company said.  The local currency has gained 5.3 percent in the past 30
days as global investors have poured a record $23 billion into
local shares and $10 billion in rupee debt this year to profit
from an economy  growing  at an annual pace exceeding 8 percent.  “I think exporters have to get used to the volatile
currency environment,” Balakrishnan said. “At the same time,
the RBI has to step in at some point because this kind of
volatility is unsustainable. I am not the RBI governor, but if I
was, I’d do it now.”  The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 44.08 against the dollar at
3:49 p.m. in Mumbai today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 