-- Infosys Net Beats Estimate; Raises Forecasts on Higher IT Spending
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-15T10:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/infosys-profit-beats-estimates-on-it-spending-special-dividend-is-planned.html
Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s
No. 2 software exporter, posted profit that beat analysts’
estimates and raised its earnings forecasts as the rebounding
global economy boosts demand for information-technology
services.  Net income  rose 13 percent to 17.4 billion rupees ($394
million) in the three months ended in September, Bangalore-based
Infosys said today. That compares with the 17 billion rupee
average of 31 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Infosys
will also pay a special dividend of 30 rupees a share.  Infosys joined  Intel Corp.  among major technology companies
indicating corporate spending is recovering. Chief Executive
Officer  S. Gopalakrishnan , who cut prices in 2009, termed the
economic environment as “challenging” while the appreciation
of the rupee damps repatriated earnings of Indian exporters.  “The results and guidance are very good but the only
concern is that the rupee is getting stronger,” said  D.K. Aggarwal , who manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC
Wealth Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi.  Infosys  fell 3.4 percent to 3,076.30 rupees at the close of
trading in Mumbai, after rising as much as 2 percent to a
record. The benchmark  Sensex Index  declined 1.8 percent.  Raising Guidance  The company said it now expects sales in the year ending in
March to range from $5.95 billion to $6 billion, compared with a
July forecast for as much as $5.81 billion, the statement said.
Earnings per share will be $2.54 to $2.58 per  American
depositary receipts , compared with a previous estimate of as
much as $2.52.  Infosys also raised the sales and EPS guidance in rupee
terms, under IFRS accounting rules.  “Investors were too optimistic about Infosys,” said
 Kishor Ostwal , managing director of CNI Research (India) Ltd.,
an equities research provider in Mumbai. “A big surprise was
needed for it to pull the market.”  The Indian rupee is Asia’s best-performing currency against
the dollar in the past month with a 5.2 percent appreciation.
The stronger rupee hurt the company’s operating margin by 1.5
percent, Chief Financial Officer  V. Balakrishnan  said today.  In the past quarter, Infosys  won orders  including a
contract from  Turklandbank AS  and the Global Group, an Indian
telecommunications infrastructure company.  Sales  rose 24 percent
to 69.5 billion rupees, beating analysts’ estimate for 67.2
billion rupees.  Adding Labor  The software-services provider, which  derived  66 percent of
its revenue from companies in North America and 23 percent from
Europe in the year ended March 31, added 27 clients during the
quarter, according to the statement.  Infosys said spending by companies on IT services has
gained momentum and the company “closed” nine deals in the
first half of the year, including six in the three months ended
Sept. 30, according to Chief Operating Officer  S.D. Shibulal .
Many of them were more than $100 million and a few in excess of
$200 million, he said in Bangalore, where the company is based.  “We’re clearly seeing budgets are still being spent,” he
said. “Last year, even when budgets remained open, spending
stopped. This year, they are still spending.”  Worldwide information technology spending, which includes
computer equipment and software purchases, will grow 7.8 percent
to $1.58 trillion this year after falling 8.9 percent in 2009,
according to July estimates from Forrester Research Inc.  Infosys’s workforce grew by 7,646 employees in the second
quarter, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  