-- Inpex Will Withdraw From Oil Project in Iran After Government Sanctions
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-15T20:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/inpex-to-withdraw-from-azadegan-oil-project-in-iran-as-sanctions-increase.html
Inpex Corp. , Japan’s biggest energy
explorer, is withdrawing from the Azadegan oil project in Iran,
after the Japanese government imposed sanctions last month on
the country over its nuclear program.  Inpex’s affiliate, Azadegan Petroleum Development Ltd.,
reached an agreement with the National Iranian Oil Co. on the
withdrawal, according to a statement from Inpex today. The
company had a 10 percent stake in the project.  Japan said on Sept. 3 it is suspending new oil and gas
investments in Iran and freezing the assets of 88 organizations
and 24 individuals. Iran is under sanctions from the United
Nations and the U.S. for refusing to stop enriching uranium to
possible weapons-grade capability. Iran says its program is for
peaceful purposes.  “If we had kept the stake in the project and became a
target of U.S. sanctions, we may not be able to use U.S.
financial institutions,” spokesman  Kazuhiko Itano  told
reporters in Tokyo. “Our understanding is that we don’t have to
pay a penalty to Iran.”  The U.S. welcomed the decision, said State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley , who added that it “underscores
that there are risks in dealing with Iran.”  INPEX’s actions “are part of a strong and emerging
consensus, not only of governments, but also from the private
sector, that has come together to send a powerful and unified
signal to Iran that it should  meet its international
obligations and begin to engage seriously on its nuclear
program,” Crowley said in an emailed statement.  The European Union has proposed a round of talks with Iran
over the nuclear dispute in Vienna next month. Iranian President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  signaled at the UN in September that he
would be open to discussions on the matter.  Expanded U.S. sanctions on Iran and businesses active there
have prompted  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , France’s Total SA, Italy’s
 Eni SpA  and Norway’s  Statoil ASA  to stop investing in the
country.  Inpex, which won rights to the Iranian oilfield in 2004,
cut its stake from 75 percent in October 2006 partly because of
Iran’s nuclear program. Japan’s trade ministry  owns  about 19
percent of Inpex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net  