-- Iran Says Germans Admit Making Inquiries About Woman Condemned to Stoning
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-10-15T10:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/iran-says-germans-admit-making-inquiries-about-woman-condemned-to-stoning.html
Two Germans accused by Iran of
posing as reporters to illegally gather information on a woman
sentenced to death by stoning have admitted breaking the law,
according to Iran’s state-run Press TV.  “The two Germans have acknowledged their offense saying
that claiming to be journalists was not right,” Prosecutor
General  Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Ejei  said, according to the
 broadcaster . The pair had ties to “hostile elements” outside
Iran and “were pursuing a certain agenda,” Press TV cited him
as saying without providing details on the next step that
authorities will take in their case.  Sakineh Mohammadi-Ashtiani was convicted in 2006 of
adultery and murder. The sentence of stoning has drawn
international outrage. Iran has condemned the media attention
and the “politicization” of her case, saying the woman is also
guilty of taking part in the murder of her husband.  The Germans, portraying themselves as journalists,
contacted Mohammadi-Ashtiani’s relatives and interviewed her
son, Press TV said. They were detained after someone close to
the family alerted authorities to their suspicious behavior,
according to the channel. The son and a lawyer were arrested in
the same raid in the northwestern city of Tabriz on Oct. 10.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has said Germany’s Foreign
Ministry is working to free the two Germans.  Intelligence Minister  Heidar Moslehi  called for the trial
of two other Westerners held in Iran, U.S. citizens Shane Bauer
and Josh Fattal, the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency  said
today. They were charged with illegally entering Iran and
espionage after crossing into Iran from Iraq with a third U.S.
citizen, Sarah Shourd, who was freed Sept. 14. The U.S. says the
three were hikers who mistakenly wandered into Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 