-- Irish Regulator Says Country's Mortgage Arrears Are Set to Increase More
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-15T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/irish-regulator-says-country-s-mortgage-arrears-are-set-to-increase-more.html
Ireland’s mortgage arrears are set
to continue to rise, the country’s head of financial regulation
said, signaling that any debt-forgiveness plan would further
damage the government’s finances as the budget deficit widens.  About 36,400  mortgages , or 4.6 percent of all home loans,
were in arrears for more than 90 days at the end of June,
according to data from the central bank in Dublin. Arrears of
more than 180 days stood at 3.14 percent of loans, it said.  “It’s clear that these numbers will get worse before they
get better, because it will take time before economic recovery
translates into higher levels of employment and therefore better
ability to pay off mortgage debt,”  Matthew Elderfield  said in
an e-mailed version of a speech today. There is “no easy
solution” for borrowers in arrears.  Ireland’s  unemployment rate  has more than doubled in the
last two years as the country struggles to recover from the
recession and the housing slump. As arrears increase, lenders
are working with borrowers to reschedule mortgages to avoid
repossessions, Elderfield said.  In Iceland, which is also grappling with household
indebtedness as a result of the financial crisis, the country’s
pension funds will try to block proposals to forgive as much as
$2 billion in bad loans, Hrafn Magnusson, managing director of
the Icelandic Pension Funds Association, said on Oct 14.  Elderfield said it is “understandable that some wish to go
beyond rescheduling of debt to some sort of debt forgiveness.”  “However, on the other hand, the cost of any support will
need to be borne by the taxpayer or by the banks and therefore,
in many cases, effectively the taxpayer as well,” he said. This
raises “questions of fairness for taxpayers who are not in debt
and, at a time of immense budgetary pressure, affordability for
government finances.”  Still, “some mortgages are simply not sustainable for some
borrowers,” the regulator said. “Being weighed down by such a
debt for more than a decade and bogged down in legal proceedings
makes no sense. I believe that reform of our bankruptcy laws and
procedures is necessary, overdue and now urgent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  