-- Italy Two-Year Bond Futures Offer Peripheral Market Hedge, UniCredit Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-15T16:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/italy-two-year-bond-futures-offer-peripheral-market-hedge-unicredit-says.html
Italian short-dated bond futures may
offer investors better protection against price swings in Irish
and Portuguese debt than contracts tied to longer-maturity
securities or German notes, according to UniCredit SpA.  The contracts, to be based on Italian securities with two
to 3.25 years remaining before maturity, start trading on Oct.
18, Eurex, Europe’s largest derivatives exchange, said last
month. The exchange introduced futures for 10-year Italian bonds
in September last year to help investors hedge their holdings of
government bonds issued by the region’s lower-rated nations.  Short-dated securities from countries such as Ireland,
Portugal and Spain are outperforming their longer-maturity
counterparts amid concern their governments may struggle to meet
their financing requirements, said  Luca Cazzulani , a senior
fixed-income strategist at UniCredit in Milan, the biggest
Italian lender. The yield difference between two-year Irish
notes and 10-year bonds reached 3.19 percentage points on July
19, the most in a year, according to Bloomberg generic data.  “There’s a higher correlation between Italy and Spain, for
example, than Spain and Germany,” said Cazzulani. “Trading
activity at the moment is stronger on the relatively shorter
maturities. That’s a factor suggesting a two- to three-year
futures contracts would present a good trading opportunity.”  Italy, among the most indebted nations in the European
Union based on debt as a percentage of gross domestic product,
first offered a futures contract in September 1991, when its
bonds were denominated in lire. The contract, traded on another
exchange, was discontinued in 1999 after the euro was created.  Schatz Competition  The new Italian contracts, known as short-term euro BTP
futures, will compete with the German Schatz  contracts  traded on
Eurex. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. Investors can use the contracts to protect, or
hedge, their investments against price fluctuations.  Demand for an alternative to German futures increased as
the difference in yield, or spread, between the debt of
peripheral euro-area borrowers and benchmark bunds widened to
records amid the worsening sovereign debt crisis. The bonds of
Italy, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Greece are all rated less
than AAA, the top classification by Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Securities issued by Ireland, Portugal and Greece all have
a negative correlation to German securities and positive
correlation to Italian bonds, according to Cazzulani.  “This means investors using German bond-futures contracts
to hedge against potential losses on Irish or Portuguese debt
won’t be protected at all,” he said.  ‘Liquidity Matters’  The daily trading volume of BTP futures rose to 5,433
contracts as of the end of September from 3,800 contracts last
year. German two-year bond futures have an average trading
volume of 569,000 contracts per day, according to Eurex data.
Higher trading volumes, a sign of a liquid market, allow
investors to buy or sell securities without distorting prices.  “German futures are still what I would call market-
convention tools,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed income
strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Liquidity matters. The
product might be innovative, but I strongly doubt it will fly
very high.”  The BTP futures are liquid relative to the underlying bond
market, according to  Nadja Urban , a Eurex senior product
manager. The notional trading volume of BTP futures was around
200 percent of the volume of the deliverable 10-year Italian
bonds on MTS Italy, a bond trading platform, she said.  “That’s significant,” said Urban in an interview.
“During the crisis, the underlying cash market nearly
collapsed, but our BTP future remained liquid and was tradable
without any problem. Market participants told me that the future
was a reliable price reference throughout that time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 