-- Italy's True Unemployment Rate Exceeds 11 Percent, Bank of Italy Reports
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-15T13:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/italy-s-true-unemployment-rate-exceeds-11-percent-bank-of-italy-reports.html
Italy’s real joblessness, including
workers paid by a state-backed fund for layoffs, exceeded 11
percent in the second quarter as an export-led economic recovery
failed to create jobs, the Bank of Italy said.  While the official  unemployment rate  reached 8.5 percent in
the three months through June, a broader measure of joblessness
calculated by adding those paid by the redundancy fund known as
cassa integrazione, or CIG, was “over 11 percent,” the Rome-
based central bank said today in a quarterly report.  “A firm expansion in exports was not matched by a
strengthening of domestic demand” in the three months through
June, the bank said.  Gross domestic product  “remains 5.6
percent lower than the peak recorded in the first quarter of
2008, a gap more than 2 percentage points higher than the
average for the euro region.”  The $2.3 trillion economy expanded 0.5 percent in the
second quarter as reviving global demand and the euro’s decline
led to  gains  in exports. Euro region  GDP  jumped 1 percent in the
same period. With  consumer spending  remaining weak and a
slowdown in exports, Italy will be the only Group of Seven
nation to contract in the third quarter, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said on Sept. 9.  The central bank said today that Italian  industrial output 
rose 2 percent in the three months through September. The most
recent data suggest that banks’ non-performing loans to
households and companies “could continue to rise
significantly” this year, after increasing in the third
quarter.  On Sept. 29 the Italian government said that the euro
region’s third-biggest economy will expand 1.2 percent in 2010,
up from the 1 percent  predicted  on May 6. It added that Italy
will grow 1.3 percent next year, down from a previous estimate
of 1.5 percent.  In today’s report the central bank did not provide a new
growth projection for 2010 growth in Italy. On July 15 the
institute had forecast an economic expansion of 1 percent for
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  