-- Itochu Makes Japan's First Purchase of a Stake in U.S. Oil Shale Project
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-15T01:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/itochu-makes-japan-s-first-purchase-of-a-stake-in-u-s-oil-shale-project.html
Itochu Corp.  agreed to buy a 25
percent stake in an oil shale project in Wyoming from a unit of
 MDU Resources Group Inc. , MDU said.  Itochu is buying a share of about 88,000 acres (35,600
hectares) of the Niobrara oil shale reserve in southeastern
Wyoming from Fidelity Exploration & Production Co., Bismarck,
North Dakota-based MDU said in a statement on Business Wire.  Terms of the sale weren’t disclosed. Tokyo-based Itochu
said it will release a statement on the purchase at 11 a.m.
Japan time, spokesman Yasuhiro Terashita said.  Itochu will be the first Japanese company to participate in
an oil shale project in the U.S., according to the statement.
Japanese trading companies are boosting investments in new types
of oil and gas assets to help reduce Japan’s reliance on Middle
Eastern supplies.  The Japanese company will invest about $400 million in the
project, Nikkei English News reported, without citing anyone.
Peak output at the 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion) project, which
is slated to begin production as early as next year, may be
about 20,000 barrels a day, Nikkei said.  Mitsubishi Corp. paid C$250 million ($248 million) for a
stake in a Canadian shale-gas project in August. Sumitomo Corp.
agreed to pay $140 million for a share in a Pennsylvania shale
gas reserve the same month, its second investment in this type
of energy project in the U.S.  Oil shale is a sedimentary rock that contains solid
bituminous materials, which are released as petroleum-like
liquids when the rock is heated,  according  to the U.S.
Department of the Interior.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 