-- Liverpool Confirms Soccer Club's Sale to Red Sox as Legal Challenges Fail
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2010-10-15T15:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/liverpool-soccer-owners-end-texas-bid-to-block-sale-buyer-s-lawyer-says.html
The Liverpool soccer club’s owners
ended their Texas court effort to halt the sale of the 18-time
English champion, enabling a judge in Dallas to cancel an order
blocking the deal.  Judge Jim Jordan dissolved the injunction at a hearing
today in state court. The action didn’t end the owners’ effort
to win damages for what they called the illegal sale of the
club, they said today in a statement.  Attorneys Stephen Fox, who represents owners  Tom Hicks  and
 George Gillett , and  George Bramblett , who represents purchaser
New England Sports Ventures LLC, said earlier that the Hicks
group was willing to give up the order, issued two days ago,
blocking the team’s sale.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc earlier this week won an
order from a London court reversing changes to the club’s board,
sought by the men, clearing the way for the sale. The sale was
completed today,  Ian Ayre , the team’s commercial director, said.  Liverpool’s independent directors approved the 300 million
pound ($475 million) sale to the New England group led by  John W. Henry , owner of Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox.  Hicks and Gillett owe 237 million pounds to RBS,
200 million of which would be repaid upon the sale.  The soccer club, a five-time European champion, is off to
its worst start in more than 50 years. The team is in 18th place
in the 20-club league, putting it at risk of relegation -- at
the end of each season, the bottom three teams in the Premier
League standings swap places with three teams in the second
division of English soccer.  Buyout in 2007  Since their 219 million-pound leveraged buyout in 2007,
Hicks and Gillett have clashed with each other and have angered
Liverpool fans because of rising debt and their failure to build
a promised new stadium.  The men previously said New England’s offer is too low and
accused the independent board members of ignoring more
attractive bids.  “The order to dissolve precludes any further gamesmanship
by the other side,” Bramblett, the buyers’ attorney, said to
Jordan. He later told reporters, “We’re very happy.”  RBS yesterday won a U.K. court ruling that would prevent
Hicks and Gillett from proceeding with the Texas lawsuit.
Justice  Christopher Floyd  gave the pair until today to end it.  “Because of the court ruling in England, we no longer can
go forward,” Geoffrey Harper, a lawyer for Hicks and Gillett,
told Jordan. “We’ll get a chance to go to England and argue
that was improper.”  $1.6 Billion  In the Texas lawsuit, Hicks, 64, and Gillett, 71, seek
$1.6 billion in damages from RBS and independent club board
members.  In their statement today, they said they “would apply all
of their legal energies toward securing at least $1.6 billion in
damages they expect will result from the proposed illegal sale.”  Five Liverpool fans were in the courtroom. Among them was
Rob Ashford, 43, who grew up in England and now works as an
accountant in Dallas.  “The club is one of the most storied in England, but the
last three years under these owners have been the worst in its
history,” said Ashford, who wore a scarf bearing the team’s
name. “We want to see an end to it.”  The U.K. case is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Hicks,
HC10C03206, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division. The Texas
case is KOP Investment LLC v. Broughton, DC-1013606, 160th Civil
District Court (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 