-- Red Sox Owners Purchase Liverpool for $481 Million After Legal Cases End
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-15T23:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/liverpool-confirms-soccer-club-s-sale-to-red-sox-as-legal-challenges-fail.html
The owners of the Boston Red Sox
baseball team yesterday agreed to buy Liverpool soccer club for
300 million pounds ($481 million), ending a legal fight for the
18-time English champion.  New England Sports Ventures LLC, controlled by  John W. Henry  and  Tom Werner , was able to take advantage of the forced
sale by Americans  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett . The former
owners were in default for 280 million pounds to  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Wells Fargo & Co ., and tried to block the
“low-ball” purchase in courts in the U.K. and Texas.  The owners dropped a final Texas case yesterday and the
Liverpool board approved the deal hours later. The sale ends a
turbulent three-year tenure at England’s most successful team.
Since their 219 million-pound leveraged buyout in 2007, Hicks
and Gillett have had disputes between themselves and met with
fan opposition over rising debt and their failure to build a
promised new stadium.  “We have a lot of work to do,” Henry said at a press
conference. “We are committed first and foremost to winning.”  Hicks and Gillett had a deadline of yesterday to repay
their loans after having agreed to sell the club as part of a
extension granted in April. The transaction removes all of the
pair’s debt, cutting payments to 2 to 3 million pounds from 25
to 30 million pounds, Henry’s group said.  “I can guarantee this is not a leveraged buyout,” Henry
said. The club will retain a 77 million-pound loan with RBS,
including a 52 million pound facility for work on the proposed
new stadium, the bank said.  Troubled Season  Liverpool, a five-time European champion with a global
fanbase, faced becoming the second team in England’s top league
to go into administration, a form of protection from creditors.
The club has dropped to near the bottom of the standings, and
relegation to the second tier would cost it millions of pounds.
It’s already missing out on as much as 30 million pounds after
failing to reach this season’s Champions League.  “It’s too early to say what we are going to do but we are
here to win,” said Henry, whose Red Sox won two World Series
titles since he bought the team in 2002. “We have a history of
winning. We’ll do whatever it takes.”  The new owner declined to say that he’ll definitely build a
new stadium. New England was advised by New York-based Inner
Circle Sports.  Hicks and Gillett argued that the sale to Henry’s group
wasn’t the best deal available. Singapore billionaire Peter Lim
made a 320 million-pound bid on Oct. 12, trumping his earlier
offer that was matched by the New England group. Lim withdrew
two days later saying the board and RBS refused to meet him.  More Legal Fights  Hicks and Gillett are planning to pursue more legal
challenges and to seek $1.6 billion in damages from RBS after
withdrawing a restraining order blocking the sale today. The
purchase price means the pair will lose about 144 million
pounds, Chairman  Martin Broughton  said last week.  “This outcome not only devalues the club but it also will
result in long-term uncertainty for the fans, players and
everyone who loves this sport because all legal recourses will
be pursued,”  Steve Stodghill , the Texas attorney representing
the Liverpool owners said.  Supporters were unhappy at the debt the owners loaded on to
the club, and the lack of progress on a new stadium after
financing problems delayed construction. Thousands marched in
protest before recent home games. Liverpool is 18th in the 20-
team division and would be among the three teams relegated to
the second tier if the season ended now.  “The last three years have definitely been the worst in
the history of the football club. They’re history, now we can
move on,” said supporter Adam Blakeman, a 27-year-old fan who
traveled about 200 miles (320 kilometers) from Liverpool to hear
an Oct. 13 court verdict.  Board Infighting  RBS got an interim injunction on Oct. 8 to prevent Hicks
and Gillett from removing managing director  Christian Purslow 
and commercial director  Ian Ayre  and replacing them on the board
with Hicks’s son Mack and Lori Kay McCutcheon, who is a vice
president at Hicks Holdings LLC.  The two sides faced off in court in London and Dallas, with
Hicks and Gillett able to block completion of the transaction
for a week before the High Court in London ruled the Texas suit
could not go forward.  Hicks and Gillett dropped the case yesterday and tried to
repay the loan with the assistance of U.S. hedge fund Mill
Financial, a lender that Gillett defaulted with on Aug. 22.
Talks between Mill Finance and RBS didn’t influence the deal
with the Boston group.  Third-Time Lucky  The sales contract - the third signed by Henry in the week
- was ready just after lunch in London, but couldn’t be
completed until Wells Fargo opened in California four hours
later. Henry spent the time pacing the blue carpeted halls of
Slaughter & May, Liverpool’s attorneys in the U.K.  Tycoons from around the world had been linked with the
team, including Lim, India’s Sahara Group and a consortium led
by Canadian-based Syrian Yahya Kirdi. Lim was told he was the
preferred bidder Oct. 5 before New England raised its bid.  Several investors approached RBS to buy the debt as the
repayment deadline approached. The government-controlled bank
declined to sell after receiving thousands of e-mails from
supporters urging it not to refinance Hicks and Gillett. The
Premier League will formally ratify the takeover next week.  RBS said it is “confident this will provide the foundation
for the Club and its fans to enjoy renewed success on and off
the pitch.”  The saga may not be over. Hicks and Gillett said the order
forcing them to lift the restraining order is too broad and
unfair.  “We believe that once the English court finally has a
chance to hear all the facts, a very different picture will be
painted,” the pair’s attorney,  Tom Melsheimer  of Fish &
Richardson, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  