-- Jaguar Land Rover to Keep All U.K. Plants on Union Deal, Sales
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-15T11:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/jaguar-land-rover-agrees-to-keep-u-k-plants-after-pay-deal-with-unions.html
Jaguar Land Rover, the luxury-car
unit of India’s  Tata Motors Ltd. , will retain two plants in
England’s West Midlands after it reached a deal with unions
and auto demand rebounded.  The carmaker will keep a Jaguar plant at Castle Bromwich
and a Land Rover factory in nearby Solihull as well as its
Halewood facility near Liverpool in northwest England, the
Mumbai-based company said today in a statement. Tata had
reviewed consolidating the two West Midlands operations.  Jaguar Land Rover will create “thousands” of new jobs in
the U.K. over the next decade, the company said.  Jack Dromey ,
member of Parliament for Birmingham Erdington, told reporters at
the Castle Bromwich plant that Tata will invest 5 billion pounds
($8 billion) in the factories over the next 10 years.  “This is a triumph for all concerned,”  Ralf Speth , chief
executive officer of Jaguar Land Rover, said in the statement.
“We have ambitious plans for growth.”  Production at Jaguar Land Rover plants has rebounded after
slumping during the global recession. Tata said today that sales
at the unit rose by 16 percent in September to 19,528 vehicles
and have increased by 40 percent to 112,287 since the start of
its fiscal year in April.  The carmaker said it has begun hiring 1,500 additional
employees at the Halewood plant to help with production of the
new Range Rover Evoque, a sport utility-coupe crossover vehicle.
The model, introduced at the Paris Motor Show in September, will
go on sale in the summer of next year.  Under the terms of the agreement reached between Jaguar and
unions, workers will receive a 5 percent pay raise in November
and an increase of at least 3 percent next year. New employees
in manufacturing will start on lower rates and get smaller shift
premiums, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  