-- Jamie Oliver Wins Award Before Opening London City Restaurant
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-10-15T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/jamie-oliver-wins-food-personality-award-before-opening-london-city-eatery.html
Jamie Oliver  won the food
personality prize last night in the Observer Food Monthly
awards, a repeat of last year’s triumph for the TV chef who
campaigns for better nutrition, particularly in school meals.  Oliver is scheduled to open  Barbecoa , a meat restaurant, in
the City financial district on Nov. 3. The venue, in the  One New
Change  development, is a joint project with the American chef
Adam Perry Lang. It will feature an in-house butchery. Oliver
didn’t attend last night because he was in Yorkshire filming.  The Kitchin, chef Tom Kitchin’s Edinburgh eatery, was named
best restaurant; Hawksmoor, in east London, took the Sunday
lunch accolade; and  Thali Cafe , Bristol, was top for cheap eats.
Stevie Parle of Dock Kitchen was named young chef of the year.
The best place to drink award went to 69 Colebrooke Row.  The awards, held this year at the  Freemasons’ Hall , are
among the main events on the calendar for chefs as well as food
writers and producers. Some winners are picked by readers,
others by a panel that includes writers Tom Parker Bowles and
Jay Rayner and chefs  Mark Hix  and  Thomasina Miers .  Sheila Dillon of “ The Food Programme ,” on Radio 4, won
for outstanding achievement. The writer and broadcaster  Prue
Leith  took the lifetime achievement award. Best newcomer was
 Sipsmith  London distillery.  Riverford Field Kitchen , in
Buckfastleigh, Devon, was best ethical restaurant.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 