-- Japan's Bonds Post First Weekly Drop in a Month as Machine Orders Increase
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-15T21:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/japan-s-bonds-post-first-weekly-drop-in-a-month-as-machine-orders-increase.html
Japanese  bonds  completed their first
weekly decline in a month after an unexpected increase in
machinery orders kept investors away from benchmark debt with
yields near the lowest level in seven years.  The yield  advantage  of 10-year Treasuries over Japanese
bonds of the same maturity was near the highest in a month after
minutes released this week of the Federal Reserve’s Sept. 21
meeting said the U.S. recovery will accelerate next year.
Japan’s 30-year  yields  have gained 13 basis points since Oct. 5,
when the Bank of Japan cut its key interest rate and announced
the creation of a fund to buy government debt and other assets.  “Investors can’t keep buying JGBs at current yield levels
to secure profits, and negative external factors don’t help
either,” said  Shinji Hiramatsu , senior investment manager in
Tokyo at Sompo Japan Asset Management Ltd., which oversees the
equivalent of about $17 billion in securities. “Expectations
for monetary easing would typically boost inflation prospects
and push up long-term yields.”  The  yield  on the 0.8 percent security due September 2020
added two basis points to 0.875 percent in Tokyo this week at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. Ten-year yields declined to 0.82 percent on Oct. 6, the
lowest since July 2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery slid 0.11 to
143.84 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Japan’s machinery orders, an indicator of business
investment in three to six months, rose 10.1 percent in August
from the previous month, an Oct. 13 report showed. Economists in
a Bloomberg News survey estimated a 3.9 percent drop.  Yen Support  Losses in Japan’s bonds were limited after the yen on Oct.
14 strengthened beyond 81 per dollar for the first time since
April 1995 and the Bank of Japan yesterday cut its economic
assessment in three of the country’s nine regions, its first
downgrade since April 2009. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  yesterday said it’s still
necessary to “pay attention to the economy’s downside risks.”
The central bank “stands ready to take appropriate policy
action, while carefully examining the outlook for the economy
and prices,” he said.  “There are few who think the central bank will avoid
expanding easing measures,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt
strategist in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “We can’t
say 10-year yields have already bottomed out.”  The Fed said on Sept. 21 that it’s prepared to provide
“additional accommodation” if needed. Policy makers “judged
the economic recovery to be continuing and generally expected
growth to pick up gradually next year” in the U.S., central
bank minutes of last month’s meeting said on Oct. 12.  An Oct. 14 auction of 600 billion yen in 30-year Japanese
government debt drew bids valued at 5.4 times the amount on
offer, the highest ratio since May 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  