-- Jon Stewart Leading Rival Glenn Beck in Likability, Bloomberg Poll Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-15T11:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/jon-stewart-leading-rival-glenn-beck-in-likability-bloomberg-poll-shows.html
In the right corner,  Glenn Beck , the
emcee of a “Restoring Honor” rally in September that he claims
attracted 500,000 Tea Party supporters to Washington. In the
left,  Jon Stewart , the faux anchorman who plans to host a
“Rally to Restore Sanity” in the capital this month.  As they take their on-air rivalry to the streets, Stewart
has the edge in appeal among Americans, according to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10.  Stewart, the host of Comedy Central’s “Daily Show,” gets
a favorable rating from 37 percent of the poll respondents.
Beck, the Fox News host, is viewed favorably by 28 percent.  Their fans, the poll indicates, represent distinct groups.
Admirers of one host mostly think little of the other one.  Among Americans who like Beck, 37 percent take a dim view
of Stewart, compared with 29 percent who see him favorably.  Stewart’s enthusiasts have even a stronger reaction to
Beck: 59 percent view him unfavorably, compared with 23 percent
who have a positive opinion.  Beck’s favorable rating rises with the age of respondents,
hitting 31 percent among people 55 and older. Beck does best
among self-described Tea Party supporters: about two out of
three view Beck favorably.  Stewart is popular with Democrats and people who are 35
years old or younger. Among Democrats and independents, Stewart
is viewed favorably by 43 percent of respondents; just 20
percent of Republicans had that opinion.  The poll by Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co.  surveyed
1,000 Americans and has an error margin of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points.  Tea Party  Beck’s Aug. 28 rally in front of the Lincoln Memorial in
Washington was closely aligned with the Tea Party and featured
former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin  as a speaker.  Backers of the anti-big-government movement have mixed
views of Stewart, whose counter-Beck rally is scheduled for Oct.
30.  Thirty-four percent of Tea Party supporters say they have
an unfavorable view of Stewart, versus 24 percent who view him
favorably.  In the battle for television ratings, Beck wins, averaging
2.4 million viewers for his afternoon program so far this year,
according to Nielsen Co. Stewart’s evening show averages 1.9
million viewers.  The bad news for both television personalities is that many
Americans say they don’t know who they are: 35 percent aren’t
familiar with Beck, and 42 percent for Stewart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  