-- Junk Bonds Trouncing U.S. Returns in Record Year for Sales: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/junk-bonds-trouncing-u-s-returns-in-record-year-for-sales-canada-credit.html
Companies sold a record amount of
high-yield bonds in Canada this year, taking advantage of
investor demand for alternatives to low-yielding government
bonds amid the economic recovery.  Air Canada  and Armtec Holdings Ltd. are among eight
companies that sold C$2.23 billion ($2.22 billion) of non-
investment grade bonds in Canadian dollars this year, topping
the previous annual high of C$1.8 billion in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield issuance almost tripled
from C$800 million last year.  “It’s a sign of an increased role of the capital markets
for these companies to raise money rather than go to the banks
or to the U.S. market,” Frederick Marki, a portfolio manager
who oversees C$1.5 billion in Canadian fixed-income assets at
Western Asset Management Co., said in an interview. “I suspect
it’s a fundamental change and it will last.”  Canadian high-yield corporate debt, reflecting a global
search for yield, has returned almost 20 percent this year,
after a 32 percent rise in 2009, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. That compares with a 14 percent total return
for comparable debt in the U.S.  “We see quite a demand as a reach for yield with low
yields everywhere,” Marki, who is based in Pasadena,
California, said yesterday at the Bloomberg office in Toronto.
“Given the turn in the business cycle, which we consider very
real and very sustainable, we expect high yield to be very
attractive with high returns.”  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Electric Power  The extra yield investors demand to hold Canadian non-
investment grade bonds instead of comparable government of
Canada debt was 545 basis points on Oct. 13, down from 697 basis
points at the end of 2009. Investors in U.S. high-yield debt
have helped push the average yield to 7.7 percent from 9.2
percent in July, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index.  Canada’s dollar advanced to more than its U.S. counterpart
yesterday for the first time since April on speculation the
economy will continue to benefit from rising prices for oil,
fertilizer, uranium and other commodities.  Moody’s and S&P have upgraded the credit ratings of more
sellers of Canadian high-yield debt this year than they have
downgraded, according to Bloomberg data. Moody’s raised the
ratings of 22 companies and cut six; S&P has lifted ratings on
25 and downgraded 12.  Hydro-Quebec  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Hydro-Quebec , Canada’s biggest
electric utility, sold an additional C$500 million of 5 percent
bonds maturing in 2050, raising the amount outstanding to C$3.5
billion. The bonds were sold to yield 84 basis points more than
comparable Canadian government debt.  Atlantic Power Corp., a Boston-based electricity producer,
sold C$70 million of 5.6 percent bonds due in June 2017.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canada’s companies tightened to 142 basis points yesterday from
145 the day before. The spread has been as wide this year as 154
basis points in June and as tight as 114 basis points in March.  Corporate yields fell to 3.6 percent, from as high as 4.3
percent in June, the lowest since at least 1992. The securities
have returned 7.8 percent this year, compared with 12 percent in
the U.S. and 9.6 percent globally.  In the provincial bond market, relative yields ended
yesterday at 55 basis points, compared with 71 basis points in
May, the Merrill Lynch data show. Bonds in the index returned 8
percent this year, compared with 3.7 percent last year and on
pace for their best performance in a decade.  Canadian Bonds  Canadian government bonds have returned 7.3 percent this
year, after reinvested interest, according to another Merrill
Lynch index. U.S. Treasuries are up 9 percent, compared with a
6.4 percent gain for government bonds globally.  Bonds due in 10 years issued by Canada yield about 25 basis
points more than Treasuries. As recently as April, Treasuries
 yielded  as much as 39 basis points more than Canada bonds.  Increased demand for high-yield debt means fewer Canadian
companies may sell bonds in U.S. dollars, a sign of the
increasing maturity of financial markets beyond the U.S., said
Geof Marshall, who manages C$250 million of Canadian dollar
high-yield debt at Signature Global Advisors, a unit of Toronto-
based CI Investments Inc.  “The Canadian-dollar market still has to prove itself to
be a viable and deep source of funding,” Marshall said in a
telephone interview.  Robert Follis, Bank of Nova Scotia’s Toronto-based head of
corporate bond research, predicts sales of Canadian-dollar-
denominated high-yield debt of as much as C$5 billion next year
from a projected C$3.25 billion this year.  ‘Funding Alternative’  “Growth in the high-yield market is providing a new
funding alternative for many companies that would like Canadian-
dollar debt on their balance sheet, but are running into limit
restrictions with the banks,” Follis wrote in an e-mail.  Companies may sell an additional C$750 million of high-
yield debt before the end of this year, said Follis.  “The performance of existing issues in the Canadian dollar
market has been solid, setting a good tone for new issuers, and
in some cases, for repeat issuance by existing issuers,” he
said.  Air Canada in July issued $600 million of five-year notes
that yield 9.5 percent and C$300 million of debt of the same
maturity yielding 10.375 percent, Bloomberg data show. The
airline also sold $200 million of 5.5-year debt that pays 13
percent, the data show.  Armtec Holdings, a unit of Guelph, Ontario-based Armtec
Infrastructure Income Fund, last month sold C$150 million of
8.875 percent bonds due in September 2017. The debt was priced
to yield 635.4 basis points more than government benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  