-- Kazakh Potash `Wild Card' Seeks $100 Million IPO as Demand, Prices Advance
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-10-15T15:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/kazakh-potash-wild-card-seeking-100-million-ipo-in-hong-kong-or-london.html
Satimola Ltd. , a closely held Kazakh
potash exploration company backed by Citadel LLC, is studying a
$100 million initial public offering in London next year to take
advantage of rising demand and prices for the crop nutrient.  The company is talking with banks on the IPO and seeking to
appoint advisers within six weeks, before a possible listing in
the second quarter of 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Jaime Troncoso  said by telephone from Almaty, Kazakhstan. It may also
consider Hong Kong for the IPO, he said, adding that the size of
the stake to be offered is yet to be decided.  A recovery in potash prices, after they tumbled more than
50 percent during the global economic crisis, and potential
takeovers such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid
for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. are fueling interest in
the industry. Satimola has held talks with possible strategic
investors in China, the biggest potash consumer, Troncoso said.  “We’re like the wild card in the middle,” he said, citing
potential interest from buyers in China and India, as well as
suppliers in Russia and North America, given Satimola’s targeted
6 million-metric-ton-a-year production rate. Satimola, not yet
producing any potash, has a deposit in western Kazakhstan, about
3,000 kilometers (1,860 miles) from the Chinese border.  “We have been talking to some of the Chinese organizations
and the reason is they need potash in the future and they are
going to need more, and our deposit is strategically located
with China,” he said, declining to name the parties involved.  Strain on Crops  China, with 22 percent of the world’s population, was the
largest potash importer in 2008. With the global population
adding 75 million people a year, food demand will strain crop
yields, increasing the need for fertilizer.  Whether a buyer from China emerges or not, the company will
seek to sell its output to the nation, as well as to India,
Troncoso said. The potash market will be in deficit by the time
Satimola starts producing in 2013, he said.  Potash prices have been bolstered by a 52 percent rally in
wheat and a 38 percent advance in corn, according to consultant
Fertecon Ltd. Last month Belarusian Potash Co., which controls
29 percent of global trade in the crop nutrient, said it plans
to raise its Asian and Brazilian prices by 8 percent to between
$405 and $420 a ton, including freight.  The three founding shareholders of Satimola, including
Chairman  Gordon Toll , hold about 30 percent of the company.
Other holders include San Francisco-based hedge fund Passport
Capital LLC, with a 25 percent stake, and Citadel, the $11.1
billion firm founded by  Ken Griffin , with 13 percent.  Production Capacity  The initial development cost of Satimola’s mine is
estimated at $600 million and the company may study equity and
debt financing to help fund construction, Troncoso said.  Drilling of the deposit so far has discovered a resource of
more than 8.5 billion tons of potash, at a 10 percent potash
cut-off grade, and the mine may operate for more than 50 years,
he said. The deposit can be expanded from initial annual output
of 700,000 tons to capacity of 6 million tons a year within a
decade at an estimated cost of $3 billion, he said.  World potash demand will exceed 50 million tons this year
and rise to 55 million to 60 million tons in 2011, according to
 Oleg Petrov , Belarusian Potash’s sales chief. Trade slid to
about 30 million tons in 2009, with producers slashing output
and prices falling.  Reserves and production of potash, used to describe several
compounds containing potassium, are concentrated in 12
countries, according to Salman Partners. Potassium aids stalk
strength in plants and boosts yields.  The Satimola project is smaller than the 8 million-ton
Jansen mine that BHP is building in Saskatchewan, Canada. Potash
Corp., the biggest maker of the fertilizer by capacity, can
produce 12 million tons a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  