-- Kontogiannis, Jailed Over Cunningham Bribes, Pleads Guilty in Bank Fraud
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-15T18:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/kontogiannis-jailed-over-cunningham-bribes-pleads-guilty-in-bank-fraud.html
Thomas Kontogiannis, serving prison
time for his role in laundering bribe money for former U.S.
Representative  Randy “Duke” Cunningham , pleaded guilty in a
$92 million real-estate scheme.  Kontogiannis, 61, pleaded today in federal court in
Brooklyn, New York. He led a scheme to defraud Washington Mutual
Inc. and  Credit Suisse Group AG ’s DLJ Mortgage Capital in
connection with the development of properties in Brooklyn and
Queens, New York, said prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney  Loretta Lynch .  “I used the funds generated by the fraudulent transactions
primarily to finance the construction of ongoing real-estate
development projects,” Kontogiannis told U.S. District Judge
 Kiyo A. Matsumoto . “While I never intended to cause any
financial loss to any financial institution, I knew that the
means I was using to obtain these loans was wrong.”  Nine people were indicted in the case last year, accused of
obtaining multiple mortgages and staging repeated sales of the
same properties to straw buyers to obtain the home loans. The
fraud began in March 2003 and ran until September 2007,
prosecutors said. Three defendants pleaded guilty earlier this
year and one has died.  Kontogiannis, who admitted to conspiracy to commit bank and
wire fraud, previously pleaded not guilty in the case in June
2009. The conspiracy count carries a maximum sentence of 30
years in prison, Matsumoto said in court.  ‘Expressed Remorse’  “Mr. Kontogiannis acknowledged his participation in
fraudulent mortgage activities today,” his lawyer, Gregory
O’Connell of De Feis O’Connell & Rose PC in New York, said after
the hearing. “He expressed his remorse and hopes to put this
matter behind both him and his family.”  Kontogiannis is serving a sentence of eight years and one
month for helping to launder Cunningham’s bribe money through
fraudulent mortgages that allowed the former congressman to buy
a $2.4 million mansion in Rancho Santa Fe, California.
Kontogiannis was sentenced in San Diego in May 2008.  Cunningham, a California Republican, resigned from Congress
after pleading guilty in 2005 to taking $2.4 million in bribes
from defense contractors. He is serving a sentence of eight
years and four months.  The defendants in the Brooklyn case also allegedly obtained
permits to construct multi-unit housing in Queens and Brooklyn
and, to finance the projects, subdivided the land tracts and
staged sales of the properties financed by the mortgage loans,
the U.S. said.  False Filings  They are accused of preparing false loan filings to create
the appearance the properties were being purchased by credit-
worthy individuals.  One defendant provided fraudulent appraisals to support the
price of the properties, even when no buildings existed or had
fictional addresses, prosecutors said.  Kontogiannis “controlled every aspect of the mortgage-
lending process,” Lynch said in a statement today.  Loans were financed by lenders controlled by Kontogiannis
and later sold to Washington Mutual and DLJ, prosecutors said.
The defendants stopped making the mortgage payments in 2007 with
about $92 million in principal outstanding on the fraudulent
mortgages, the government said.  The case is U.S. v. Kontogiannis, 09-cr-360, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 