-- Kremlin Denies Medvedev Named Sobyanin Moscow Mayor
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   L u c i a n   K i m   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-15T08:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/kremlin-denies-medvedev-named-putin-aide-sergei-sobyanin-as-moscow-mayor.html
A Russian state broadcaster’s
“technical error” in reporting that President  Dmitry Medvedev 
had picked  Sergei Sobyanin  to become Moscow mayor shows that the
Kremlin remains divided on the nomination, analysts said.  State broadcaster Rossiya 24 reported on its website before
7 a.m. this morning that Medvedev had chosen Sobyanin, 52, for
the post. The Kremlin said less than two hours later that the
station had made a “technical mistake” in reporting the news
and that the president hadn’t chosen from among four candidates
proposed by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party.  “This stopped being funny a long time ago,” said Dmitry
Oreshkin, an independent political analyst in Moscow. “This
sort of ‘error’ rarely happens. This is all about PR. There’s
still no agreement at the very top or there would have been an
announcement a long time ago.”  Rossiya 24 said an employee had “mistakenly” posted the
report about the nomination of Sobyanin, Putin’s chief of staff,
on the station’s website today, and the report was subsequently
cited by its radio station Vesti FM, the  Itar-Tass  news service
reported, citing an unidentified Rossiya 24 official.  Repeated calls to Rossiya 24 for comment went unanswered
today.  “All this intrigue shows that the choice isn’t simple,”
Mikhail Remizov, president of the Moscow-based Institute for
National Strategy, said by telephone.  ‘Right-Hand Man’  Sobyanin was governor of his native Tyumen region in
Siberia for four years before Putin, then president, brought him
to Moscow as the Kremlin chief of staff in 2005. When Putin
became prime minister in 2008, he took Sobyanin with him into
the government.  “Sobyanin is Putin’s right-hand man,” Remizov said. “If
Medvedev doesn’t nominate Sobyanin now it will reveal another
crack” in his relationship with Putin.  Remizov said Sobyanin is acceptable to both Putin and
Medvedev, as well as to “the financial and industrial groups
that matter to both men.” He is considered an “effective
leader and manager,” Remizov said.  United Russia on Oct. 9 proposed three candidates in
addition to Sobyanin: Transport Minister  Igor Levitin , Nizhny
Novgorod Governor  Valery Shantsev  and Moscow First Deputy Mayor
Lyudmila Shvetsova. Medvedev has 10 days to make his decision.  Billionaire Wife  Medvedev cited a “loss of confidence” in Luzhkov as the
reason for removing him after 18 years in office. The move came
after weeks of media reports that accused the former mayor of
corruption and favoritism toward his wife, billionaire  Yelena Baturina , head of the development company ZAO Inteco. The couple
have denied the allegations.  Luzhkov said Medvedev had fired him because he couldn’t be
sure of the mayor’s support in a possible power struggle with
Putin before the 2012 presidential election, when Putin will be
eligible to seek a third term in the Kremlin.  The Moscow mayor controls a budget of more than 1 trillion
rubles ($33.2 billion). Moscow accounted for 23.8 percent of
Russia’s gross domestic product in 2008, the last year for which
data are available, according to the Federal State Statistics
Service.  Moscow’s  city council  must approve Medvedev’s nomination.
Putin’s United Russia party, which submitted the short-list of
mayoral candidates from which Medvedev made his selection, holds
32 of the chamber’s 35 seats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.ne  