-- Najib Plans Tallest Tower, Rail Works to Boost Malaysian Growth in Budget
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m ,   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-10-15T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/najib-to-boost-infrastructure-spending-in-pivotal-malaysian-2011-budget.html
Malaysia will build a 100-floor
tower and a mass rail project as Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
boosts spending in a budget that he says is “pivotal” to
spurring growth and helping the nation achieve developed status.  Najib, also finance minister, presented a 2011 budget plan
yesterday for government spending of 212 billion ringgit ($69
billion), 2.8 percent larger than this year’s outlay.  Gross
domestic product  may expand 5 percent to 6 percent next year
after growing a faster-than-forecast 7 percent in 2010,
according to the  Ministry of Finance ’s 2010/2011 economic report.  The leader, 57, aims to rejuvenate an economy where growth
fell to an average 4.7 percent a year in the past decade from
7.2 percent in the 1990s, when then-Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad  wooed overseas manufacturers, developed highways and
built the world’s tallest twin towers. The government is
counting on private investment to support its plans as it tries
to cut one of the region’s biggest budget shortfall ratios.  “Fiscal consolidation is taking a backseat to growth and
political considerations,” said  Kit Wei Zheng , a Singapore-
based economist at Citigroup Inc. “Anything that is potentially
unpopular has been effectively shelved. It raises valid
questions if the government has the political will to push
though the painful but necessary reforms.”  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.4
percent yesterday. It has risen 17 percent this year, while the
ringgit is the second-best performer in Asia excluding Japan
with an 11 percent gain. The currency ended the day little
changed at 3.0855 a dollar.  Deficit Narrows  The  budget deficit  is forecast to narrow to 5.4 percent of
GDP in 2011 from 5.6 percent this year, the report showed. The
country aims to achieve 6 percent economic growth next year,
Najib said in his budget speech at parliament in Kuala Lumpur.  “The growth targets are reasonable and realistic” while
the deficit target is “moving in the right direction,” said
 Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million as chief
investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd. “At the end
of the day, it is the implementation and execution which is key,
especially the infrastructure projects.”  Malaysia plans to build six highways around Kuala Lumpur
and construct a 300-megawatt gas-fired power plant in the state
of Sabah, Najib said. The country will start on a mass rail
project in the capital in “early” 2011, which is expected to
attract 40 billion ringgit in private-sector investment, he said.  Tallest Building  A 100-floor, 5 billion-ringgit tower called Warisan Merdeka
will be completed in 2015. The building, to be developed by
Malaysia’s biggest state asset manager  Permodalan Nasional Bhd .
in Kuala Lumpur, will be the tallest in the country, Najib said.
The 88-floor  Petronas Twin Towers  are currently the nation’s
tallest buildings.  The state-controlled Employees Provident Fund, Malaysia’s
biggest pension fund, will undertake the development of a 10
billion-ringgit housing and commercial project. The nation plans
to start a 3 billion-ringgit regasification project in Melaka
state in 2012, and develop an oil services and equipment center
in the southern state of Johor, he said.  The planned public and private partnership projects will
lure 12.5 billion ringgit in private funding, Najib said.  Malaysia has eased barriers to foreign investment since
early last year, when the global recession hurt exports of
 Unisem (M) Bhd . semiconductors and IOI Corp. palm oil. That
didn’t prevent foreign direct investment from tumbling 81
percent to $1.4 billion in 2009 from $7.3 billion the previous
year, according to the United Nation’s  World Investment Report .  Investment Falls  Private investment has declined from an average 25 percent
of GDP in the 1990s to 10 percent over the last decade,
according to yesterday’s report. The government said last month
it has identified private sector-led projects worth $444 billion
that can spur investment and push the nation towards developed-
nation status by 2020.  Najib has said he wants to triple gross national income to
1.7 trillion ringgit in 2020 from 600 billion ringgit in 2009
and create 3.3 million jobs. To reach that target, Najib
estimates that the country needs 2.2 trillion ringgit of funds,
with 92 percent coming from private investment.  “The previous growth model, which had successfully
progressed the nation from a commodity-based to an industrial
economy, is unable to uplift the nation to a fully developed
economy,” Najib said in the report. “The 2011 budget is,
therefore, pivotal towards the expeditious implementation of
initiatives under the new growth model.”  Revenue Rising  Total government expenditure in 2010 may reach 206.2
billion ringgit, according to the ministry. State revenue may
rise 2.3 percent in 2011 to 165.8 billion ringgit amid higher
contributions from corporate and personal taxes and income from
petroleum, the report showed.  The government will seek to diversify its sources of
revenue, of which about 40 percent comes from petroleum revenue,
the finance ministry said.  Still, the government said this week it will further
postpone the implementation of a goods and services levy
intended to broaden the tax base. Najib, who hasn’t set a new
target date for the sales tax, said yesterday Malaysia plans to
raise the service tax to 6 percent from 5 percent, and widen the
tax to cover pay-television services.  Najib has tried to cut operational expenses, including
trimming subsidies for sugar, gasoline, diesel and liquefied
petroleum gas in July to save more than 750 million ringgit in
government expenditure.  Subsidy Cuts  Subsidies paid by the government to keep prices of fuel and
other essential goods and services low will fall 4.9 percent to
23.7 billion ringgit in 2011, the ministry said. “Subsidies for
selected items will be further rationalized to remain
purposeful,” it said in the report, without providing details.  Inflation  is expected to be “moderate” and stay below 3
percent in 2011 after probably remaining in a “benign” range
of between 2 percent and 2.5 percent this year, the ministry
said. Malaysia’s  monetary policy  is accommodative and such a
stance will be maintained to support the economy, according to
the report.  The government said it plans to adopt a minimum wage policy
and will continue to attract foreign talent to work in the
country. Still, Najib said Malaysia plans to increase the levy
it charges for foreign workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  