-- Naked Jerry Hall Painting, Warhol Boost $21.3 Million Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-15T23:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/naked-jerry-hall-painting-warhol-shoes-boost-21-3-million-sotheby-s-sale.html
A painting of a naked, pregnant
 Jerry Hall  and an  Andy Warhol  silkscreen of shoes last night
boosted a London contemporary-art auction to a total of 13.3
million pounds ($21.3 million).  Lucian Freud ’s 6-inch portrait of Hall, “Eight Months
Gone,” was one of the works sold by its U.S. model subject for
2.3 million pounds. The 8-feet (2.4 meters) Warhol made 1.6
million pounds, the most expensive item in the  Sotheby’s  annual
Frieze Week contemporary auction.  Sotheby’s sold 90 percent of its 39 lots, beating a low
estimate of 9.9 million pounds. Dealers said the event offered
encouragement to a contemporary market that is still in recovery
mode after prices halved for some artists during the financial
crisis.  “The sale was solid,”  Paul Shoenewald , a Dusseldorf-based
dealer, said. “The estimates are still a little bit high,
making it difficult for dealers to buy. The real test will be in
November in New York, where the quality will be better.”  Warhol’s vibrantly colored “Diamond Dust Shoes” from 1980
had never been offered at auction before. It sold in the room to
the London-based dealer  Alan Hobart  of the  Pyms Gallery , bidding
for a client. Its minimum estimate was 1.3 million pounds.  “It’s rare to see a Warhol of this scale come up for
auction and it was fresh to the market,” Hobart said. “Buyers
are still selective, even though the bidding has never been more
international.”  Hall’s 1965  Frank Auerbach  canvas, “Head of Helen Gillespie
IV,” which sold to a telephone bidder for 1.1 million pounds,
was another of three contemporary works to sell for more than 1
million pounds. It carried a low estimate of 700,000 pounds.  Jagger’s Son  The 1997 Freud oil-on-canvas -- depicting Hall shortly
before she gave birth to her fourth child with  Mick Jagger ,
Gabriel -- sold to another telephone buyer for 601,250 pounds
against an estimate of 300,000 pounds to 400,000 pounds.  Andreas Gursky ’s 2007 photograph, “Pyongyang IV,” showing
a massed dancing display in North Korea, was one of the few
works to sell for significantly more than estimate. It sold to a
telephone buyer for 1.3 million pounds against expectations of
500,000 pounds to 700,000 pounds.  Last October, when the crisis discouraged owners from
entering high-value works, Sotheby’s held a combined Part I and
II contemporary sale during the day. It raised 12.8 million
pounds from 217 lots with 73 percent sold. The accompanying 20th-
century Italian selection took 7.4 million pounds. This year’s
evening Italian auction fetched 17.2 million pounds from 35
lots, a record for  Sotheby’s : 89 percent of the material was
successful.  Though few Italian lots sold for hammer prices
significantly above forecasts, the total with fees was more than
5 million pounds above the low estimate, based on hammer prices.  Fontana’s Canvases  Lucio Fontana  again lived up to his reputation as being the
most bankable of 20th-century Italian artists. Two “Concetto
Spaziale” canvases sold for the top price of 2.3 million each.
Both had been estimated to fetch about 2 million pounds.  Feedback from dealer booths at the  Frieze Art Fair  is
currently sending out more mixed messages about the “primary
market” for contemporary art.  “Sales are up by about 10 percent on last year,” David
Maupin, director at the New York-based gallery  Lehmann Maupin ,
said. “Collectors are still focused on quality and value, and I
haven’t seen many new buyers. The established collecting group
has just got a bit more confidence.”  Two out of the edition of three new  Tracey Emin  neon wall
pieces sold at 55,000 pounds. A hanging mixed-media piece by the
Korean sculptor  Lee Bul , priced at $200,000, was also among the
sales on Lehmann Maupin’s booth.  McCarthy’s Hammer  “Business at  Art Basel  was good and it’s been a steady
continuation from there,” said Anna Helwing, associate director
at the London- and Zurich-based gallery  Hauser & Wirth , which
sold an example of the 2009  Paul McCarthy  bronze, “Hammer
Head,” to a European collector on the first day of the fair for
$750,000. Two other examples from the edition remain available.  A different mood emerged from some of the smaller galleries
in the outer booths at Frieze.  “Some people are saying it’s a bit slower than last
year,” Chelsea Zaharczuck, gallery manager at the east London
gallery  Ibid Projects , said in an interview.  Ibid has a reputation for selling innovative sculpture by
emerging artists. The new carved wood “Untitled (Column)” by
the Berlin-based American artist David Adamo quickly found a
buyer at 7,000 pounds. Anthea Hamilton’s “Leg Chair ( John Travolta ),” incorporating postcards of the star of “Saturday
Night Fever,” had yet to find a buyer at 5,000 pounds.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 