-- NBC's Third-Quarter Profit Falls 15 Percent After Year-Ago A&E Merger
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-15T20:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/nbc-s-third-quarter-profit-falls-15-percent-after-year-ago-a-e-merger.html
NBC Universal, the  General Electric
Co.  media unit in which  Comcast Corp.  is buying a majority
stake, reported a 15 percent decline in profit after it didn’t
repeat a year-ago gain from a cable-channel merger.  Third-quarter profit fell to $625 million from $732 million
a year ago, GE said today in a statement. Revenue at the New
York-based unit slid to $4.07 billion from $4.08 billion.
Excluding year-earlier impairment charges and a $283 million
gain from merging its A&E cable-TV network with Lifetime, profit
was up 5 percent.  The improvement in operating results was led by a 22
percent climb in profit from cable channels including USA,
Bravo, Oxygen and CNBC, GE Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin 
said today on a conference call. Revenue at the NBC broadcast
network was down 2 percent to $1.4 billion and profit was down
$80 million because of higher spending on prime-time TV shows.  NBC Universal Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Zucker  is
stepping down, he announced last month, when Comcast completes
its takeover. Zucker will be replaced by Comcast Chief Operating
Officer  Stephen Burke  as the cable operator looks to reshape the
TV company after ratings at its NBC network have fallen. The
companies are working on getting regulatory approval and still
hope to close the deal by yearend, Sherin said.  Local advertising increased 18 percent in the quarter, and
the so-called scatter market where TV commercial time is bought
closer to air was up 20 percent, Sherin said. The theme-park
business had a record quarter with the opening of the Harry
Potter attraction, he said.  Cable Merger  “Given that the economy, although improving, is still far
from robust, these are excellent results driven by superior
execution throughout our operations,” Zucker said in a letter
to NBC Universal’s employees today.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, which reported overall
revenue that trailed analysts’ estimates, fell 86 cents, or 5
percent, to $16.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 57
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $18.95 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Last year, NBC agreed with Walt Disney Co. and Hearst Corp.
to combine the A&E and Lifetime channels into a new company,
resulting in the gain for GE. Also, the company reduced the
value of its stake in an Indian entertainment company, its share
of the Weather Channel and some programming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  