-- New York Pension Said to Renege on Morgan Stanley Commitment
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-15T18:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/new-york-pension-said-to-renege-on-morgan-stanley-real-estate-relationship.html
New York’s $125 billion pension plan
reneged on a $300 million commitment to  Morgan Stanley ’s real-
estate investing group after the business reported losses and
managers left, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The New York State Common  Retirement Fund  is still
extricating itself after telling the bank last year that it
wanted to back out of a 2008 commitment to the $4.7 billion
Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VII, part of a group that
manages $43.6 billion, according to the people, who asked not to
be named because the decision wasn’t made public.  The retirement fund, the third-largest in the U.S., wrote
down an undisclosed amount of cash it had already contributed to
Fund VII to about zero, one of the people said.  Sonny Kalsi , the
former head of the unit, left in 2009, and Morgan Stanley has
changed the leadership three times in the past two years. Morgan
Stanley’s real-estate group told investors it expects to lose
$5.4 billion of an earlier $8.8 billion international fund,
called Fund VI, a person familiar with the matter said in April.
Performance figures for Fund VII couldn’t be obtained.  “It’s unusual for an institutional investor to pull out of
a capital commitment so long after it was made, but in this case
it’s not totally surprising given the performance,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York
who covers commercial real estate.  Finding the Exit  The New York State pension plan, which covers about 1
million current and retired government workers, committed $500
million to international Fund VI in 2007, according to a report
on the plan’s  website . The pension, overseen by Comptroller
 Thomas DiNapoli , began negotiating an exit from Fund VII last
year, according to the people, and is in the process of
completing an agreement with Morgan Stanley.  “It’s highly unusual for investors to pull out,” said
 Steven Kaplan , a finance professor at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “They must figure the
amount they had to forfeit is less than they’d lose by
continuing the relationship.”  Morgan Stanley had planned to raise about $10 billion for
Fund VII, according to  minutes  from a June 2008 meeting of the
Contra Costa County Employees’ Retirement Association. It fell
short of its target by more than half, saying it raised a total
of $4.7 billion earlier this year. In September the bank named
John Klopp and  Olivier de Poulpiquet  as co-chief executive
officers of its real-estate investing business, replacing  Owen Thomas , who remained chairman of the group.  Merchant Banking  Morgan Stanley’s real-estate funds are part of its  asset-
management unit , making investments in office buildings, retail
parks, hotels and other properties worldwide. The bank itself
posted about $4.4 billion in real-estate losses in 2008 and
2009, including losses on its stakes in the funds as well as
lending and direct investments such as its Crescent Real Estate
Equities business, which it handed over to Barclays Capital last
year to end its obligation on a $2 billion loan.  “Morgan Stanley reached an agreement on a capital
modification program with investors in MSREF VII in the third
quarter of 2009 and all negotiations with investors were
factored into the $4.7 billion fund raise announced in May
2010,” Morgan Stanley spokeswoman  Erica Platt  said in an e-
mailed statement. “We do not generally comment on investors,
but certain facts presented in this story with respect to our
relationship with NY Common Fund are inaccurate.”  Platt declined to identify any specific errors, citing a
confidentiality agreement. A spokesman for the New York State
pension declined to comment.  Capital Call  The New York State pension made its commitment to Fund VII
in August 2008, according to its  website , and Morgan Stanley
subsequently drew down an unspecified portion of the $300
million, the people said. The pension plan then balked on an
ensuing capital call, which led to the settlement talks,
according to the people.  The  New York  State pension system hasn’t defaulted on any
other real-estate fund commitments, one of the people said.  Morgan Stanley allocated the money the pension system had
contributed to Fund VII to its other investors, the people said.
The bank also gave them the option to reduce their obligations
to Fund VII by as much as 10 percent, according to the people.  Other investors in Fund VII include the Public School
Employees’ Retirement System in Pennsylvania, according to a
report from the plan.  North Carolina  North Carolina ’s Department of the State Treasurer
contributed $440 million to international Fund VI and has
received $5.8 million back in distributions, according to a
report from the fund. The remaining stake is valued at $74.6
million as of June 30, the report said.  The New York plan paid Morgan Stanley $6.25 million in the
year ending March 31 in real-estate management fees, according
to the pension plan’s annual report. Its investment in Fund VI,
which cost the pension plan $465.8 million, had a market value
of $85.4 million as of March 31, according to a report on the
plan’s website. That figure is net of distributions, which the
pension doesn’t disclose, a spokesman said.  The New York State pension’s performance lagged behind that
of retirement plans with more than $5 billion in assets during
the past five years, according to data from consulting firm
Wilshire Associates.  Plan’s Returns  The plan returned an average 4.16 percent a year from March
2005 to March 2010, according to the annual report posted on its
website. That fell below the 4.51 percent median for public
funds with assets above $5 billion, according to Wilshire
Associates.  While Morgan Stanley doesn’t report the performance of its
funds, it has indicated improvements in its real-estate unit
this year. The bank had principal gains of $122 million from its
stakes in certain real-estate funds in the first quarter. The
firm also said it had “modest gains” in its real-estate
investments in the second quarter.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index, which
measures real-estate values, is 43 percent below its 2007 peak,
Moody’s Investors Service said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  