-- New Horizon, Founded by China Premier's Son, Quits IPO, Gets $46 Million
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-10-15T09:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/new-horizon-founded-by-china-premier-s-son-quits-ipo-gets-46-million.html
New Horizon Capital, a private
equity company co-founded by the son of Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao , reaped a $46 million profit after it was forced to pull
out of a Hong Kong initial public offering because of concerns
raised by the city’s regulator.  Hong Kong’s stock exchange queried if New Horizon’s 540
million yuan ($81.3 million) purchase of a 9 percent stake in
 Sihuan Pharmaceutical Holdings Group Ltd.  on July 7 was in
keeping with a practice that pre-IPO investments not be made
less than 180 days from a proposed listing date. Sihuan
subsequently unwound the transaction “to address such
concerns,” agreeing on Oct. 4 to pay New Horizon $127.5 million,
according to the prospectus. That’s about 57 percent more than
New Horizon initially paid.  Sihuan plans to raise HK$5.75 billion ($741 million) in the
IPO and counts U.S. billionaire  George Soros  as one of its
cornerstone investors.  Wen Yunsong, the son of Chinese premier Wen Jiabao, is
among the founders of Beijing-based New Horizon, which was set
up in 2005. New Horizon purchased the Sihuan stake “at a
relatively late stage of the listing application,” the
company’s prospectus said.  A seat on Sihuan’s board of directors that had been
allocated to New Horizon’s representative as part of the share
sale agreement has also been terminated due to the unwinding of
transaction.  Quantum Partners LP, a Soros fund, China Life Insurance
Group, Value Partners Ltd. and a fund managed by Hillhouse
Capital Management Ltd. are among the so-called cornerstone
investors, according to Sihuan’s prospectus. Quantum will buy
$40 million worth of shares, according to the sales document.
The HK IPO is managed by Morgan Stanley and UBS AG.  Sihuan supplies drugs used for treatment of the cardio-
cerebral vascular system to hospitals in China through a sales
network which covers almost every province, according to the
Haikou-based company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 