-- Newark Airport Travelers May See Smoke as Part of Emergency Disaster Drill
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-15T20:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/newark-airport-travelers-may-see-smoke-as-part-of-emergency-disaster-drill.html
Travelers at Newark Liberty
International Airport may see smoke tomorrow as the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation and other agencies take part in a
security drill that simulates a vehicle explosion and a partial
building collapse.  The exercise will take place in and around Terminal B from
8:30 a.m. to 11 a.m. and shouldn’t affect flight operations or
travelers, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said
today in a statement. A “small portion” of the terminal and
some lanes will be closed as part of the simulation.  “This is one of, if not the largest, drills at Newark,”
said  Ron Marsico , a spokesman for the port authority.  The drill may include flares, depending on the weather, the
port authority said. Newark is the 12th-busiest U.S. airport
with 35.3 million passengers last year, according to Airports
Council International, a Geneva-based trade group.  In addition to training for emergency responders, the
exercise may send a warning to would-be attackers, said Hans
Weber, president of Tecop International Inc., a consulting firm
based in San Diego that advises on aviation security.  "It might include a message to these people, ‘Well, if you
think it’s our soft underbelly, think again, we are trying to be
ready for that,’" Weber said.  Airport Security Concerns  Airport security worldwide has received heightened
attention after attacks including a June 2007 case in which a
burning sport-utility vehicle targeted Glasgow International
Airport’s terminal. Police later determined it was related to
two attempted London car bombings.  One of the four flights in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks on the U.S. embarked from the Newark airport. United
Airlines Flight 93, bound for San Francisco, crashed in a field
in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, after passengers tried to retake
control of the plane from hijackers. Everyone aboard was killed.  In April 2009, a backup U.S. presidential jet swooped low
over New York for a publicity photo, frightening Wall Street
workers and prompting concerns of another terrorist attack. The
plane flew as low as 1,000 feet (305 meters), rattling windows
and some office workers fled their buildings. President Barack
Obama, who wasn’t aboard the jet, later called the flight “a
mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  