-- Noda Calls on G-20 to Boost Financial Ties as Yen Climbs to 15-Year High
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-15T02:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/noda-urges-g-20-nations-to-boost-financial-cooperation-as-yen-strengthens.html
Japan’s finance minister called on
Group of 20 nations to strengthen cooperation on financial
markets when they meet in South Korea next week, after the yen
surged to a 15-year high against the dollar.  “We have to cooperate and share our wisdom to strengthen
order in the global currency system” at the gathering,
 Yoshihiko Noda  said at a press conference in Tokyo today. “We
have to make the most of the wisdom of each nation as it’s hard
for one country to address currency issues.”  Noda spoke after the yen climbed yesterday to 80.89, its
highest since 1995. Japan’s first currency intervention since
2004 last month failed to arrest gains in the local currency,
which has strengthened 14 percent this year. Noda reiterated
today that the government is ready to take “bold” action on
currencies.  “Our basic stance hasn’t changed that we will take bold
actions if necessary from a standpoint of curbing excessive
movements,” Noda said “I’m watching markets with great
interest.”  The yen traded at 81.40 per dollar at 11:03 a.m. in Tokyo.  Noda said the G-20 meeting wouldn’t be a major factor when
deciding “bold” currency action, an indication the event
wouldn’t deter authorities from intervening to sell the yen if
perceived necessary.  The Japanese currency’s strength prompted Noda and Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  this week to signal that Asian countries
including China and South Korea should stop preventing their
currencies from strengthening. Japan’s own intervention in
foreign-exchange markets sparked criticism from European
policymakers and U.S. politicians.  Currency Depreciation  Executives of Japanese exporters have called on the
government to try to reverse the yen’s gains.  “It’s not just about the won. Many countries have the same
idea of encouraging economic recovery through exports by
weakening their currencies, and Japan is behind on this,”
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. President  Osamu Masuko  told reporters in
Tokyo yesterday.  Noda has said the G-20 will discuss countries’ efforts to
depreciate their currencies to support exporters. Group of Seven
nations meeting in Washington last week only agreed to promote
flexible currencies for nations with current-account surpluses
including China, he said.  Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said abrupt currency moves
can hurt the economy and that the yen’s advance is bad for
growth.  “We’ve been saying that excessive movement in currencies
is undesirable for Japan’s economy,” Kaieda said at a press
conference in Tokyo. “The yen reached the 80-yen level
yesterday in the London market. That is never good for the
current state of Japan’s economy.”  Monetary Policy  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  repeated today
that the yen’s advance is hurting business sentiment and he
stands ready to ease monetary policy if necessary. The bank last
week cut the key benchmark rate and said it will set up a fund
to buy government bonds and other assets.  “Japan’s economy still show signs of a moderate recovery,
but the pace is slowing down because overseas economic growth is
decelerating and the yen’s advance is affecting corporate
sentiment,” Shirakawa said at a speech at the central bank in
Tokyo today. The pace of growth in exports and production has
been slowing down, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  