-- North Korean Spy Gets Ominous Summons Home, Fears for His Life
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/north-korean-spy-gets-ominous-summons-home-fears-for-life-book-review.html
At 42, Ki-yong Kim’s life divides
neatly in two. He spent his first 21 years in and around his
native Pyongyang, North Korea, where he was trained rigorously
for espionage in the south. For the past 21 years he’s been
undercover in Seoul. He married an unsuspecting woman and they
have an unsuspecting daughter.  He would do occasional dirty work for his Communist
taskmasters until communication dried up. In time, he assumed
he’d been forgotten. And then one day his number is up --
literally: Out of the blue he receives Order No. 4, the order to
return.  Young-ha Kim’s  tense, expertly constructed novel “ Your
Republic Is Calling You ” follows Ki-yong, his wife, Ma-ri, and
their 15-year-old, Hyon-mi, hour by hour over the course of that
harrowing day. It can’t be coincidental that the date is the
Ides of March.  For a Cold War novel (from practically the only country
where one can still be written), it’s surprisingly light on
ideology. Ki-yong’s decision to stay or go back hinges entirely
on practical matters -- above all, where he has a better chance
of remaining alive.  Over 21 years undercover he’s grown into his disguise, much
as the Russian spies recently uncovered in suburban America grew
into theirs.  As a youth he was chosen for his excellence. But in turning
himself into the kind of man you wouldn’t pick out of a crowd,
he’s become placid and pot-bellied. His emotions are grayer than
his hair. Ma-ri lost her feelings for him long ago.  Ma-ri’s Rendezvous  Meanwhile, her own confidence and ambition have seeped
away. As Ki-yong nears his meeting with destiny, she gets ready
for a worrisome rendezvous with her lover, a smug 20-year-old
whose sexual demands -- he’s been pressing her to do something
she really doesn’t want to -- are starting to give her the
creeps.  Ki-yong and Ma-ri are such disappointments to themselves
that the optimism of their daughter, Hyon-mi -- sunny, bright,
and ready to be kissed -- feels like the author’s nasty joke, as
though he thinks a good look at her once-promising parents would
show her what’s in store.  As a thriller saddled with depression, “Your Republic Is
Calling You” recalls  John le Carre  and late  Graham Greene , and
its noirish view of squelched dreams amid the general crumminess
of life has a bit of  Raymond Chandler , too. And, like Chandler,
it’s charged and funny even at its bleakest.  Assassins, Hostages  It opens a window on a world of assassins and triple-
crosses and controlled panic and, in one amazing scene, a
subterranean movie-set-like re-creation of Seoul where foreign
hostages train fledgling North Korean spies. (The author says he
read about it in  Newsweek .)  After only a few pages it’s clear that Young-ha Kim is a
master novelist. He was born in Hwacheon, South Korea, in 1968,
and began publishing (and winning major prizes) in the 1990s.
“Your Republic Is Calling You” is the fourth of his five
novels, but only the second to appear in English.  With its casual style (a triumph of translation by Chi-
Young Kim) and its hectic plot, it would do fine as a beach
book. Yet it’s something much deeper: an eye-opening depiction
of the globalization of Eastern society. Apart from the names
and the foods, little in the book will seem unfamiliar to a
Western reader.  The author’s range of reference encompasses Asian
literature and pop, Thoreau  and  Kafka , “Buena Vista Social
Club,” Raphael’s Madonnas and, not least, “ The Empire of
Light ,” Magritte’s painting of a sunlit sky blandly perched
over a nighttime street, an image that governs a climactic
scene.  “The Empire of Light” was also the novel’s name when it
came out in South Korea four years ago, and it captures the
irony and the strangeness of this grave, witty book.  “Your Republic Is Calling You” is published by Mariner
(326 pages, $14.95 paperback). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 