-- Obama, Biden Campaign for Coons in Delaware to `Leave No Stone Unturned'
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-10-15T16:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/obama-biden-to-stump-for-coons-in-delaware-to-leave-no-stone-unturned-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to
stave off Democratic losses in the Nov. 2 congressional
elections take him today to Delaware, where the party’s chances
of holding a Senate seat have risen.  Obama will be joined by Vice President  Joe Biden  at a
fundraiser for Democratic U.S. Senate candidate  Chris Coons  at
the Grand Opera House in Wilmington, the state’s largest city.  A recent  poll  in the state gives Coons, 47, county
executive of New Castle County, Delaware’s largest county, a 19-
point lead over Republican  Christine O’Donnell , 41, a marketing
consultant.  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said Obama
was making the campaign stop because the contest is
“important” and the political climate this year is volatile.  “We leave no stone unturned in this unpredictable
electoral environment,” Pfeiffer said.  The Delaware Senate contest has captured national attention
in part because of video clips of comments O’Donnell made in the
past on talk shows and other venues. One widely circulated was
from her 1999 appearance on comedian  Bill Maher ’s HBO show
“Politically Incorrect” which she said he had dabbled in
witchcraft while in high school.  The first television commercial she aired after she won her
party’s nomination included an assurance to Delaware voters that
“I’m not a witch.” That spawned parodies on YouTube and NBC
television’s “Saturday Night Live” program.  Lead in Poll  A poll conducted Oct. 8-11 by Monmouth University in West
Long Branch, New Jersey, showed Coons leading O’Donnell 57
percent to 38 percent among likely voters.  O’Donnell, who was backed by the Tea Party, won last
month’s primary over Representative  Michael Castle . Castle was
favored by party leaders and had been winning elections in
Delaware for four decades. He has declined to endorse
O’Donnell’s candidacy.  Delaware is Biden’s home state and has voted Democratic in
every presidential election since 1988. Obama won the state with
62 percent of the vote in 2008.  Waiting in line to get into the event, Bill Taylor, 39,
from Wilmington, said he decided to get involved in the Coons
campaign after O’Donnell won the Republican Party nomination.  “I had not paid much attention to the race before then,”
Taylor, who was attending the fundraiser with a friend who paid
$100 a seat for two tickets.  Boost for Democrat  Joe Calabrese, 67, from Wilmington, another Coons
volunteer, said he was “thrilled” when O’Donnell won the
Republican primary because it boosted the Democrat’s chances.  Calabrese said he paid $250 for his ticket because he
“wants to see Mr. Obama get 100 Senate seats.”  Because Delaware is in the same media market as
Philadelphia, the president’s visit also draws attention in the
largest metropolitan area of Pennsylvania, where Democratic U.S.
Senate candidate  Joe Sestak  is engaged in a close contest with
Republican candidate  Pat Toomey .  Obama travels tomorrow to Massachusetts to campaign on
behalf of Democratic  Deval Patrick  and on Oct. 17 to support
Democratic candidates in Ohio. Next week he will make a campaign
swing through Oregon, Washington, California, Nevada and
Minnesota.  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report projects Democrats
will lose at least 40 seats in the House, costing the
president’s party control, and lose 7 to 9 seats in the Senate.
Democrats currently have a 57-seat majority in the 100-member
Senate, with two independent members also supporting the party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 