-- Ohio Attorney General Seeks Order Halting Some GMAC Foreclosures, Sales
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-15T20:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ohio-attorney-general-seeks-order-halting-some-gmac-foreclosures-sales.html
Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  asked a court to keep  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC
mortgage unit from completing foreclosure sales based on faulty
affidavits.  Cordray sued GMAC Oct. 6, alleging the company and its
employees committed fraud on Ohio consumers and courts by
signing and filing false affidavits in foreclosure cases. The
state also sued Ally and GMAC employee Jeffrey Stephan.  The attorney general today asked for a court order blocking
both sales and evictions in Ohio during the lawsuit in all cases
in which Stephan filed papers. Stephan “testified in 2009 and
2010 that he signed thousands of affidavits” for GMAC without
verifying information, Cordray said in court papers.  “These so-called ‘robo-signed’ affidavits disrespect the
courts and the private-property rights of homeowners,” Cordray
said in an e-mailed statement.  A spokeswoman for Ally,  Gina Proia , said GMAC “is not
proceeding with foreclosure sales in Ohio using defective
affidavits.”  “We announced weeks ago that we were suspending evictions
and foreclosure sales in the 23 judicial states, including Ohio,
until a review was conducted and any remediation activity was
completed in those affected cases,” She said in an e-mailed
statement.  Judicial States  A judicial state is one of the 23 in which a foreclosure
needs a judge’s approval.  Cordray and his counterparts in all 50 states began an
investigation this week into whether lenders used false
documents and signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of
 foreclosures . Cordray is one of at least 10 top state legal
officers also conducting their own investigations.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and GMAC stopped repossession cases in
the 23 states where courts supervise home seizures amid concern
over faulty foreclosure practices.  Bank of America Corp. , the
largest U.S. lender, extended a freeze on foreclosures to all 50
states on Oct. 8.  The case is State of Ohio v. GMAC Mortgage LLC,
CI0201006984, Court of Common Pleas, Lucas County, Ohio
(Toledo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 