-- Okah Says Nigerian President Asked MEND Rebel Group to Retract Bomb Claims
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-15T15:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/okah-says-nigerian-president-asked-mend-rebel-group-to-retract-bomb-claims.html
Henry Okah  reiterated accusations
that Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan asked him to tell
rebels in the Niger Delta to retract their claim to be behind
the Oct. 1 bombings in Nigeria that killed 12 people.  Jonathan made the request “so the president could blame
the bombings on his presidential opponents,” Okah told the
Johannesburg Magistrates Court, where he faces charges of
helping to organize the bombing.  Okah denied he is the leader of Nigeria’s Movement for the
Emancipation of The Niger Delta, or MEND, which claimed
responsibility for the attacks, though he does have the
“respect of most of the fighters,” he said today. His bail
hearing started yesterday in Johannesburg, where he now lives,
and is scheduled to resume Oct. 18. He was arrested on Oct. 2.  Nigeria’s government dismissed Okah’s comments, which came
a week after he told the Al Jazeera news service that a close
associate of the president called him to request the retraction.  “At first he said it was the president’s aide and now he’s
saying it’s the president,” Ima Niboro, Jonathan’s spokesman,
said by phone from the capital, Abuja, today. “That shows the
type of man he is. He’s a criminal and a drowning man catching
on straws.”  MEND will carry out a further bomb attack in Abuja, the
group said in an e-mailed statement today.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports. Attacks by MEND and other
armed groups in the Niger River delta, home to Nigeria’s oil and
gas industry, cut more than 28 percent of the country’s oil
output between 2006 and 2009. The attacks declined after
thousands of fighters accepted a government amnesty last year.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp. and
Total SA operate joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump most of Nigeria’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net .
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  