-- Sensoji, Tokyo's Oldest Buddhist Temple, Loses Lawsuit Opposing Skyscraper
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   E i j i r o   U e n o
-- 2010-10-15T07:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/tokyo-s-oldest-temple-fails-to-block-construction-of-mitsubishi-skyscraper.html
Tokyo’s oldest  Buddhist temple  lost
a lawsuit arguing that the city government shouldn’t have
approved construction of a skyscraper by  Mitsubishi Estate Co.   Judge Yutaka Kawakami of the Tokyo District Court today
dismissed the case opposing a 37-story  apartment  block in the
capital’s Asakusa district about 400 meters west of Sensoji
temple without giving reasons.  The  Sensoji  temple and a group of local residents sued the
city last year saying that local authority regulations limit
residential buildings to five stories. Mitsubishi Estate,
Japan’s largest developer by  market value , has sold 190 of the
planned 693 units, said spokesman Ryuichiro Funo, who declined
to comment on the ruling today.  “Judges tend to respect an administrative body’s
permission or discretion,” unless it was abusive or beyond its
authority, according to Yoshihiro Takatori, the head of the
litigation in Tokyo at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP.  Towa Real Estate  Development Co., a unit of Tokyo-based
Mitsubishi Estate, owns half of the project. Mitsubishi Estate
owns 20 percent and Mitsubishi Logistics Corp. owns the rest.  Mitsubishi Estate fell 1.8 percent to 1,503 yen as of 3 p.m.
close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Mitsubishi Logistics
declined 1.9 percent to 1,019 yen. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average dropped 0.9 percent.  A temple was first built at  Sensoji  in 628 A.D. according
to the temple’s  website .  Sensoji hasn’t decided whether to appeal the ruling, said
Yu Tomita, a lawyer for the temple.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Eijiro Ueno  in Tokyo at 
 e.ueno@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 