-- HSBC Ends Talks to Acquire Nedbank, Old Mutual Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-10-15T16:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/old-mutual-nedbank-drop-in-trading-on-report-hsbc-may-walk-away-from-bid.html
HSBC Holdings Plc  abandoned a bid to
buy a $7.3 billion controlling stake in South Africa’s  Nedbank
Group Ltd. , less than three weeks after Europe’s largest bank
replaced its chairman and chief executive officer.  The London-based lender had been in talks for eight weeks
to buy as much as 70 percent of Nedbank, including a 52 percent
stake owned by Old Mutual Plc, Africa’s biggest insurer. HSBC
didn’t say why the talks broke down in a statement today.  HSBC sought to acquire Nedbank, South Africa’s fourth-
largest lender, to help it expand in emerging markets and profit
from trade flows in Africa. Since the talks began on Aug. 23,
HSBC replaced CEO  Michael Geoghegan  and Chairman  Stephen Green .
Banks are also under growing pressure to hold more capital than
the minimum international regulators agreed in Basel last month.  “They took another look at Nedbank now that Geoghegan’s
gone, and thought that $7 billion was rather expensive,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA
with a neutral rating on HSBC. “There can be no doubt that HSBC
is concerned about capital and that will have played a part in
this decision.”  Nedbank fell 6.1 percent to 137.8 rand at the close of
Johannesburg trading, its biggest drop since March last year.
HSBC dropped 1.7 percent to 653.3 pence at the London close,
while Old Mutual slid 4.8 percent to 138.3 pence.  Capital Erosion  The Nedbank acquisition would have reduced HSBC’s Core Tier
1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, to about 9.4
percent by the end of 2011 from 10 percent, Wheeler said.
Regulators may require U.K. banks to have a minimum of 10
percent, more than the 7 percent threshold of the Basel capital
agreements, according to  Arturo de Frias , a London-based analyst
at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.  “HSBC remains committed to the South African market and to
growing its business in South Africa,” HSBC said in its
statement. HSBC’s decision is “more of a statement about HSBC
than about Nedbank,” Old Mutual spokesman  Patrick Bowes  said.  “We have no feel for the reasons for HSBC’s withdrawal,”
Nedbank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown  said by telephone.
“We had no indication that anything was off-track during the
due diligence.”  South Africa’s banking regulator said he hadn’t objected to
the proposals when he held preliminary talks with HSBC and Old
Mutual about the bid.  “Nothing has come to my attention that changes my view on
the soundness of Nedbank or the South African banking system,”
 Errol Kruger , South Africa’s registrar of banks, said by
telephone today.  Standard Chartered Bid?  Nedbank’s credit losses shrank in the first half after the
South African government cut interest rates, allowing customers
to repay debts. The lender’s credit loss ratio declined to 1.46
percent from 1.6 percent a year earlier. Loans and advances grew
4.9 percent in the six months to June from December.  “Nedbank is now for sale to the highest bidder” and the
breakdown in talks “clears the way” for HSBC’s competitor
Standard Chartered Plc to make an offer for Nedbank,  Chris Gilmour , a Johannesburg-based analyst at Absa Investments, said.  The London-based lender had discussions with Nedbank
earlier this year, according to Brown. Standard Chartered said
this week it plans to raise 3.3 billion pounds ($5.2 billion) in
a rights offering to bolster capital, not finance takeovers.  “This is not a war chest for acquisitions,” CEO  Peter Sands , 48, told reporters on an Oct. 13 conference call. “This
is a strategy primarily for organic growth.” A spokesman for
Standard Chartered today reiterated that comment.  Barclays’s Absa  HSBC’s U.K. rival, Barclays Plc, bought a controlling stake
in Absa Group Ltd., South Africa’s largest retail bank, for
$4.48 billion in 2005, promising the two would expand in Africa
under Absa’s banner. Five years later, after spending the
equivalent of half of Namibia’s gross domestic product to buy
control of Absa, profit from the unit has dwindled.  Old Mutual is seeking to repay 1.5 billion pounds of debt
by 2012 by selling assets. The insurer agreed in August to sell
its U.S. life insurance unit to Harbinger Capital Partners, the
hedge fund run by billionaire  Philip Falcone , for $350 million.  “Old Mutual will still be able to pay down its debts
without selling Nedbank,” Gilmour said.   HSBC , which already has operations in Egypt and Nigeria, is
being advised by Lazard Ltd. Old Mutual is being advised by
Lexicon Partners, Rothschild and Bank of America Corp., while
Nedbank is being advised by Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 