-- Canada's Currency Drops From Parity as Global Stocks, Commodities Slide
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-15T21:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/loonie-trades-near-parity-as-bernanke-says-added-stimulus-may-be-warrented.html
Canada’s dollar weakened from parity
with its U.S. counterpart as stocks and commodities including
crude oil dropped after a measure of consumer confidence trailed
forecasts.  The currency was the sixth worst performers among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts. The U.S. currency
touched a 15-year low versus the yen and an eight-month low
against the euro after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said additional monetary stimulus may be warranted.  The decline in Canada’s currency is due to “the sharp
selling in U.S. equities,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist
at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, wrote via e-mail.
“There are some upside risks in the U.S. dollar versus the
Canadian dollar over the next few sessions, particularly with
the Bank of Canada coming up.”  The currency fell 0.6 percent to C$1.0104 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0041 yesterday, when it touched
99.81 Canadian cents per dollar, the strongest level since April
26. It was little changed this week. One Canadian dollar buys
98.97 U.S. cents.  The loonie, as the currency is often called, was worth more
than the greenback yesterday for the first time since April. The
U.S. dollar has fallen this month against all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts on concern that further Fed easing will
debase the currency. Bank of Canada policy makers meet next week
to decide on interest rates.  Dollar Target  “The Canadian dollar could consolidate here until next
week’s Bank of Canada announcement,”  Michael Leavitt , a
Montreal-based institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global
Canada Co., wrote via e-mail. “My minimum target is 99.31
Canadian cents per U.S. dollar and I don’t see anything but a
backup in equities getting in the way.”  The Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 0.3 percent,
while the MSCI Global Index of equities slipped 0.2 percent.
Crude oil for November delivery was 1.5 percent weaker, trading
at $81.47 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group
of Seven central banker to raise borrowing costs since July 2008
when he lifted the overnight rate by a quarter-percentage point
to 0.5 percent in June, from a record low 0.25 percent.  Successive increases in July and September brought the
overnight rate to 1 percent. Policy makers next meet on Oct. 19
to set rates. The central bank releases its quarterly monetary
policy report a day later.  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly declined in
October, with Americans more pessimistic about current economic
conditions. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to 67.9, the
lowest since July, from 68.2 in September. Economists estimated
an October reading of 68.9, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  