-- Los Angeles Receives $546 Million in Federal Funds for Light-Rail Project
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-15T21:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/los-angeles-gets-546-million-in-u-s-funds-for-additional-light-rail-line.html
Los Angeles’s pursuit of an expanded
mass-transit system is advancing as the U.S. Transportation
Department today approved a $546 million loan to build an
additional light-rail line.  The loan comes from two federal programs aimed at speeding
infrastructure construction and will let work on the so-called
Crenshaw/LAX line begin in early 2011, Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  said on a conference call. U.S. Senator  Barbara Boxer , also on the call, said Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  informed her of the loan’s approval today.  “It’s going to create about 5,000 jobs,” Villaraigosa
said. “At a time of historic deficits and debt and deep divides
on partisan grounds, jobs, transportation and infrastructure is
an area where we can find common ground.”  The funds for the $1.4 billion,  9-mile line , which will
connect with other light-rail lines in the most congested U.S.
city, are the first under Los Angeles County’s push to access
taxes approved for transit projects earlier than planned. County
voters in 2008 approved a sales-tax increase intended to
generate about $40 billion over 30 years.  Villaraigosa was among mayors and governors who traveled to
Washington earlier this week to attend a speech where President
 Barack Obama  promoted spending $50 billion on transportation to
repair “crumbling” roads, bridges and rail lines.  Along with the Crenshaw/LAX project, Los Angeles County
officials are pushing to complete a subway extension, more train
lines and a rail link to Los Angeles International Airport
within 10 years, rather than three decades.  Los Angeles ranked as the nation’s most congested city
based on the  INRIX National Traffic Scorecard  last year. It has
had the longest average travel time in Texas A&M University’s
 Texas Transportation Institute Urban Mobility  report every year
since 1985.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  