-- Pakistan Looks to `Friends' Forum for Aid After $9.7 Billion Flood Losses
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2010-10-15T03:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/pakistan-looks-to-friends-forum-for-aid-after-9-7-billion-flood-losses.html
Pakistan said an international
donors meeting in Brussels today will help provide aid for
fighting terrorism and rebuilding after floods in July that the
Asia Development Bank estimates caused $9.7 billion in damage.  The third ministerial meeting of the so-called “Friends of
Democratic Pakistan” will discuss Pakistan’s needs after floods
that destroyed crops, houses, bridges and roads, Foreign
Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  said on the eve of the meeting,
according to the state-run Associated Press of Pakistan.  The forum, which includes the U.S., U.K., Japan and Saudi
Arabia, was formed in 2008 to provide help to a South Asian
nation that is in the forefront of the fight against terrorism.  Pakistan’s agriculture and livestock industries were worst-
hit by floods that affected one-fifth of the country, in
particular the province of Sindh, the ADB said in a survey
released yesterday. Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  said
earlier this month that the disaster may stoke inflation to as
high as 20 percent and curb economic expansion to 2.5 percent in
the year through June.  The floods destroyed roads particularly in rural areas and
irrigation systems suffered serious damage, the ADB said.  Pakistan should boost taxes on the wealthy to help finance
its development program, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said yesterday in Brussels.  “The most important step that Pakistan can take is to pass
meaningful reforms that can expand its tax base,” Clinton said
after meeting with European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton . “I know how difficult it is, but it is absolutely
unacceptable for those with means in Pakistan not to be doing
their fair share to help their own people.”  Terrorism Fight  The Brussels meeting will discuss Pakistan’s plans for
economic development in the Swat and Malakand regions where
about $2.7 billion is needed to improve the lives of local
people and address a root cause of terrorism, said Qureshi, who
co-chairs the forum, according to APP.  Pakistan’s army has carried out two offensives against pro-
Taliban fighters in Swat and the northwestern tribal region
bordering Afghanistan since last year. More than 2 million
people were displaced by the fighting in Swat in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Tighe  in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  