-- Pakistan Court Orders Gilani to Explain Government Plans to Fire Judges
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-15T08:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/pakistan-court-orders-attorney-general-to-explain-firing-of-judges-report.html
Pakistan’s  Supreme Court summoned
the attorney general to explain reports the government plans to
fire judges, seeking to avoid a stand-off similar to the one
that helped bring down former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf .  A 17-member panel of justices asked Attorney General Anwar-
ul-Haque to explain last night’s allegations broadcast on
Pakistani television channels, according to a statement on the
court’s  website . Those reports claimed the government is
considering withdrawing its March 2009 order to reinstate judges
fired by Musharraf.  “We will fully cooperate with the court and we will take
notice of such irresponsible media reports,” Information
Minister  Qamar Zaman Kaira  said on state-run Pakistan
Television. “The prime minister condemns all such reports.”  The summons comes as the top court hears a case on the
government’s failure to implement an order to scrap an amnesty
law that protected President  Asif Ali Zardari  and thousands of
officials from graft charges dating back to the 1990s.  Chief Justice  Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry  gave Haque until
Oct. 18 to submit a written statement from Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , explaining the government’s position on the
news reports, after he failed to do so today, state-run Pakistan
Television reported. The court restrained the government from
sacking any judges, the broadcaster said, citing an order.  The government denied the reports last night, saying there
“is no truth behind the news,” according to the Supreme
Court’s statement.  8,000 Officials  On Dec. 16, the Supreme Court ordered the National
Accountability Bureau, the nation’s top corruption fighting
agency, to revive charges against more than 8,000 officials and
politicians, including Zardari, after it scrapped a 2007 graft
amnesty issued by Musharraf.  Chaudhry, who was removed by Musharraf in 2007 under
emergency rule, was reinstated by Zardari in March 2009
following opposition protests. A nationwide protest movement led
by lawyers helped destabilize Musharraf in 2007, forcing him to
resign a year later.  Renewed conflict with Chaudhry may weaken Zardari’s
government as Pakistan struggles to rebuild vast swathes of the
country inundated in this year’s worst ever monsoon floods.
Waves of water sweeping down the Indus River wiped out $3.27
billion of crops and 4,000 kilometers of roads. The country’s
army has also been fighting Taliban guerrillas in its northwest
for over a year, sparking retaliatory bombings and suicide
attacks that have killed hundreds of civilians and security
personnel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  