-- Pakistan's Sui Southern Gas May Spend $270 Million to Repair Pipelines
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2010-10-15T00:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/pakistan-s-sui-southern-gas-may-invest-270-million-amid-flood-recovery.html
Sui Southern Gas Co. , Pakistan’s
second largest distributor of the fuel, plans to spend $270
million to repair pipelines and curb losses after damage caused
by the nation’s deadliest floods, its managing director said.  “The World Bank may approve a loan of almost $200 million
dollars by December this year,” Faizullah Abbasi said in an
interview at his Karachi office yesterday. “We will also spend
another six billion rupees ($70 million) to curtail our
losses.”  Pakistan’s gas distributors are guaranteed a fixed return
according to a government formula. Sui Southern earns a 17
percent return on its assets, which include its pipeline network
and compressor stations.  The floods first struck the southwestern province of
Baluchistan on July 22 before inundating Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,
Punjab and Sindh, the country’s most populous provinces. The
event destroyed Sui infrastructure valued at four billion
rupees.  Pakistan gas distribution companies also face a penalty if
their gas losses, through theft or because of decrepit
pipelines, exceed a threshold. On Sept. 24, the  Oil and Gas
Regulatory Authority , a government agency responsible for
setting tariffs,  increased  the threshold to 7 percent of total
gas purchased from 5.5 percent, reducing the company’s
penalties.  “We lose 10 billion rupees annually because of our losses
of 35,000 cubic feet a day,” Abbasi said. “Our aim is to bring
these losses to zero in five years, and then invest in our own
infrastructure. That way we won’t be dependent on bank loans
anymore, and that is our aim.”  Gas Reserves  Sui Southern provided 1.1 billion cubic feet a day of gas
to its 2.2 million customers in Sindh and Baluchistan provinces
in the year ended June 30, 2009, according to Abbasi. Its
biggest users are power producers and fertilizer makers.  Pakistan’s natural gas reserves were estimated at 28.9
trillion cubic feet as of Dec. 31, according to the government’s
2009  Energy Year Book . Natural gas accounted for 44 percent of
Pakistan’s energy consumption mix in the year ended June 30, the
biggest share.  Sui Southern’s net  income  rose to 4.39 billion rupees in
the year ended June 30, from 257.5 million rupees a year
earlier. Its shares, which have more than  doubled  this year,
fell 2 percent to 28.85 rupees on the Karachi Stock Exchange
yesterday.  A $1.25 billion Iran-Pakistan gas pipeline is targeted to
be completed by 2013, providing fuel that will help ease a
shortfall. Pakistani companies supply 3.2 billion cubic feet per
day, against demand of 3.8 billion cubic feet.  Pipeline Hopes  “The company still needs to hold its breath and pray the
government succeeds in implementing the Iran gas pipeline
deal,” said  Abdul Azeem , an analyst at Invest Capital and
Securities. “Pakistan is said to receive 2.5 billion cubic feet
of gas through this deal, which will re-energize the country.”  Abbasi said demand for gas is increasing as much as 10
percent a year, while supplies remain stagnant.  “The demand and supply deficit may increase to two billion
cubic feet a day in the next two years, if new reserves are not
tapped,” he said.  The government is setting up plants to produce Synthetic
Net Gas, a kind of natural gas made by mixing liquefied
petroleum gas and air, in Sindh and Baluchistan with an initial
investment of $1.5 billion, he said. These plants will generate
100 million cubic feet of gas a day and may be ready by December
2011.  Floating Terminal  A  program  that covers the import of $2 billion of liquefied
natural gas and the construction of a $250 million floating
terminal will begin by 2014, after it was initially set to start
in 2011.  “We were hit by litigation when we had announced the
program in 2007,” Abbasi said. “Now the matter has been
settled, but we still need the government’s formal approval in
its next finance meeting, and that will take time.”  Sui Southern, 60 percent owned by the government, is owed
43 billion rupees in delayed payments from power producers.
Accumulated delayed payments between the country’s fuel
suppliers, oil refiners, gas distributors and electricity
producers amount to some 500 billion rupees.  The  Karachi Electric Supply Co. , which supplies power to
Pakistan’s biggest city, owes the gas company 21 billion rupees,
according to a newspaper advertisement on Oct. 4.  Sui’s 3,200-kilometer (1,990 mile) transmission  network 
extends from Sui in Baluchistan to Karachi in Sindh, according
to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
kkhan14bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  