-- Palestinians Say Planned Israel Building in East Jerusalem Threatens Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-15T10:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/palestinians-say-planned-israel-building-in-east-jerusalem-threatens-talks.html
Plans by Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s government to build new homes in an area of
east Jerusalem claimed by Palestinians endanger the future of
U.S.-sponsored Middle East talks, a Palestinian official said.  “We condemn this act and hold the Israel government
responsible for the derailment of the direct negotiations,”
Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said today in a phone
interview. “We call on the U.S. and international community to
condemn this act, and hold the Israeli government responsible
for undermining the direct negotiations. Once again Netanyahu
proves he favors settlements over peace.”  Israel’s Ministry of Housing and Construction has issued a
tender approved by Netanyahu for the construction of 3,500 homes
across Jerusalem, the  Ynet  news website said today. The tender
includes 240 units in the Pisgat Ze’ev neighborhood, to be built
in the area of Jerusalem conquered by Israel from Jordan in 1967
and claimed by Palestinians as the capital of a future state.  News of the building plans may complicate U.S. efforts to
keep peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians alive after
Israel’s 10-month freeze on construction in the West Bank
expired on Sept. 26. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he will only return to talks if Israel reimposes
the construction moratorium.  Netanyahu’s office referred queries on the Jerusalem
housing plans to the Housing Ministry, which did not respond to
calls placed today. The Israeli leader has previously said the
freeze on building in West Bank settlements does not include
areas within Jerusalem’s municipal boundaries.  Comprehensive Accord  Israel and the Palestinians agreed last month to try and
reach an agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace
accord within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict
would be on the table, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel, and the
right of Palestinian refugees to return.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since 1967.  United Nations says that settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  Plans by the Netanyahu government to build 1,600 homes in
another east Jerusalem neighborhood, announced during a March 9
visit by Vice President  Joe Biden , strained ties between Israel
and its staunchest ally, the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  