-- Panalpina Said to Be Near $85 Million Settlement of U.S. Bribery Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-10-15T17:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/panalpina-said-to-near-settlement-of-u-s-bribe-probe-to-pay-85-million.html
Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG 
will pay about $85 million in fines to resolve a criminal
investigation over whether the Swiss freight forwarding company
paid bribes in Nigeria and elsewhere, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The settlement with the U.S. Justice Department may be
announced in the next several weeks, the person said. The
investigation focuses in part on whether Panalpina paid bribes
to customs officials in Nigeria.  “The Panalpina disclosure has caused companies to examine
how they ship equipment around the world and their relationship
with freight forwarders,” said  Martin Weinstein , a lawyer at
Willkie Farr and Gallagher in Washington who focuses on bribery
cases and isn’t involved in the Panalpina investigation.  Oilfield-services companies including  Schlumberger Ltd. ,
the world’s largest;  Tidewater Inc.,  which operates supply ships
for oil drillers; the offshore drilling contractor  Transocean
Inc. ; and  Nabors Industries Ltd. , the world’s largest onshore
oil and natural-gas driller, have disclosed U.S. probes
associated with Panalpina.  “Companies with robust compliance programs have used this
information to examine and tighten their procedures regarding
freight forwarding and related transportation issues,”
Weinstein said.  Negotiations between Panalpina and the government are under
way,  Martin Spohn , a company spokesman, said today in an
interview. He declined to comment on a likely settlement amount.  Moving Forward  “We are very confident we can finalize this, certainly
this year,” Spohn said. “We don’t have a time frame because
it’s not up to us. It’s up to the DOJ. But of course we’re in an
advanced stage. Any figures and other details are still being
negotiated.”  Mary Jo Caliandro, a spokeswoman for Schlumberger, declined
to comment, as did  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for Transocean. The
company has said in public filings that it is cooperating with
the government.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the Justice
Department, declined to comment. Representatives of Tidewater
and Nabors Industries didn’t immediately return calls.  Other companies in 2007 also disclosed U.S. probes into
payments to customs agents in Nigeria without saying whether the
investigations are connected to Panalpina.  Panalpina said Dec. 9 that it had begun settlement talks
with the Justice Department over claims that it violated price-
fixing laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a
process it said would take several months.  Review of Operations  “In-depth reviews of operational activities in several
countries, among them difficult markets in West Africa and
Central Asia, have been conducted,” Panalpina said in a news
release at the time.  Panalpina said Aug. 4 that it had reserved 120 million
Swiss francs ($125 million) to cover expected fines in the FCPA
and antitrust investigations.  U.S. prosecutors have met with Panalpina, based in Basel,
Switzerland, to discuss enhancements to its compliance program,
including the decision to close its Nigerian operations and
restructure operations in West Africa, according to the
company’s statement.  Companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  may also be close
to resolving the same investigation, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
Shell, based in The Hague, Netherlands, is cooperating with U.S.
authorities, said  Theodore Rolfvondenbaumen , a company
spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at  jpickering@bloomberg.net . 