-- Petraeus Gives Details of U.S. Rescue That Led to Death of British Hostage
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-15T13:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/petraeus-gives-details-of-u-s-rescue-that-led-to-death-of-british-hostage.html
General  David Petraeus , the top
commander in Afghanistan, gave the first official details of the
operation that may have ended with U.S. special forces killing
the British hostage they were trying to save.  Petraeus, in London for talks with Prime Minister  David Cameron  and defense ministry counterparts, said he had spoken
today to the father of Linda Norgrove, the aid worker who died
during a rescue mission on Oct. 8.  He told reporters and analysts that troops had risked their
lives flying into the area at 8,000 feet, without lights, before
descending by “fast rope,” with an AC-130 gunship providing
support. He said it had been “disturbing” to be given
incorrect facts the morning after the assault, and that a review
of high-quality video footage stored on hard disks carried by
the squad revealed what had actually happened.  “It was very clear that there was a throwing motion and an
explosion that followed that, and that a grenade had been
deployed,” Petraeus said. “We cannot jump to conclusions about
what’s the cause of death. Obviously we have suspicions.”  Norgrove, 36, an aid worker for  Washington-based DAI , was
kidnapped last month with three local staff when their vehicle
was ambushed in Kunar province. She was killed during a U.S.
military operation near the village of Dineshgal in Kunar’s
Norgal district. Initial reports said she had been killed by her
captors, possibly by a suicide vest.  Her autopsy will be conducted in the U.K., Petraeus said.
He said the AC-130 airplane hadn’t been firing into the area of
the rescue itself. “To the best of my knowledge, it killed two
of what we call ‘squirters’ -- insurgents leaving the area,” he
said.  Contacts With Taliban  On the general situation in Afghanistan, he repeated
previous remarks about contacts with the Taliban. “There have
been several very senior Taliban leaders who have reached out to
the Afghan government at the highest level, and have also in
some cases reached out to other countries engaged in
Afghanistan,” he said. “These discussions to this point can
only be characterized as preliminary in nature. They certainly
cannot be characterized as negotiations.”  He said his forces had assisted in these talks. “It would
not be the easiest task for a senior member of the Taliban to
travel to Kabul without ISAF knowledge and facilitation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 