-- Pimco's Gross Cuts Government-Related Holdings, Purchases More Mortgages
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-15T18:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/pimco-reduced-holdings-of-government-debt-added-to-mortgages-last-month.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond  fund  at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , cut
 holdings  of government-related debt and bought more mortgages in
September.  The $252 billion  Total Return Fund ’s investment in
government debt was cut to 33 percent of assets, from 36 percent
the previous month, according to the  website  of Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco. The fund boosted mortgages to 28 percent
of assets, from 21 percent. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on
monthly changes in portfolio holdings.  Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  Gross reduced holdings of government-related debt for the
third straight month, after they accounted for 63 percent of
assets in June, the highest since it held an equal amount in
October 2009.  Pimco’s emerging-market debt climbed by one percentage
point to 12 percent, the highest since at least September 2006.  High-yield holdings remained steady at 4 percent, and non-
U.S. developed debt was unchanged at 6 percent. Pimco reduced
its net cash-and-equivalent position to negative 3 percent from
2 percent.  Fund Returns  The Total Return Fund has returned 11.81 percent in the
past 12 months, beating 74 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.83 percent over the past
month, a performance superior to 83 percent of competitors.
Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed
$1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  Yields on Treasuries maturing in five years and less have
tumbled to record lows since the Federal Reserve said in August
that it would revive purchases of government debt, a strategy
known as quantitative easing.  The Fed previously acquired about $1.75 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related debt to sustain the recovery,
concluding the program in March.  Pimco said yesterday it sold Treasuries on expectations a
second round of debt purchases by the central bank will have
limited impact.  End of Rally  “Even if the QE process is large and rates decline
further, in our view we’re approaching the end of the bond
market rally,”  Douglas Hodge , chief operating officer, said in
an interview at the World Knowledge Forum in Seoul. “From where
we sit, it’s very hard to suggest there’s going to be that kind
of price appreciation that we’ve seen in bonds over the last 12
to 24 months.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his central bank
colleagues are considering ways they can stimulate the economy
as the unemployment rate holds near 10 percent and inflation
falls short of their goals.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said today in the text of
remarks at a Boston Fed conference.  The central bank could expand asset purchases or change the
language in its statement, Bernanke said, while adding that
“nonconventional policies have costs and limitations that must
be taken into account in judging whether and how aggressively
they should be used.”  The U.S. may face a prolonged period of stagnation should
anticipated asset purchases by the Fed fail to invigorate
economic growth, Pimco’s Gross said during a Bloomberg
Television interview on “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and
 Matt Miller .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  