-- Poland May Price Warsaw Stock Exchange's IPO Near Top of Range, Deka Says
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-15T12:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/poland-may-price-warsaw-stock-exchange-s-ipo-near-top-of-range-deka-says.html
Poland will likely price the initial
public offering of the Warsaw Stock Exchange near the upper end
of its range as the bourse’s monopoly power and growth potential
lure investors, Deka Investment GmbH said.  The government, which is selling 64 percent of the
country’s sole stock exchange, set the price range in
bookbuilding for institutional investors at 36 zloty to 43 zloty
a share, valuing the IPO at as much as 1.15 billion zloty ($415
million), according to terms of the sale obtained by Bloomberg
News today. Bookbuilding started today and is due to end on Oct.
28, based on a  prospectus  published yesterday.  The IPO is part of a government plan to raise 25 billion
zloty this year to help finance the budget gap and curb
borrowing. Poland has sold stakes in the nation’s biggest
insurance, energy, copper and phone companies this year.  “They shouldn’t have major problems selling all the
shares, and I wouldn’t rule out that the price will be near the
maximum,” Patryk Jablonowski, who helps manage the equivalent
of $1.4 billion at Deka Investment in Frankfurt, said by phone.
“The exchange’s advantage is lack of competition, as
alternative platforms have not yet entered the market.”  Western European exchanges saw trading volume shrink last
year following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. At the same time competition has increased from
multilateral trading facilities such as Chi-X Europe Ltd. and
Bats Europe, which offered lower fees and faster trading.  The Polish exchange, which with a market capitalization of
$194 billion is the third-largest in emerging Europe after
Russia and Turkey, has expanded the fastest in the region, more
than doubling the number of traded companies and almost tripling
daily turnover in the past decade, according to  its website .  IPO Leader  Poland has had the highest number of IPOs annually in
central Europe since at least 2004, Bloomberg data show.
Companies have raised $4.34 billion in 54 IPOs this year, with
the largest coming from state-owned insurer  PZU SA  and energy
utility  Tauron Polska Energia SA .  “Recently most major share offerings in Poland have been
successful, which should also help attract demand from
individual investors during the exchange’s IPO,” said
Jablonowski.  PZU shares have jumped 23 percent over their April sale
price and Tauron climbed 19 percent since the government sold a
stake a stake in June. Individual investors will be offered as
much as 30 percent of 26.8 million shares being sold in the
exchange’s IPO, according to the prospectus.  Not ‘Terribly Expensive’  Based on the maximum offer price, the Warsaw exchange, the
first bourse in emerging Europe to go public, is valued at 17.9
times its 2009 net income, according to Bloomberg calculations.
 Bolsas y Mercados Espanoles SA , operator of the biggest
securities exchange on the Iberian peninsula, trades at 10.3
times reported earnings for the past 12 months, while Deutsche
Boerse AG is valued at 21 times reported profit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even at the maximum price the Warsaw exchange doesn’t
seem terribly expensive, when we compare it to other European
exchanges,” said Jablonowski, saying his valuations were based
on estimates of future earnings that he declined to disclose.  Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS
are global coordinators of the bourse’s IPO. Ipopema Securities
SA, KBC Groep NV, Societe Generale SA, PKO Bank Polski SA, Bank
Ochrony Srodowiska SA, Alior Bank SA, Banco Espirito Santo SA,
IDM SA and Wood & Co. are helping manage the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  