-- Promise, Japan Consumer Lenders Slump in Tokyo on Interest Claim Concerns
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2010-10-15T07:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/promise-japan-consumer-lenders-slump-in-tokyo-on-interest-claim-concerns.html
Promise Co ., Japan’s second-biggest
consumer lender, fell the most in five months, leading rivals
lower in Tokyo on concern Takefuji Corp.’s bankruptcy will spur
customer claims of overcharged interest across the industry.  Promise shares declined 16 percent to an all-time low of
455 yen at the close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Larger rival  Acom Co . dropped 7.3 percent to 922 yen, its
weakest in 15 years, and Aiful Corp. lost 9.8 percent to 46 yen.  Takefuji’s Sept. 28 bankruptcy made it the biggest casualty
of a four-year crackdown on coercive lending to consumers that
included capping rates at 20 percent and allowing borrowers to
seek refunds for overpayments. Promise and Acom have seen a rise
in overcharged interest inquiries as customers rush to meet
bankruptcy claim deadlines for Takefuji.  “Concerns persist over how the number of claims will be
impacted from the bankruptcy of Takefuji,” said  Kouichi Niwa , a
Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. “The number will
definitely decrease in the long run, but there’s a lack of
clarity about the short- and medium-term trend.”  Masahito Osawa , a spokesman for Acom, and Promise’s Risa
Matsumura said this week that more clients are asking about
refunds for overcharged interest since Takefuji’s collapse,
without providing estimates for the potential cost.  Kouhei Takekura, a spokesman for  Aiful , said it will
“carefully” monitor the impact of Takefuji’s bankruptcy.  Repayment costs for each of the four consumer lenders may
exceed 1 trillion yen ($12 billion),  Toshihiro Uomoto , a credit
strategist at Nomura Securities Co., said in a note on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 