-- Treasury Bonds Drop on Stronger Economic Data, Expectations for Inflation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-15T20:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/treasury-30-year-bonds-decline-as-retail-sales-increase-more-than-forecast.html
Treasuries due in five years and
longer fell after data showing retail sales rose more than
forecast and New York area manufacturing climbed added to
speculation Federal Reserve efforts to spur the economy will
reignite inflation.  The yield on the 30-year bond touched a two-month high as
traders bet the Fed will purchase shorter-term U.S. notes in a
strategy called quantitative easing. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech that additional stimulus may be
warranted because inflation is too low and unemployment too
high, fueling concern policy makers will take unconventional
steps to generate a rise in the consumer price index.  “The market is buying into the Fed mantra that it will
work to get us out of this low inflationary environment,” said
 Michael Pond , an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Barclays Plc, one of 18 primary dealers that trade Treasuries
with the Fed.  Benchmark 10-year  note yields  climbed six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.56 percent at 4:55 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 2.59
percent, the highest this month. The 2.625 percent security due
in August 2020 dropped 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face amount, to 100
17/32. Yields increased 17 basis points for the week.  Thirty-year  bond yields  increased six basis points to 3.99
percent and reached 4.01 percent, the highest level since Aug.
10. They climbed 23 basis points for the week, the most since
August 2009.  Focus on Inflation  “The Fed brought the inflation part into the conversation,
and it’s where the focus is,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase,
New York-based fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney. “The inflation part is creating some anxiety. That’s
not good news for the back end if you start tinkering with
inflation numbers.”  The  spread  between yields on 30-year bonds and comparable
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, an indication of
inflation expectations over the life of the securities, touched
2.61 percentage points, the widest since May 14. The five-year
average is 2.4 percentage points. The gap between 10-year notes
and comparable TIPS reached 2.17 percentage points, near the
most in five months.  The  extra yield  that investors demand for 30-year bonds
compared with 10-year debt touched a record high 1.46 percentage
points today. The five-year average is 0.52 percentage point,
according to Bloomberg data.  Longer-term Treasuries briefly pared losses as data showed
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment unexpectedly decreased to 67.9 in October
from 68.2 a month earlier.  ‘Continues to Recover’  Government reports today showed U.S. retail sales increased
more than forecast in September and New York area manufacturing
surged this month.  “The economic news was a bit better than what the market
was looking for,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee $12
billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
Private Wealth Management unit in New York. “The economy
continues to recover, although it’s still disappointing.”  Another report showed the cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in September. The consumer-price index was up
0.1 percent after 0.3 percent gains in the prior two months,
figures from the Labor Department showed today in Washington.  Bernanke and his central bank colleagues are considering
ways they can stimulate the economy as the unemployment rate
holds near 10 percent and inflation falls short of their goals.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said today in the text of
remarks at a Boston Fed conference.  ‘Costs and Limitations’  The central bank could expand asset purchases or change the
language in its policy statement, Bernanke said, while adding
that “nonconventional policies have costs and limitations that
must be taken into account in judging whether and how
aggressively they should be used.”  “Bernanke makes no mentions of a ‘shock and awe’ approach,
and indeed notes on multiple occasions that any new asset-
purchase initiative should proceed with ‘caution,’”  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. rates strategy for fixed-income and
currencies at primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada in New York,
wrote in a note to clients. “The Fed seems inclined to take a
‘baby steps’ approach.”  The Fed previously acquired about $1.75 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related debt to sustain the recovery,
concluding the program in March.  Fed Meeting  Policy makers, who have kept the benchmark  interest rate  at
a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008, are
scheduled to meet next Nov. 2-3.  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.6 percent last month, just
below the 0.7 percent revised gain in August, Commerce
Department data showed today in Washington. Economists had
forecast a rise of 0.4 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The Fed Bank of New York’s Empire State manufacturing index
surged to 15.73 this month, from a revised 4.14 last month.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
New York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  The Fed bought $4.69 billion of Treasuries today as part of
a program to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage
holdings into long-term government debt to prevent money from
being drained out of the financial system.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond  fund  at
 Pacific Investment Management Co. , cut  holdings  of government-
related debt and bought more mortgages in September.  The $252 billion  Total Return Fund ’s investment in
government-related debt was cut to 33 percent of assets, from 36
percent the previous month, according to the  website  of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  