-- Reckitt Fined $16.4 Million by U.K. Regulator Over Hearturn Drug Supplies
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-15T09:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/reckitt-fined-16-4-million-by-u-k-regulator-over-hearturn-drug-supplies.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc was
fined 10.2 million pounds ($16.4 million) by a U.K. regulator
for wrongfully stopping supplies of a heartburn medicine to the
 National Health Service  after its patent expired.  The fine was lowered from 12 million pounds after Slough,
England-based Reckitt admitted dropping the drug,  Gaviscon
Original Liquid , too quickly from the service’s prescription
channel in 2005 to boost sales of a version with an active
patent, the  Office of Fair Trading  said today in a  statement .  “This case underlines our determination to prevent
companies with a dominant position in a market from using their
strength to seek to restrict competition from rivals,” OFT
Chief Executive Officer  John Fingleton  said in the statement.  Reckitt, the world’s biggest maker of household cleaners,
was accused of removing the drug when the patent expired and
before its generic name had been published. The move blocked
doctors from prescribing a cheaper generic version and ensured
more prescriptions for its alternative product, Gaviscon Advance
Liquid, whose patent doesn’t expire until 2016, the OFT said.  The violation took place “under a highly complex area of
competition law,” and before cases that clarified the type of
infringement, Reckitt spokeswoman  Sally Ann Wilkinson  said today
in a statement.  “While the company believed at the time it was acting
within the law, as is always our intent, we respect the view of
the OFT in this matter and have agreed to settle,” Wilkinson
said in the statement.  Generic Version  The regulator first made the claims in February after
receiving a complaint from Pinewood Laboratories Ltd., which
makes a generic version of Gaviscon called Acidex.  “This shows that big companies cannot abuse a dominant
position and escape unpunished for anticompetitive behavior,”
Pinewood’s lawyer, Marc Israel of Macfarlanes LLP, said in a
statement. “Acidex is widely available, but Reckitt’s conduct
resulted in market penetration of the cheaper generic
alternative being severely limited.”  Reckitt, the maker of Nurofen painkillers and Lysol
cleaners, fell 9 pence to 3,443 pence at 9:33 a.m. in London
trading.  The fine comes one day after the U.K. government revealed
the OFT would be merged with another regulator, the Competition
Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 