-- Reid, Angle Spar in Nevada U.S. Senate Debate on Economy, Social Security
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/reid-angle-spar-in-nevada-debate-on-economy-social-security-health-care.html
Senate Democratic Leader  Harry Reid 
and his Republican challenger,  Sharron Angle , sparred over the
new health-care law, the economy and Social Security in the only
debate of his Senate re-election campaign in Nevada.  Angle, who scored an upset victory in the state’s
Republican primary with Tea Party backing, criticized Reid as a
career politician responsible for excessive federal spending and
intrusive government regulation. Reid described Angle’s
positions as “extreme” or based on false premises.  The one-hour discussion last night in Las Vegas ranged from
government’s role in helping improve the economy to the wisdom
of immigration reform and the environmental dangers posed by
coal-fired and nuclear-powered generating plants.  “These ideas of my opponent are really strange,” Reid
said, after Angle said Social Security’s trust fund is in
imminent danger of insolvency. “There is plenty of money in
that trust fund account” to pay benefits for 35 or 40 years.
Congress “has time to fix it,” Reid said. “Her facts are
absolutely wrong.”  Angle charged that Reid was ignoring a looming crisis.
“Man up, Harry Reid -- you need to understand we have a problem
with Social Security,” Angle said.  Reid, 70, is in a tight re-election battle against Angle,
61, a former state senator whose campaign says it has raised
more than $14 million in the last three months, most from small
contributors.  Seeking his fifth term in the Senate, Reid has suffered
from disapproval ratings that hover around 50 percent of the
electorate in most surveys.  Race Tightening  The race has tightened since June, when Reid trailed Angle
by as many as 7 percentage points in a Rasmussen Poll.  Angle leads Reid 47-45 percent in a Mason-Dixon Polling &
Research Inc. poll, conducted Oct. 11-12 for the  Las Vegas
Review-Journal,  with 2 percent saying they would vote for “none
of the above” -- which is a choice on Nevada’s ballot. The
survey of 625 likely voters had an error margin of plus or minus
4 percentage points.  In the debate, Reid touted his efforts to help Nevada
recover from the recession and deal with the nation’s highest
home-mortgage foreclosure rate. He took credit for pressuring
 Bank of America Corp.  to suspend mortgage foreclosures because
of problems with documentation.  After the economic collapse in 2008, Nevada fell into “a
big hole” that “we could hardly see out of,” Reid said. “I
believe my No. 1 job is to create jobs as a United States
senator” through passage of tax-reform legislation for small
businesses. “We have a long ways to go, but we have made
progress” toward reducing  unemployment , he said.  ‘Cloud of Uncertainty’  Angle said the economic policies of President  Barack Obama ’s administration and the Democratic-controlled Congress
have discouraged hiring by creating a “cloud of uncertainty”
for businesses.  “It’s not your job to create jobs, it’s your job to create
policies” so “the private sector can create jobs,” Angle told
Reid.  “What she’s talking about is extreme,” Reid said.  Nevada has the highest  unemployment rate  among U.S. states
-- 14.4 percent in August, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. The state’s home-mortgage foreclosure rate is the
highest in the nation, more than five times the national
average, according to RealtyTrac Inc. of Irvine, California.  In  September , one in 69 housing units in the state received
foreclosure notices, according to RealtyTrac.  Focus on Economy  Voters’ views on the economy are keeping the race close. An
Oct. 8-11 Suffolk University poll, which shows Reid with a 46-43
percent edge over Angle, also found that 92 percent of the
voters believe the recession isn’t over, and 61 percent don’t
think the $814 billion economic stimulus program created jobs in
the state.  President  Barack Obama  has led a parade of administration
officials to Nevada to help Reid’s chances. If defeated, he
would be the second Senate Democratic leader to lose re-election
in the last decade.  Tom Daschle  of South Dakota was defeated by
Republican  John Thune  in 2004.  On health care, Angle said that the legislation passed by
Congress interferes with the free market for health insurance.
“What makes better insurance plans is competition, so they will
cover the things we need them to cover,” she said.  Reid said the law was needed because “insurance companies
don’t do things out of the goodness of their hearts” and
consumers “need them to be forced” to pay for mammograms and
other procedures that haven’t always been covered, he said.  Social Security  Reid disputed an Angle campaign ad saying he has voted to
give Social Security benefits to illegal immigrants.  “Everything she said in that ad was false, that’s not the
law,” Reid said. Asked to produce proof, Angle repeated the
charge.  “My opponent didn’t answer the question,” Reid said.  Angle, noting Reid’s humble origins as the child of a hard-
rock miner, charged that he had become one of the wealthiest
senators while in public office.  “We’d like to know, how did you become so wealthy on a
government payroll?” Angle said.  “That is kind of a low blow,” Reid replied. “I was a
very successful lawyer, I did a very good job investing. I lived
off of what I made in the private sector” after going to
Congress in 1983, first as a House member, then as a senator.  Reid reported a net worth of at least $1.56 million, to as
much as $3.6 million, on his 2009 financial disclosure form
filed in June. The form provides asset values only in ranges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 