-- Renault, Corio Revive Bond Issues to Spur 66% Rise in European Debt Sales
-- B y   S o n j a   C h e u n g   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-15T09:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/renault-corio-revive-bond-issues-to-spur-66-rise-in-european-debt-sales.html
Renault SA ’s financing unit and
Dutch property investor  Corio NV  resurrected pulled debt issues
this week to help spur a 66 percent increase in bond sales as
borrowing costs fell to a five-month low.  The automaker’s RCI Banque SA raised 700 million euros
($985 million) after delaying a sale Sept. 28 while  Corio  tapped
the market for 500 million euros having withdrawn a transaction
July 6. Utility GDF Suez SA, and France’s Thales SA helped drive
sales to 12.5 billion euros, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s an opportune moment for issuers to raise funds as
all-in borrowing costs remain low,” said  Simon Ballard , senior
credit strategist at RBC Capital Markets in London. “Investors
on the lookout for yield really have little in the way of viable
alternatives and so are almost obliged to look at corporate
bonds,”  The relative premium companies must pay on their debt
dropped to the lowest level since May amid expectations that the
Federal Reserve may step up efforts to shore up the U.S. economy
and as earnings at companies including Google Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Intel Corp. beat analysts’ forecasts.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold investment
grade debt in Europe rather than government bonds fell as much
as 6 basis points to 163 this week, the lowest level since May
4, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index shows. This is equivalent
to an all-in-yield of about 3.15 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Trading Tighter  RCI’s notes were priced to yield 210 basis points more than
the benchmark mid-swap rate, and currently trade at 199 basis
points, Conduit Capital Markets Ltd. prices on Bloomberg show.
The Paris-based company’s abandoned sale of five-year bonds in
euros two weeks ago was marketed at a spread of 205 basis points
to 210 basis points, data show.  Catherine Grenier, a spokeswoman for RCI Banque in Paris,
declined to immediately comment on the company’s latest debt
offering.  Corio offered its bonds due January 2018 at 240 basis
points more than swaps, reviving a sale put on the sidelines
because of “overall market sentiment,” the Utrecht-based
company said at the time.  GDF Suez , owner of Europe’s biggest natural gas network,
also raised 2 billion euros from its first sale of bonds in the
common currency since January 2009. The 1 billion-euro, seven-
year notes now trade at 55 basis points after being priced at 60
basis points more than swaps on Oct. 11. The 12-year bonds trade
1 basis point wider at 81 basis points, Conduit Capital prices
on Bloomberg show.  Thales Issue  Thales  sold 600 million euros of six-year debt that
Europe’s biggest maker of defense electronics issued at a spread
of 80 basis points, Bloomberg data show. They now trade 3 basis
points tighter, according to Conduit prices on Bloomberg. The
sale is the Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France-based company’s first
issue since March 2009.  Credit Agricole SA , France’s largest bank by branches,
raised 1.25 billion euros from subordinated bonds eligible for
lower Tier 2 capital. The notes due 2021 were priced to yield
130 basis points more than swaps, and now trade at 126,
according to Conduit prices on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  