-- Republican Senate Candidates Lead in Campaign Cash (Correct)
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-18T14:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/republican-u-s-senate-candidates-gain-cash-advantages-for-close-races.html
Republican candidates for open U.S.
Senate seats dominated their Democratic rivals in fundraising
during the last three months, while incumbent Democratic
senators including Harry Reid also fell behind in the
competition for campaign cash.  Reid, the Senate majority leader, raised $2.8 million in
the period, as his Republican challenger for the Nevada Senate
seat, Sharron Angle, brought in $14 million. Democratic Senators
Patty Murray in Washington and Blanche Lincoln in Arkansas also
raised less than their Republican rivals.  Republicans vying for open U.S. Senate seats in Florida,
Illinois, Indiana, Missouri, New Hampshire and Ohio reported
millions of dollars in the bank heading into the final weeks
before the Nov. 2 elections. The money will be critical as the
parties battle for control of the House and Senate.  “Democratic incumbents and open-seat candidates face a
forbidding political and economic climate,” said Rogan Kersh, a
public policy professor at New York University. “With so many
races that could tip either way, money will be a decisive factor
in many of them.”  Senate fundraising reports had to be postmarked to the
Federal Election Commission by yesterday. Some campaigns sent
copies of summaries from the reports or disclosed figures.  TV Ads  The Angle campaign said it has raised an additional $3
million since the start of October, yet may be burning through
cash faster than Reid’s campaign. Reid spent about $4 million
less during the third quarter, finishing September with $4
million in cash, similar to the $4.1 million reported by Angle.  Reid spokesman Kelly Steele said the campaign had already
reserved TV advertising through Election Day. “Our campaign is
confident we have the necessary resources to turn out our
voters,” he said. The race is one of 11 considered a tossup by
the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington.  Republican Dino Rossi raised more than $4 million between
July 29 and Sept. 30 for his tossup bid to unseat Murray in
Washington and ended up with $3.5 million in the bank. Murray
raised more than $3 million and had $1.2 million in cash.  Republican Arkansas Representative John Boozman raised
$1.65 million for his Senate bid, about twice as much as
Lincoln. Boozman ended up with $1.3 million in the bank at the
end of September, his campaign said. Lincoln had $1.1 million.  Colorado Race  In Colorado, another tossup race, the picture was more
mixed. Democratic Senator Michael Bennet raised $2.7 million
between July 22 and Sept. 30, leaving him with $1 million in
cash at the end of the month. Republican Ken Buck raised $2.1
million in that time and had $1.4 million in the bank.  In open seats, Republicans reported clear cash advantages.  Republican Representative Mark Kirk had about $3 million
more in the bank at the end of September than Democrat Alexi
Giannoulias for their tossup race to fill the seat once held by
President Barack Obama.  Missouri Republican Representative Roy Blunt had a cash
advantage of more than $1.6 million over Democrat Robin
Carnahan, Missouri’s secretary of state. In New Hampshire,
Republican Kelly Ayotte, a former state attorney general, had
$1.1 million in the bank, about twice as much as Democratic
Representative Paul Hodes.  In Indiana, former Republican Senator Dan Coats had $1.4
million in cash, topping the $835,588 on hand for Democratic
Representative Brad Ellsworth. Cook considers Missouri a tossup,
while New Hampshire and Indiana are among six races, including
Arkansas, rated as “lean Republican.”  Swimming ‘Upriver’  “Democrats are struggling with open-seat races because
those are often a tossup, and in a year when the tide is running
so strongly against Democrats, well, it’s all the more difficult
to swim upriver,” said Steffen Schmidt, a political science
professor at Iowa State University in Ames.  Marco Rubio, the Republican candidate in Florida, had more
than $5.5 million in cash at the end of September, his campaign
said. His Democratic opponent, Representative Kendrick Meek, and
the independent candidate, Governor Charlie Crist, hadn’t
reported as of late last night.  In Ohio, Republican Rob Portman had $6.2 million in cash.
Lee Fisher, his Democratic opponent, also hadn’t reported.  There were some bright spots for Democrats.  Democratic Senators Barbara Boxer in California and Russ
Feingold in Wisconsin, both in tossup races, each ended up with
more cash than their Republican rivals. Boxer had about $4.7
million more than her challenger, former Hewlett-Packard Co.
Chief Executive Officer Carly Fiorina, and Feingold had about
$1.5 million more than Republican Ron Johnson.  Pennsylvania Race  In the tossup Pennsylvania Senate race, Democratic
Representative Joe Sestak had about $400,000 more in the bank
than former Republican Representative Pat Toomey.  House and Senate Democratic fundraising committees also
reported $67 million in the bank as of the end of September,
while Senate and House Republicans reported $38 million.
Democrats need the money to make up for the candidates’
fundraising surge and spending by Republican-leaning outside
groups that are flooding the airwaves with political ads.  “Republicans are excited, Democrats are tired,” said
Julian Zelizer, a history and public affairs professor at
Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey. “In tight races,
money will matter very much as Democrats will be bombarded by a
blitz of ads.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Traci McMillan in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  