-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in September for Third Month
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-easing-concern-consumers-will-retrench.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. probably
increased in September for a third month, easing concern
consumer spending will weaken and endanger the recovery,
economists said before a report today.  A projected 0.4 percent gain in sales would match the prior
month’s advance and is based on the  median estimate  of 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other figures may show
consumer confidence rose and inflation was little changed.  Retailers like  Target Corp.  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  are
sweetening discounts and using promotions ahead of the holiday
season to move merchandise as joblessness hovers near a 26-year
high. Some  Federal Reserve  officials have said economic growth
remains too slow to lower unemployment and stem price pressures
and may require additional stimulus from easier monetary policy.  “It’s glass half-full, half-empty,” said  Sal Guatieri , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “Consumers
are still spending at a rate that would prevent the U.S. economy
from tilting back into recession, but because spending is fairly
sluggish, it’s difficult to see the economy and, more
importantly, job growth ramping up.”  The Commerce Department’s sales report is due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of
0.1 percent to a gain of 0.8 percent.  Minutes before the report, at 8:15 a.m., Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is slated to speak at a conference sponsored by the
Fed Bank of Boston on the tools available to central bankers in
a low-inflation environment. The regional bank’s president,  Eric Rosengren , has been among policy makers favoring additional
action to boost the economy.  Discounting Toys  Target, the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer behind
Wal-Mart, said last week that it would lower prices on more than
1,000 toys to attract shoppers. Its larger rival responded this
week with its own discounts, advertising savings on brands such
as Barbie and Nerf toys.  The National Retail Federation is forecasting holiday sales
will be the best in four years and companies are planning on
stepping up hiring as a result.  Toys “R” Us Inc. , based in Wayne, New Jersey, last month
said it would hire about 45,000 seasonal employees, doubling its
U.S. workforce. The increase in seasonal workers is 10,000 more
than last year.  Kohl’s Corp ., the fourth-largest U.S. department store
chain, plans to hire about 40,000 people this holiday season, 21
percent more than last year, the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-
based company said in a statement last week.  Retailer Shares  Investors have driven up shares of retailers on signs of
improvement. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Retailing 
Index of 91 retailers including Target and Macy’s Inc., has
gained 14 percent this year, compared with a 5.3 percent
increase for the broader S&P 500 gauge.  The Commerce Department’s figures may also reflect gains in
auto sales. Vehicles sold at a 11.73 million seasonally adjusted
annual rate last month, the strongest performance since the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009, according
to industry data.  The Commerce Department’s retail sales report may show
purchases  excluding automobiles  rose 0.3 percent after a 0.6
percent gain in August, according to the survey median.  A lack of jobs and Americans’ drive to pay down debt and
boost savings may remain hurdles for retailers. Company payrolls
grew by 64,000 workers in September, the fewest in three months,
and wages stagnated, Labor Department figures showed last week.  Elevated Unemployment  Unemployment will average more than 9 percent though 2011,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg this month.  The Thomson Reuters/ University of Michigan’s  preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 68.9 in October from 68.2 at
the end of September, according to the Bloomberg survey median
before today’s 9:55 a.m. release. The gauge averaged 89 in the
five years leading up to the recession that began December 2007.  A report at 10 a.m. from the Commerce Department may show
 business inventories  rose 0.5 percent in August after a 1
percent gain the previous month which was the biggest increase
in two years, according to the median forecast.  Discounting by retailers will probably be reflected in a
Labor Department report on inflation at 8:30 a.m. Consumer
prices rose 0.2 percent in September after a 0.3 percent gain
the prior month, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed.  Excluding energy and food , prices rose 0.1 percent
after no change, the survey showed.  
To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  