-- Retail Sales in U.S. Climbed More Than Forecast in September
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-15T21:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/retail-sales-in-u-s-climb-more-than-forecast-easing-concern-on-recovery.html
Retail sales  in the U.S. climbed
more than forecast in September, easing concern that
 unemployment  stuck near a 26-year high will bring the recovery
to a halt.  Purchases rose 0.6 percent following a 0.7 percent gain in
August that was larger than previously estimated, according to
Commerce Department data issued today in Washington. Other
reports showed inflation cooled and manufacturing in the New
York region accelerated.  An unexpected decline in consumer confidence was a reminder
that a jobless rate forecast to exceed 9 percent through next
year will curb the spending that accounts for 70 percent of the
economy. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today said the
recovery may need additional monetary stimulus because inflation
is too low and too many Americans are still out of work.  “Today’s reports are all consistent with Bernanke’s
message,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at
State Street Global Markets LLC in Boston. “The consumer and
the economy are still in need of support, as private job
creation is insufficient to cause a material improvement in the
unemployment rate and in consumer confidence.”  Stocks rose after fluctuating between gains and losses as
expectations for further Fed easing were offset by concerns over
financial-company earnings after U.S. regulators said they were
aggressively investigating possible falsification of documents
used in foreclosure proceedings.  Stocks Fluctuate  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  advanced 0.2 percent to
1,176.19 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.56 percent from 2.51
percent late yesterday on the stronger economic data.  Retail sales were  projected  to rise 0.4 percent after a 0.4
percent gain previously reported for August, according to the
median estimate of 80 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A smaller-than-forecast increase in the cost of living
highlighted Bernanke’s concerns that inflation is falling short
of the Fed’s goals, raising borrowing costs in real terms.  Consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in September, less than
forecast, figures from the Labor Department showed. Core prices,
which exclude food and fuel costs, were little changed to cap a
0.8 percent increase in the past 12 months, the smallest  year-
over-year  gain since 1961.  Target Corp. , the second-biggest discount retailer behind
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , said last week that it would lower prices
on more than 1,000 toys to attract shoppers. Its larger rival
responded this week with its own discounts, advertising savings
on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  Consumer Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of  consumer sentiment  reported today decreased to 67.9,
the lowest since July, from 68.2 in September. Economists had
forecast an October reading of 68.9, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Retail sales advanced broadly, with clothing stores the
only major category to show a decline in demand last month.
Sales rose 1.6 percent at car dealers, their best performance
since March and in line with industry figures released earlier
this month.  Excluding auto dealers , purchases rose 0.4 percent, also
exceeding the  projected  0.3 percent increase, according to the
survey median.  Excluding autos, gasoline and building materials, which are
the  figures  used to calculate gross domestic product, sales
improved 0.4 percent after a revised 1 percent gain the prior
month that was larger than previously estimated.  Growth Forecast  The updated figures prompted economists at Morgan Stanley
to raise their forecast for third-quarter economic growth to 2.3
percent from 1.8 percent before the report. The economy expanded
at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the second quarter, slowing from
3.7 percent in the previous three months.  The National Retail Federation is forecasting holiday sales
will be the best in four years and companies are planning on
stepping up hiring as a result.  Toys “R” Us Inc ., based in Wayne, New Jersey, last month
said it would hire about 45,000 seasonal employees, doubling its
U.S. workforce. The increase in seasonal employees is 10,000
more than last year.  Kohl’s Corp ., the fourth-largest U.S. department store
chain, plans to hire about 40,000 people this holiday season, 21
percent more than last year, the Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin-
based company said in a statement last week.  A lack of jobs and Americans’ drive to pay down debt and
boost savings may remain hurdles for retailers. Company payrolls
grew by 64,000 in September, the fewest in three months, and
wages stagnated.  Wage Income  “Consumer spending has been inhibited by the painfully
slow recovery in the labor market, which has restrained growth
in wage income and has raised uncertainty about job security and
employment prospects,” Bernanke said today in a speech in
Boston.  Bernanke and his central bank colleagues are considering
ways they can further stimulate the economy after lowering
interest rates almost to zero and purchasing $1.7 trillion of
securities.  “There would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a
case for further action,” Bernanke said. He said the central
bank could expand asset purchases or change the language in its
statement, while saying “nonconventional policies have costs
and limitations that must be taken into account in judging
whether and how aggressively they should be used.”  November Meeting  He didn’t offer new details on how the Fed would undertake
those strategies or give assurances the central bank will act at
its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Stimulus spending to revive the economy and the lingering
effects of the recession on tax revenue pushed the government’s
budget deficit for fiscal year 2010 to $1.29 trillion, the
second-largest on record, the Treasury Department reported
today. It was surpassed only by last year’s $1.42 trillion gap.  A report from the Fed Bank of New York showed manufacturing
in the region accelerated. Its general economic  index  rose to
15.7 in October, the highest level in four months and more than
twice the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Readings greater than zero signal gains in the so-called Empire
State Index covering New York, northern New Jersey and southern
Connecticut.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  