-- Triathlete Lawyer Travels Kazakh Roads Into Everest Thin Air for Charities
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/triathlete-lawyer-travels-into-mount-everest-s-thin-air-for-charities.html
Charlie Wittmack woke up on the
asphalt of a Kazakhstan highway last weekend after being
knocked unconscious when a car rear-ended his bicycle at
about 40 mph.  The 33-year-old bespectacled lawyer at Des Moines,
Iowa’s  Davis Brown Law Firm  said he suffered no serious
injuries, just swelling in his right knee, hip and hand. He
added the incident to the list of setbacks on his 10,000-
mile attempt to complete an intercontinental journey he has
dubbed the  World Triathlon .  He completed a 275-mile (443-kilometer) swim in August
from Cricklade, England, to Cap Gris-Nez, France, during
which he was stung by jellyfish and had to be rescued after
becoming stranded on mud flats of the Thames Estuary before
crossing the English Channel. Wittmack’s latest mishap
occurred in the middle of an 8,875-mile bike ride from
France to Nepal.  “It was a true miracle to walk away from that,”
Wittmack said. “I was pretty scared.”  Wittmack, who is using the expedition to raise money
for educational charities including  Des Moines University’s
Global Health program  and  Topics Education , said he wants
to reach China by Oct. 21 and complete the  scheduled  bike
leg of his journey by Dec. 1 in India. To get there, he
will have to cross snow-covered mountain passes in
Kyrgyzstan. Due to political and ethnic violence in the
country, Wittmack is currently traveling with armed
escorts, paid for by sponsors including  MIR Corp. , a
Seattle-based adventure travel company.  Once he dismounts his bike, Wittmack plans to run and
hike 950 miles from the Bay of Bengal to the top of  Mount
Everest . The expedition began July 1. Over 11 months, the
trial lawyer will cross 13 countries.  “This was just something I always wanted to do,” he
said in a telephone interview. “I’ve been working on it a
long time.”  Financial Problems  Wittmack’s biggest obstacle may be  money . Due to a
lack of funds, Wittmack said he biked through Poland and
Ukraine alone.  The project, including the charitable donations, will
cost about $1.2 million, Wittmack said. The university’s
Global Health program will use $600,000 to provide a team
of doctors and students to educate girls in Nepal about
safe sex, prenatal care and maternal health issues. Mothers
in Nepal are 100 times more likely to die during childbirth
than women in the U.S., according to the university.  About $250,000 is being used by North Carolina-based
Topics Education to create an online curriculum tied to the
expedition. Educational modules will be used to teach
students in various regions about earth science issues such
as alternative energy, water quality and climate change.  Additional funds will be needed for translators and
guides in areas deemed “not safe to go in blindly,” said
Brian Triplett, Wittmack’s 26-year-old logistics
coordinator and communications director.  Seeking Funds  “We’re still seeking sponsorships,” Triplett said.  Wittmack’s wife, Cate, and 2-year-old son have joined
him for parts of the journey. Convincing his spouse to go
along with his plan became easier when she was diagnosed
with thyroid cancer two years ago, he said. She’s now
cancer free.  “It was a pretty scary thing to go through,” he
said. “We realized that maybe we shouldn’t be taking the
time for granted so much and maybe we shouldn’t put things
off.”  Wittmack first got the idea for the trip at age 14
when he was a member of his high school swim and cross-
country teams, he said. While working in an after-school
job in a bike store, he read books about  Edmund Hillary ,
the first man to climb Mount Everest, and  Matthew Webb , the
first man to swim the  English Channel .  Little Boy’s Dream  “It’s just an idea I came up with when I was probably
too young to know better,” he said. “As a little boy I
just found myself thinking, ‘What could be the world’s
toughest triathlon?’”  In 2003, Wittmack became the first Iowan to reach the
summit of Everest, a journey he spent seven years planning.
In 2008, he abandoned an attempt to swim the 21-mile
English Channel after being pulled out of the water due to
freezing temperatures after 15 miles. He wore a wetsuit
during the swim portion of his current expedition to help
withstand the cold. An experienced ocean marathon swimmer,
Wittmack finished first in the 32nd annual 12.5-mile  Swim
Around Key West  in Florida two years ago.  First American  When he completed the trip’s swim leg, Wittmack became
the first American to scale Everest and swim the English
Channel.  At 5-foot-8 and 145 pounds, Wittmack typically spends
his days wearing a suit with a starched collared shirt at
his office.  “I definitely don’t look the part,” Wittmack said.
“But I just keep putting one hand and foot in front of the
next.”  Wittmack plans to return to the law firm, which
allowed him a leave of absence for the expedition.  “I’m already missing the office,” he said. “There’s
a comfort in life when the days are sort of planned out for
you and you can enjoy dinner with your family. These
expeditions strip away all of those comforts. That’s why I
do it. So I don’t take those simple things for granted, but
I do look forward to getting back to my office someday.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  