-- Rise of In Vitro Offspring Ignites Question of Rightful Heirs
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-15T15:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/rise-of-in-vitro-offspring-in-u-s-raises-question-of-who-is-rightful-heir.html
When Heidi Sanders, 31, was facing
 cervical cancer  in July 2008 she was concerned she wouldn’t be
able to have children in the future, so she had 15 of her eggs
and 14 embryos frozen.  “It was a huge source of comfort for me while I was going
through treatment that a part of me might survive if I could
not,” said Sanders, a gallery director in Manhattan.  Sanders told her boyfriend -- now husband -- and parents
that she wanted them to try and use her genetic material to
conceive a child if she died.  Most states don’t have laws governing the inheritance
rights of children conceived after a parent dies even as the use
of assisted reproductive technologies has doubled in the U.S.
over the last decade, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  “There are situations where it’s not so clear that a
person would have wanted to be deemed a parent after death,”
said Laura Twomey, who specializes in estate planning and is a
partner at  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP  in New York. Questions
also arise over whether posthumously conceived children may
benefit from a relative’s trust: “Is that what Grandma would
have wanted?” Twomey said.  Eggs, sperm and embryos used in procedures such as in-vitro
fertilization and artificial insemination can be frozen and
stored indefinitely, said Nicole Noyes, a physician and
professor at New York University School of Medicine and co-
director of the egg-freezing program at  NYU Fertility Center .  Wide Open Field  About 132 women have frozen their eggs in the past year at
NYU’s center in New York, up from about 20 three years ago, said
Noyes, who treated Sanders. Some patients are trying to preserve
their ability to get pregnant later in life, while about a
quarter of them have cancer and may become infertile or sterile
through treatments, Noyes said.  “If any of these young women die, what are the heir rights
for these eggs?” she said. “It’s a wide open field. This is
new.”  One cycle of in-vitro fertilization at NYU, in which eggs
are retrieved and embryos are transferred to the uterus, costs
$10,565, if  insurance  doesn’t cover it, according to the center.
Patients with any extra eggs or embryos may freeze them for
$1,500 the first year and $1,000 each additional year. The
center requires people to fill out forms stating what they want
done with the genetic material if they die, Noyes said.  Sanders specified in her paperwork that the eggs and
embryos would go to her husband in the event of her death, she
said. She said she didn’t have a will.  State Issue  Disputes over whether children conceived after a parent’s
death have inheritance rights to the deceased mother or father’s
estate and family trusts will happen more frequently, said
 Joshua Rubenstein , national chair of trusts and estates at
Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP in New York. Rubenstein has settled
six such cases in the last seven years. They’ve generally
revolved around instances where a wife who has been distanced
from her deceased husband’s family has a child posthumously and
wants to access money in a trust fund, he said.  The issue falls to the states rather than the federal
government because it involves parentage, said Kristine
Knaplund, a professor at  Pepperdine University  School of Law in
Malibu, California, who specializes in estates and bioethics.  New York Rule   In Florida, posthumously conceived  children  aren’t heirs of a
deceased parent unless provided for in a will, Knaplund said.
California requires evidence of a parent’s wishes and
notification to the estate of the intent to use the frozen
genetic material. Implantation must occur within two years of a
decedent’s death. Louisiana has a similar rule saying the child
must be born within three years.  New York State amended its rules in 2006 regarding a parent
with a will who may not have updated it before dying to provide
for additional children. The statute says in that situation a
child conceived after a parent dies doesn’t have rights to a
portion of the estate.  A 2007 case before the Surrogate’s Court of New York County
centered on whether two children conceived by means of in-vitro
fertilization years after their father died could inherit from
trust agreements set up by a grandparent, according to court
documents.  Judge Renee R. Roth ruled the infants were deemed to be
descendants for purposes of the trusts. “There is a need for
comprehensive legislation to resolve the issues raised by
advances in biotechnology,” the opinion said. The ruling was
limited to the facts of that specific case, Rubenstein, the
estate lawyer, said.  Uniform Code  Three states -- Colorado, North Dakota and Utah -- have
adopted amendments in the Uniform Probate Code since 2008
addressing the issue, said Michael Kerr, legislative director
for the Chicago-based  Uniform Law Commission . The commission is
a non-profit, governmental organization that establishes
statutes states may adopt when it’s important to have
consistency nationally. The provisions are pending in Minnesota
and New Mexico, Kerr said.  The UPC says a child conceived posthumously must be in
utero no more than 36 months after a parent’s death -- or born
within 45 months -- to inherit. That gives a spouse or partner
time to grieve and for failed attempts to achieve pregnancy,
while not leaving an estate open indefinitely, said Lawrence
Waggoner, a professor at the University of Michigan Law School,
who helped draft the amendments.  Claims on Relatives  The Code also stipulates that a child who is deemed an heir
to a parent may also inherit from a relative of that parent,
Waggoner said. By contrast, children born from an anonymous
sperm or egg donor don’t have a claim to the inheritance of the
donor under the Code, he said.  Documents such as a will or forms signed at a fertility
center specifying a parent’s wishes about a posthumously
conceived child can override the UPC provisions, Waggoner said.  A provision in a trust, for example, might include language
such as “any child born to my husband and me shall include a
posthumously conceived child by me by means of assisted
reproduction” as long as that baby “is born during my
husband’s lifetime and my husband has acted as such child’s
legal guardian,” said Teresa Baird, an attorney at Denver-based
law firm  Fairfield and Woods PC .  Be Proactive  “Don’t count on a statute or judge correctly interpreting
what your intentions are,” said Bruce Fowler, a partner at
Fairfield and Woods PC, who has clients with frozen genetic
material. “If you do have genetic material preserved you need
to do the thoughtful planning and be proactive.”  Grandparents should also specify whether they want any
grandchildren conceived after their child’s death using the
deceased child’s preserved genetic material to inherit from any
trust they set up, Fowler said.  Sanders said she is cancer-free after treatment and a
 hysterectomy . She and her husband still have some eggs and
embryos frozen and her sister is carrying their first child.  “We’re expecting in March,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 