-- Romer Says Tenuous Finances in Parts of Europe Cause Worry for Recovery
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/romer-says-tenuous-finances-in-parts-of-europe-something-to-worry-about-.html
Budget woes in Greece, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain are “something to worry about” as the U.S.
economy continues its climb out of recession, said  Christina Romer , former chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s Council of
Economic Advisers.  “We know that there are still some countries on the
periphery of Europe that - whose fiscal situation is tenuous,”
Romer, a  University of California-Berkeley  professor, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television special correspondent Willow
Bay. “That’s certainly something to worry about.”  Romer said she is “not very” concerned about a so-called
double-dip recession, and she said the U.S. economy is generally
on a course of “steady expansion.” At the same time, she said
the U.S. construction and housing markets will be a drag on the
recovery.  “We’re in a period of slow recovery. And what we need is
fast recovery,” Romer said yesterday. She predicted a “long
hard slog” for the housing market before it recovers fully from
the recession and financial crisis.  The U.S. economy shed 95,000 jobs in September as the
 unemployment rate  held at 9.6 percent, according to data
released this month. The labor market’s struggles have been
affecting consumer spending, the biggest part of the economy,
and limiting growth heading into 2011.  Romer said the Obama administration should have been more
aggressive last year in seeking additional fiscal stimulus. She
said too much time was spent debating the best course of action
and the administration missed a window of opportunity “before
stimulus became a dirty word.”  “We should’ve just said let’s just pick one of them and
run with it rather than continuing to discuss it,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  