-- Rosneft Will Buy PDVSA's Stake in German Refining Venture for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-10-15T12:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/rosneft-agrees-to-buy-stake-in-german-refinery-from-pdvsa-for-1-6-billion.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
producer and refiner, agreed to buy  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s
50 percent stake in a German refining venture for $1.6 billion
to expand into Europe.  Rosneft and PDVSA signed the agreement today at the Kremlin
in a ceremony broadcast on state television. BP Plc, which holds
the remaining 50 percent of the venture, welcomes Rosneft as a
partner, BP spokesman Toby Odone said by telephone.  Russian oil producers are seeking access to refining assets
in Europe and Asia to boost the value of their crude supplies.
Rosneft’s deal follows those by OAO Lukoil, which bought almost
half of ERG SpA’s Sicilian refinery in 2008, and OAO
Surgutneftegaz, which acquired a stake in Hungary’s Mol Nyrt.
last year. The state-run oil producer may also build a $5
billion refinery in China, Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin 
said last month.  “It’s absolutely a better deal than building a new
refinery,” Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit
SpA, said by telephone from Moscow. “Despite a near-term weak
outlook for European refining, the long-term perspective, with
the potential for tax reform in Russia, is good.”  Larger Profits  The acquisition increases Rosneft’s equity refining
capacity by 11.6 million metric tons a year, placing 18 percent
of the company’s refining capacity in Europe, Chief Executive
Officer Eduard Khudainatov said in a statement.  If Russia reduces its export duties on crude oil in the
long term, then companies like Rosneft will be able to bring
cheaper Russian oil to more advanced European refineries and
earn larger profits, Konchin said.  Rosneft will gain a 12 percent stake in the Miro refinery
in Karlsruhe, about 19 percent of the PCK refinery in Schwedt,
12.5 percent in the Bayernoil refinery in Neustadt and half of
the Gelsenkirchen complex through PDVSA’s stake in Ruhr Oel, the
company said in the statement.  The refining venture also owns a stake in the Mulheim
chemical plant, according to Bloomberg data and BP’s website.  The $1.6 billion doesn’t include PDVSA’s share of crude
inventory or receivables, which will be valued when the deal
closes, Rosneft said.  Venezuela will invest the proceeds in “other areas,”
President  Hugo Chavez  said yesterday on state television after
arriving in Moscow for an official visit.  “This is a good deal for us and Russia is very interested
in the stake for geopolitical purposes,” Chavez said. “This
liberates us from an asset that we don’t need.”  The trip is Chavez’s ninth to Russia, the Kremlin said.
Russia and Venezuela are “strategic partners,” President
 Dmitry Medvedev  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  