-- Ruling Party Lawmaker Group Seeks to Curb Independence of Central Bank
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-10-15T03:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ruling-party-lawmaker-group-seeks-to-curb-independence-of-central-bank.html
A group of ruling  Democratic Party
of Japan  legislators called for revising the law that governs
the Bank of Japan to allow for more political input in efforts
to end more than a decade of deflation.  The 150-member group, who call themselves the “anti-
deflation lawmakers,” agreed today to push the DPJ to propose a
law requiring the central bank to adopt an inflation target and
make increasing employment a policy goal. In a statement, the
legislators also called for reviewing the selection process for
BOJ governor, vice governor and board members.  “We’ll definitely work on this,” said  Jin Matsubara , the
head of the group. “We want to materialize the changes through
the party’s official process.”  While the proposal aligns part of the governing party with
opposition politicians, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
administration hasn’t endorsed changing the BOJ law. Economy
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said before he took his post in September
that he isn’t in favor of revision, and prefers to discuss
specific measures with the central bank officials.  Chiwoong Lee , a senior economist at Goldman Sachs Japan Co.
Ltd. in Tokyo, said he thinks there’s less than a 50 percent
chance of changing the law.  ‘Nothing Implemented’  “The group may have many members, but nothing’s been
implemented so far,” said Lee in a phone interview. “But talk
about the BOJ law change will no doubt continue as a way to
pressure the central bank.”  Former DPJ Finance Minister  Hirohisa Fujii  said in an
August interview that the government shouldn’t use the central
bank as its “tool.”  The opposition Your Party is planning to submit a bill at
the current parliament session, and seeking cooperation from
another opposition party, New Komeito. That party’s leader said
he won’t support it.  “We don’t readily support the change,” New Komeito head
 Natsuo Yamaguchi  said yesterday in an interview at his office in
Tokyo. “We cannot work with Your Party on this. If politics
binds the Bank of Japan, it will affect the bank’s
independence.”  The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 cut the overnight call rate
target to almost zero, and created a 5 trillion yen ($60 billion)
fund to buy government bonds and other assets. The move came as
Kan’s cabinet endorsed a 5.1 trillion stimulus plan to support
an economy threatened by the yen’s rise to a 15-year high.  The anti-deflation group in its statement praised the
bank’s action while adding the scale was small. Introducing an
inflation target is “indispensable,” the statement said.  The group accounts for more than a third of the party’s
total lawmakers in parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  