-- Russia to Build Venezuela's First Nuclear Power Plant, Expand Cooperation
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-15T19:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/russia-to-build-venezuela-s-first-nuclear-power-plant-expand-cooperation.html
Russia agreed to build Venezuela’s
first nuclear power plant after talks in Moscow between the
countries’ presidents,  Dmitry Medvedev  and  Hugo Chavez .  The two nations will cooperate to develop nuclear power in
Venezuela, including a research reactor, according to the
agreement signed today by  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Rosatom
Corp., Russia’s state-run nuclear holding company.  The deal comes as Chavez, who has visited Russia nine times
during more than 11 years in power, strengthens ties with
governments critical of U.S. foreign policy. He has bought more
than $4.4 billion of weapons from Russia and promised to give
the country’s energy companies access to Venezuelan oil fields.  “Why shouldn’t Venezuela have a plant like this,”
Medvedev said at a news conference with Chavez. “Venezuela is
our close partner, and it would provide a certain independence
in case of falling prices on certain types of fuel.”  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in South America, saw
output drop 17 percent to 2.44 million barrels a day in the four
years ended Dec. 31, according to data compiled by BP Plc.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  reached an initial
agreement on the nuclear plant during a trip to Venezuela in
April. Chavez told Medvedev today that the agreement might
trigger “various emotions” in some countries, the Russian
president said.  “I don’t know who’ll wince at this,” Medvedev said. “But
I’d like to emphasize that our intentions are entirely pure and
straightforward.”  U.S.-Venezuela  Chavez has often sparred with the U.S. Venezuela last month
rejected President  Barack Obama ’s selection of  Larry Palmer  as
ambassador to Caracas after the nominee said Chavez’s government
had “clear ties” with terrorist organizations.  “This is something that we will watch very, very
closely,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told
reporters in Washington today. “It is certainly a right of any
country to pursue civilian nuclear energy, but with that right
comes responsibilities.”  While the Venezuelan nuclear project is “interesting and
positive,” Russian officials must complete “preparatory
studies” and assess issues such as the size of the market
before it can move forward, Medvedev said.  “The power station is in the future,” Kiriyenko said.
“Let’s start with the research reactor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  