-- Russia's Acron Could List in Canada to Tap Potash Deposits There, CFO Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-10-15T17:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/russia-s-acron-considers-listing-in-toronto-to-tap-potash-deposits-there.html
OAO Acron , Russia’s third-largest
nitrogen fertilizer producer, said it’s considering listing in
Toronto to tap potash fields in Canada and end its reliance on
raw-material suppliers.  Acron expects to complete exploration next year at some 30
potash deposits in Saskatchewan, which together may hold
recoverable reserves of 6 billion metric tons of the soil
nutrient, Chief Financial Officer  Alexei Milenkov  said in an
interview yesterday at the company’s phosphate-mining project in
Murmansk, northwest Russia.  “One of the options we’re looking at is a public share
offering in Toronto,” he said. “The project should be
independent and not rely on the financial resources of the
parent company.” Acron may also seek a strategic investor, he
said, without commenting further.  Russia’s biggest makers of complex fertilizers, including
OAO UralChem and OAO EuroChem, are seeking to counter the effect
of rising prices for nitrogen, phosphate and potash as shrinking
arable land and rising world food demand spur consumption. Acron
plans to spend about $3.5 billion building phosphate and potash
mines in Russia to increase its own supply of raw materials.  Acron’s  Oleniy Ruchey  phosphate mine, located about 1,000
kilometers (620 miles) northeast of St. Petersburg, will open in
March 2012 and by the end of that year should reach output of 1
million metric tons, said Milenkov. Acron’s annual consumption
of phosphate is about 700,000 tons.  Increased Self-Sufficiency  The company is also developing the Talitsky potash site in
the Urals region of Perm, in western Russia. Acron expects to
start mining at the site in 2016 and reach maximum capacity in
2018, Milenkov said.  Increasing its self-sufficiency in raw materials “is the
right strategy” for Acron because of the rising cost of basic
components, said  Elena Sakhnova , an analyst in Moscow at VTB
Capital.  Acron  rose  1.24 rubles, or 0.1 percent, to 914.50 rubles at
the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow trading.  Acron’s billionaire owner  Vyacheslav Kantor , ranked as the
48th-richest man in Russia with a fortune of $1.3 billion by
Forbes magazine, told Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in July that
his company’s profitability was being hurt by “ monopolists .”  OAO Silvinit, Russia’s largest potash producer, and rival
OAO Uralkali are controlled by billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov  and
his partners, who plan to merge the two companies.  Long-Term Contracts  Kantor asked Putin to help persuade potash producers to
grant long-term supply contracts, rather than the current six-
month pricing arrangements. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on
Sept. 6 called for an investigation into domestic fertilizer
prices.  Uralkali and Silvinit, which sell products to Russian
farmers at a discount to international prices, say the domestic
makers of complex fertilizers compete with them on exports after
buying potash from miners as a raw material.  In July, Uralkali agreed to supply potash to Acron at 4,300
rubles ($132) a ton until the end of the year, which represents
a 40 percent discount to the export price from Russia, said
VTB’s Sakhnova.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Koashva, Russia via the Moscow newsroom at +7-
   hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  