-- Seagate's Default Swaps Surge to Highest Since 2008 Amid Takeover Reports
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-15T21:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/seagate-s-default-swaps-surge-to-highest-since-2008-amid-takeover-reports.html
The cost to protect bonds issued by
 Seagate Technology Plc  climbed to the highest since September
2009 after reports TPG Capital and KKR & Co. are in talks to
acquire the disk-drive maker. Credit-default swaps on other
buyout candidates also climbed.  Swaps on Seagate jumped 98.5 basis points to a mid-price of
451.4 basis points as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to
derivatives data provider CMA.  Computer Sciences Corp., the Falls Church, Virginia-based
networking and consulting company for businesses and government
that Jefferies & Co. analyst  Joseph Vafi  last month said may
make an attractive target, climbed 24.6 basis points to 171.7,
according to CMA.  “For most folks, they view it as ‘if there’s smoke in the
sector, there must be fire somewhere,’ ” said  Rizwan Hussain , a
credit strategist at Morgan Stanley. Investors are looking at
other companies with similar profiles, especially on Fridays, he
said. “Everybody fears the merger Monday mentality -- that
transactions will surface on Monday. The trading pattern you’re
seeing fits that bill.”  The private-equity firms are considering an offer that
would value Dublin-based Seagate at $7.55 billion, said two
people with knowledge of the discussions, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. The disk-drive
maker said yesterday it was in talks to be taken private,
without identifying the parties involved, sending its shares up
22 percent in extended trading. A leveraged buyout would be the
company’s second in a decade.  Technology Swaps  Contracts on CA Inc., the maker of software for mainframe
computers, climbed 7.4 basis points to 151.4 and those on Arrow
Electronics Inc. climbed 10.8 basis points to 174.4, CMA data
show.  Five-year swaps on Sara Lee Corp. climbed 14 basis points
to a record mid-price of 156.9, according to CMA. The swaps
soared 63.6 basis points on Oct. 4 after Bloomberg News reported
the Downers Grove, Illinois-based maker of Jimmy Dean breakfast
foods company held talks in recent months with Apollo Global
Management LLC that failed to result in a deal.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 98.9 basis points as
of 4:58 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, touched the lowest in
more than five months on Oct. 13 at 95.5 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings climbed 1.9 basis points to 102.5,
Markit prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  