-- Shell Is Said to Plan Start of Units at Pernis, Europe's Largest Refinery
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2010-10-15T16:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/shell-pernis-refinery-shutdown-to-last-weeks-as-french-strike-cuts-supply.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc plans to start
units at its plant in The Netherlands, Europe’s largest, in the
coming weeks, according to people with knowledge of the work, as
a strike in France halted refineries and caused fuel shortages.  A fluid catalytic cracker at  Pernis  will be started in at
least three weeks after an unplanned halt last month, two people
with knowledge of the work said, declining to be named because
they aren’t authorized to speak publicly about operations. The
unit produces gasoline.  Shell has been a consistent buyer of gasoline on the barge
market in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp since at least the end of
August, according to a survey of traders and brokers monitoring
the Argus bulletin board. The company bought 3,000 tons at $770
a metric ton today and one lot at $776 a ton.  A hydrocracker and associated units at the 416,000 barrel-
a-day refinery will be started at the end of the month, one of
the people said. The hydrocracker, which produces mainly diesel,
was shut in mid-September for as long as six weeks.  A crude unit will be shut in February next year for planned
maintenance, the people said. The work will last at least a
month, one of the people said.  The refinery has hydrocracking capacity of 89,000 barrels a
day and catalytic cracking capacity of 50,000 barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wim van de Wiel , a
Shell spokesman based in The Hague, declined to comment, citing
company policy not to talk about plant operations.  Margins Plunged  Refiners in northwest Europe have been carrying out
maintenance as profits from turning crude into fuels such as
gasoline and diesel fell to a four-year low. Margins plunged to
an average of $2.59 a barrel in the third quarter, according to
data compiled by  BP Plc . That’s the lowest level since the
fourth quarter of 2006.  Strikes in France over government plans to increase the age
of retirement to 62 from 60 and protests over port reform have
led to refineries in the country halting production of fuels.
Total SA, Petroplus Holdings AG, LyondellBasell Industries NV,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Ineos Group Holdings Plc operate plants
with a total processing capacity of 1.84 million barrels of oil
a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockpiles of gasoline in independent storage in the ARA-
area fell for a second week to 849,000 tons, according to
consultant PJK International BV.  In related news, Shell will stop production from a 240,000
ton-a-year ethylene unit at its Wesseling site in Germany at the
end of 2011, the company said on Oct. 4 in an e-mail. The unit,
called a 2B cracker, is the older of two on site.  “Given the changes in the competitive environment, we
don’t see that operations of this unit can be continued in a
commercially viable way,” the company said. Ethylene is used in
plastics production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  