-- Sol Melia Brings Upscale Hotel Brand to U.S. as Demand Recovers
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/sol-melia-brings-luxury-hotel-brand-to-u-s-as-upscale-lodging-rebounds.html
Sol Melia SA  is opening its first
U.S. hotel this week in  Atlanta , adding to an expanding field of
competition for upscale travelers as demand recovers.  The lodging chain’s $35 million conversion of a former
Marriott Renaissance into a Melia Atlanta will be followed over
the next five years by entries into New York, Chicago, Miami and
yet-to-be-determined cities in California and Texas, according
to Andre Gerondeau, an executive vice president for the Palma de
Mallorca, Spain-based company.  “It’s been a distressed market, but we see it coming back
and we see opportunity,” he said in an interview at the Atlanta
property. “It’s never the perfect time, but it’s a good time.”  Upper-tier hotels, catering to business travelers and high-
income individuals, are attracting new entrants after rebounding
from the recession faster than other segments. London-based
 Virgin Group  Ltd. formed a partnership in September to spend as
much as $500 million on high-end hotels over the next three
years, initially targeting U.S. markets such as New York and San
Francisco.  Pebblebrook Hotel Trust , which went public as a real
estate investment trust in December, has announced acquisitions
of seven upscale hotels for $564 million since June 7, including
two this week in Philadelphia and Los Angeles.  Pre-Recession Occupancy  Revenue per available room for upper-tier hotels in the
U.S. rose 4.9 percent this year through August, compared with a
4 percent increase for the overall industry, according to  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville, Tennessee. The segment
may return to pre-recession occupancy and room-rate levels by
2013, said Atlanta-based Colliers PKF Hospitality Research.  Sol Melia plans a 12-to-18-month upgrade of the Atlanta
hotel that it expects will sync with the market’s upswing,
Gerondeau said. The property will stay open during the
renovations.  “We hope to be totally refurbished by the beginning of
2012, and we feel that’s going to be a good time to position
ourselves in this market,” he said.  Sol Melia, founded in 1956 by  Gabriel Escarrer Julia , still
chairman at 75, is the third-largest hotel chain in Europe by
number of properties and the 12th-biggest in the world,
according to its website. It has about 300 hotels and resorts on
four continents. North America wasn’t one of them, until now.  Sol Melia may struggle to establish a U.S. beachhead, said
 Mark Woodworth , executive vice president of PKF Hospitality.  Established Brands  “It’s harder for them to drive traffic through their doors
than the established chains,” said Woodworth, noting that
competitors such as  Hyatt Hotels Corp.  and Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. have well-known brands, customer-loyalty
programs and ubiquity, particularly in a crowded hotel market
like Atlanta. The city is the nation’s seventh-largest lodging
market, according to Smith Travel Research.  Three upscale hotels have opened within a mile of the Melia
Atlanta since January 2009: a W Hotel, one of White Plains, New
York-based Starwood’s brands; Hotel Palomar, operated by Kimpton
Hotels and Restaurant Group LLC of San Francisco; and a Lowes
Hotel, operated by New York-based Lowes Corp.  Midtown Atlanta’s 3,099 upscale hotel rooms comprise 80
percent of that district’s total inventory. The Melia Atlanta,
classified under a lower tier when it was a Marriott, will add
another 502 rooms.  “All that new supply has yet to be absorbed,” said
Woodworth. The midtown area’s hotel recovery has lagged that of
the other five Atlanta submarkets, he said.  Market Underperforming  Gerondeau said some of the high-end hotels in midtown have
struggled because of a lack of demand from business travelers.
Atlanta’s economy has been worse than the rest of the country’s
by a number of measures, and has the second-highest office
vacancy rates among major U.S. markets, according to Cushman &
Wakefield Inc.  “Some of the players have had a real hard time playing the
real estate market,” Gerondeau said of other hotel companies in
the area.  The W Hotel, located within a mile of the Melia, went into
foreclosure this month, according to an Oct. 5 statement. Tim
Dahlen, its general manager, said the hotel has been profitable,
including 12 sold-out nights this month. Depressed sales for the
74 luxury condominiums atop the 237-room hotel hurt the property
financially, said David Haddow, president of Haddow & Co., an
Atlanta real estate consulting firm.  Governor’s Mansion  Sol Melia also has competitors in the Buckhead submarket to
the north. The  InterContinental  Hotel was acquired in July for
$105 million by Bethesda, Maryland-based Pebblebrook, which
plans $7 million of improvements to the six-year-old property. A
St. Regis Hotel opened in the area April 2009 on a street lined
with multi-million-dollar homes, including the Georgia
governor’s mansion.  The Melia hotel is owned by Fundus Group, a Berlin-based
real estate investment firm. Sol Melia reached an operating
agreement with Fundus as Marriott International Inc.’s lease
neared its Oct. 1 end, said Henk Habers, president of Brussels-
based  WingField Group  NV, which found Sol Melia for Fundus.  Fundus  will pay for the $35 million renovation, Habers said
in an e-mail. Martin Smura, chief executive officer of Fundus
America, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Atlanta was already considered a top-five priority market
before the opportunity to take over the Marriott arose, said
Gerondeau. As a regional corporate and aviation hub and major
convention location, the city skews toward the business traveler
with whom Sol Melia wants to make a name.  Corporate Focus  “It’s a strong showroom to establish our brand as a
corporate travel entity,” said Gerondeau. About 50 percent of
Sol Melia’s properties are business-oriented, while the rest are
resorts, he said.  While acknowledging the competition in Atlanta will be
stiff, Gerondeau said the Melia Atlanta will separate itself
from rivals. The property will feature a restaurant with a
modern version of Spanish tapas, while contemporary European
artists’ work will be displayed in public spaces.  “The Melia brand brings European flair and Latin
hospitality in a solid combination,” Gerondeau said.  Mark Beadle, a principal with San Francisco-based lodging
consultant Horwath HTL, said the Melia Atlanta may be successful
with enough marketing and distinctive touches. Beadle worked at
the property early in his career, when it was a Stouffer hotel.
He recalls it being an Atlanta hotspot in the 1970s, with a jazz
club on the top floor frequented by the city’s first black
mayor, Maynard Jackson.  The property’s luster and occupancy has declined with age,
a succession of operators, and a location off the main paths of
downtown and midtown, according to Beadle.  “It might be a good match for Sol Melia,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Helyar  in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  