-- Sony Ericsson Net Rises Less Than Estimated on Parts Shortages
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-15T11:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/sony-ericsson-posts-smaller-than-estimated-profit-hit-by-parts-shortages.html
Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications
AB’s third-quarter revenue and profit fell short of analyst
estimates as component shortages capped sales.  Shares of the mobile-phone venture’s parents  Sony Corp.  and
 Ericsson AB  slid after the London-based company said in a
 statement  that net income was 49 million euros ($68.8 million)
compared with a loss of 164 million euros a year earlier. That
fell short of the 59 million euros analysts had predicted,
according to the median of 13 estimates collected by Bloomberg.  Sony Ericsson turned profitable in the first quarter after
six quarters of losses as more consumers embraced phones based
on  Google Inc. ’s Android as an alternative to  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone. Printed circuit boards and LED screens were in short
supply owing to the explosive growth of smartphones, and that
caused the company to lose orders it couldn’t fill, Chief
Executive Officer  Bert Nordberg  said on a teleconference.  “Christmas might be tougher than they want it to be as the
new Windows Phone 7 products hit the market and add to the
Android competition,” said  Carolina Milanesi , an analyst at
Gartner Inc.’s U.K. unit.  Ericsson fell as much as 1.9 percent in Stockholm and was
1.3 percent lower at 71.25 kronor at 12:14 p.m. Sony closed down
1 percent at 2613 yen in Tokyo.  Sales in the quarter were little changed at 1.6 billion
euros, missing estimates. Revenue had been predicted at 1.82
billion euros, based on 16 analysts’ estimates.  Sony Ericsson is pushing Android smartphones as it targets
a 10 percent operating margin, up from 4 percent in the quarter.  Selling Prices  The company’s average handset price for the quarter was 154
euros, a third more than a year ago and less than the 160 euros
in the previous quarter. The company added the Xperia X8, a mid-
priced model suitable for prepaid plans, to its high-end X10
line, which also includes pocket sized touchscreen and slide-out
keyboard models.  “I expect volumes will gain and average selling price will
come down on the lower priced Xperia models and the A8i for
China Mobile,” said  Daniel Djurberg , a Stockholm-based analyst
for Nordea Bank.  Sony Ericsson cited “product and geographical mix” as the
reason for lower sequential selling prices. The company has
added China and the U.S. to its Android markets, launching the
Xperia X10 with AT&T Inc.  “Though they have nice products, competition is very tough
as the refresh cycle on Android is very quick and the X10 by now
almost seems dated,” said Gartner’s Milanesi.  Android World  CEO Nordberg estimated that Sony Ericsson had about 19
percent revenue share of the Android market.  Sony Ericsson plans to diversify into Windows Phone 7,
Nordberg said on the call, without giving any details. The
company is phasing out the Nokia Oyj-dominated Symbian platform
after deciding the service and application “ecosystem” isn’t
as good as Android.  “They will need a successor to the X10, which I expect to
be announced this quarter, and they also need to launch on
Windows Phone 7 quite soon,” Nordea’s Djurberg said.  He also expects the company to announce a device
incorporating PlayStation Pro functions and content to
capitalize on its connection with Sony.  The Xperia handsets compete with Android models from
 Samsung Electronics Co.  Ltd., LG Electronics Inc., HTC Corp.,
and, especially in the U.S.,  Motorola Inc.  Last month Sony
Ericsson opened a new Americas headquarters in Atlanta.  ‘Healthy Sales’  The company didn’t do “fire sales” of old products in the
quarter, choosing to preserve profits over unit volume, sales
chief  Kristian Tear  said.  It also planned production conservatively so as not to end
up with big stocks, Nordberg said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We didn’t have more so we couldn’t sell more,”
Nordberg said. “We expect to improve the top line.”  Units shipped fell to 10.4 million in the quarter from 14.1
million a year earlier. Last quarter, Sony Ericsson was the
fifth largest in worldwide mobile phone sales by units with a
3.4 percent share, down from 4.7 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner.  More than 50 percent of the company’s sales now come from
smartphones, the industry’s fastest growing segment.  “I see a healthy growth in smartphones and a decline in
feature phones in the market,” Nordberg said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 