-- South Africa Halts Its Decade-Long Probe Into Arms Deal Graft Allegations
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-10-15T14:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/south-africa-halts-its-decade-long-probe-into-arms-deal-graft-allegations.html
South African investigators halted a
decade-long probe into graft allegations stemming from the
purchase of fighter jets from  BAE Systems Plc  and frigates
from a group including  ThyssenKrupp AG , saying further
convictions were unlikely.  The investigation “wasn’t really getting anywhere,”  Musa Zondi , a spokesman for the government’s Hawks investigative
unit, said in an interview from Pretoria today. “It’s closed.
The National Prosecuting Authority, on the basis of the evidence
we had, couldn’t charge anyone.”  The government first faced accusations from an opposition
politician in 1999 that officials took bribes from companies
that won weapons contracts worth $5 billion. Among those
implicated were current President  Jacob Zuma . Charges against
him were dropped in April last year.  About 300 million rand ($44 million) may have illicitly
changed hands in the BAE deal, and a further $25 million during
the purchase of warships from the German Frigate Consortium,
Hawks head Anwa Dramat said on Sept. 8.  The investigation would take at least another five years to
complete and it needed to be determined whether it would be in
the country’s best interests to pursue the case, Dramat said in
a presentation to Parliament’s public accounts committee in Cape
Town last month. The committee agreed that the probe should
continue.  ‘Travesty of Justice’  “It is a complete travesty of justice that the arms-deal
investigation has now been dropped,” David Maynier, a lawmaker
for the Democratic Alliance, the biggest opposition party, said
from Cape Town today.  Investigators in the BAE case would have had to wade
through 460 boxes of evidence and 4.7 million computer-generated
documents that were seized from a raids on seven premises in
November 2008.  BAE, Europe’s biggest defense company, agreed in February
to pay almost $450 million in fines to resolve bribery and fraud
investigations by U.S. prosecutors and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office in both the U.S. and U.K., some of which were linked to
the arms sales in South Africa.  While the South African case was excluded from the plea
bargaining, the agreement in the U.K. may have made witnesses
less likely to testify in South Africa, Dramat said.  BAE spokeswoman  Lindsay Walls  declined to comment on the
decision in an e-mailed response to queries today.  German Prosecutors  In June 2008, German state public prosecutors dropped a
two-year bribery investigation of ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s
largest steelmaker and part of the group that supplied four
frigates to the South African Navy.  The group’s Johannesburg-based spokesman said he could not
immediately comment. He declined to be identified in line with
company policy.  Two people have been convicted in South Africa on charges
connected to the arms deal.  In 2003, Tony Yengeni, a former lawmaker for South Africa’s
ruling African National Congress, was found guilty of defrauding
parliament by failing to disclose a discount on a luxury car
from one of the bidders. He served four months of a four-year
sentence before being released on parole after qualifying for a
government amnesty.  ‘Shameful’  In 2005, Zuma’s then-financial adviser Schabir Shaik was
convicted trying to solicit a bribe for the politician from arms
dealers. Shaik served 28 months of his 15-year prison sentence
before being freed on medical parole, which is supposed to be
granted to terminally ill inmates, in March last year. He is
still alive. Shaik was suffering from depression and high blood
pressure.  “It’s shameful that they are now acknowledging that
they’re closing down their investigation,” Andrew Feinstein, a
former member of the public accounts committee, said in an
interview from London. “I think the bigger issue is that the
arms deal has never been properly and fully investigated in
South Africa.”  Feinstein quit as an ANC lawmaker in 2001 in protest at the
way the probe had been handled,  The decision to drop the case was reported earlier today by
the Johannesburg-based Mail & Guardian newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 