-- South Africa Can't Reverse Rand Strengthening on Low U.S. Rates, RMB Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-10-15T10:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/south-africa-can-t-reverse-rand-strengthening-on-low-u-s-rates-rmb-says.html
South Africa’s central bank can’t do
much to reverse the rand’s gains as low borrowing costs in
developed nations drive investment in higher-yielding emerging
markets, boosting their currencies, Rand Merchant Bank said.  Policy makers are “concerned” about the appreciation and
are considering ways to curb the currency, central bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said yesterday as the rand gained for a second day
to its strongest level versus the dollar since January 2008.  Benchmark interest rates of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25
percent in the U.S. have encouraged investors to borrow cheaply
and invest in markets offering higher returns. This has prompted
a 38 percent rally in the rand since the beginning of 2009. The
benchmark rate in Africa’s biggest economy is 6 percent.  “Inflows into emerging markets are being driven by the low
yields in developed countries and South Africa is getting its
share,” currency analysts  John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan at
RMB in Johannesburg wrote in a report to clients today. “What
we are seeing is dollar weakness rather than rand gains.”  The rand traded 0.1 percent weaker at 6.8065 by 11:38 a.m.
in Johannesburg from a close of 6.8013 yesterday.  Exporters and labor unions have lobbied the central bank to
step up efforts to weaken the rand. National Treasury Director-
General  Lesetja Kganyago  said today countries that are taking
individual actions to curb their currencies are embarking on a
“race to the bottom.” This strategy requires “deep pockets,”
which South Africa doesn’t have, Kganyago said in Johannesburg.  Bernanke, Nedbank, HSBC  Leaders failed to narrow differences over currency policy
at an International Monetary Fund meeting last weekend as China
was accused of undervaluing the yuan while the low U.S. interest
rates were blamed for flooding emerging markets with capital.  Signs of weakness in the U.S economy, the world’s largest,
suggest that the Federal Reserve may extend its program of asset
purchases, known as quantitative easing, Cairns and Ramkhelawan
wrote in the RMB note. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled
to speak on monetary-policy tools today at 2:15 p.m. in Boston.  “Given the state of the U.S. economy it is more likely
that Bernanke will affirm the easing view,” the RMB analysts
wrote. “This would keep the dollar under pressure and increase
global currency tensions ahead of the November Fed and G-20
meetings.”  Earlier, the rand weakened 0.2 percent after Old Mutual Plc
said it terminated talks with HSBC Holdings Plc about the
possible acquisition of a majority stake in Nedbank Group Ltd.  “This is one of the foreign-direct investment deals that
was being speculated about and would have been rand-positive,”
along with other proposed acquisitions such as Nippon Telegraph
& Telephone Corp.’s purchase of Dimension Data Plc and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s offer for retailer Massmart Holdings Ltd.,
Ramkhelawan said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.  “The global situation still remains the main driver, and
there’s consolidation before Bernanke speaks,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  