-- South Africa Supports `Multilateral' Actions on Currencies, Treasury Says
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-15T11:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/south-africa-supports-multilateral-actions-on-currencies-kganyago-says.html
South Africa supports a global,
coordinated exchange-rate policy, said the director general of
the National Treasury,  Lesetja Kganyago , warning that actions by
individual countries may lead to “protectionism” and damage
the world economy.  “What you are having in bilateral or single country
responses are competitive devaluations,” Kganyago told
economists in Johannesburg today. “That is just a race to the
bottom. In the final analysis, it’s going to be the one with the
deepest pockets who wins the game. South Africa doesn’t
particularly have deep pockets.”  The rand has gained 39 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year as near-zero interest rates in the U.S.,
Japan and the euro-region countries fuelled demand for higher-
yielding assets in emerging markets. Kganyago echoed comments
from Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  yesterday that the Group of
20 nations must take the lead to prevent a “currency war” in
which each country tries to weaken its currency at the expense
of others.  While South Africa doesn’t have as much resources as other
emerging markets to intervene in foreign currency markets,
“that doesn’t mean we can rest back and say there is nothing we
can do,” Kganyago said. “We go and engage in these
multilateral forums, but we also need to be asking ourselves
what are the things we should be doing.”  Rand Forecast  The rand, which was trading at 6.8301 per dollar as of
12.52 p.m. in Johannesburg, will probably strengthen to 6.20 in
the next year,  Colin Coleman , the managing director of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s South African unit, said in a speech in
Johannesburg today.  While the Reserve Bank has been buying dollars to curb the
rand’s gains, the intervention has been limited by an increase
in costs related to maintaining  reserves . That resulted in the
bank posting a loss of 1 billion rand ($147 million) in the year
through March.  The Reserve Bank’s Chief Economist  Monde Mnyande  said in a
separate speech in Johannesburg today that measures to weaken
the rand can be costly.  “It is extremely difficult for monetary authorities and
indeed very costly for the bank and the country to achieve a
particular range of a weaker currency,” Mnyande said. “Any
actions would also have to be consistent with the inflation
target, as there is no point in having a weaker currency if the
benefits to some sectors are simply eroded by higher
inflation.”  Inflation  The rand’s gains have helped to keep  inflation  inside the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range, reaching 3.5 percent
in August. That’s enabled the bank to cut its benchmark interest
 rate  by half a percentage point last month, the eighth reduction
since December 2008.  “The bank is very aware of the impact of both the current
level and volatility of the rand on the economy, particularly
the manufacturing, export and import-competing sectors,”
Mnyande said. “The bank continues to respond in a considered
manner and will, as always, be mindful of its primary
objective” of price stability.  Kganyago said Brazil’s tax on foreign portfolio inflows
hasn’t done much to curb the real’s appreciation. The Brazilian
currency has gained 39.4 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year, the top-performing emerging market
currency tracked by Bloomberg.  Easing capital controls that limit the amount of funds
South Africans can invest abroad may not necessarily weaken the
rand either, Kganyago said.  “Money is leaving developed countries and coming to
developing countries, because growth is here,” Kganyago said.
“How can clever money leave South Africa? In this environment
only stupid money will leave.”  Goldman’s Coleman said South Africa should scrap the
remaining exchange controls, which are a remnant of apartheid.
That would be a show of “confidence” in the economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 