-- Spain to Break Two-Year Hiatus Selling Power Bonds This Month, People Say
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-10-15T12:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/spain-to-sell-eu1-billion-of-power-deficit-bonds-this-month-people-say.html
Spain plans by the end of this month
to sell the first tranche of an eventual 17.6 billion euros
($24.8 billion) of bonds backed by revenue from consumer
electricity bills, three people familiar with the deal said.  Bankers will begin taking orders for at least 1 billion
euros of the Spanish government-guaranteed debt once the
prospectus is approved by the country’s securities regulator,
said the people, who asked not to be named because the deal is
confidential. The process has been set back by delays in gaining
approval from the regulator, they said.  The government hasn’t sold such bonds since before New
York-based investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in September 2008 and helped trigger a global credit
crunch that undercut investor interest.  “A successful transaction would help Spanish utilities
maintain their ratings which are at risk given their currently
stretched credit metrics,”  Herve Gay , a credit analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in an e-mail.  Spain will use the proceeds to pay back utilities including
 Iberdrola SA  and Enel SpA’s  Endesa  unit for using their own
funds in the past decade to subsidize power prices, or tariffs,
to hold down the cost for consumers. Spanish law guarantees that
the power companies can recoup the so-called tariff deficit.  Investors may be willing to buy bonds maturing in about
three to five years, two of the people said. Bankers arranging
the deal met with money managers during September and October.  Iberdrola, Enel Owed  Iberdrola  and Enel’s Endesa, Spain’s biggest power
producers, are owed 3.7 billion euros and 7.7 billion euros,
respectively, after using their cash and debt to cover the gap
between revenue they receive from customers and what has been
promised by the government. About 3 billion euros is owed to
other Spanish utilities, including Gas Natural SDG SA and the
local units of E. ON AG  and EDP-Energias de  Portugal SA .  The debt of all Spanish utilities from delayed electricity
payments, including the local units of E.ON and EDP-Energias de
Portugal, will reach 14.6 billion euros by the end of this year,
a government report showed. A further 3 billion euros of the
tariff deficit forecast for 2011 and 2012 will also be eligible
for securitizing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net 
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net 
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  