-- Standard Bank's South Africa Rivals to Hire as Africa's Largest Plans Cuts
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-15T10:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/standard-bank-s-south-africa-rivals-to-hire-as-africa-s-largest-plans-cuts.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd .’s largest
South African rivals, including  FirstRand Ltd.  and Nedbank Group
Ltd., plan to boost hires as Africa’s biggest bank prepares to
fire staff to lower costs that exceed that of its competitors.  “We continually look for good people across the bank,”
Nedbank Chief Executive Officer Mike Brown said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. HSBC Holdings Ltd. today ended
talks to buy Old Mutual Plc’s Nedbank stake. “In particular,
we’re looking to grow our investment banking division -- Nedbank
Capital, Nedbank Business Banking and Nedbank Wealth.”  Standard Bank on Oct. 5 said “revenue pressure” forced it
to consider job cuts at all levels, with the main emphasis on
managers and executives in London and Johannesburg, where the
country’s biggest banks are based. With a cost-to-income ratio
higher than that of rivals, Standard Bank wants to focus on
emerging nations after expanding in Russia, Argentina and
Nigeria and other African markets faster than local competitors.  “We’re seeing a number of good” resumes,  Michael Jordaan ,
chief executive officer of  FirstRand ’s retail banking unit,
First National Bank, said. FNB has been hiring to bolster its
African expansion, its mobile-phone business and its EasyPlan
branches, where it plans to have 100 outlets in South Africa
aimed at low-income earners by June next year from 26.  FNB, the country’s third-largest retail bank, had a 6
percent decline in worker numbers in the year to June as it
redeployed staff to other units or didn’t fill posts when people
left, Jordaan said.  ‘Serious Introspection’  The announcement by Standard Bank that it will cut jobs is
a “surprise,” said Kokkie Kooyman, a banking analyst at  Sanlam
Investment Management  who was named the top global financial
fund manager in 2010 by U.K.-based publication,  Investment Week .  “They were the one bank that never really worried too much
about costs in the short-term and always believed they were
building the bank for the long-term,” he said. It means the
lender “did some serious introspection, which must have been
brought about by tough conditions, but, more importantly, it
sees those conditions not improving for a while.”  Absa Group Ltd. , the biggest retail bank in South Africa,
doesn’t have a hiring freeze and “continues to recruit where
resources are required,” it said today in an e-mailed response.
“Although business volumes remain muted, Absa continues to
focus on growth opportunities in selected markets” and “key
focus areas” such as commercial and corporate banking.  Challenging Environment  Borrowing  by South African households and businesses rose
to an annual 3 percent in August as interest rates at a 30-year
low spurred consumer spending, according to the Pretoria-based
Reserve Bank. The central bank has cut its benchmark interest
 rate  eight times since the end of 2008 to pull Africa’s largest
economy out of recession.  “The operating environment remains challenging,” Absa,
controlled by London-based Barclays Plc said. “Economic
recovery will still take some time.”  Standard Bank spokesman Erik Larsen said the lender won’t
comment further than its Oct. 5 statement. Standard Bank may
release details on the job cuts on Oct. 22, labor union
Solidarity said after meeting Standard Bank on Oct. 12, adding
the bank indicated it may delay the announcement by a week.  Standard Bank’s cost-to-income  ratio  of 58.1 percent at the
end of the first half compares with Absa’s 54 percent,  Nedbank ’s
55 percent and FirstRand’s 57 percent for the full-year through
June. Standard Bank’s staff costs increased 6 percent to 9.5
billion rand ($1.38 billion), accounting for more than half of
operating expenses in the first six months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  