-- Steel Pipe Makers Hurt by Imports From China, U.S. Trade Commission Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-15T16:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/steel-pipe-makers-hurt-by-imports-from-china-u-s-trade-commission-says.html
Makers of steel pipes used in oil
refineries and chemical plants are being harmed by imports from
China, the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled today, a
decision that will mean duties on $182 million of products.  The decision is the last of four that producers such as
 U.S. Steel Corp . and the U.S. subsidiary of France’s  Vallourec
SA,  the world’s second-largest maker of steel tubes for oil and
gas production, needed to win in order to get dumping and
countervailing duties imposed on Chinese exporters.  “Without this decision, the U.S. industry would have
completely lost the U.S. market,”  Roger Schagrin , a lawyer at
Schagrin and Associates in Washington, representing the U.S.
producers, said in an interview. Even with duties, “it’s going
to be a slow recovery in demand.”  Chinese makers of the steel pipes, used to carry water
under high pressure, chemicals, natural gas or steam, will face
duties that could total more than 100 percent, according to a
decision last month by the U.S. Commerce Department. Chinese
producers include  Tianjin Pipe Group Corp.   China, which had a $227 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
in 2009, has been the subject of more complaints filed over
unfair trade than any other nation, according to data compiled
by the World Bank.  U.S. Steel, based in Pittsburgh, was joined in the petition
seeking duties by the United Steelworkers union.  Tianjin Pipe, based in Tianjin, will face a combined
dumping and countervailing duty rate of 62.65 percent. Hengyang
Valin Steel Tube Co. and related companies will face a combined
duty of 135.68 percent. All companies not singled out for a
review must pay a dumping rate of 98.74 percent and a
countervailing duty of 33.66 percent, according to the Commerce
Department statement last month.  The International Trade Commission doesn’t set duties or
determine if an imported product is being dumped or subsidized.
It decides on whether U.S. makers are being harmed by low-cost
imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 