-- Stock Selloff Adds to Pressure on Banks to Fix Foreclosure Mess
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-15T20:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/stock-selloff-adds-to-mounting-pressure-on-banks-to-fix-foreclosure-mess.html
Shares of  U.S. banks  slid for a
third day as lenders and government officials faced mounting
pressure to answer claims that home lending and foreclosures
have been marred by illegal shortcuts.  Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. each fell
more than 4 percent.  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia, raised his estimate for the cost
of litigation and delays tied to mortgages to $10 billion
yesterday from $6 billion.  An  investigation  by attorneys general in all 50 states into
banks’ foreclosure practices fueled speculation about even
greater losses if mortgage-bond investors successfully challenge
the  underlying loans  and force lenders to buy them back. Faulty
 foreclosures  also may lead banks to write down principal and
take losses, analysts said.  “The nation has been in denial about the scope of the
problem, and it’s now just being revealed,” said  Janet Tavakoli , founder of Chicago-based Tavakoli Structured Finance
Inc., a financial consulting firm. “This is a huge crisis for
our country.”  The 24-company  KBW Bank Index  slumped 2.4 percent, with
Bank of America dropping 62 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $11.98 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Wells
Fargo & Co . declined 4.6 percent and Citigroup Inc. slipped 2.7
percent. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America and New
York-based JPMorgan, which fell 4.1 percent, were among the
worst performers in the 30-company  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  GMAC Loans  The scrutiny began last month when a memo showed  Ally
Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage unit halted evictions in 23
states to review foreclosures. An employee said in sworn
testimony that he and his team signed 10,000 affidavits and
other documents each month without checking the accuracy of the
files. Bank of America last week halted foreclosures in 50
states, and units of  JPMorgan ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  PNC
Financial Services Group Inc.  have said they’re reviewing some
foreclosures.  President  Barack Obama  and the federal agencies that share
responsibility for housing finance are opposing calls for a
nationwide foreclosure freeze, fearing further damage to the
home sales. Even as bank stocks tumbled yesterday on concern
that the mishandled loans will increase costs for lenders, the
White House and federal regulators avoided any grand gestures
designed to reassure investors.  ‘Incremental’ Expense  U.S. regulators say they are aggressively investigating
whether employees of lenders falsified documents used in
foreclosure proceedings.  “No one should misunderstand the magnitude of our
response,” said Federal Housing Administration Commissioner
David Stevens. “The administration has been very clear that
there is no excuse for not fixing the problem.”  JPMorgan said Oct. 13 that it expanded its initial review
from 23 states to 41, and to about 115,000 homes, according to a
presentation that accompanied its third-quarter earnings
release. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said the
expense will be “incremental.”  “If you’re talking about three or four weeks, it will be a
blip in the housing market,” Dimon told investors on a
conference call Oct. 13. “If it went on for a long period of
time, it will have a lot of consequences, most of which will be
adverse on everybody.”  Dimon said he had hope, not knowledge, that the problems
could be a blip.  Evictions Proceed  Wells Fargo and  Citigroup  have said they are proceeding
with foreclosures. Wells Fargo said in a statement earlier this
week it is “satisfied that our foreclosure affidavit process is
sound.” Ally spokeswoman  Gina Proia  said the bank “hasn’t
found any evidence” of mistakes.  Mark C. Rodgers , a Citigroup spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the bank has safeguards in place to prevent
improper filings. “We have no indication that our employees are
not following our current procedures, and we do not believe
suspension is necessary,” he said.  Harvard Law School visiting professor  Katherine Porter  said
lenders would be better off agreeing to modify loans to curb
lawsuits.  “From the beginning, mass modifications would have been
better and I still think they’d be cost-saving,” said Porter,
whose 2007 research examined practices of mortgage lenders and
servicers foreclosing on bankrupt borrowers. “Doing new
paperwork and doing it right is still a better choice.”  Loans Challenged  As many as 9 million U.S. mortgages in the foreclosure
pipeline or already through the process may face challenges,
Morgan Stanley’s  Oliver Chang ,  Vishwanath Tirupattur  and  James Egan  wrote in a note Oct. 12.  In one case, an attorney for a Yonkers, New York, homeowner
secured a loan modification from Citigroup in February after
finding that the bank misrepresented the chain of title.  The modification for Barbara and Ron Frusciante’s three-
bedroom home shaved $200,000 in principal and interest off the
life of the loan, according to calculations performed by their
lawyer, Linda Tirelli. The bank also paid Tirelli’s fees of
$15,000, she said.  “I just wish that CitiMortgage had done this on their
own,” Ron Frusciante, 62, said in a phone interview. “The end
result is exactly what we wanted.” Rodgers, the Citigroup
spokesman, declined to comment on Frusciante’s case.  Potential Cost  Wide-scale principal reductions may lead to “huge losses”
for banks, said  James Ellman , a former Merrill Lynch & Co. bank-
stock portfolio manager who is now president of San Francisco-
based hedge fund Seacliff Capital.  “You could potentially be talking about hundreds of
billions of dollars in losses,” Ellman said. “Though it is a
low probability, banks would have to go back to the capital
markets for more capital.”  Banks may also settle for more short sales, when lenders
agree to let homeowners sell properties for less than they owe
on the mortgage, Morgan Stanley’s Chang said.  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, speaking at a
conference in Boston yesterday, said he didn’t think the drop in
the company’s stock was justified, and today  Barbara Desoer ,
head of home lending, said estimates of added costs from
foreclosures have been “grossly distorted.” The bank stands by
the accuracy of its foreclosure process, she said in an
interview.  Signs of Progress  Florida’s attorney general,  Bill McCollum , said he met with
JPMorgan yesterday and had telephone conference with Bank of
America this week to discuss the foreclosure crisis. They seem
to be “well on their way” to correcting problems in their
foreclosure procedures, he said.  McCollum, who sits on the executive committee of the 50-
state task force of attorneys general that is investigating
foreclosures, has asked to meet with Goldman Sachs’s Litton, PNC
and GMAC, he said in an interview. McCollum said while he didn’t
know the ultimate outcome, companies might have to pay “some
kind of penalty.”  Matt McCormick , a banking-industry analyst and portfolio
manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., said his firm is
avoiding most U.S. bank stocks. He said he doesn’t think bank
executives have answers yet.  ‘More Unknowns’  “I don’t think they truly know the depth of the exposure,”
McCormick, whose firm manages $2.9 billion, said yesterday.
“There are more unknowns than knowns, and investors today are
not going to tolerate that.”  Mortgage brokers and Wall Street investment banks sought to
ramp up mortgage lending to feed the creation of bonds backed by
those same loans, Tavakoli said. Banks produced so many home
loans that they couldn’t keep up with the paperwork, she said.  “If they were less than interested in the financial health
of these people when they were giving loans out, do you really
think they dotted all the i’s and crossed all the t’s in terms
of verifying the paperwork? I don’t think so,” said McCormick
of Bahl & Gaynor. “The housing market is going to take longer
to heal and it just prolongs the agony.”  “The vast majority of the losses we have paid or expect to
pay on mortgage-related securitizations are related to fraud and
violations of representations and warranties,” said  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based  MBIA Inc. , owner
of the largest bond insurer.  Lawsuits  Foreclosure improprieties, including defective loan-
transfer documentation, will make it easier to sue banks that
packaged mortgages, he said.  “We expect these repurchase obligations to be honored, and
therefore we anticipate substantial recoveries on these
transactions,” Brown said.  While investors’ sales of mortgage securities not backed by
the government increased to more than $1 billion a day this week
from about $300 million to $500 million a few weeks ago, values
are little changed, with bond buyers willing to “wait to see
what the fallout is,” according to  Jesse Litvak , a mortgage-
bond trader at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “For the better part of the last three days, there’s been
a ton of selling, but so far prices are not budging,” Litvak
said in a telephone interview.  A Markit ABX index of credit-default swaps tied to 20
subprime-mortgage bonds rated AAA when created in the second
half of 2006, for instance, yesterday closed at 58.81, near a
two-year high and up from 58.73 on Oct. 1, according to London-
based Markit Group Ltd. The index’s level, which rises as bond
prices do, fell as low as 28.5 in April 2009 from 100 in early
2007.  Reserves  JPMorgan, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said it
was adding $1 billion to reserves for repurchasing mortgages.  While Morgan Stanley bank analyst  Betsy Graseck  stopped
short of estimating litigation expenses in an Oct. 12 note, she
said that “banks need to either fess up and announce a reserve
build or state they are clean.”  FBR’s Miller said delays tied to the probes may cost U.S.
lenders $2 billion for every month of delay. Extending
foreclosures by one month costs about $1,000 for each property
in the pipeline, according to Miller, a former bank examiner. He
raised his estimate yesterday because he now foresees litigation
costs ranging from $3 billion to $4 billion, he said in a note.  Federal banking regulators have been examining the document
procedures of individual banks to pinpoint problems. The results
of those exams will determine the next step, said  Kevin Mukri ,
spokesman for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
agency has directed seven of the nation’s largest servicers to
review their foreclosure processes, including JPMorgan Chase,
Bank of America, Citigroup, HSBC Finance Corp., PNC, and Wells
Fargo.  Moratorium Opposed  The FDIC has started an independent review of banks with
which it shares loan losses and won’t make payments if it finds
foreclosures were conducted unlawfully, the agency said.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview
on “ Charlie Rose ” that a nationwide moratorium on foreclosures
would be “very damaging.”  “Making excuses and whining about moratoria is not going
to solve the problem,”  Alan White , a law professor at
Valparaiso University in Indiana, said in a phone interview.
“This is an occasion to call out the banks on their performance
and they aren’t doing it. If anything the administration seems
to be aligning themselves with the banks. I find that deeply
disappointing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  