-- Sukuk Issuance to Spur Record Rally as Growth Gains Pace: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-15T07:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/sukuk-issuance-to-spur-record-rally-as-growth-gains-pace-islamic-finance.html
Global Islamic bonds are poised to
extend gains after climbing to a record this week, buoyed by
Asian economic growth and a pickup in Persian Gulf issuance.  The  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , which tracks
23 sovereign and corporate securities that comply with the
religion’s ban on interest, climbed to 124.47 on Oct. 11, the
highest level since its inception in 2005. The notes have
returned 12.4 percent so far this year after a gain of 20
percent in 2009 and a 19 percent loss in 2008.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6. Persian Gulf
sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply with the
religion’s ban on interest, are rising after Dubai World reached
an agreement with creditors last month to change terms on $24.9
billion of debt. Companies in the region plan to issue about
$5.8 billion of Islamic debt in the fourth quarter, the most for
the period in three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The flurry of new issues in the Gulf Cooperation Council,
both Islamic and non-Shariah-compliant, has lifted sentiment
generally,”  Naji Nabaa , a Dubai-based associate director of
fixed-income sales for the Middle East and North Africa at
Exotix Ltd., an investment bank specializing in illiquid assets,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Bond Inflows  Investors poured a net $1.5 billion into emerging-market
bond funds in the second week of October, bringing year-to-date
inflows to $41 billion, according to a  report  from EPFR Global,
a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ received orders for $6 billion as it
sold $750 million of Islamic debt on Sept. 30. Dubai’s
government sold $1.25 billion of bonds last month and Emaar
Properties PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest property
developer, raised $500 million from selling convertible bonds in
non-Islamic sales.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority, the government-run
utility, sold $2 billion of non-Islamic senior unsecured debt
yesterday in its largest dollar-denominated bond sale.  Islamic Development Bank, a Jeddah-based multilateral
lender, plans to sell  $1 billion  of bonds this quarter under a
$3.5 billion sukuk program, Vice President Abdul Aziz Al Hinai
said Aug. 24. Saudi Arabian Oil Co., based in Dhahran, Saudi
Arabia, and Total SA, based in Paris, plan to sell $1 billion in
sukuk this year, Simon Eedle, global head of Islamic banking at
Credit Agricole SA, the lead arranger of the sale, said Oct. 11.  Spreads to Tighten  Global sales of sukuk are down 22 percent at $11.8 billion
so far this year, from the same period in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Debt in developing markets has
outperformed Islamic bonds in 2010, returning 16.5 percent,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed
19 basis points this month to 354, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread has shrunk 114 basis
points this year.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic dollar notes
due in June 2015 dropped to 2.44 percent on Oct. 8, the least
since the debt was sold in June, according to Bloomberg data. It
has since climbed five basis points to 2.49 percent. The yield
on the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due
November 2014 reached 5.92 percent on Oct. 6, the lowest since
issuance in November. It was at 6.07 percent today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has narrowed 18 basis points to 353
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Spreads have further room to tighten in Dubai,”  Ahmed Talhaoui , the head of portfolio management at Royal Capital,
which is 44 percent owned by United Gulf Bank, an investment
bank in Bahrain, said in an interview yesterday. “There is no
sign that we’re overheating in terms of bond issuance in the
region.”  ‘Good Value’  The pickup in issuance is likely to continue as the pace of
economic growth in the GCC nations gathers momentum, according
to BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which manages $700 billion
and is the asset management unit of France’s biggest lender.  The GCC-member nations are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  “We feel that the Gulf Cooperation Council region
represents very good value and Asia remains on very solid
ground,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , head of Shariah-compliant
portfolio management at BNP Paribas in Singapore, said in an e-
mail on Oct. 13. “We are seeing a constructive resolution of
the regional corporate restructurings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 