-- Swiss Franc Weakens Versus Dollar and Euro on Fed Asset Purchase View
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-15T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/swiss-franc-weakens-versus-dollar-and-euro-on-fed-asset-purchase-view.html
The franc pared a fifth week of
gains versus the dollar as speculation the Federal Reserve will
announce fewer bond purchases in a second tranche of so-called
quantitative easing damped demand for the currency as a haven.  U.S. Treasuries slumped yesterday as a sale of 30-year
bonds attracted the lowest demand since February. Minutes from
the Federal Open Market Committee’s meeting on Sept. 21,
released Oct. 12, said the U.S. central bank’s policy makers
were prepared to pump more cash into the economy to support the
recovery “before long.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
scheduled to speak on monetary policy today.  “Dollar-Swiss has backed off, but not a great deal -- it
indicates no sea-change in sentiment,” said  Neil Mellor , a
currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in London.
“The market has decided the franc should be resurrected in its
former role as the safe haven currency of choice.”  Switzerland’s currency retreated 0.3 percent to 95.54
centimes per dollar as of 10:20 a.m. in London, paring this
week’s gains to 0.8 percent. It has appreciated 11 percent
against the U.S. currency since June 30 and reached 94.63
centimes yesterday, its strongest ever, according to Bloomberg
data. The franc weakened 0.3 percent against the euro to 1.3461,
heading for a weekly depreciation of 0.3 percent.  UBS AG today said it no longer expects the Swiss central
bank to raise its benchmark interest rate before the first
quarter of 2011 as global central banks prepare to embark on
further quantitative easing.  The franc has climbed 4.7 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  