-- Swiss `Sissi' Breaks Through to World's Longest Rail Tunnel
-- B y   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-10-15T12:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/switzerland-moves-closer-to-completion-of-world-s-longest-railroad-tunnels.html
The world’s longest railroad tunnel
moved a step closer to completion as Swiss drilling crews sliced
across the final 1.8 meters (6 feet) of rock in a ceremony
broadcast live on nationwide  television .  Tunnel-drilling machine “Sissi” reached the final
breakthrough on the Faido side, in the Italian-speaking canton
of Ticino, around 2:17 p.m. today in the presence of Transport
Minister  Moritz Leuenberger .  Drilling and blasting on the 57-kilometer (35-mile) tunnel
linking Erstfeld in German-speaking central Switzerland and
Bodio in the Italian-speaking south began in 1996. The tunnel is
scheduled for completion in 2017 at an estimated cost of 18.7
billion Swiss francs ($19.7 billion). It will be the world’s
longest underground rail link, beating the 53.9-kilometer Seikan
Tunnel in Japan.  “With this tunnel, we are helping to build Europe’s
infrastructure,” Leuenberger said at a ceremony in which the
tunnel was blessed. “We are helping to shape our continent
sustainably and in solidarity by pushing ahead with the transfer
of traffic from our roads to the rails.”  Trains will be able to speed through the tunnel at 250
kilometers an hour, shortening the four-hour train journey
between Zurich and Milan by a quarter.  ‘Important Connection’  Michael Reiterer, the European Commission’s ambassador 
to Switzerland who attended the ceremony, called the tunnel an
“important connection between north and south.”  The Gotthard link through Switzerland has been one of the
most vital links between northern and southern Europe since a
15-kilometer rail tunnel that took a higher route across the
Alps was completed in 1881. About 200 people died during that
project, including its Swiss chief, Louis Favre, and four
laborers who were shot by police to end a strike.  The new tunnel is being built using a combination of
blasting and 450-meter-long drilling machines. It will have two
tubes, each with a single rail track and cross-linked in 176
places to provide emergency escape routes. Authorities haven’t
yet decided what to do with its 129-year-old predecessor. Eight
miners have died since the tunneling began.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Verschuur  in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net ;
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  