-- U.S. Posts Second-Largest Annual Budget Deficit on Record
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 2010-10-15T18:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-posts-second-straight-annual-budget-deficit-in-excess-of-1-trillion.html
The U.S. government posted its
second straight annual budget deficit in excess of $1
trillion as lingering unemployment constrained tax revenue.  The shortfall totaled $1.294 trillion in the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30, second only to the $1.416 trillion
 deficit in 2009 , the Treasury Department said today in
Washington.  A  jobless rate  projected to exceed 9 percent through
2011 points to the difficulty of narrowing the budget gap
even as the global economic recovery boosts company profits
and produces more corporate tax receipts. Growth in
government spending may slow because of declining costs
associated with the financial crisis that spawned such
rescue plans as the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “We still have a long way to go to repair the damage
to the economy and address the long-term deficits caused by
the crisis,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
a statement.  The Treasury Department finances the shortfall between
taxes and spending with borrowing in financial markets. The
 national debt  totals more than $13 trillion, exceeding the
size of the economy, unadjusted for inflation. The
government’s fiscal year runs from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30.  The Obama administration in July projected in its mid-
year budget review that the deficit would be a record $1.47
trillion during the 2010 fiscal year.  White House  While the shortfall was less than the administration
had forecast, “the president thinks we still need to do a
lot of hard work in order to get our fiscal house in
order,” White House deputy press secretary Bill Burton
told reporters today aboard Air Force One. Obama wants to
make sure the U.S. “is on the right track” to reducing
the deficit, he said.  In September, the  budget  shortfall was $34.5 billion,
the second straight year of uninterrupted monthly deficits,
compared with $45.2 billion in September 2009, according to
the Treasury.  Economists projected a September deficit of $32
billion, according to the median of 28 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from shortfalls of
$30 billion to $69 billion.  The non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office , in a
forecast issued Oct. 7, estimated the fiscal 2010 budget
deficit would total $1.291 trillion.  November Elections  The budget deficit and Americans’ concern about
employment and the economy may usher in a change in
leadership on Capitol Hill. Four of five Tea Party
supporters who say they plan to vote in the November
congressional elections will back Republicans, a Bloomberg
National poll showed.  Eighty-five percent of these respondents say the
economy will improve with Republicans in control of
Congress, according to the poll conducted Oct. 7-10 by
Selzer & Co. Tea Party backers, who plan to vote, put a
higher priority than other voters on cutting spending and
lowering taxes.  Federal spending fell 1.8 percent in fiscal 2010 to
$3.456 trillion as expenditures tied to the financial
crisis, such as TARP, were wound down.  Fiscal 2010 tax receipts and other revenue increased
by 2.7 percent to $2.162 trillion after declines in each of
the two previous fiscal years, according to the Treasury’s
statistics.  Personal Income Tax  Individual income tax receipts fell 1.8 percent to
$898.5 billion in fiscal 2010 with  unemployment , at 9.6
percent in September, hovering near a 26-year high of 10.1
percent reached in October 2009. The recession led to the
loss of more than 8 million jobs and employers have been
slow to expand headcount.  The labor market remains under stress. The economy
lost jobs for the  fourth consecutive month  in September.
About 10 million workers are collecting regular, extended
and emergency unemployment benefits from the government.  Corporate income tax receipts rose 38.5 percent to
$191.4 billion, stemming from improved profits and tax law
changes that boosted companies’ taxable profits.  In a report issued Sept. 30, the Commerce Department
said that corporate profits rose 3 percent in the second
quarter. Earnings increased 37 percent from a year earlier.
Business spending on new equipment and software rose by the
most since 1983.  Bernanke on Debt  Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
an Oct. 4 speech that “it is crucially important that we
put U.S. fiscal policy on a sustainable path.” Speaking in
Providence, Rhode Island, Bernanke said Congress should
consider adopting rules that limit federal spending or
debt.  “The only real question” is whether adjustments to
taxes and spending will come from a “careful and
deliberative process” or from a “rapid and painful
response to a looming or actual fiscal crisis,” Bernanke
said.  Meantime, recommendations of President  Barack Obama ’s
debt-reduction commission are due Dec. 1.  On Sept. 30, Congress approved legislation to prevent
the government from shutting down after failing to adopt a
budget for the current fiscal year.  The measure, known as a continuing resolution, will
keep most government programs on their current budgets
after Congress reconvenes following the November elections.  Tax Debate  Current tax rates, which were enacted in 2001 and 2003
under President  George W. Bush  and expire Dec. 31, are
among the issues facing lawmakers upon their return to
Washington. Democrats and Republicans want households
earning less than $250,000 to keep current tax rates. They
differ, however, on whether to raise taxes on the top 2
percent to 3 percent of American income earners.  At an Oct. 7 foreign-exchange conference in New York
sponsored by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  called the budget
gap “scary” and the federal government needs to cut
spending on entitlements, such as Medicare.  “We’re involved in a dangerous game,” Greenspan
said. “We’re increasing the debt held by the public at a
pace that is closing” the gap between our debt and “any
measure of borrowing capacity,” he said. “That cushion is
growing very narrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  