-- U.S., Europe at Risk of Contacting `Japanese Disease,' Stephen Roach Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-15T11:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-europe-at-risk-of-contacting-japanese-disease-stephen-roach-says.html
The global economy could suffer a
“Japanese disease,” heralding a prolonged period of
stagnation if policy makers don’t work harder to prevent
bubbles, according to a Morgan Stanley executive.  “I am increasingly worried that the world economy is at
risk of falling into a Japanese-like quagmire,” led by the
U.S. and Europe,  Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s non-
executive Asia chairman, wrote in a note published today.
“If we’re not careful, the Japanese disease could continue
to mutate, infecting other major economies, including those
in developing Asia.”  The lessons to learn from Japan’s experiences include
that while asset and credit bubbles can’t be prevented, they
must be viewed as “potentially serious threats” to
financial stability, Roach wrote. “Monetary policy must play
the key role in leading a pre-emptive assault on bubbles.”  Japan’s bubble burst in 1990. The size of its  economy 
remains almost the same as 20 years ago. Land prices have
fallen for 19 straight years and wages have dropped to a 19
year low last year, according to government reports released
last month.  “Policy makers have insisted for years that the glaring
mistakes of Japan were so painfully obvious, that they would
be relatively easy to avoid,” Roach wrote. “Unfortunately,
that does not appear to have been the case.”  Bubble Burst  An economy will take a while to return to a sustainable
growth after a bubble bursts to rid itself of excess
employment, debt and production capacity, Bank of Japan
Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said this week. “We find a
striking similarity in the inflation developments between”
U.S. trends from 2007 and Japan after its bubble collapsed,
he said in a speech in Washington on Oct. 10.  Unprecedented easy monetary policy should be continued,
but not for too long considering its possible side-effects,
Shirakawa said. In the U.S., a worse-than expected  jobless
report  last week increased speculation that the Federal
Reserve will embark on another round of so-called
quantitative easing.  Super-easy monetary policy is difficult to end,
according to Roach.  Narcotic  “A major problem with zero policy rates and
quantitative easing is that they end up being the functional
equivalent of a narcotic,” he wrote. “Once the patient gets
the drug, withdrawal is painful and prone to relapses.”  Monetary easing and fiscal stimulus won’t offset the
deleveraging occurring in the post-crisis world, Roach wrote.  In the U.S. a “post-bubble shakeout” of consumer
spending growth could last 3 to 5 years because of heavy
household debt burdens and low saving rates, he wrote.  To avoid bubbles, central banks ought to have a mandate
to seek financial stability, according to Roach.  “Only then would monetary authorities have the
political cover to attack asset and credit bubbles before
they had dangerously destabilizing impacts on markets and
wealth- and credit-dependent economies,” he wrote.  Roach also called for a new framework to set hard
guidelines for fiscal policy.  Developing Economies  Developing countries that rely on exports for growth
need to be mindful of the risk of the bursting of overseas
bubbles hurting their own economies, he said.  The dependence on exports leaves them beholden to “the
ability of the major advanced economies to cope with post
crisis hangovers,” Roach wrote. “Today’s great currency
debate over” the yuan “only underscores those challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  