-- U.S. Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index Unexpectedly Declined in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-15T14:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-decreases-to-67-9-in-michigan-index.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly declined in October, with Americans more
pessimistic about current economic conditions.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment decreased to 67.9, the lowest since
July, from 68.2 in September. Economists estimated an October
reading of 68.9, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Unemployment projected to remain above 9 percent through
next year may keep weighing on sentiment and make Americans
reluctant to ramp up their spending, which accounts for 70
percent of the economy. Retailers like  Target Corp.  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  are responding with more discounts and using
promotions ahead of the holiday season to move merchandise.  “What we’re seeing in the current conditions reading is
concern over the stubbornly high unemployment rate and in the
expectations reading, the hope that maybe the situation will
improve after the election,” said  Christopher Low , chief
economist at FTN Financial in New York.  Forecasts of the 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 64.4 to 73.5. The Thomson Reuters sentiment index averaged
89 in the five years leading up to the recession that began in
December 2007 and has yet to reach that level since the recovery
began in June 2009.  Consumer Prices  Separate figures from the Labor Department today showed
consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in September, less than
forecast. Excluding energy and food, which are volatile month to
month, prices were unchanged for a second month.  Retail sales  climbed more than forecast in September,
easing concern consumer spending will weaken and endanger the
recovery. Purchases rose 0.6 percent following a 0.7 percent
gain in August that was larger than previously estimated,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
advance was broad-based, with clothing stores the only major
category to show a decline in demand last month.  Consumer  expectations  for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, rose to
64.6 from 60.9, which was the lowest since March 2009, today’s
report showed.  The survey’s measure of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, dropped to
73, the lowest since November, from 79.6 in the previous month.  Inflation Expectations  Consumers in today’s survey said they expect an inflation
rate of 2.6 percent over the next 12 months, compared with 2.2
percent projected in September. Over the next five years, the
figures tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers, Americans
expect a 2.7 percent rate, the same as last month.  The drop in 12-month inflation projections since May, as
well as slower rates of growth in the consumer price index and
the slowing economy has heightened concern about deflation, or a
protracted drop in prices. The Fed’s Sept. 21 statement was the
first in almost two years of near-zero interest rates to say
too-low inflation would warrant looser monetary policy.  The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.
Minutes from their Sept. 21 meeting, released earlier this week,
showed policy makers discussed “several possible approaches”
to supporting economic growth, mainly purchasing longer-term
Treasury securities. Policy makers “saw only small odds of
deflation,” according to the minutes.  Spending Forecast  Consumer spending probably will advance at a 2 percent rate
through the end of this year and average 2.2 percent in 2011,
not enough to boost the expansion and encourage companies to
accelerate hiring, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News earlier this month.  The  unemployment rate  will average 9.6 percent this year
and 9.3 percent in 2011, making for three years of joblessness
above 9 percent, the longest span since monthly records began in
1948.  “The consumer is still facing very challenging times,”
Mike Bloom, executive vice president of merchandising and supply
chain for  CVS Caremark Corp ., the largest U.S. provider of
prescription drugs, said on a conference call Oct. 8. “The
economy and unemployment rates continue to be a challenge. The
consumer is time starved, saving money wherever she can and
always looking for value.”  With less than three weeks before the Nov. 2 congressional
elections, Americans continue to have a dimmer view of Congress
and President Barack Obama’s handling of the economy. Obama’s
job approval over a three-day period that ended Oct. 12 was 45
percent, compared with 52 percent at the same time last year,
according to a poll from Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup.  Some retailers are projecting better sales at the end of
this year and are planning on increasing the number of holiday
workers they hire. Kohl’s Corp., the fourth-largest U.S.
department store chain, plans to hire about 40,000 people this
holiday season, 21 percent more than last year, the company said
Oct. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  