-- U.S. Beef Talks May Progress as Japan Gathers Mad-Cow Disease Risk Data
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-10-15T02:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-beef-talks-may-progress-as-japan-gathers-data-on-mad-cow-disease-risk.html
Japan, the biggest buyer of American
beef before an outbreak of mad cow disease prompted the country
to ban imports, is analyzing the safety of meat from cattle
older than 20 months amid U.S. calls to normalize the trade.  Japan restricts U.S. beef imports to cattle aged 20 months
or younger on concern that older animals may be at higher risk
for the disease, also known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy.
The nation’s Food Safety Commission must rule that any change in
policy won’t increase human health risks, in order for imports
of older cattle to resume.  Japan banned American beef when the U.S. disclosed its
first case in 2003. The ban was relaxed in 2005 to allow meat
from young cattle. Companies including  Tyson Foods Inc.  and
Cargill Inc. lose about $1 billion in sales a year because of
the restriction, said the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association.  “We have to collect enough data before submitting a
request to the Food Safety Commission for risk assessment,”
Minoru Yamamoto, director at the international animal health
affairs office of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries, said in an interview in Tokyo. “We are seeking
information from the U.S. and waiting for their replies.”  Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan buy U.S. beef from cattle
younger than 30 months. Canada, Indonesia and Malaysia accept
the meat from animals of any age, in line with international
guidelines. Japan also requires U.S. shippers to remove risk
materials, such as the spinal cord, that can transmit the
disease to humans if consumed.  Beef Shipments  If Japan raises the age limit to 30 months, U.S. beef
shipments to the Asian nation may return close to pre-ban levels,
said  Susumu Harada , senior director at the Tokyo office of the
 U.S. Meat Export Federation .  “The change would remove obstacles in the beef trade as
U.S. products for overseas shipments are mostly from cattle aged
up to 24 months,” Harada said in an interview.  Japan imported 475,000 metric tons of beef last fiscal year,
of which 75 percent was from Australia and 16 percent was from
the U.S., according to the agriculture ministry. In the year
ended March 31, 2004, U.S. beef represented 201,000 tons, or 39
percent, of Japan’s total imports. Japan banned U.S. beef in
December 2003, prompting restaurant chain operator  Yoshinoya
Holdings Co.  to suspend sales of its “gyudon” beef bowl.  U.S. government representatives will visit Japan as
Agriculture Minister  Michihiko Kano  will chair a ministerial
meeting on food security of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
members from Oct. 16-17. Kano replaced  Masahiko Yamada , known
for his tough stance on food safety, when Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  reshuffled his cabinet on Sept. 17.  ‘Sound Science’  U.S. lawmakers called President  Barack Obama  to address
beef trade during his meeting with Kan when the Japanese prime
minister visited the nation last month, saying Japan’s
restrictions “are not based on sound science nor are they
consistent with international guidelines.”  “At the very least, Japan should agree to immediately
relax its age restrictions to 30 months as an interim step on a
pathway that would amend its import protocol to be consistent
with OIE guidelines,” senators including former Agriculture
Secretary Mike Johanns and agriculture committee member Pat
Roberts said in a letter to the president.  The World Organization for Animal Health, also known as OIE,
voted in May 2007 to give the U.S. its “controlled-risk”
rating for mad cow disease. The designation means controls are
effective, and meat from U.S. cattle of any age can be safely
traded. The OIE standards are used to settle trade disputes at
the World Trade Organization.  Relaxing Restriction  Kano told reporters on Sept. 24 that Japan was “making a
decision based on scientific knowledge” regarding food-safety
issues. His remarks came a day after Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  was quoted by Kyodo News as telling Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  that relaxing the age restriction would be
considered.  Japan planned to ease the restriction on U.S. beef imports
to allow meat from cattle aged up to 30 months in 2007 under the
former government of the Liberal Democratic Party. The
administration of President  George W. Bush  had urged Japan to
eliminate the age limitation completely, in line with
international standards, and the deadlock continued.  Japan and the U.S. held their first working-level meeting
in three years last month, based on an agreement reached in
April between Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack  and then
Agriculture Minister  Hirotaka Akamatsu  to resume beef talks.  Double Exports  President  Obama ’s administration increased pressure on
Japan to re-open its market to U.S. beef as part of a goal to
double the country’s exports in the next five years.  Japan was the third-largest destination for U.S. beef last
year, at $470 million, up from $383 million in 2008, according
to the U.S. Meat Export Federation. That compares with $1.391
billion in 2003. Mexico and Canada were the biggest buyers of
U.S. beef last year.  More than 100 countries buy beef from the U.S., which has
found three cases of the disease in the past two decades, and no
incidents in the last three years, Vilsack said on April 9 in
Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  