-- U.S. Stocks Advance as Google Leads Tech Rally; Banks Tumble
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2010-10-15T20:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-google-amd-surge-j-c-penney-drops.html
U.S.  stocks  rose, completing the
second straight weekly gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
as Google Inc. and Seagate Technology Plc fueled a rally in
technology shares that helped offset a decline in bank shares
and an unexpected drop in consumer confidence.  Google jumped 11 percent after earnings topped analysts’
estimates.  Seagate  surged 22 percent as private-equity firms
consider buying the world’s largest maker of disk drives used in
computers. JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost 4.1 percent and Bank of
America Corp. slipped to a 15-month low as financial companies
led losses in the S&P 500. General Electric Co. slid 5 percent
after reporting revenue that missed estimates.  The S&P 500 added 0.2 percent to 1,176.19 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after gaining and falling as much as 0.6 percent during
the trading session. The measure ended the  week  with a 1 percent
advance. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 31.79 points, or
0.3 percent, to 11,062.78. The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced
1.4 percent to 2,468.77.  “We’re missing confidence -- all the other ingredients are
there,” said  Dan Veru , co-chief investment officer at Palisade
Capital Management LLC in Fort Lee, New Jersey, which oversees
$3.1 billion. “Companies have the profitability thing figured
out. The missing ingredient is that top-line growth.”  An early rally in stock futures stalled when the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary  index of consumer
sentiment  fell to 67.9 in October from 68.2 at the end of
September, trailing the median forecast from economists. The
gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began December 2007.  Bernanke Speech  The gains in stock futures followed comments today by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said more monetary
stimulus may be needed to safeguard the economic recovery. The
S&P 500 has rallied  12 percent  since Bernanke said at a meeting
at the Fed’s annual conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Aug.
27 that he had the tools to prevent another recession. The
speech, which signaled his readiness to buy more government debt
in a tactic called quantitative easing, came on the same day the
Commerce Department lowered its estimate for gross domestic
product in the second quarter to 1.6 percent from 2.4 percent.  “Since mid-July the market has begun to price in further
quantitative easing by the Fed,” said  Eric Teal , chief
investment officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc. in Raleigh,
North Carolina, which manages $5 billion. “As the day arrives,
and it looks to be coming in November, given the 15 percent
rally we’ve experienced since July, investors are likely to sell
on the Fed news, as well as earnings news.”  ‘Nonconventional Policies’  In remarks today Bernanke said that the central bank could
expand asset purchases or change the language in its statement,
while saying “nonconventional policies have costs and
limitations that must be taken into account in judging whether
and how aggressively they should be used.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
September, indicating limited consumer demand is making it
difficult for companies to raise prices. The consumer-price
index rose 0.1 percent after 0.3 percent gains in the prior two
months, figures from the Labor Department showed today after
Bernanke’s remarks were released. Economists projected a 0.2
percent gain, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Reports also showed  retail  sales in the U.S. climbed more
than forecast in September while manufacturing in the New York
region expanded in October at a faster pace than anticipated.  Tech Rally  Technology companies in the S&P 500 jumped 2 percent
collectively, the biggest gain among 10 industries.  Google  surged 11 percent, the most in two years, to $601.45
as third-quarter net income rose 32 percent from year earlier.
Profit excluding some items was $7.64 a share, exceeding the
$6.68 average of analyst projections compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales, excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, were $5.48
billion, topping the $5.26 billion average estimate.  Of the 14 S&P 500 companies to have reported results since
Oct. 8, 15 have  beaten  analysts’ per-share earnings estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg predict 23 percent growth in third-quarter profit from
a year earlier for S&P 500 companies, the fourth straight
quarterly increase.  “So far the numbers are coming in pretty solid,” said
 Keith Lerner , chief market strategist at the brokerage arm of
SunTrust Banks Inc. in Atlanta, which oversees about $43
billion. “It’s allaying some of the concern about drastic cuts
to estimates for next year.”  Seagate  jumped 22 percent to $15.51. Private-equity firms
TPG Capital and KKR & Co. are considering an offer of about $16
a share, which would value the company at $7.55 billion, said
two people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  Banks Slump  A measure of  financial  shares fell 1.7 percent, the biggest
decline among 10 groups in the S&P 500. JPMorgan slid 4.1
percent to $37.15 while Bank of America lost 4.9 percent to
$12.60, the lowest price since July 2009.  U.S. regulators say they are aggressively investigating
whether employees of lenders including  JPMorgan , Bank of America
and Ally Financial Inc. have falsified documents used in
foreclosure proceedings.  GE, the world’s biggest maker of medical-imaging gear and
power-generating machinery, lost 5 percent to $16.30 as sales
declined on lower equipment shipments. Revenue fell 5 percent to
$35.9 billion, trailing  estimates .  Gannett Co. sank 8.8 percent to $12.85 for the biggest drop
in the S&P 500. The owner of USA Today and television stations
reported third-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates
on weak demand for newspaper advertising. While total revenue
snapped a three-year string of declines, newspaper sales slid
4.8 percent, led by a 5.1 percent slump in advertising revenue.  Mattel Inc., the world’s largest toymaker, dropped 6.5
percent to $22.45. The El Segundo, California-based company
reported  profit  excluding a tax benefit of 72 cents a share,
compared with the average prediction of 75 cents. Net income
rose 23 percent to $283.3 million, or 77 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ; 