-- Washington Resists Calls for Big Fix on Foreclosures
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-10-15T13:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-policy-makers-resist-calls-for-big-fix-in-housing-foreclosure-crisis.html
Washington policy makers, who moved
swiftly to calm markets during the subprime mortgage crisis in
2008, have resisted calls for similarly broad steps in response
to concern that banks may have acted illegally to seize homes.  President  Barack Obama  and the federal agencies that share
responsibility for housing finance are opposing calls for a
nationwide foreclosure freeze, fearing further damage to the
housing market. Even as  bank stocks  tumbled yesterday on concern
that the mishandled loans will increase costs for lenders, the
White House and federal regulators avoided any grand gestures
designed to reassure investors.  Obama this week endorsed a coordinated investigation by
attorneys general from all 50 states into whether lenders used
false documents to justify foreclosures. Mounting a response on
the federal level is complicated by the fact that responsibility
for overseeing housing finance and foreclosure law is fragmented
among U.S., state and local agencies, with no single regulator
shaping policy.  “We can see all too painfully the results from that gap,”
said  Clifford V. Rossi , executive-in-residence at the Center for
Financial Policy at the Robert H. Smith School of Business at
the University of Maryland.  U.S. regulators say they are aggressively investigating
whether employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc.,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp . have falsified
documents used in foreclosure proceedings.  ‘No Excuse’  “No one should misunderstand the magnitude of our
response,” said Federal Housing Administration Commissioner
 David Stevens . “The administration has been very clear that
there is no excuse for not fixing the problem.”  Obama and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  have said it would be a mistake to halt foreclosures while
banks and regulators determine whether lenders acted illegally.
A nationwide moratorium could do more harm than good, they said,
by slowing recovery from the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression and further destabilizing neighborhoods already
roiled by record home seizures.  “I’m not sure it would help anyone,” Bair said in
Washington this week. “The market does need to clear and a lot
of those foreclosures do need to proceed.”  $2 Billion Monthly  Delays tied to the probes may cost U.S. lenders $2 billion
for every month, said  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia, who put the cost of extending
foreclosures at $1,000 monthly for each property in the
pipeline.  “There are 2.3 million loans that are out there in
foreclosure,” said  John Courson , chief executive officer for
the Mortgage Bankers Association. “The administration has in
fact made the right decision by not pressing for an overall
moratorium. They see the debilitating effects that could have
from the standpoint of the entire economy.”  Yesterday, investors worried about the foreclosure crisis
punished the big banks. Shares of Bank of America,  Wells Fargo  &
Co. and Citigroup Inc. fell by more than 4 percent. Financial
stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.8 percent.  The federal response to the crisis so far has remained on
an agency-by-agency level.  Next Step  Federal banking regulators have been examining the document
procedures of individual banks to pinpoint problems. The results
of those exams will determine the next step, said  Kevin Mukri ,
spokesman for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The
agency has directed seven of the nation’s largest servicers to
review their foreclosure processes, including  JPMorgan Chase ,
 Bank of America ,  Citigroup , HSBC Finance Corp.,  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. , and   Wells Fargo & Co .  The FDIC has started an independent review of banks with
which it shares loan losses and won’t make payments if it finds
foreclosures were conducted unlawfully, the agency said.  “We have contacted our loss-share partners and requested
certification that all past and future foreclosure claims filed
under the loss-share agreement are compliant with the law,”
 Andrew Gray , an FDIC spokesman, said yesterday in a statement.
“We can and will deny loss-share payments for any foreclosures
that are found not to be compliant with state laws or not fully
remediated.”  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the largest sources of mortgage funding,
has asked loan servicers to make sure they’re complying with the
law.  Deep Dive  The Federal Housing Administration, the third-largest
backer of mortgages, has launched “a deep-dive review” of
servicers to make sure they’re reviewing their processes, FHA
Commissioner  David H. Stevens  said in an interview.  “We will hold them accountable,” Stevens said.  The Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force is also
reviewing the document problems, Stevens said. The task force,
housed at the Justice Department, brings together more than 20
federal agencies, 94 U.S. Attorney’s offices and state and local
law enforcement.  In resisting a foreclosure moratorium, the White House
finds itself at odds with Democratic lawmakers campaigning to
hold control of Congress after next month’s elections.  Several Democrats, including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , have urged lenders to institute a moratorium. Yesterday,
seven senators including  Barbara Boxer  of California and  Debbie Stabenow  of Michigan, asked regulators including Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to force lenders to extend cheaper loans.  Foreclosure filings  totaled 930,437 in the third quarter, a
4 percent rise from the previous three months, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. Filings in the states most affected by court
reviews of foreclosure documents accounted for 40 percent of the
total in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 