-- U.S. Structured-Note Sales Surge to $38.4 Billion to Break Record of 2008
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2010-10-15T14:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/u-s-structured-note-sales-surge-to-38-4-billion-to-break-record-of-2008.html
Banks have sold $38.4 billion of
structured notes in the U.S. this year, breaking the 2008 record
as investors turn away from stocks and toward fixed-income
products.  Morgan Stanley issued the most, $9.44 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s almost four times as much as
the $2.43 billion it sold all of last year, according to
StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database.  Bank of America Corp. 
followed with $7.39 billion, 78 percent more than last year’s
$4.15 billion total, the data show. Those figures don’t include
private placements or market-linked certificates of deposit.  Structured notes, which are bonds bundled with derivatives,
generally offer the potential for higher yields than corporate
debt. Individuals are wary of equities and looking for ways to
earn more interest than they can on money-market funds, said Tom
Livingston, who helps manage about $4 billion as Halliday
Financial Group’s director of structured products.  “Some people that left the stock market are not coming
back,” said Livingston, based in Albany, New York. “Structured
products offer them an opportunity to pick up yield.”  Investors pulled a net $15.6 billion from domestic stock
funds in August and put $30.6 billion in bond funds, the 20th
consecutive monthly inflow, according to  data  from the
Investment Company Institute, a Washington trade group. Banks
sold $5.18 billion of structured notes in August, the data show.  Biggest Brokerages  Morgan Stanley and Bank of America’s large brokerage
networks help them distribute more structured notes than other
banks, Livingston said. Last year, Morgan Stanley acquired a
controlling stake in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, a joint
venture with Citigroup Inc. that has more than 18,000 brokers,
and Bank of America bought Merrill Lynch, which has 15,000.  Total issuance dropped 10 percent last year to $33.9
billion, down from $37.6 billion in the previous record year of
2008, after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt in
September 2008 and defaulted on its structured notes. Since
credit markets have settled down, investors aren’t as worried
about counterparty risk now, said  John Farrall , who helps
oversee $104 billion as director of derivatives strategies at
PNC Wealth Management in Cleveland.  As sales boom, structured notes have drawn scrutiny from
regulators. In January, the Securities and Exchange Commission
formed a unit that’s examining whether banks and brokers
overcharged individual investors for structured notes and failed
to disclose potential conflicts of interest. The products are
also a priority for the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s enforcement division, the industry-funded group said
in a March 1  letter .  Step-Up Callable Notes  Eight of the 10 largest deals this year have been step-up
callable notes. Increased interest in those products helped
drive sales at Chicago-based Incapital LLC to $2.1 billion this
year, an annual record, according to Scott Matter, a spokesman
for the firm.  Last month, Morgan Stanley sold $1.1 billion of 15-year
step-up callable notes, the largest structured-note offering of
the year. The securities, which can be called after a year, pay
5 percent interest initially, according to a regulatory filing.
Investors paid embedded fees as high as 2.3 percent, according
to another filing.  That initial rate compares with the 3.6 percent average
yield on investment-grade corporate bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data shows.  “Structured notes can be an efficient way to pick up yield
in a low-rate environment,” said  Deryk Rhodes , senior vice
president at Newbridge Securities Corp. in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida. “They’re starting to become more mainstream. What was
exotic before is better understood today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 