-- UBS in Talks With Dozens of Prop Traders Mulling Hedge Funds
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-10-15T09:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/ubs-says-it-s-in-talks-with-dozens-of-prop-traders-considering-hedge-funds.html
UBS AG , the largest Swiss bank, said
it has been in talks with “dozens” of proprietary traders from
firms worldwide who may start their own hedge funds as banks 
seek to comply with new U.S. rules aimed at curbing risk.  “A lot of it is just talk and chatter, but there are very
advanced discussions as well,”  Stuart Hendel , UBS’s global head
of prime brokerage, said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.
“In the next 12 months, there is going to be much more of a
startup phase than there has been in the last couple of years.”  Banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  are complying with the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul act
in the U.S. that prohibits them from risking capital by betting
for their own accounts. Goldman Sachs, which makes about 10
percent of its  revenue  from proprietary trading, decided to
disband the principal-strategies group, two people with
knowledge of the decision said last month.  Some traders are teaming up to form groups, said Hendel,
who is based in New York and was in Singapore to attend UBS’s
annual hedge fund conference. Managers will also leave existing
hedge-fund firms that haven’t reached their high-water mark, or
the historical peak net asset value of a hedge fund, he said.  “Funds with poor performance will splinter,” he said.  It will be harder to raise assets as investors need
managers to put in place the necessary infrastructure and risk
management platforms before putting their money into hedge funds,
he said.  “The bar is going up,” Hendel said. “You can’t start
with three people in a garage anymore on your Mastercard.”  More Closures  Prime brokerages provide services such as cash and
securities lending, custody, introduction to potential investors
and startup consulting services to hedge funds.  There will also be more hedge-fund closures as about a
third of funds are still under their high-water marks, making
them unable to charge incentive fees two years in a row, he said.
Some also will fail to achieve “the size and scale they need to
survive and thrive” as they find it tough to raise assets, he
said.  “Investors are focusing on a lot of different things that
have to be resourced by the underlying hedge funds and you can’t
do that with $20 million, $30 million, $50 million,” said
Hendel, who joined Zurich-based UBS last year from Morgan
Stanley where he was the global head of prime brokerage in New
York. “If you don’t have $100 million in the U.S., you’re going
to struggle.”  The industry’s assets declined 1.2 percent to $1.65
trillion in the second quarter and remain below the peak of
$1.93 trillion in June 2008, according to data provided by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  More Scrutiny  Investors are “spending much more time doing their due
diligence” and paying more attention to investment strategies,
said  Des Anderson , head of trading at the Asian office of
London-based hedge-fund firm Marshall Wace LLP.  “The lead time to getting investments now is much longer
than it was pre-crisis,” Anderson, who is based in Hong Kong,
said today at the UBS hedge-fund conference. “In the past, you
could expect to get investment within two to three months of
detailed meetings; now it’s at least six to nine months.”  There have been 73 Asian hedge fund closures this year,
according to Singapore-based industry data aggregator
 Eurekahedge Pte , after 107 in 2009. Singapore-based Amoeba
Capital Partners Pte, run by the former head of Asian
investments at Morgan Stanley’s asset-management unit, is
returning money to investors in its stock hedge fund, citing
“tough” industry conditions, Managing Partner  Ashutosh Sinha 
said this month.  Darwinian Evolution  The proportion of Asian hedge-fund managers overseeing $50
million or less has grown to 66 percent of the industry, from 57
percent two years ago, according to Eurekahedge.  Managers in Asia are seeking to consolidate by merging with
others or joining more established hedge-fund firms, said  David Gray , UBS’s head of prime services in Asia-Pacific.  “What we’re seeing is probably an evolution, Darwinian in
a way,” said Hong Kong-based Gray, who also was in Singapore
for the conference. “Once the froth of the bull market leaves
and you’re left with some of the harder commercial realties, you
will see some players leave the business, but you will see
others evolving to either merged structures, joining
platforms.”  Fund Performance  Hedge funds had their best September on record, led by
managers investing in Asia ex-Japan and emerging markets, and
funds that trade equities, according to Eurekahedge.  The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more than
2,600 funds worldwide, rose 3.5 percent last month, bringing its
year-to-September advance to 5.2 percent, Eurekahedge said in an
e-mailed report this week. The index had its second-best monthly
return since May 2003, the Singapore-based data provider said.  “When the opportunity set improves, hedge funds will start
increasing their conviction, putting more money to work, buying
and selling a little more, increasing their exposure to the
market,” Hendel said. “That will bode well for the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  