-- Lula Rival's Surge in Polls Sparks Bond Rally as Vote Nears: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-10-15T21:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/lula-rival-s-surge-in-polls-sparks-bond-rally-as-vote-nears-brazil-credit.html
A surge by opposition candidate  Jose Serra  in presidential election polls is sparking the biggest
rally in Brazilian bonds in two months.  Yields on real-denominated government bonds due in 2014
tumbled 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, since
yesterday, the most since August, after a Sensus poll showed
Serra cut into a 14-percentage point gap with  Dilma Rousseff 
ahead of an Oct. 31 runoff vote. Yields fell 34 basis points
this week to 11.57 percent, the biggest weekly rally in almost
two months.  Serra’s advance is buoying bonds because he has pledged to
be fiscally “responsible” while Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s handpicked successor, said in August that
promoting spending cuts was a “crime,” according to  Jerry Brewin , who manages $2 billion of emerging-market assets at
Aviva Investors in London. Brewin said he began betting
yesterday on a drop in interest-rate future yields because
Serra, 68, may win.  “Serra is expected to be fiscally conservative,” said
Brewin. He predicts yields on rate futures contracts due in 2017
will decline 50 basis points if Serra wins. “That’s the benefit
you get being a fiscal hawk -- to deliver lower yields. The
market is beginning to react to that.”  Yields on Brazil’s 10 percent bonds due in 2014 fell to
11.57 percent today, the lowest level since Aug. 25, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity
interest-rate futures contract sank 25 basis points in the past
two days and are down 32 basis points this week to 11.43
percent.  Cardoso Government  Rousseff, a former energy minister and cabinet chief under
Lula, won 47 percent in a first-round vote on Oct. 3 while Serra
took 33 percent, setting up the runoff election.  Serra has closed the gap by targeting religious voters and
criticizing Rousseff’s flip-flop on abortion policy, according
to  Rafael Cortez , a political scientist at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada.  Serra served both as planning and health minister under ex-
president  Fernando Henrique Cardoso , who cut annual inflation
from 631 percent when he took office in 1995 to 14 percent when
he was succeeded by Lula in January 2003. Inflation has slowed
further to 4.7 percent under Lula, who defeated Serra in the
2002 election.  While investors have confidence in Rousseff, who has
pledged to continue Lula’s economic programs, they are more
optimistic about Serra’s ability to contain spending, according
to  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America local-markets strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York.  ‘Fine Tuning’  Lula’s government boosted spending 18.2 percent in July
from a year earlier, helping push the budget deficit to 3.4
percent of gross domestic product from 1.2 percent in October
2008. Brazil’s gross  debt  equaled 60 percent of GDP last year,
compared with 38 percent in Mexico and 46 percent in Colombia.  “I don’t think it’s about liking or disliking” the two
candidates, Melzi said in a telephone interview. “I would call
it a fine tuning. In the market, Dilma was perceived as being
willing to spend a bit more and Serra was perceived to be a bit
more responsible.”  Alessandro Teixeira , one of Rousseff’s campaign
coordinators, said yesterday the candidate won’t change her
platform in reaction to the bond market.  “We wouldn’t change what we’re doing because of that,”
Teixeira said in a telephone interview from Brasilia. “To have
a vision that Serra would bring more stability is wrong. We want
continuity of the current government.”  Poll Ascent  Serra had 47.7 percent support, trailing Rousseff by 4.6
percentage points, in the Sensus poll of 2,000 people published
yesterday. The Oct. 11-13 poll had a margin of error of 2.2
percentage points.  Rousseff, who would be Brazil’s first female president, has
vowed to maintain the social programs and the economic growth
that has lifted 21 million people out of poverty since 2003.  “Defending spending cuts, as was practiced in Brazil, is a
crime nowadays,” Rousseff, 62, said in an interview with TV
Globo network on Aug. 31. “We are in a phase of investment, of
planning and controlling public spending.”  Investors may be overreacting to the poll as Rousseff, a
member of the Workers’ Party, or PT, would also hold down the
deficit, said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $14 billion in
emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in New
York.  “The PT over the last how many years in government has
been fiscally responsible,” Cisilino said. “I don’t see a
reason why policy is going to change now. We don’t understand
this talk that it’s going to be so radically different.”  Payrolls, Pensions  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points today to
168, the lowest level since April, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose to 97 basis points from a two-year low of 89 on
Oct. 13, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell three basis points today to 11.22 percent,
adding the decline this week to 21 basis points.  The real was little changed this week at 1.6651 per dollar.
It touched 1.6442 yesterday, the strongest level since September
2008.  ‘Responsible Administrator’  Serra carried out spending cuts when he was governor of Sao
Paulo, Brazil’s wealthiest and biggest state. He has pledged to
cut government payrolls and renegotiate prices on public
contracts, helping offset plans to boost the minimum wage and
payouts to pensioners.  “I’ve always been a responsible administrator,” Serra
said in a speech to party members and allies in Brasilia on Oct.
6. “In the fiscal matter, we are conservatives. Many know of my
responsible performance as a lawmaker, as planning minister, as
governor.”  Latin America’s biggest economy expanded at the fastest
pace in more than two decades in the first half of the year,
leading central bank policy makers to increase the benchmark
interest rate to 10.75 percent from a record low of 8.75 percent
in March.  “The market is correct by analyzing that Serra has greater
possibility to improve fiscal accounts, which will certainly
affect long-term interest rates,” said  Marcelo Saddi Castro ,
who oversees 18 billion reais ($10.8 billion) as chief
investment officer at SulAmerica Investimentos in Sao Paulo.
“The market is pricing in the real possibility that he can win
the election, a possibility that two weeks ago was almost
nonexistent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  