-- Tullow Says No Alternative to Suing Congo Over Oil
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-15T18:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/tullow-says-was-no-alternative-to-suing-congo-over-lake-albert-oil-blocks.html
Tullow Oil Plc  had no alternative to
legal action after Democratic Republic of Congo canceled its
claim to two oil blocks on Lake Albert, the company’s vice
president said.  Tullow won a temporary injunction in a British Virgin
Islands court on Sept. 21 against the development or resale of
the blocks along the Ugandan border, which now belong to
companies owned by  Khulubuse Zuma , the nephew of South African
President  Jacob Zuma . Tullow has also lodged a case against
Congo at the International Court of Arbitration in Paris.  Zuma’s companies, Caprikat Ltd. and Foxwhelp Ltd., both
registered in the British Virgin Islands, received a
presidential decree to exploit the blocks that were previously
awarded, though not decreed, to Tullow.  “Since Tullow is not in the habit of buying back goods
which have been stolen from us, I defy anybody to show what
alternative we had to these legal actions,” Vice President  Tim O’Hanlon  said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions.  Before Caprikat and Foxwhelp won the rights to oil blocks 1
and 2, block 1 was awarded to South African-based Divine
Inspiration Group Ltd., or DIG, in 2008, two years after Tullow
signed for both blocks. Only Zuma’s companies received the
presidential decree. Tullow owns blocks on the Ugandan side of
the border.  “In the eyes of Congolese law, only this last contract is
legal,” Congo’s oil minister, Celestin Mbuyu, said in
parliament on Oct. 8. The June 18 presidential decree
effectively canceled Tullow and DIG’s rights to the blocks, he
said.  Pay Back  The ordinance also made the arbitration clause in Tullow’s
contract invalid, Mbuyu said. “Congo has hired lawyers to
contest the competence of the chamber” at the Paris court, he
said.  Mbuyu told DIG and Tullow that their contracts were
canceled in letters that also explained how to seek compensation
through the Ministry of Finance, he said.  Tullow is not aware of the letter, O’Hanlon said. Mbuyu
said the company “systematically refused” to accept the
correspondence.  DIG received the letter and is in negotiations with the
government, Andrea Brown, DIG’s director, said by phone from
Kinshasa today.  “We’re making progress and the government has agreed to
provide not just reimbursement of payments made thus far, but
compensation for our losses,” she said.  ‘Nightmare Scenario’  DIG wants $4 million in reimbursement plus interest, as
well as a decree for three blocks for which the company already
has a production-sharing agreement. The blocks are located in
Cuvette Centrale in Congo’s interior. DIG owns 50 percent of
 SacOil Pty Ltd. , which received a decree for block 3 on Lake
Albert at the same time Zuma won blocks 1 and 2.  Neither Zuma, nor his associates, responded to repeated
phone calls and messages.  O’Hanlon said Tullow took legal action during a “nightmare
scenario” after Congo reneged on presidential assurances that
the company “would be at the heart of any solution on the DRC
side of Lake Albert” because it already controlled the Ugandan
side.  A pipeline will eventually ship Congo’s crude through
Tullow’s Ugandan oil blocks to Mombasa, Kenya, Zuma associate
Giuseppe Ciccarelli said July 28.  Mbuyu told parliament the contract process had followed
Congolese law. “We are not afraid of the risk of international
arbitration,” he said.  Test Case  Congo, which currently produces only 25,000 barrels of oil
a day, is sending mixed signals about investment in the country,
 Philippe de Pontet , an analyst at Eurasia Group, said by phone
from Washington.  “Tullow is the big test case,” he said. “Congo is a
country that’s been producing small amounts of oil for many
years but in terms of big league investment, all eyes are on
Tullow and the signs right now are not very reassuring.”  A new oil law being considered by parliament may help to
improve transparency in the industry, De Pontet said.  “At the same time this ongoing dispute with Tullow plays
into investors’ biggest fear, which is that contracts can be
violated,” he said. “Companies are particularly vulnerable
because Congo’s legal framework is so weak and not independent
of politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 