-- Hungary's Special Tax May Cut Magyar Telekom Dividend, Mattheisen Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-15T14:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/hungary-s-special-tax-may-cut-magyar-telekom-dividend-mattheisen-says.html
The Hungarian government’s special
tax on telecommunication companies may force Magyar Telekom
Nyrt. to scale back investments or cut dividend payments, Chief
Executive Officer  Christopher Mattheisen  said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  on Oct. 13 said the government
will impose taxes on energy companies, telecommunications
operators and retail chains for three years to plug budget
holes. Telecommunications companies will have to pay 61 billion
forint ($312 million) annually. Hungary bowed to pressure from
the European Union to reduce its budget shortfall to below the
bloc’s limit of 3 percent of economic output next year.  Magyar Telekom estimates it will pay “about half” of the
total tax, Mattheisen told reporters in Budapest today. The
company expects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to decline as much as 9 percent this year as
Hungarians cut spending. Net income in the second quarter
plunged an annual 31 percent to 15.9 billion forint.  “It’s too early to say what the exact impact of the new tax
will be; it may impact our investment policy or dividend policy,
or both,” Mattheisen said. “This is cash taken out of the
company. I can’t say we’re happy about this.”  Magyar Telekom  shares  have dropped 7.1 since Oct. 12, the
biggest three-day decline since July 13, 2009. The stock fell
1.2 percent to 604 forint today.  The company, majority-owned by Deutsche Telekom AG, is
looking into whether the special levy is compatible with EU
rules, Mattheisen said.  Magyar Telekom paid at least 70 forint per share in
dividend in each of the past seven years, including 74 forint
every year since 2008, Bloomberg  data  show.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  