-- Union-Backed Critic of U.S. Chamber Asks IRS to Probe Political Funding
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/union-backed-critic-of-u-s-chamber-seeks-irs-s-probe-of-group-s-funding.html
A group backed by labor unions is
complaining to tax authorities that the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , which is already under criticism from the White House
and Democrats, may have knowingly used charitable funds for
political activities.  The group,  U.S. Chamber Watch , is filing an amendment to an
earlier complaint with the Internal Revenue Service asking for
an investigation. It alleges that the chamber may have misstated
financial transactions and given improper compensation to
Chamber President  Thomas Donohue .  The new allegations add to a war between Democrats and the
chamber, which plans to spend $75 million on this year’s
elections and is mainly supporting Republicans. White House
officials have questioned whether the organization uses foreign
money to illegally fund political activities, a charge denied by
the business lobbying group.  “This is yet another desperate attempt to distract the
Chamber of Commerce from its aggressive efforts to support job
creation and economic growth,”  Tita Freeman , a spokeswoman for
the Washington-based chamber, said in an e-mail. Freeman said
the complaint represents “petty and baseless allegations by an
anti-business group whose sole existence revolves around
undermining the chamber’s efforts to improve our economy.”  In a Sept. 16 statement after the first IRS complaint,
Freeman  wrote  on the chamber’s website that financial
transactions “are thoroughly reviewed by lawyers and outside
accountants, who have confirmed that they comply with all
relevant tax laws.”  Loan From Charity  The Chamber Watch complaint involves a loan from a chamber-
affiliated charity to the main group, and whether the money was
improperly spent for non-charitable purposes.  “What the chamber has done is overstepped its bounds and
violated IRS regulations that have a firm demarcation between
what not-for-profits are doing, what charitable organizations
are doing and what advocacy groups are doing,” said  Cyrus Mehri , outside counsel to Chamber Watch.  In the new filing, the group cites different statements
made by Freeman in the Web posting and by the group’s chief
financial officer,  Stan Harrell , in the New York Times, about a
donation from the New York-based Starr Foundation to the
charitable National Chamber Foundation, and a subsequent loan
from the chamber’s foundation to its parent group.  Freeman said Starr’s money was an “endowment
contribution” and that the charitable foundation later invested
the funds in a chamber debt instrument to minimize risks.
Harrell said the transaction was a loan only in a legal sense,
and wasn’t meant to be paid back.  ‘Grossly Erroneous’  “The Chamber Watch complaint is grossly erroneous and
based on an uninformed financial analysis,” Freeman said in her
September post.  The  Starr Foundation , which is led by its board chairman,
former  American International Group Inc.  Chairman  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , says it has about $1.25 billion in assets
and makes grants in areas including education, health care and
public policy. No one was available to comment at the Starr
Foundation last night, after normal working hours.  In the latest filing, the Chamber Watch group complains
that Donohue’s $3.8 million in compensation in 2008 and his use
of a private jet, a car and a driver, might violate regulations.  Chamber Watch, a group with a budget of less than $1
million, originated from the labor federation  Change to Win . It
is trying to pressure chamber members to force the group to back
down from efforts to defeat Democratic candidates. Chamber
allies say members will support the group’s efforts to defend
itself against attacks from Democrats and their allies.  Political Advertising  “I don’t know of a single organization that is affiliated
with the chamber that is anything but praiseful of what the
chamber is doing,” said  Dirk Van Dongen , president of the
Washington-based National Association of Wholesaler-
Distributors. “Most of us, if not many of us, are frankly
applauding the chamber.”  The chamber has reported spending almost $19 million on
political ads since Sept. 1, the traditional start of the
general election campaign. While it’s run some ads favoring
House Democrats, most of the money has gone into opposing
Democrats in Senate races, including more than $3 million to
take on California Senator  Barbara Boxer .  Donohue, in an Oct. 12  letter  denying the allegations about
foreign money being used for political activities, said his
group has no intention of backing down.  “In fact, for the next three weeks leading up to Election
Day, you will see us ramp up efforts to educate voters about the
positions of candidates of both parties who are committed to
free enterprise and economic growth,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  