-- UnitedHealth Proposes Medicare, Medicaid Managed-Care Plan to Cut Costs
-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-10-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/unitedhealth-proposed-managed-care-plan-for-medicare-medicaid-for-savings.html
     Oct. 15 (Bloomberg) --  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the biggest
U.S. health insurer by sales, said enrolling dual recipients of
Medicare and Medicaid into managed-care plans would save as much
as $1.62 trillion in the U.S. during 25 years.  Almost 9 million Americans receive coverage from both
 Medicare , the U.S. health plan for the elderly and disabled, and
the Medicaid program for the poor. Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth proposed in a  report  today to combine benefits of
the programs in a single plan to better coordinate patient care.  The proposal is among recommendations the company said would
cut public and private U.S. health-care spending by as much as 
$3.5 trillion during a quarter century. President  Barack Obama  is
promoting the health-care overhaul signed in March as Republicans
in Congress vow to repeal it. The Congressional Budget Office
estimated that a fully implemented law would save $124 billion in
health-care spending by the U.S. government in 10 years.  “For this to work, you would need to really redesign the
structure of Medicare and Medicaid,” said Vicki Gottlich, a
Washington-based senior policy attorney at the  Center for
Medicare Advocacy Inc. , a nonprofit organization assisting
Medicare beneficiaries. “People talked about this 20 years ago
and people could never figure out how to do it.”  The health law didn’t seek to replace the fee-for-service
payment systems employed by Medicare and Medicaid, said  Simon Stevens , executive vice president of UnitedHealth.  ‘Unfinished Business’  “This is unfinished business from the health-reform debate
of the last 18 months,” he said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Such a change would increase the number of government
beneficiaries on UnitedHealth’s rolls, he said, without
providing a specific estimate.  The law expanded regulators’ authority to test programs
such as those recommended in the report by UnitedHealth, the
largest provider of private Medicare and Medicaid health plans,
Stevens said. These programs are similar, he said, to those the
insurer established for commercial clients, Medicaid plans and
Medicare Advantage, which offers additional benefits at
different premium costs than the regular government plan.  UnitedHealth had 1.8 million Medicare Advantage customers
and 2.9 million people in Medicaid managed care plans in 2009,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Seventy percent of Medicaid’s 58 million beneficiaries
already receive coverage from a private insurance plan. About 24
percent of the 47 million Medicare participants belong to
Advantage plans run by private insurers, the  Kaiser Family
Foundation , a Menlo Park, California-based health policy
research institution, said in separate reports this year.  Pilot Programs  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has broad
authority to approve pilot programs that waive regular rules
“as long as the waiver comports with all regulations and the
goals of the program,” Mary Kahn, an agency spokeswoman, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. Kahn said she couldn’t
comment on UnitedHealth’s proposals because the agency hadn’t
reviewed them.  The current payment structure creates a “tangled web of
responsibilities between Medicaid and Medicare” because each
program covers different expenses, medical providers must bill
separate programs, and no one is accountable for tracking the
care patients receive or how much is spent, UnitedHealth said in
its report.  Providing Medicare and Medicaid benefits through a single
insurance plan would simplify coordination of care among
doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and other providers and would
save money by eliminating inefficiencies, the report says.  The so-called dual-eligible beneficiaries tend to be
poorer, sicker and costlier to treat than people covered by just
one of the programs, the Kaiser foundation said in 2009.  House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky are among the
Republicans who have promised to repeal and  replace  the health-
care law in the party’s effort to gain seats in Congress in the
Nov. 2 midterm elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  