-- Murdoch Says No More Phone-Tapping Revealed, Criticizes New York Times
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-15T20:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/murdoch-says-no-more-phone-tapping-revealed-criticizes-new-york-times.html
News Corp.  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  said no more evidence has
emerged regarding accusations of phone tapping by company
journalists in the U.K.  “If any evidence comes to light we’d take immediate action
as we’ve done before,” Murdoch said today at the New York-based
company’s annual meeting.  Police have been examining any new evidence that phone
tapping was carried out by News of the World journalists since
the New York Times ran a story in September looking back at the
charges. He said the  New York Times  cannot be trusted as an
authority on the issue because it is “the most motivated of all
in this.”  Murdoch, 79, answered investor questions regarding the
controversy as well as the company’s political donations and
whether he plans to retire -- which he said he doesn’t.  “When my health gives out I will get out of the way, but
not before, unless the board decides to remove me,” Murdoch
said in response to a shareholder’s question as to whether he
will retire on his 80th birthday on March 11.  Some shareholders challenged Murdoch regarding political
donations made by News Corp., owner of the Wall Street Journal
and Fox News.  ‘Political Agenda’  Earlier this week, the  Nathan Cummings Foundation , a News
Corp. shareholder, said the board should disclose all political
spending at the annual meeting, claiming there wasn’t a
strategic rationale for the expenditures. The foundation, a
Jewish non-profit organization that supports social justice and
health care, called it an “apparent use of corporate funds to
further the personal relationships or political agenda of the
CEO.”  News Corp., which gave $1 million to the Republican
Governors Association in June, also contributed $65,000 to a
committee trying to elect Republicans to state legislatures and
other state offices. The Cummings Foundation also said News
Corp. gave $1 million to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “They were unusual and we made them because we decided
they were in the interest of our company and our country,”
Murdoch said. They had “nothing to do with the editorial
policies or the journalism.”  Government Challenge  News Corp.’s political action committee has given $180,200
to federal candidates for the 2010 elections, with Democrats
receiving 58 percent of that amount, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research group.  News Corp.  rose  11 cents to $14.19 at 4 p.m. New York time
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have gained 3.6 percent
this year.  Murdoch said he’s moving forward with regulatory approval
to acquire the 61 percent of British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator, that News Corp. doesn’t already
own. He didn’t provide specifics on timing.  News Corp.’s delay in notifying the European Union about
the planned takeover suggests it’s seeking to avoid a U.K.
government challenge, lawyers said earlier this week.  News Corp., which made the offer four months ago, is trying
to ward off a potential challenge from U.K. Business Secretary
Vince Cable over concerns the company may harm the public
interest by expanding its control of U.K. media outlets, said
Gustaf Duhs, an antitrust lawyer at Stevens & Bolton LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  