-- Vanguard Chips Away at BlackRock, State Street in ETF Price War
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-10-15T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/vanguard-chips-away-at-blackrock-s-lead-in-exchange-traded-fund-price-war.html
BlackRock Inc.  and  State Street
Corp. , the world’s largest sellers of exchange-traded funds, may
be forced to cut fees as they lose assets to lower-priced
competitors such as Vanguard Group Inc.  Vanguard’s U.S. ETFs pulled in a net $25.6 billion this
year through Sept. 30, 26 percent more than BlackRock and State
Street combined, according to Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.
Vanguard last month offered 20 new ETFs, taking on the bigger
companies for the first time with funds that track Standard &
Poor’s and Russell indexes, including the  S&P 500 Index .  Assets in exchange-traded funds, which trade through the
day like stocks and mostly track indexes, rose almost 14-fold in
the past decade to $897 billion, Morningstar data show. State
Street and BlackRock dropped to a 70 percent combined share from
85 percent in 2005, as investors flocked to lower-fee funds from
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based Vanguard,  Charles Schwab Corp .
and Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Cost isn’t everything, but it does matter,” said  David Nadig , director of research for Index Publications LLC in
Decatur, Georgia, which produces a website covering the ETF
industry. “For the more competitive segment of the market,
investors are voting with their feet.”  BlackRock, based in New York, jumped into ETFs with its
$15.2 billion acquisition of Barclays Global Investors in
December, which added the iShares funds. IShares has the biggest
lineup of ETFs, with 462 funds, including 243 registered outside
the U.S., and $412 billion under management as of Sept. 30.  Double the Fees  Fees charged by BlackRock and Boston-based State Street,
which oversees $216 billion in ETFs, are on average about double
those of Vanguard and Schwab of San Francisco.  The BlackRock iShares ETF that tracks the  MSCI Emerging
Markets  Index manages $48.2 billion and has an expense ratio of
0.72 percent. That means an investor who puts in $10,000 would
pay $72 annually in fund fees. The fund gathered $2.7 billion
this year through Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Vanguard ETF  that follows the same benchmark has an
expense ratio of 0.27 percent. Opened almost two years later
than its iShares counterpart, the fund drew $13.3 billion this
year and has climbed to $39.9 billion.  Vanguard, which has $126 billion in ETFs, is betting lower
prices will help it catch its bigger rivals as exchange-traded
funds continue to grow in popularity. ETFs are set to gather
more deposits than index-based mutual funds this year. Through
September, exchange-traded funds attracted $64.9 billion,
compared with $55.7 billion for index funds, according to
Morningstar.  Hedge Funds, Advisers  ETFs have caught on with financial advisers, who have
adopted them as a cheap and easy way to spread clients’ money
among various asset classes, industries and geographies. Hedge
funds are another big customer, using them to trade quickly in
and out of investments such as commodities and currencies.  IShares got into ETFs in 2000 and surpassed State Street as
the No. 1 manager in 2003, overcoming State Street’s advantage
of being earlier to market. That edge stemmed from investors
favoring funds with more assets and higher trading volumes,
which keep the spread between bid and ask prices narrower than
on less liquid securities. IShares had net deposits of $15.1
billion this year through Sept. 30.  State Street opened  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust , the first U.S.
ETF, in 1993. It remains the largest ETF with $82.7 billion in
assets, and State Street’s  SPDR Gold Trust  is the second biggest
with $57 billion. The company has lagged behind iShares in more
narrowly targeted ETFs, and it has 20 of its 114 funds
registered outside the U.S. Investors put $5.2 billion into its
ETFs this year.  Vanguard was initially reluctant to offer ETFs. Founder
 John Bogle  repeatedly criticized the product for encouraging
short-term investing. In 2001, a year after Bogle’s retirement,
Vanguard introduced  Total Stock Market ETF . Vanguard ETFs are
separate share classes of the firm’s index mutual funds, a
structure the company has patented.  BlackRock Rating Lowered  Vanguard expanded in 2004, rolling out 18 ETFs. It now runs
63. Like its mutual funds, Vanguard’s ETFs compete aggressively
on fees, though they rarely went head-to-head on the same index
with iShares or State Street, until September.  Following that move, Goldman Sachs analyst  Marc Irizarry 
downgraded BlackRock on Oct. 5 to “neutral” from “buy,”
citing “risks to iShare’s market share and fees amid rising
industry price competition.”  BlackRock’s stock has lost 23 percent this year, compared
with a decline of 8.5 percent by State Street. Vanguard, which
isn’t publicly traded, is owned by its investors through their
fund holdings.  BlackRock and State Street may eventually have to reduce
expense ratios to hang onto investors.  ‘Hard Pill’  “That’s a hard pill to swallow to cut fees, because you
are literally throwing money away” in the short run, Nadig said
in a telephone interview.  Schwab, the largest independent U.S. brokerage by client
assets, opened its first ETFs in November. Its 11 funds have
gathered a net $1.2 billion this year. Pimco, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, opened its first in June 2009. The
Newport Beach, California-based company’s eight index-based ETFs
have collected $746 million this year.  Both iShares and State Street said they aren’t considering
lowering expense ratios, except according to pre-set formulas
that drop fees when the assets in a fund reach certain
thresholds.  “We are absolutely sticking to our strategy,” iShares
managing director  Noel Archard  said in an interview. “Our
customers aren’t asking for lower expense ratios. They’re asking
for more services.”  Those services include education on how to use ETFs, multi-
ETF asset-allocation models and portfolio analysis, he said.  More Than Fees  Tony Rochte , a senior managing director at State Street’s
money-management unit, said his customers see expense ratios as
one of several elements in assessing whether to invest in a
particular ETF. Just as important, he said, are liquidity, which
can affect share prices; tracking error, measuring the accuracy
with which an ETF follows its index; and tax-efficiency.  A frequent advantage for State Street and iShares, with
their bigger funds, is liquidity. IShares’s $36.6 billion  MSCI
EAFE Index Fund  tracking developed non-U.S. markets charges 0.35
percent and had an average bid-ask spread of 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage points, during normal trading hours in the week
ending Oct. 8, Bloomberg data show.  Schwab’s $357 million  International Equity ETF , using the
FTSE Developed ex-U.S. Index, is less than half the cost with an
expense ratio of 0.13 percent. It’s average bid-ask spread was
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage points.  Quote Spreads  “If the bid-ask spread is too large, perhaps because the
fund is too small and liquidity is tight, you might end up
paying more than you should, even if the underlying expense
ratio is low,” said George Padula, a wealth-management adviser
at Back Bay Financial Group Inc. in Boston, which oversees about
$350 million, including $65 million in ETFs.  The more frequently an investor trades, the more likely a
wider spread is to outweigh the benefits of a lower expense
ratio. The most frequent traders are large institutional
investors, Index Publications’ Nadig said. BlackRock and State
Street are the world’s largest money managers for institutions.  Vanguard and Schwab, by contrast, cater mostly to retail
investors, which may help them capture future ETF deposits.  Though none of the fund firms could provide a breakdown of
ETF customers, iShares’ Archard, Rochte at State Street and
Vanguard’s Francis Kinniry all said individuals, investing
directly or through financial advisers, represented the fastest-
growing investor segment.  A quarter of independent financial advisers said they
intended to invest more in ETFs in the coming year, the highest
of any investment vehicle, according to a July survey by Schwab.  “The biggest opportunity for growth is the changing
landscape of advisers,” Kinniry, a member of Vanguard’s
investment-strategy group, said. “Advisers used to use mutual-
fund rotation. Now it’s asset allocation through ETFs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  