-- Venture-Capital Funding Drops as Clean-Energy Startups Get Less
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/venture-capital-funding-drops-as-clean-energy-startups-attract-less-money.html
Venture-capital funding in the third
quarter fell to its lowest level in more than a year as
investors made fewer bets on alternative energy.  Firms invested $4.82 billion in the U.S. during the period,
down 7.3 percent from a year earlier and the least amount since
the second quarter of 2009, the  National Venture Capital
Association  and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC said today in a
report. The number of deals rose 8.9 percent to 780.  So-called clean technology companies, including makers of
electric vehicles and solar power, received $625.2 million, a
decline of 32 percent from the year-earlier period and less than
half of the amount in the second quarter.  Funding of larger, more mature companies has slowed because
venture capitalists are having trouble raising money, said  Mark Heesen , president of Arlington, Virginia-based NVCA.  “It continues to be very hard for venture firms
to raise money,” Heesen said in an interview. “That has to
impact investments at some point.”  Software companies garnered $1 billion in third-quarter
funding, the most of any industry and an increase of 25 percent
from a year earlier. Biotechnology companies received the
second-highest amount with $943.7 million, almost unchanged from
the previous year.  Smart Grid  The biggest financing in the quarter was a $106 million
round for Trilliant Inc., a Redwood City, California-based maker
of equipment and software for smart-grid energy networks.
Trilliant was funded by firms including Investor Growth Capital
AB, MissionPoint Capital Partners and VantagePoint Venture
Partners.  Venture-capital funding this year is expected to surpass
2009, NVCA said in a statement today. The total through the
third quarter was $16.7 billion, compared with $18.3 billion for
all of last year.  Small startups that require less money are getting funding,
sometimes at the expense of companies looking to raise their
third or fourth round, said  Scott Sandell , general partner at
venture-capital firm New Enterprise Associates in Menlo Park,
California.  “Because of the rapid pace of innovation there are a lot
of opportunities,” he said. “Good new companies are getting
funded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas  MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  