-- Volkswagen Deliveries Rose 7.9% in September as Demand Grew in China, U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-10-15T09:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/volkswagen-increase-of-13-in-nine-month-deliveries-says-new-record-set.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, said deliveries rose 7.9 percent in September because
of growth in China and the U.S.  Deliveries at Volkswagen’s seven car brands including
luxury unit Audi and Czech division Skoda increased to 663,100
vehicles from 614,800 a year earlier, the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based manufacturer said today in a statement. Nine-month sales
gained 13 percent to a record 5.37 million cars, sport-utility
vehicles and light commercial vans.  “We’re very satisfied with developments,” and the company
will sustain “sales momentum” with new models, Sales Chief
 Christian Klingler  said in the statement.  Volkswagen is targeting a second consecutive year of record
deliveries as it adds about 70 models, including upgraded
versions of existing vehicles. Klingler said on Sept. 30 that VW
may achieve its goal of 10 million sales before the target date
of 2018, the year the German manufacturer has pledged to
overtake  Toyota Motor Corp.  in deliveries and profitability.  “VW group maintains its solid footing in China and other
growth markets thanks to its broad product portfolio,” Marc-
Rene Tonn, an analyst at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg, said before
the figures were released. “Brands such as Audi and Skoda have
been performing very well,” said Tonn, who  recommends  buying VW
stock.  The carmaker’s expansion plans rely on success in China,
where VW announced the addition of two factories this year to
double production in its biggest market to 3 million cars within
four years. VW plans to invest 6 billion euros ($8.5 billion) in
China for the construction and to develop new models. Nine-month
sales in the country rose 39 percent to 1.48 million vehicles,
beating the full-year record 1.4 million deliveries of 2009.  Volkswagen’s U.S. sales rose 21 percent, and deliveries in
Europe gained 1.1 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 