-- Hong Kong's Billionaire Fung Family Buy Stake in Hello Kitty Owner Sanrio
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-15T14:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/wal-mart-supplier-li-fung-acquires-1-stake-in-hello-kitty-owner-sanrio.html
Billionaire brothers  Victor Fung  and
 William Fung , the owners of Li & Fung Ltd., acquired 1.03
percent of Japan’s  Sanrio Co. , owner of the Hello Kitty brand.  Li & Fung ’s parent and Sanrio are seeking to develop 
products for the global market and cut logistics costs, Sanrio
said in a statement today. Katherine Wang of GolinHarris, the
public relations agency hired by Li & Fung, said the brothers 
invested through closely held Fung Investment Pte. Ltd.  Sanrio, which consigns 10 percent of its character-goods
production to  Li & Fung , plans to raise the ratio to about
30 percent in three years, Nikkei English News reported, without
citing anyone.  Li & Fung , the biggest supplier to retailers
including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , is considering acquisitions in
Japan as it expands in Asia to pare reliance on U.S. sales.  The billionaires are the biggest shareholders in Hong Kong-
listed Li & Fung Ltd. and control closely held Li & Fung Group.  Bruce Rockowitz , president of the listed company, has said
he’s looking at clothing, accessories, bags and shoes as he
considers possible purchases in  Japan. Li & Fung Ltd.  has won
court approval for its more-than HK$7 billion ($902 million)
offer for  Integrated Distribution Services Group Ltd.  to gain a
logistics network in China.  Clothes, Toys, Cars  “This signals that the Fung brothers seek to work closer
with” Sanrio,  Matthew Marsden , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Samsung Securities Co., said in an e-mail today. “At a later
stage, Li & Fung may even distribute Hello Kitty in China.”  Victor Fung is chairman of Li & Fung Ltd. and is Hong
Kong’s 10th-richest person with a net worth of $2.9 billion,
according to Forbes Asia. William Fung is the listed company’s
managing director and is worth $3 billion, making him the city’s
ninth-richest person.  Sanrio-branded products include clothes and accessories,
toys, video games, jewelry and  mini cars . The Tokyo-based
company said it plans to strengthen business ties with Li &
Fung Group, without elaborating.  Li & Fung Ltd.  dropped 0.8 percent to HK$42 in Hong Kong
trading today. The stock has  climbed  30 percent this year,
compared with a 7.2 percent gain for the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  Sanrio  rose 0.6 percent to close at 1,655 yen in Tokyo
trading and has more than doubled in market value this year.  In July, Sanrio raised its net income forecast 31 percent
to 6.2 billion yen ($76 million) for the year ending March
because of higher revenue from licensing characters, which also
include My Melody and Little Twin Stars.  Li & Fung Group  was founded as a porcelain and silk trader
in southern China in 1906, during the Qing dynasty. Affiliates
include Li & Fung Ltd., luxury retailer Trinity Ltd., Integrated
Distribution Services and Toys “R” Us Asia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  