-- Workflow, Movie Gallery, Capmark, CBGB, South Bay Expressway: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-15T11:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/workflow-movie-gallery-capmark-cbgb-south-bay-expressway-bankruptcy.html
Arnold & Porter LLP  is ineligible to
serve as a special counsel for  Workflow Management Inc. ,
according to objections lodged by the U.S. Trustee and the
first- and second-lien lenders.  Workflow, a provider of promotional marketing services and
business documents, filed for Chapter 11 protection last month
in Norfolk, Virginia, and sought court permission to retain
Richmond, Virginia-based  McGuireWoods LLP  as primary bankruptcy
counsel. The company also applied to engage Washington-based
Arnold & Porter as a so-called special counsel.  Silver Point Finance LLC, as agent for the second-lien
lenders, filed an objection to Arnold & Porter’s retention,
pointing out that the firm in other matters simultaneously
represents Perseus LLC, Workflow’s Washington-based controlling
shareholder and a subordinated creditor.  Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, filed a similar
objection in its role as agent for the first-lien lenders. The
U.S. Trustee, an arm of the Justice Department, echoed the
objections of the two agents.  By having Arnold & Porter alongside McGuireWoods, Silver
Point argued that “Perseus seeks to place a loyal firm on the
inside.” The objectors also say that Arnold & Porter would
duplicate the services of primary bankruptcy counsel because the
work it would perform is broadly described. The objectors
contend that Arnold & Porter fails the so-called
disinterestedness test.  Workflow may be intending to employ cramdown procedures to
push through a reorganization, after a holder of first- and
second-lien debt blocked an out-of-court restructuring.  Workflow filed a proposed Chapter 11 plan where the
creditor holding both first- and second-lien debt would be
placed into classes by itself. Creditors holding only first- or
second-lien obligations would be classified separately. For
details of the plan, click here for the Oct. 1 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Workflow, based in Dayton, Ohio, owes $146.5 million on
first-lien debt, including $30.2 million on a revolving credit
and $111.5 million on a term loan. The second-lien debt is
$196.5 million.  With 49 offices, 17 distribution centers and nine plants,
Workflow had about $600 million revenue in 2009.  The case is Workflow Management Inc., 10-74617, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Updates  Movie Gallery to Auction Trademarks on November 9  Movie Gallery Inc. , the liquidating movie-rental chain,
will sell its trademarks at auction on Nov. 9, assuming the
bankruptcy court in Richmond, Virginia, goes along with the idea
at an Oct. 25 hearing.  The marks to be sold include Hollywood Video, Movie Gallery
and Game Crazy, plus the associated domain names and customer
data bases. No buyer is yet under contract.  Movie Gallery has been using Streambank to market the
intellectual property. Although 28 potential buyers signed
confidentiality agreements and several offers were received,
Movie Gallery said none was good enough to warrant being
designated as a so-called stalking-horse bid.  Movie Gallery is proposing that the judge require the
initial submission of bids by Nov. 5. The auction and sale-
approval hearing would both occur on Nov. 9.  With a confirmation hearing set for Oct. 28, Movie Gallery
hopes the liquidating Chapter 11 plan will have been approved
before the auction takes place. For details of the plan, click
here for the Sept. 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Movie Gallery liquidated the last 1,028 movie-rental
stores. It had some 2,600 stores in operation on filing under
Chapter 11 again in February. The new filing was less than two
years after a previous bankruptcy reorganization.  Debt when the new case began included $100 million on a
secured revolving credit, $394 million on a first-lien facility,
and $146 million in claims held by second-lien creditors.  Movie Gallery operated under the names Movie Gallery,
Hollywood Video and Game Crazy. It had 3,490 stores before the
first bankruptcy. The prior Chapter 11 case concluded with a
confirmed Chapter 11 plan in May 2007. For details of the second
filing, click here.  The new case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The
prior case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 07-33849, in the same
court.  Capmark Begins Lender Settlement Approval Trial  Capmark Financial Group Inc. held the first day of a two-
day trial yesterday where the bankruptcy judge in Delaware will
decide whether to approve a settlement with secured lenders. If
the judge doesn’t sanction the accord, the official creditors’
committee seeks authority to sue the lenders.  The committee believes the proper result would be allowing
them to sue lenders for a $1.5 billion secured loan made 149
days before the Chapter 11 filing in October 2009. The committee
says loan proceeds were used to pay off unsecured debt owing to
practically the same lenders. Because the loan was made more
than 90 days before bankruptcy, it’s immune from attack as a
preference. The committee therefore believes the security for
the loan could be voided as a fraudulent transfer.  If U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Sontchi instead
decides to approve the settlement, the lenders will be paid 91
percent in cash on the $1.5 billion they are owed. In addition,
the lenders will receive interest and reimbursement of fees
spent in the Chapter 11 case.  Capmark says the settlement will save at least $108 million
and as much as $135 million. The lenders are willing to give up
9 percent in return for not being sued.  The Capmark reorganization has become another case like
 Washington Mutual Inc . and  Tribune Co.  where the bankrupt
company tries to push through a settlement that some creditors
oppose.  For Bloomberg coverage on yesterday’s hearing, click here.  Capmark has said it intends to reorganize around its non-
bankrupt bank subsidiary by giving stock to unsecured creditors.
Based in Horsham, Pennsylvania, Capmark was called GMAC
Commercial Holding Corp. before control was sold in 2006. It had
been GMAC’s servicing and mortgage-banking business.  KKR & Co ., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Dune Capital
Management LP and Five Mile Capital Partners LLC owned 75.4
percent of Capmark following a 2006 acquisition from  General
Motors Corp . for $1.5 billion cash and repayment of $7.3 billion
in debt.  Capmark’s debt includes a $1.5 billion term loan secured by
all assets except the bank’s, $234 million remaining under a
bridge loan, a $4.6 billion senior credit, $2.34 billion in
notes and a $250 million junior subordinated debt. The bank had
assets of $11.1 billion and deposits of $8.39 billion, according
to a court filing.  The case is In re Capmark Financial Group Inc., 09-13684,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Hilly Kristal Estate Owns CBGB Intellectual Property  CBGB Holdings LLC  doesn’t own trademarks and other property
associated with what was a music club at Bowery and Bleecker
Streets in Manhattan, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Stuart Bernstein 
ruled on Oct. 13.  Bernstein explained in his opinion how the estate of Hillel
Kristal, the club’s former founder, foreclosed the trademarks
and other property before the Chapter 11 petition was filed in
June. The estate for Krystal, who was known as Hilly, also asked
Bernstein to dismiss the CBGB Chapter 11 case on the theory
there isn’t any property to reorganize.  Although Bernstein ruled that CBGB lost ownership, the
judge said there are unresolved issues on the question of
whether to dismiss the Chapter 11 case. Another hearing must be
held on dismissal, Bernstein said.  Opened in 1973, the club’s name is an acronym for Country,
Blue Grass, and Blues. It closed in October 2006, less than a
year before Kristal’s death. Kristal’s estate sold the CBGB
trademarks and other intellectual property to the company that
filed under Chapter 11 in New York in June. The buyer paid $3.5
million, with $1.11 million in cash and the remainder covered by
a secured note with a lien on the assets. Kristal’s estate said
the debt was $2.58 million when it foreclosed.  CBGB’s bankruptcy schedules list assets with a value of
$133,500 against debt totaling $3.59 million.  The case is In re CBGB Holdings LLC, 10-13130, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  South Bay Express Needs Exclusivity Until Lien Trial  South Bay Expressway LP , the owner of a nine-mile toll road
near San Diego, needs a second extension of the exclusive right
to propose a reorganization plan because a pivotal lawsuit won’t
be tried until later this month.  The ability to propose a plan must await the outcome of a
trial beginning on Oct. 25 where U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Louise DeCarl Adler  in San Diego will decide whether holders of
mechanics’ liens come in ahead of other secured debt. In the
meantime, the expressway wants so-called exclusivity extended to
Feb. 15.  A hearing on the exclusivity motion will take place Nov. 4.  The expressway opened in November 2007. It owes $340
million on a first-lien construction and term loan, plus another
$170 million first-lien obligation on a loan provided by the
U.S. Department of Transportation. Ownership of the toll road is
controlled by affiliates of Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd.   The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  OMC Wins Injunction to Reinstate Pension Fund  OMC Inc., a subcontractor that makes and installs sheet
metal ductwork for heating and cooling systems, won a victory in
bankruptcy court against the multi-employer pension plan for the
Sheet Metal Workers Union.  After OMC filed for Chapter 11 protection on Sept. 14, the
pension fund terminated the company’s participation in the
pension program on account of $1 million that was in arrears.
The pension plan then notified workers that they would no longer
get credit for additional pension benefits. Several employees
quit and went to work for a competitor, OMC said.  OMC went to bankruptcy court contending the pension fund
violated the automatic stay resulting from the Chapter 11
filing. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  agreed in an Oct. 13
opinion and granted a temporary injunction requiring the
reinstatement of OMC in the pension program.  The temporary injunction will last until Oct. 27. If there
isn’t agreement between the parties, OMC can ask for a
preliminary injunction continuing participation on the pension
plan. Glenn required OMC to make payments to the fund every week
rather than every month.  The company president said in a court filing that depressed
revenue resulted in a $4 million liability to the union and a $1
million debt to the union pension fund. OMC intends to use
Chapter 11 to “restructure its outstanding liabilities to the
union.”  The petition says assets are less than $10 million while
debt exceeds $10 million.  The case is In re OMC Inc., 10-14864, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  TERI Settlement Allows October 18 Plan Confirmation  The Education Resources Institute Inc., once a not-for-
profit educational loan guarantor, is in a position to confirm a
Chapter 11 plan at an Oct. 18 hearing following a settlement
compromising the $87 million claim of  First Marblehead Corp .  In return for dropping claims on both sides, First
Marblehead will have an approved unsecured claim for $28.1
million. The claim resulted mostly from the rejection of the
agreements between the two companies. First Marblehead provided
back office and other services in connection with originating
and securitizing loans.  The disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan
says that secured lenders, with as much as $400 million in
claims, will be paid in full over time. Unsecured creditors,
including deficiency claims of secured lenders, should see up to
60 percent on claims that may reach $375 million.  The plan was developed by TERI and the creditors’
committee. TERI filed under Chapter 11 in April 2008, saying
demand for bonds backed by student loans “evaporated.” Based
in Boston, TERI had $16.2 billion in guarantees outstanding at
the end of 2007, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re The Education Resources Institute Inc.,
08-12540, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston.)  Watch List  Nebraska Book is Refinancing Risk, Moody’s Says  Nebraska Book Co. and its parent company, NBC Acquisition
Corp., were downgraded yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service to
a Caa1 corporate rating as a consequence of “amplified
refinancing risk” in the next year.  In addition, Moody’s is concerned there may be restrictions
in 2011 on the operating company’s ability to upstream dividends
to the parent to provide cash for servicing the $77 million in
senior discount debentures due 2013.  Among the debts receiving one-notch downgrades were the
$175 million in senior subordinated notes due 2012, which are
now rated Caa2.  Based in Lincoln, Nebraska, the company is a wholesaler of
used textbooks with operations in 275 college bookstores. For
fiscal 2010, net income was $2.3 million on revenue of $605.5
million. For the first quarter ended June 30, there was a $1.27
million net loss on revenue of $72.4 million. The company
recorded a $100.5 million net loss in fiscal 2009 following a
$107 million goodwill impairment charge.  Daily Podcast  Lender Control, Hines Files Again, Tribune, Mesa Air: Audio  A Delaware judge limits control by secured lenders,
bankruptcy recidivism in the plant-growing business, the newest
 Tribune Co.  settlement, and a plan by  Mesa Air Group Inc. 
creditors are covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  New Filings  Ex-Anglo Irish Bank Chief Drumm Files Chapter 7 in Boston  David K. Drumm, former chief executive officer of Anglo
Irish Bank Corp., filed a bare-bones Chapter 7 bankruptcy
petition yesterday in Boston. Drumm didn’t yet file required
papers showing whether is he eligible for Chapter 7 or will be
forced to convert his case to Chapter 13 or Chapter 11.  The filing came after the bank turned down his offer to
settle a lawsuit in Irish courts over an 8.5 million-euro ($12
million) loan. He has resided in Massachusetts for the past six
months and lives in Wellesley, according to court papers.  The Chapter 7 filing in the U.S. may have been calculated
to prevent the filing of an involuntary bankruptcy against him
in Ireland or to stop the lawsuit there. The filing of the
petition may force his Irish creditors to come to the U.S. to
test whether he is eligible for bankruptcy in the U.S.  The petition says assets and debt are both between $1
million and $10 million.  Drumm resigned from Dublin-based Anglo Irish in December
2008, a month before the bank was seized by the Irish
government.  The case is David K. Drumm, 10-21198, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Inn at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, Files Chapter 11 in Boston  The 83-room  Inn at Jackson Hole  filed for Chapter 11
protection on Oct. 11 in Boston.  Old Colony LLC, the Saugus, Massachusetts-based owner of
the resort in Teton Village, Wyoming, purchased the property for
$26 million in May 2007.  The first and second mortgages are in default. Wells Fargo
NA is owed $17.5 million on the first mortgage, while JH Lending
Trust has the $3.5 million second mortgage.  Old Colony blames its problems in part on the second
mortgage, which carries interest at 15 percent a year.  The case is In re Old Colony LLC, 10-21100, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  Owner of Land Outside Los Angeles Enters Chapter 11  Castaic Partners LLC, the owner of 847 acres of unimproved
land on Tapia Canyon Road in Castaic, California, filed a
Chapter 11 petition on Oct. 13 in Los Angeles owing $24 million
on a mortgage held by Compass USA SPE LLC.  The property owner is also delinquent on almost $2 million
in property taxes owing to Los Angeles County.  Court papers claim the land is worth $29.5 million.  Castaic is 40 miles northwest of Los Angeles off Interstate
5.  The case is In re Castaic Partners LLC, 10-53956, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Mixed-Use Project in Dracut, Massachusetts, Files in Worcester  Beaver Brook Village LLC, the owner of a mixed-use real
estate development in Dracut, Massachusetts, filed for Chapter
11 protection on Oct. 11 in Worcester, Massachusetts, after
defaulting on a $10.3 million mortgage. The lender is Wells
Fargo Bank NA.  The project has 47 apartments and 30 commercial units on
6.5 acres. Beaver Brook owes $1 million to creditors under a
prior Chapter 11 case that concluded in late 2008 with a
confirmed reorganization plan. Payments under the prior plan are
also in default.  Cash flow has continued to decline since the first
reorganization, according to a court filing.  The case is In re Beaver Brook Village LLC, 10-45054, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts (Worcester).  Briefly Noted  HSH Delaware Confirmation Put off Until December 21  HSH Delaware GP LLC is pushing back the confirmation
hearing for approval of the reorganization plan to Dec. 21 from
Oct. 19. The company said it needs more time to work out
definitive documents with the lenders. The voting deadline is
now Dec. 14.  The company negotiated a settlement in August with lenders
owed $550 million. The disclosure statement was approved that
month.  The plan will convert the lenders’ unpaid fees and expenses
into principal owing on the debt. The maturity will be extended
to Dec. 31, 2014. The plan gives the company time to sell the
equity or the assets. If there is a surplus above the debt to
the lenders, the plan contains an agreement to share the excess
between the company and the lenders.  Unsecured creditors would be paid in full.  HSH filed under Chapter 11 in January to prevent what it
called a “firesale” of the HSH Nordbank stock. It was formed
in 2006 by J.C. Flowers & Co. to buy 26 percent of the German
bank HSH Nordbank AG. The 1.25 billion-euro ($1.76 billion)
purchase price was financed in part with the bank loan,
according to court papers.  The case is In re HSH Delaware GP LLC, 10-10187, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 