-- Yankees’s Burnett Needs His Stuff, Not Baggage: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-15T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/yankees-s-burnett-needs-his-stuff-not-baggage-scott-soshnick.html
Texas Rangers ace  Cliff Lee  hasn’t
made many mistakes on the pitcher’s mound this postseason,
allowing just two runs in 16 innings. He has, however,
repeatedly goofed in postgame interviews, reminding the world --
and one confidence-challenged opponent in particular -- that
playoff pressure exists only if you let it.  To Lee, you see, pitching in October is no different than
pitching in, say, April. Pitcher gets the ball. Pitcher throws
the ball. It’s just another game. Lee brings to the mound a
carefree attitude and decades of muscle memory. Strike. Strike.
Strike. Easy as that.  No pitcher needs a postseason how-to refresher more than
Yankees enigma  A.J. Burnett , who, this season’s struggles aside,
is slated to start Game 4 of the American League Championship
Series against the Rangers Oct. 19 at the even bigger ballpark
in the Bronx. The best-of-seven series begins tonight in Texas.  “Believe me,” Burnett said earlier this week, speaking
about his 10-15 record and 5.26 earned run average, “as angry
and as aggravating as it is to watch me, it’s even more so to be
me. I live with all those bad outings every day.”  Baseball folks like to say that closers need short
memories. Starting pitchers do, too. Dwelling means doom. You
can think too much. Burnett, much to his detriment, is a
thinker. An overthinker, really.  There are few dissenters when the chit-chat around the
batting cage turns to Burnett’s bonafides. The guy has great
stuff, as pitching coaches like to say, which is why the Yankees
prior to last season gave the 33-year-old a five-year contract
worth more than  $82 million .  Mental Matter  This season, however, his paycheck and his production have
been incongruous. Something has been lost. The problem lies with
Burnett’s mind, not his mechanics. It’s frustrating for fans,
teammates and executives. It’s especially troublesome for
pitching coach  Dave Eiland , who sees flashes of a dominant
pitcher. A glimpse here and there.  “You can still see there’s a twinkle in his eye,” Eiland
said. “He can summon that.”  Yes, he can, even on the grandest stage.  The best of Burnett was on display in Game 2 of last year’s
World Series, when he threw first-pitch strikes to the first 11
batters. Strike one is the most important pitch in baseball.  Those in attendance that night in Yankee Stadium witnessed
an aggressive, carefree Burnett. He looked a lot like Lee,
allowing a potent Philadelphia Phillies lineup just one run on
four hits over seven innings. He struck out nine and walked two.  Fun Outing  Burnett called it the biggest game he’d ever thrown. The
Yankees needed a win to even the series. Burnett delivered it,
cementing, at long last, his stature as a big-game pitcher. When
it comes to pitchers, even those with great stuff, you just
don’t know.  That version of Burnett was unlike anything the Yankees and
their fans had seen. He was aggressive. He was confident. He was
having fun out there.  When it was over, Burnett was asked to explain not only his
dominance, but his demeanor.  Turns out that Burnett was in the clubhouse after Game 1,
watching the post-game coverage on television. Filling the
screen was a matter-of-fact Lee, spilling the secrets of his
success. At the big-league level, talent is a given. Lee talked
incessantly about temperament and self-confidence. Didn’t matter
that he was pitching in the World Series. It was, to him, just
another game. No big deal.  Watching Rerun  By his own admission something clicked in Burnett, who, by
the way, grew up only a few miles from Lee in  Arkansas . They
also share the same agent,  Darek Braunecker .  Months ago, angling to find his Fall Classic form, Burnett
watched his World Series Game 2 performance. He didn’t nibble.
He just threw.  Not much changed, though.  So the Yankees dropped Burnett from the starting rotation
against the Twins in the best-of-five division series, which New
York won in three games.  Burnett wasn’t needed then. He’s needed now.  Imagine the pressure, not to mention angst, if the Yankees
head into Allan James Burnett’s game trailing in the series.  “If his mind is right,” said Eiland, the pitching coach,
“his body will follow.”  Burnett said there’s a good chance he’d watch last year’s
Game 2 again. Here’s a better idea. The Yankees ought to make
sure that Burnett is in the clubhouse, television on, volume up,
after Game 3, which Lee will start (and maybe even finish) for
the Rangers. One last reminder to relax, have fun and throw.  Lee will probably hurt the Yankees with his arm. And, as
history shows, he just might help them with his mouth.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  