-- Yen Gains May Be Coming to an End, Ex-Japan Currency Chief Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-10-15T05:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/yen-gains-may-be-coming-to-an-end-former-japan-currency-chief-utsumi-says.html
The yen’s gains against the
dollar may be “coming to an end” as investors have already
priced in another round of monetary easing by the Federal
Reserve, a former top Japanese currency official said.  “The market has mostly factored in possible actions by
the Fed” at its next policy board meeting in November, said
 Makoto Utsumi , 76, who led Japan’s currency policy from 1989
to 1991 as vice finance minister for international affairs.
Even if the Fed eases monetary policy further, “there will
be no need to worry much about currencies being affected more
from it,” he said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  Group of Seven finance heads warned last week that a
currency “war” caused by countries weakening their
currencies to boost exports could hobble world growth, and
finance ministers and central bankers of the G-20 nations are
due to meet next week in South Korea. The prospect of a
slower U.S. expansion and further easing by the Fed pushed
the dollar to a 15-year low against the yen yesterday.  “There’s no fundamental reason for the yen to
strengthen,” said Utsumi, who conducted Japan’s currency
intervention after the signing of the Plaza Accord in 1985.
“The more the yen strengthens, the bigger the reversal could
be.”  Fed Expectations  The yen traded at 81.41 against the dollar as of 12:11
p.m. in Tokyo, after advancing to 80.89 yesterday, the
strongest since April 1995. Japan’s currency has climbed 14
percent against the U.S. currency this year.  The Fed purchased $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009
under a policy known as quantitative easing and traders are
preparing for another round of buying they’ve dubbed QE2.
Meantime, the Bank of Japan last week pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at “virtually zero” until deflation
has ended.  Utsumi, now the president of Japan Credit Rating Agency
Ltd., said the yen’s gains may also be limited because
Japan’s interest rates have been lower than those of other
major economies, and its public debt is high, approaching
double the size of gross domestic product. He said Japan’s
economy has grown more slowly than those of the U.S. and
Europe. The  yield  on Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond was at
0.895 percent today, compared with the 2.49 percent yield on
10-year U.S. Treasuries.  “The nation’s public debt conditions are far worse than
Greece,” Utsumi said.  Global Scrutiny  Utsumi said Japan probably won’t return to the long-term,
large scale yen-selling campaigns of the past because of
global scrutiny over intervention. Japanese authorities
intervened in currency markets last month for the first time
since 2004 and Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the
government remains ready to take “bold” action if needed.  The former official also said currency devaluation will
likely be the main topic at the G-20 meeting next week and
it’s natural for some countries to think emerging nations,
including China and Korea, should “follow the rules of the
game” as members of an international community.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  this week urged China
and South Korea to stop preventing its exchange rate from
appreciating, comments that were met with protests from
policy makers in those countries.  Utsumi said the BOJ’s 5-trillion yen asset purchase
program broke a “considerable taboo” of central banks
purchasing assets to stem price declines. The measures may be
the bank’s most effective policy tool in preventing asset
values from dropping, he said.  The fund will purchase government bonds and assets
including exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment
trusts, the central bank said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  