-- Zhejiang Copper Plants Are Hardest Hit by Power-Saving Curbs, Analysts Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-15T03:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-15/zhejiang-copper-plants-are-hardest-hit-by-power-saving-curbs-analysts-say.html
Copper fabricators in China’s
Zhejiang province have been hardest hit by a government drive to
curb energy consumption, with some factories forced to reduce
output by as much as 40 percent, according to analysts.  Plants in the coastal province, which buy refined metal to
make pipes and wires, have been asked to cut their power usage
to 60 percent of their average monthly amount in the first half,
according to  Grace Qu , a Beijing-based analyst at CRU
International Ltd. Factories in Jiangsu, Guangdong, and Hebei
have also been hit by the energy-saving drive, Qu said by e-mail.  China, the largest copper user, has started to curb output
at some energy-intensive plants such as steel mills and aluminum
smelters as the central government aims to meet a power-saving
target. Zhejiang, five other eastern provinces plus the city of
Shanghai account for about 60 percent of China’s semi-fabricated
copper output, according to researcher Shanghai Metals Market.  “We’ve heard some plants in Zhejiang saying their
production will lose 20 to 40 percent,” Zhu Lin, an analyst at
Shanghai Metals Market, said by phone. “The impact varies from
place to place,” said Zhu, without giving an estimate for the
capacity that’s been affected nationwide.  The power rationing may trim steel supply 9.6 percent over
the rest of the year, Mysteel Research Institute said on Sept. 9.
Aluminum smelters in Guangxi will shut down about 250,000 tons
of annual capacity before the end of this year, while the Henan
Nonferrous Metals Industry Association said the province will
lose 180,000 tons between October and December.  Copper Rally  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange touched
$8,490 a metric ton yesterday, the highest price in 27 months,
as a weaker dollar boosted demand. Copper in Changjiang,
Shanghai’s largest nonferrous metals spot market, was quoted at
about 62,900 yuan ($9,454) a ton yesterday, also the highest
level since July 2008.  Some copper fabricators had been moving part of their
orders to plants in other provinces to reduce the amount of lost
production, Zhu said. “So I don’t think there will be a big
impact,” Zhu said.  To be sure, China’s copper-product output may climb to more
than 9 million tons this year from 8.88 million in 2009,  Wang Biwen , director of the copper department at the China Nonferrous
Metals Fabrication Industry Association, said by phone.  The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic planner, has it might be “difficult” to meet the goal
of cutting energy use per unit of economic output by 20 percent
in the five years through 2010, according to a June statement.  -- Helen Sun . Editors:  Jake Lloyd-Smith ,  Ravil Shirodkar   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  