-- Obama Stimulus Made Economic Crisis Worse, `Black Swan' Author Taleb Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-25T14:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/-black-swan-author-taleb-says-obama-s-stimulus-made-economic-crisis-worse.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and his
administration weakened the country’s economy by seeking to
foster growth instead of paying down the federal debt, said
 Nassim Nicholas Taleb , author of “The Black Swan.”  “Obama did exactly the opposite of what should have been
done,” Taleb said yesterday in Montreal in a speech as part of
Canada’s Salon Speakers series. “He surrounded himself with
people who exacerbated the problem. You have a person who has
cancer and instead of removing the cancer, you give him
tranquilizers. When you give tranquilizers to a cancer patient,
they feel better but the cancer gets worse.”  Today, Taleb said, “total debt is higher than it was in
2008 and unemployment is worse.”  Obama this month proposed a package of $180 billion in
business tax breaks and infrastructure outlays to boost spending
and job growth. That would come on top of the $814 billion
stimulus measure enacted last year. The U.S. government’s total
outstanding debt is about $13.5 trillion, according to  U.S.
Treasury Department figures .  Obama, 49, inherited what the National Bureau of Economic
Research said this week was the deepest U.S. recession since the
Great Depression. Even after the stimulus measure and other
government actions, the U.S. unemployment rate is 9.6 percent.  Governments globally need to cut debt and avoid bailing out
struggling companies because that’s the only way they can shield
their economies from the negative consequences of erroneous
budget forecasts, Taleb said.  Errant Forecasts  “Today there is a dependency on people who have never been
able to forecast anything,” Taleb said. “What kind of system
is insulated from forecasting errors? A system where debts are
low and companies are allowed to die young when they are
fragile. Companies always end up dying one day anyway.”  Taleb, a native of Lebanon who gave his speech in French to
an audience of Quebec business people, said Canada’s fiscal
situation makes the country a safer investment than its southern
neighbor.  Canada has the lowest ratio of net debt to gross domestic
product among the Group of Seven industrialized countries and
will keep that distinction until at least 2014, the country’s
finance department  said in March . Canada’s ratio, 24 percent in
2007, will rise to about 30 percent by 2014. The U.S. ratio, now
above 40 percent, will top 80 percent in four years, the
department said, citing IMF data.  “I am bullish on Canada,” he told the audience. “I
prefer Canada to the U.S. or even Europe.”  Mortgage Interest  Canada’s economy also benefits from the fact that
homeowners, unlike their U.S. neighbors, can’t take mortgage
interest as a tax deduction, Taleb said. That removes the
incentive to take on too much debt, he said.  “The first thing to do if you want to solve the mortgage
problem in the U.S. is to stop making these interest payments
deductible,” he said. “Has someone dared to talk about this in
Washington? No, because the U.S. homebuilders’ lobby is
hyperactive and doesn’t want people to talk about this.”  Taleb also criticized banks and securities firms, saying
they don’t adequately warn clients of the risks they run when
they invest their retirement savings in the stock market.  ‘Have Fun’  “People should use financial markets to have fun, but not
as a depository of value,” Taleb said. “Investors have been
deceived. People were told that markets go up regularly, but if
you look at the last 10 years that’s not been the case. The
risks are always greater than what people are told.”  Asked by an audience member if returns such as those posted
by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett  -- who amassed the world’s third-biggest personal
fortune through decades of stock picks and takeovers -- are the
product of luck or talent, Taleb said both played a part.  If given a choice between investing with Buffett and
billionaire investor  George Soros , Taleb also said he would
probably pick the latter.  “I am not saying Buffett isn’t as good as Soros,” he
said. “I am saying that the probability Soros’s returns come
from randomness is much smaller because he did almost
everything: he bought currencies, he sold currencies, he did
arbitrages. He made a lot more decisions. Buffett followed a
strategy to buy companies that had a certain earnings profile,
and it worked for him. There is a lot more luck involved in this
strategy.”  Soros gained fame in the 1990s when he reportedly made $1
billion correctly betting against the British pound.  Taleb’s 2007 best-seller, “The Black Swan: The Impact of
the Highly Improbable,” argues that history is littered with
rare, high-impact events. The  black-swan  theory stems from the
ancient misconception that all swans were white.  A former trader, Taleb teaches  risk engineering  at New York
University and advises  Universa Investments LP , a Santa Monica,
California-based fund that bets on extreme market moves.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  