-- Manchester City Wins 1-0, Giving League Leader Chelsea Its First Defeat
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-25T19:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/manchester-city-wins-1-0-giving-league-leader-chelsea-its-first-defeat.html
Manchester City defeated Chelsea 1-
0 to hand last year’s English soccer champion its first Premier
League loss this season, while second-place Arsenal was upset at
home 3-2 by West Brom Albion.  City captain  Carlos Tevez ’s long shot in the 59th minute
beat Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech . The victory puts City in
fourth place on 11 points, trailing Arsenal and Manchester
United. Chelsea keeps its spot at the top of the league with 15
points after losing for the first time in six games.  “We are disappointed but we have to look forward,”
Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said. “We are still top of the
table. It was an important game, but every game is important. We
did well five times then this time we lost.  City coach  Roberto Mancini  says Chelsea is still the
favorite to win the league at this point in the season.  “I still think they will win it easily because I think
they are the best team in the Premier League,” he said.  In London, West Brom was leading Arsenal 3-0 after second-
half goals from Peter Odemwingie, Gonzalo Jara and former Gunner
Jerome Thomas before  Samir Nasri  scored twice for the home side.  “We were poor and we got a poor result,” Arsenal manager
 Arsene Wenger  said. “We were poor everywhere, at the back, up
front and in the middle of the park.”  The loss means Manchester United could move into second
place tomorrow when it goes to Bolton.  Liverpool drew 2-2 with Sunderland as  Dirk Kuyt  and  Steven Gerrard  scored for the home side.  Darren Bent  had both
Sunderland goals.  Birmingham remained unbeaten at home, tying Wigan 0-0,
while Blackburn got a  Brett Emerton  goal in injury time to win
2-1 at Blackpool.  West Ham used a Frederic Piquionne goal to defeat Tottenham
and give the Hammers their first win of the league season.
Everton is at the bottom of the standings after drawing 0-0 at
Fulham.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  