-- Asian Stocks Rise for Fourth Weekly Gain as Health-Care Companies Rally
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-09-25T00:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/asian-stocks-rise-for-fourth-weekly-gain-as-health-care-companies-rally.html
Asian stocks  gained, pushing the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index to a fourth consecutive weekly advance,
as signs of economic growth in Hong Kong and Taiwan boosted
investor confidence.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the world’s largest developer
by market value, had the biggest advance since February after it
said leasing demand is rising. Health-care stocks rallied the
most among the 10  industries  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
after Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., India’s biggest drugmaker by
sales, won exclusive rights to sell an Alzheimer’s treatment.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.01 percent to 125.51
this week, and reached its highest level in almost five months
on Sept. 22. Signs of growth among Asian nations outweighed a
deteriorating profit outlook for U.S. banks and speculation that
the Federal Reserve will purchase more government debt to
support the world’s biggest economy.  “Asia will continue to do relatively well,” said  Sean Darby , an Asian regional strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
Hong Kong. “The overall worries about China’s banking and
property sector seems to have dissipated for the moment. There’s
been a gap in the fact that there’s not been a lot of bad macro
news to weigh markets down.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific has rallied 15.3 percent since May 25
and is up 4.2 percent for the year. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  of U.S. equities has climbed 0.9 percent in 2010, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.8 percent.  Hang Seng Gains  The Hang Seng Index gained 0.7 percent this week after the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority said the city’s economy will grow
at a “moderate” pace through the end of this year. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.8 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index rose 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s export
orders, an indication of shipments in the next one to three
months, rose 23.3 percent in August from a year earlier. That
beat forecasts, signaling the economy’s resilience and giving
room for the central bank to boost benchmark interest rates next
week.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average slumped 1.6 percent for
the week. South Korea’s Kospi index rose 1.1 percent and
Singapore’s Straits Times Index advanced 0.5 percent.  Sun Hung Kai rose 5.3 percent to HK$126.80. Full-year
underlying  profit  climbed 12 percent after rental income from
offices and shopping malls increased, the Hong Kong-based
builder said. Other real estate companies also advanced.  Cheung
Kong (Holdings) Ltd.  gained 7.7 percent to HK$113.10, and
Henderson Land Development Co. jumped 6 percent to HK$53.30.  Korean Carmakers  Korean automakers Hyundai Motor Co. increased 6.3 percent
to 161,500 won, and Kia Motors Corp. gained 7.5 percent to
36,800 won. Moody’s Investors Service raised Hyundai’s issuer
and senior unsecured bond ratings to Baa2 from Baa3 and Kia’s
corporate family rating to Baa3 from Ba1.  Ranbaxy  climbed 0.98 percent to 570.45 in India. The U.S.
Food & Drug Administration said the company has the sole rights
to sell the generic version of Aricept, Eisai Co.’s treatment
for Alzheimer’s and its biggest selling drug.  CSL Ltd., the world’s second-biggest maker of treatments
derived from blood, gained 6.4 percent to A$33.84 in Australia
on speculation it will benefit from a recall of a competitor’s
product. European nations including France and Sweden have
quarantined or withdrawn Octapharma AG’s Octagam 5% amid concern
about its safety, wrote  Andrew Goodsall , a health-care analyst
at UBS AG.  Konica Minolta Holdings Inc.  fell 9.1 percent, the most in
a year, to 793 yen in Tokyo. The maker of film used in liquid-
crystal displays was reduced to “hold” from “buy” at
Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 