-- Canada Dollar Strengthens for Fourth Straight Week on Fed Easing Prospects
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-25T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/australian-dollar-appreciates-to-two-year-high-on-increased-risk-appetite.html
The Canadian dollar rose for a
fourth week, the currency’s longest winning streak since May
2009, as the Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease monetary
policy further to boost the U.S. economy, spurring demand for
assets that benefit from global growth.  The currency, known as the loonie for the waterfowl’s image
on the dollar coin, gained even as reports showed inflation and
retail sales unexpectedly fell. The Fed said Sept. 21 it’s
“prepared to provide additional accommodation” to boost the
economy of Canada’s biggest trading partner. Canadian  gross
domestic product  fell 0.1 percent in July, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the report next week.  “This week saw Canadian dollar strength and that’s been on
the back of high-level market confidence,” said  Darren Richardson , senior corporate dealer in Toronto at CanadianForex
Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “When the Fed
announced their possible plans to increase stimulus, it boosted
confidence in economic output and that’s a positive for Canadian
dollar strength.”  The loonie added 0.9 percent to C$1.0241 per U.S. dollar in
the five-day period ended yesterday. It was the currency’s
longest winning streak against the greenback since the six-week
period ended May 8, 2009.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index  added 0.3 percent this week and
the  MSCI World Index  of equities rallied 2.3 percent, rising for
a fourth straight week. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
advanced 3.9 percent and gold reached a record high of
$1,301.60.  Foreign Purchases  “There seems to be a picture of relative tranquility for
the Canadian dollar as the mayhem continues all around us,”
said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto.  Net buying by foreign investors of Canadian  bonds , equities
and money market securities rose in July, with purchases
totaling C$5.48 billion ($5.32 billion) in the month, compared
with C$5.39 billion in June, Ottawa-based Statistics Canada said
Sept. 20. Non-residents bought C$5.17 billion of bonds, the 19th
consecutive monthly net purchase for such securities.  Canada’s budget deficit narrowed in July because of higher
tax revenue and a drop in spending that reflected fewer jobless-
benefit payouts and last year’s support of the automobile
industry.  Canada recorded a deficit of C$473 million in July, down
from C$5.82 billion during the same month last year, according
to a statement released yesterday by the finance department. For
the April-July period, the cumulative deficit narrowed to C$7.7
billion from C$18.3 billion a year ago.  Commodity Currencies  The loonie was the fourth worst performer against the
greenback this week among the 16 most-traded currencies,
strengthening more than just the Brazilian real, South Korean
won and the Taiwanese dollar.  “We’re tied to the U.S. economy more so than some of these
other commodity currencies,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of
foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “There are a
lot of concerns about the U.S. economy and potential
quantitative easing. There are concerns that our economy will
slow as the U.S. economy does.”  Statistics Canada reported Sept. 21 the  consumer price
index  fell 0.1 percent in August, and rose 1.7 percent from a
year ago following July’s 1.8 percent gain. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast the price index would be unchanged during
August and the annual rate would accelerate to 1.9 percent, the
median of 16 estimates.  ‘Debt Overhang’  Retail sales  unexpectedly decreased 0.1 percent to C$35.9
billion in July as consumers cut purchases of furniture,
appliances and electronics, Statistics Canada reported. The
median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.6 percent gain.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said that low U.S.
inflation may necessitate a response from the Fed and that he is
concerned about the level of consumer borrowing in his country.  Speaking in a CNBC Television interview yesterday, Carney
said the “debt overhang” in the U.S. is “pushing inflation to
very low levels, and it may necessitate a Fed response. They’ll
take that decision and we’ll deal with the consequences.”  Canada’s financial system is “firing on all cylinders”
while low interest rates have encouraged borrowing, Carney said.  Bank of Canada has increased interest rates three times
since June to 1 percent from 0.25 percent, and said Sept. 14 the
country’s recovery will be “slightly more gradual” than
expected earlier this year. Policy makers next meet on Oct. 19.  Government Debt  Economists in a Bloomberg survey predict the central bank’s
key overnight rate will rise to 1.5 percent by mid-2011,
according to the weighted average. The Fed will keep its
interest rate at a target range of zero to 0.25 percent until
the third quarter next year, a separate survey showed.  Government bonds rose for a second week. The  10-year  bond
yield dropped 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.87
percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June
2020 rose 56 cents to C$105.33.  The yield  advantage  of Canada’s 10-year bonds over
equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries narrowed to 6 basis points
this week to 26 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  