-- China Allows Banks to Sell Loans on Interbank Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-25T08:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/china-allows-banks-to-sell-loans-on-nation-s-interbank-market.html
Twenty-one banks agreed in Shanghai
today to sell loans on China’s interbank market as the
government allowed the transactions for the first time.  The banks include Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and  China Construction Bank Corp.   The global financial crisis showed the inefficiency of risk
management,  People’s Bank of China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said
at a ceremony in Shanghai. The “loan transfer” plan is a new
product in the nation’s interbank market and will improve banks’
risk-management ability and will help with the central bank’s
macro control, he said.  “Inter-bank loan tranfers will allow banks to complement
each others’ businesses because some lenders have ample
liquidity but are short of clients,”  said  Zhao Qingming , a
senior analyst in Beijing at China Construction Bank, the
country’s second-largest lender. “The tranfer also enables
banks to better manage liquidity, especially under the
government’s loan target control
this year.”  Chinese banks have increased their loans by an average 20
percent annually since 2005 to sustain economic growth. Lenders
had 45.7 trillion yuan of local-currency denominated loans
outstanding as of Aug. 31, according to the central bank.  The nation’s policy makers aimed to cap new loans at 7.5
trillion yuan in 2010, down 22 percent from a record last year,
on concerns that credit boom will lead to asset bubble and
rising amount of bad loans.  The start of a centralized and regulated “loan transfer”
market will improve liquidity of loan assets at banks and the
pricing mechanism of credits, ICBC Chairman  Jiang Jianqing  said
at the ceremony. It will also allow the market to better set
interest rates, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  