-- Commonwealth Games Preparation Flaws `Damage' India, Organizer Chief Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-09-25T09:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/cleanup-work-accelerates-at-commonwealth-games-village-fennell-says.html
Cleanup work has accelerated at the
New Delhi Commonwealth Games village as the start of the
tournament on Oct. 3 approaches, said Mike Fennell, chief of the
Commonwealth Games Federation.  Fennell, who arrived in New Delhi two days ago, said the
 federation  will monitor the situation every hour to ensure all
problems are sorted out before the start of the Games.  “What is of great concern is the safety and security of
athletes and officials,” Fennell told reporters in New Delhi,
adding that alarm and fire evacuation systems were yet to be put
in place.  Complaints about dirty rooms, leaky ceilings and unfinished
construction at the athletes’ village, emerged this week, and
several countries including Canada and Scotland delayed arrival
of their athletes to give organizers time to fix plumbing,
wiring and furnishings. The organizers got some respite
yesterday after England and New Zealand agreed to send their
athletes.  The buildup to the Games, aimed to showcase India’s
economic might, has been marred by the collapse of a footbridge
next to the main  stadium , an outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon
floods and security concerns after the Sept. 19 shooting of two
Taiwanese near a mosque.  ‘Damage Done’  Fennell said he was disappointed with the Indian organizers
and that the lack of preparedness for sporting event has hurt
the reputation of the country.  “A lot of damage has been done to India as a host
country,” Fennell said. “I would hope at the end of all this,
India would have learnt a great lesson.”  The serious lapses in India’s preparations may have an
effect beyond the games, deterring investors and tourists,
 Moody’s Analytics Inc. , a unit of Moody’s Corp., said in a
report yesterday.  “The negative publicity could deter foreign investment and
give multinational businesses considering expanding in India
reason to think twice,” wrote  Matt Robinson , a senior economist
at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.  Poor Construction  All security concerns have been addressed and the athletes
will be safe, said Suresh Kalmadi, chairman of the organizing
committee, who has come under heavy criticism by local media for
his failure to control widespread corruption in the organization
of the Games.  “In the games village, there are deficiencies,” Kalmadi
said at a press conference at the media center today. “As the
chairman of the organizing committee, I will take the
responsibility.”  Fennell said the pace of work has accelerated in the past
few days, though much “ought to have been done before.” The
momentum of the cleanup will continue, he added.  With just over a week left before the Games begin, the
local government has sought the help of India’s army to put in
place a military-style footbridge outside the main stadium, in
place of the one that collapsed last week, the Times of India
reported today.  India’s federal government is spending 114.9 billion rupees
($2.54 billion) building venues and running events. “We will,
in another couple of days, finish all the work that is needed to
be done,” Kalmadi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 Anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  