-- Dollar Sinks as Fed Signals Monetary Policy Easing, Crimping Asset Demand
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-09-25T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/dollar-sinks-as-fed-signals-monetary-policy-easing-crimping-asset-demand.html
The dollar fell against all of its
major counterparts after the Federal Reserve announced its
willingness to further ease monetary policy, damping demand for
U.S. assets.  The greenback touched a five-month low this week against
the euro after U.S. policy makers said Sept. 21 they “will
provide additional accommodation if needed,” which may lead to
lower U.S. interest rates. The euro touched a six-week week high
against the yen as economic data in the U.S. and Europe
increased investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.
Investors next week will watch Japan for signals of yen sales
after the nation sold its currency Sept. 15 to try and reduce
its value to protect an export-led economic recovery.  “The U.S. dollar is coming under pressure from expected
easing from the Fed,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal. “As the stock market
and commodities do well, it comes at the expense of the U.S.
dollar.”  The dollar weakened 3.4 percent to $1.3492 per euro. On
Sept. 24 the 16-nation currency touched its strongest level
since April, when it reached $1.3495.  The yen strengthened 1.9 percent against the greenback to
84.26 per dollar. Japan’s currency slid as far as 85.40
yesterday as traders speculated Japan sold the currency again.
The euro rose 1.5 percent to 113.69 yen.  Other Assets  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.1 percent from Sept.
17, its fourth straight weekly gain and the  Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index  of raw materials gained 1.4 percent, a fifth straight
weekly advance.  The euro strengthened during four of the past five days as
Ireland, Spain, Greece and Portugal found sufficient demand to
sell sovereign debt. On Sept. 21 Ireland sold 1.5 billion euros
($1.97 billion) in a bond auction and Spain sold 7 billion euros
of 12-month and 18-month bills, the maximum target. Greece sold
390 million euros of 13-week Treasury bills at a yield of 3.98
percent, the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said.  The Munich-based  Ifo  institute said its business-climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased this
month to 106.8, the highest since June 2007, from 106.7 in
August. The median forecast of 36 analysts in Bloomberg News
survey was for a drop to 106.4.  Decent Reading  “We got some reasonably positive news out of the euro zone
this week so there’s been a brief reprieve for the euro,” said
 Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange
group in Boston at Bank of New York Mellon.  The Swiss franc reached a record high against the dollar as
Japan’s intervention in the market for its currency stoked
demand for an alternative to the yen amid speculation the U.S.
economy will weaken. The franc reached 98.49 centimes from
1.0048 Sept. 17.  The Federal Open Market Committee in a statement Sept. 21
in Washington said: “The committee will continue to monitor the
economic outlook and financial developments and is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery.”  The U.S. Commerce Department may report next week, the U.S.
gross domestic product probably expanded in the second quarter
and consumer spending in August remained flat.  Data Trends  Orders  for U.S. capital equipment rebounded in August and
housing starts in the U.S. rose more than forecast, signaling a
slowdown in business investment may be less severe than some
economists projected.  The dollar’s losses accelerated as InterContinentalExchange
Inc’s Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. dollar against its
six-major counterparts fell 2.6 percent from Sept. 17. The index
touched 79.27 Sept. 24, the weakest level since Feb. 3.  Demand for the yen has been tempered by speculation Japan
will sell its currency again after intervening in the foreign-
exchange market on Sept. 15 for the first time in more than six
years. The yen has risen about 1.8 percent since the
intervention pushed the currency down to a one-month low from a
15-year high.  The central bank is monitoring the yen’s strength, which is
an impediment to the nation’s economic recovery, a Bank of Japan
board member,  Ryuzo Miyao , said Sept. 22 and Japanese government
officials declined to comment on whether Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration had intervened in the currency market Sept.
24 after the yen slid 1.1 percent against the dollar in Tokyo
trading.  “Last time there was a considerable outcry from Europe and
a little from the U.S. so they didn’t to make it an overtly
political gesture,” said  Boris Schlossberg , director of
research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “The
problem with intervention is every fresh wave loses more and
more power as the market gets used to it.”  Trade Talks  The Chinese yuan appreciated 0.5 percent this week to 6.69
per dollar.  President  Barack Obama  pressed Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
met in a two-hour meeting at the United Nations Sept. 23 to
increase the yuan’s value. The U.S. House Ways and Means
Committee approved on Sept. 24 legislation letting companies
petition for duties on Chinese imports to make up for a weak
currency that lawmakers say creates an unfair subsidy.  The yuan has gained about 2 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue a more
flexible exchange rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  