-- Ed Miliband Elected U.K.'s Labour Party Leader, Pledges Change After Brown
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/ed-miliband-elected-leader-of-u-k-s-labour-party-defeating-brother-david.html
Ed Miliband  beat his elder brother
David in the race to become leader of the U.K.’s opposition
Labour Party and pledged to change the movement that  Gordon Brown  led to defeat in the May 6 election.  Ed won by 50.65 percent to 49.35 percent in the final round
of  voting  after trailing his brother in every previous round.
Polls and bookmakers had suggested David, 45, a protege of
former Prime Minister  Tony Blair , would beat his sibling in the
five-candidate race. Ed, 40, a former aide to Brown, Blair’s
successor, benefited from Labour’s electoral system, in which he
picked up more second-preference votes.  Miliband has just 25 days to marshal an opposition team and
prepare a strategy for attacking Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition government when it outlines on Oct. 20 how it will
reduce spending. The party may be buoyed by a boost in the polls
since the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats took power after
the May 6 election, leaving Labour alone in opposition.  “We lost the election and we lost it badly,” Miliband
said in his victory speech yesterday in Manchester, northwest
England. “I know we lost trust. I know we lost touch. I know we
need to change. Today a new generation has taken charge of
Labour.”  If five more Labour members of Parliament had voted in
David’s favor, he would have won, the  detailed results  showed.
Support from organized labor ensured Ed’s victory; he won 42
percent of union first-preference votes.  ‘Leap Backwards’  “Ed Miliband wasn’t the choice of his MPs, wasn’t the
choice of Labour Party members but was put in to power by union
votes,” Conservative Party chairman  Sayeeda Warsi  said in an e-
mailed statement. “I’m afraid this looks like a great leap
backwards for the Labour Party.”  As well as  David Miliband , the former foreign secretary,
the other defeated candidates included former Children’s
Secretary  Ed Balls , once the closest adviser to Brown, who
resigned as premier and party leader after Labour’s election
defeat. Balls came third in the leadership vote.  The field was completed by former Health Secretary  Andy Burnham , who finished fourth, with  Diane Abbott , who in 1987
became the first black woman in Parliament, in fifth place.  Labour’s electoral college was split into three, with
lawmakers, union members and party cardholders each making up a
third. Voters listed candidates in order of preference, with the
candidate getting fewest votes in each round eliminated, and
further choices redistributed until one candidate had more than
50 percent of the votes.  ‘Backed His Brother’  For the new leader, “an interesting question will be how
he manages relations with his parliamentary party,”  Andrew Russell , a lecturer in politics at  Manchester University , said
in a telephone interview. “They backed his brother fairly
clearly.”  The son of Ralph Miliband, a Marxist intellectual who fled
to Britain to escape from the Nazis in 1940, Ed was educated at
Oxford University and the London School of Economics. From 1997
to 2002 he worked for Brown at the Treasury before going on a
sabbatical to the U.S. to teach economics at Harvard.  He entered Parliament in 2005, winning election in
Doncaster in northern England. He joined the Cabinet in 2007,
became energy secretary the following year and wrote Labour’s
program for this year’s election. His attacks on Blair’s
policies, including the Iraq War, helped him win the backing of
six labor unions and led the Daily Mail newspaper to dub him
 “Red Ed.”   Miliband lives in London with his partner, Justine, and
their son, and another child is due this fall.  Blair’s Win  The race was Labour’s first contested leadership election
since 1994, when Blair won the party’s backing following the
sudden death of  John Smith . Brown replaced Blair in 2007 without
a challenge.  In his memoir “A Journey,” published Sept. 1, Blair said
that his agreement with Brown that only one of them would run
for leader in 1994 sowed the seeds for battles over policy that
came to dominate his premiership. Brown was increasingly at odds
with Blair’s favored approach of bringing more competition into
the provision of public services such as health.  The Milibands were on opposite sides, with David working
for Blair as a proponent of “New Labour,” while Ed was in the
Treasury with Brown. Ed cited his experience of the feud as a
justification for running against his brother -- something
unprecedented in modern British politics -- and disputing policy
openly.  A poll on Sept. 21 by YouGov Plc put Cameron’s
Conservatives, the senior party in the coalition, neck and neck
with Labour at 39 percent. The party slumped to 29 percent of
the vote in May, seven points behind the Tories. The next
election is planned for 2015.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will set out his
plans for spending cuts on Oct. 20 as the nation seeks to tackle
the worst  budget deficit  since World War II.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 