-- Gillard Says Australia Needs Price on Carbon to Achieve Emission Targets
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-09-25T23:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/gillard-says-need-for-price-on-carbon-to-meet-emission-cut-goals.html
Australia’s Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said the nation needs a price on carbon to achieve its
goals for emissions cuts, noting that industry needed certainty
about the policy.  “We’re putting together a committee that is open to
representatives of all sides of politics who agree that climate
is real and that we need to price carbon in order to reach the
targets that we’ve set ourselves in 2020,” Gillard said on
Channel 10’s “Meet the Press” program today.  Gillard pledged to restart an effort to tackle climate
change after replacing  Kevin Rudd  in June, seeking to build a
consensus before taking action. Rudd sought to introduce an
emissions trading program, while Gillard previously ruled out
using a carbon tax to reduce pollution.  “Circumstances have changed obviously during the election
campaign,” Gillard said, responding to a question about a
carbon tax and noting a Sept. 15 speech by  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s
Chief Executive  Marius Kloppers  that set out the company’s
preference for a tax. “We’ve seen the head of BHP, Marius
Kloppers, make a very important speech on arrangements for
carbon pricing and the view of a business like BHP about the
need for certainty.”  Australia is likely to impose a price on carbon emissions
in the next three years, replacing a previous plan with a blend
of initiatives, including a trading system or a tax as well as
regulation, according to Citigroup Inc.’s analyst,  Elaine Prior ,
on Sept. 22.  Both Australia’s Labor and Coalition parties have agreed to
a 5 percent cut in emissions below 2000 levels by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  