-- Budget Gap Means Extending Tax Cuts a Bad Idea, Greenspan Says
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-25T13:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/greenspan-says-more-important-to-cut-u-s-budget-than-extend-bush-tax-cuts.html
It’s more important for the U.S. to
cut its budget deficit than to extend tax cuts currently set to
expire at the end of this year, former Federal Reserve Governor
 Alan Greenspan  said in an interview on PBS.  “The  budget deficit  problem, I believe, is far more
dangerous than most of us contemplate on a day-to-day basis,”
Greenspan said in an interview broadcast on PBS television’s
“Newshour.” While low interest rates have made it easy for the
government to sell bonds, “assuredly they’re not going to stay
here.”  Taxes and spending are dominating the congressional agenda
with less than two months before elections that will determine
control of the House and Senate. Democrats and Republicans’ main
dispute is over who should be covered by an extension, with the
former wanting to continue lower rates for individual income up
to $200,000 and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly, and
the latter wanting to keep the tax rates for all brackets.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  yesterday said the House may
vote in the new week on extending the cuts, many of which were
supported by Greenspan in 2001. Greenspan was Fed Chairman from
1987 to 2006. At the time the cuts were enacted, the federal
government operated with a surplus, and Greenspan told Congress
he didn’t think the cuts would lead to a deficit.  While eliminating the tax cuts now “will have a negative
impact” on the economy, it will not have a “major” influence,
he said. The choice between lower taxes and higher debt “is a
tradeoff between bad and worse.”  If the U.S. makes a mistake by trying to reduce the deficit
too quickly, “that’s a very reparable problem,” Greenspan
said. The threat of expanding government debt beyond the
country’s ability to borrow, opens “very dangerous
possibilities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  