-- Jewish Settlers Ready to Build as Israel Under Pressure to Extend Freeze
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-09-25T22:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/jewish-settlers-ready-to-build-as-israel-under-pressure-to-extend-freeze.html
Jewish settlers in the West Bank
were preparing to resume construction as Israel’s 10-month
building moratorium approaches an end amid diplomatic pressure
on Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to keep the freeze
intact.  More than 2,000 West Bank homes have the necessary permits
to start construction following the lifting of the freeze,
according to  Peace Now , a Tel Aviv-based group that opposes
settlement construction. The moratorium expires at midnight
today, according to a senior Israeli official who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  “Now the play button will be pushed on the movie that was
paused 10 months ago,”  Danny Dayan , head of the Yesha Council,
an umbrella organization that represents Jewish settlers in the
West Bank, said yesterday on Channel Two.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who has
warned that resumption of building might prompt him to abandon
peace talks, said in a speech to the UN General Assembly
yesterday that Israel must “choose between peace and the
continuation of settlements.” Netanyahu repeatedly has said he
doesn’t plan on extending the freeze.  Ahead of today’s deadline on the West Bank construction
freeze, the U.S. stepped up efforts to pressure the sides into a
compromise that will allow the negotiations, started earlier
this month in Washington, to continue.  Meetings in the U.S.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Netanyahu
and Abbas for the second round in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, and
Jerusalem, met with Abbas Sept. 24. Abbas was scheduled to meet
with U.S. special envoy  George Mitchell  today. Netanyahu’s chief
negotiator,  Yitzhak Molcho , was also in the U.S., along with
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak .  The senior Israeli official said Molcho was asked to stay
to find a mutually acceptable compromise on settlement building
that would allow talks to go ahead.  “Both sides are playing brinkmanship and of course
brinkmanship is played right down to the brink,” said  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Interdisciplinary Center
Herzliya. “It is likely a compromise will emerge that will be
somewhere between renewing the moratorium in its entirety and
abandoning the moratorium entirely.”  Meridor’s Proposal  Israel Channel Two said one proposal would allow a gradual
return to construction in the West Bank, with building first
resuming in settlements Israel hopes will remain under its
sovereignty in any agreement. This proposal has been put forward
in the past by Deputy Prime Minister  Dan Meridor . Netanyahu has
said the idea is Meridor’s personal opinion and doesn’t reflect
government policy.  Another possible compromise would be a de facto freeze
where the government wouldn’t allow any new permits or issue any
new tenders seeking proposals for construction in the West Bank,
said a government official, speaking on condition of anonymity
because Israel’s negotiating strategy is secret. Defense
Ministry permission is required for building in the West Bank
and Barak can block construction by withholding approval, he
added.  Tayseer Khaled , a member of the Executive Committee of the
Palestine Liberation Organization, warned Palestinian
negotiators in an e-mailed statement yesterday not to be
“deceived” by Israeli attempts at compromise he said were
aimed “at legitimating its settlement activities.”  Start of Construction  The end of the moratorium might mean the start of
construction on at least 2,066 housing units throughout the West
Bank that already have all the necessary permits, including that
of the Defense Ministry, according to a survey by  Peace Now .  “There are dozens of homes that can be started on
immediately and we will issue the permits on the date allowed by
law,” Avi Naim, mayor of the West Bank settlement of Beit
Aryeh, said on  Israel Radio .  “We are expecting the government to publish more
tenders,” Dayan said on Israel Radio yesterday.  Members of Netanyahu’s Likud party, led by parliament
member  Danny Danon , plan today to lay the cornerstone of a new
neighborhood in the West Bank settlement of Revava. They have
already brought to the site cement trucks, bulldozers and other
earth-moving equipment, Danon said in an e-mailed statement.  Netanyahu’s government collapsed during his first term as
prime minister in 1998 after he made concessions in negotiations
with the Palestinians and his coalition allies who supported
settlements left the administration.  Israeli Opposition  Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , who leads the second-
biggest party in Netanyahu’s current ruling coalition, Yisrael
Beitenu, has said he has the political clout to stop any
extension of the moratorium.  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a member of Netanyahu’s
Likud party, said the prime minister didn’t have a Cabinet
majority to extend the freeze. In an interview with Israel
Radio, Erdan called the focus on settlement building a
“Palestinian excuse” to abandon talks.  “The Palestinians must understand that time is working not
only against Israel but also against them,” Erdan said, calling
on Palestinians to recognize Israel as a Jewish state and
relinquish demands to allow refugees to return to pre-1948
homes. “It is clear that there can’t be an agreement without
compromise.”  The construction moratorium was declared by Netanyahu to
restart peace talks, which were frozen for 20 months after
Israel waged a military offensive in the Gaza Strip it said was
aimed at stopping militants from firing rockets at southern
towns and cities. He said housing construction would be stopped
in West Bank settlements, excluding some 3,000 homes that
already received government approval, as well as some public
buildings.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said they aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 