-- Obama Calls Republicans' Proposals Are a Return to `Worn-Out' Policies
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-25T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/obama-calls-republican-plan-for-government-a-return-to-worn-out-policies.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
package of proposals that Republicans unveiled this week would
repeat the policies that led to the worst recession since the
Great Depression and go against the American people’s interests.  Less than two months before congressional midterm
elections, Obama used his weekly  address  on the radio and
Internet to take aim at the Republicans’ “Pledge to America”
plan that proposes to cut federal spending, extend expiring tax
cuts and repeal the health-care overhaul Obama signed into law
earlier this year.  “It is grounded in same worn-out philosophy: cut  taxes  for
millionaires and billionaires; cut the rules for Wall Street and
the special interests; and cut the middle class loose to fend
for itself,” Obama said. “That’s not a prescription for a
better future. It’s an echo of a disastrous decade we can’t
afford to relive.”  The plan is patterned after the “Contract with America,”
which House Republicans promoted in 1994, during former
Democratic President  Bill Clinton ’s first term. Six weeks after
that platform was presented, Republicans won enough seats in
midterm elections to gain a majority in the House of
Representatives for the first time in 40 years.  Today, Republicans are poised to make significant gains in
Congress and potentially retake control of the House.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy , of California, defended his party’s new governing
agenda, saying it addresses American concerns and “out-of-
control” spending.  “I am speaking to you on behalf of Republicans to tell you
that we’ve been listening, and we’ve heard you,” McCarthy said.
“This pledge isn’t about Republicans or Democrats, liberals or
conservatives - it’s about you.”  Obama devoted his remarks to the economy, a top concern for
voters, after a week dominated by foreign policy at the United
Nations General Assembly meeting. Over three days of speeches
and meetings in New York, Obama addressed rising tensions with
China over its  currency valuation  and the Middle East peace
process.  Obama today criticized the Republican push to extend tax
cuts for the nation’s highest earners that are scheduled to
expire at year’s end. Obama has proposed keeping lower rates in
place for incomes below $200,000 for individuals and $250,000
for couples filing jointly, which accounts for about 97 percent
of taxpayers, according to Internal Revenue Service data.  Millionaires’ Tax Cuts  “For all their talk about reining in spending and getting
our deficits under control, they want to borrow another $700
billion, and use it to give tax cuts to millionaires and
billionaires,” Obama said. “On average, that’s a tax cut of
about $100,000 for millionaires.”  The debate will extend past the November elections and into
a lame-duck session of Congress, as Senate leaders this week
postponed floor action on the tax-cut extensions.  The president pointed to a Sept. 20 report from the
National Bureau of Economic Research saying the worst U.S.
recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009. Obama said that
while the economy has improved since he took office, additional
measures are needed to boost growth and spur  hiring .  “If you’re one of the millions of Americans who lost your
home, your job, or your savings as a consequence of the
recession, this news is of little comfort or value,” he said.  Obama reiterated his call for Congress to enact proposals
including a permanent extension of a research and development
tax credit and additional infrastructure investments.  ‘Economically Disastrous’  McCarthy, in the weekly Republican talk, said government
has “failed” the American people, and called the Obama
administration’s policies “economically disastrous.”  He said Republicans would focus on job creation, ensuring
U.S. competitiveness, cutting government spending, reducing the
size of government, and restoring trust in government.  “The new agenda embodies Americans’ rejection of the
notion that we can simply tax, borrow and spend our way to
prosperity,” he said. “It offers a new way forward that hasn’t
been tried in Washington -- an approach focused on cutting
spending -- which is sadly a new idea for a Congress accustomed
to always accelerating it.”  McCarthy said Americans have a chance in the midterm
elections to elect Republicans who will “fight for the
prosperity of our country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in New York at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 