-- Tropical Storm Matthew Brings Drenching Rain, Flooding to Central America
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-09-25T16:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/tropical-storm-matthew-brings-drenching-rain-flooding-to-central-america.html
Tropical Storm Matthew brought
drenching rain to Central America today as the weather system
makes its way across the region, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said.  The storm’s maximum sustained winds slowed to 40 miles per
hour (64 kph) from 45 mph, the Miami-based center said in its
latest advisory. Matthew is centered about 45 miles east of
Monkey River Town, Belize, and is expected to move west-
northwest at about 15 mph across Belize and northern Guatemala.
The system will dissipate in the next day or two.  The storm may produce as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters)
of rain over parts of Honduras, southern Belize, and Guatemala,
and the Mexican state of Chiapas, the center said, with as much
as 15 inches possible in isolated areas.  In Caracas, seven people died due to heavy rains from
Matthew, Agence France-Presse reported today, citing fire
department officials. The victims died in the Santa Ana de
Antimano neighborhood yesterday after their home was flooded,
the news service said.  About 15 people are missing in Honduras after they boarded
a sailboat during the storm, AFP said.  A tropical storm warning is in effect for the Honduran
coast west of Punta Sal, including the offshore islands and the
Belize coast from Belize City to the south, the hurricane center
said.  Mudslides  Nicaraguan President  Daniel Ortega  said shelters were
opened in the eastern part of the country, where the center had
warned of rainfall of as much as 10 inches.  In Honduras, crews were sent to evacuate towns at risk for
floods and mudslides, according to Copeco, the nation’s
emergency response agency. El Salvador’s disaster agency called
on fishermen to come in from sea, and warned residents to beware
of potential landslides, according to an e-mailed statement.  In the Atlantic, Hurricane  Lisa  weakened to a tropical
storm, according to a separate Hurricane Center advisory as of
11 a.m. New York time.  Lisa is about 540 miles northwest of the Cape Verde Islands
with maximum sustained winds that have decreased to 70 miles per
hour, the center said. The storm is moving north at 12 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
 Blake Schmidt  in Grenada, Nicaragua at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 