-- Saudi Arabia Calls on Gulf Region to Support Iraq as U.S. Troops Withdraw
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-09-25T09:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/saudi-arabia-calls-on-gulf-region-to-support-iraq-as-u-s-troops-withdraw.html
Saudi Arabia called on neighboring
Gulf countries to work with Iraq to support stability as the
U.S. withdraws its remaining troops.  Iraq should strengthen its relations with Arab and Islamic
countries, Minister of Interior  Prince Nayef Bin Abdulaziz  said
in a  statement  on his department’s  website  dated Sept. 23.  “Neighboring countries must interact with Iraq and support
it to reach stability,” Prince Nayef said.  Saudi Arabia, a Sunni Muslim-majority country, has
expressed concern about the impact of violence from Iraq on the
Persian Gulf region. The world’s largest oil supplier is vying
with Iran for influence in Iraq as the U.S. pulls its remaining
troops from the country by 2011.  Iraqi politicians criticized neighboring countries for
meddling in March 7 elections. Both Saudi Arabia and Iran have
said they favor the formation of a government of national unity
representing all Iraqis to contain violence that peaked in 2006.
Iraq has failed to form a government since the poll.  “As brothers of Iraq, which is an old Arab Muslim country,
we hope to see a government that works for Iraq,” Prince Nayef
said. “We hope to see in the near future security agencies
capable of bringing security to all parts of Iraq and its armed
forces capable of defending Iraq and its economy.”  Saudi Arabia doesn’t want the withdrawal of U.S. forces to
“worsen the situation,” Nayef said in the statement made
during a meeting of the region’s interior ministers in Manama,
Bahrain.  President  Barack Obama  has pulled 94,000 military personnel
from Iraq since taking office in January 2009. There are now
less than 50,000 U.S. troops in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 