-- Saudi Shares Climb to Four-Month High as U.S., Oil Gain; Riyad Bank Rises
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-09-25T13:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/saudi-shares-climb-to-four-month-high-as-u-s-oil-gain-riyad-bank-rises.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose to the
highest in four months after global markets rallied on reports
signalling the U.S. and German economies are growing.  The  Tadawul All Share Index   gauge  added 0.3 percent to
6,453.13 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the highest level
since May 18.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, known as Sabic, and  Al Rajhi Bank , the
kingdom’s largest publicly-traded lender by market value, led
the advance. Tadawul has gained 5.7 percent this month.  “Investor sentiment continues to improve in Saudi
Arabia,” said  Anas Kassem , an investment analyst at Ajeej
Capital in Riyadh. “This can be seen through increased activity
in the market over the past couple of weeks ahead of third-
quarter earnings, and this was further buoyed by a strong close
yesterday of U.S. markets and oil.”  U.S., European and emerging-market stocks rose this week
after reports indicated the economies of the U.S. and Germany
are growing. The S&P 500 rose 2.1 percent this week, the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  gained 2.4 percent, the Stoxx Europe
600 Index advanced 0.4 percent and the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index  added 0.6 percent.  Crude oil rose the most in two weeks as the dollar dropped
against the euro, bolstering the appeal of commodities as an
alternative investment. Crude for November delivery rose to
$76.49 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Saudi
Arabia holds one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  Sabic  rose 0.6 percent to 90.5 riyals, the highest since
July 11, after the company said it opened a facility in
Cartagena, Spain.  Al Rajhi  gained 1 percent, to 79.75 riyals,
the highest since May 18.  National Industrialization Co.  soared
2 percent to 30.7 riyals, the highest since May 5.  Saudi Arabia’s is the only Gulf Arab benchmark tracked by
Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 