-- South Korea, North Korea Will Meet Oct. 1 on Fixing Family Reunions Venue
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-09-25T02:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/south-korea-north-korea-will-meet-oct-1-on-fixing-family-reunions-venue.html
South Korea’s Red Cross officials
will hold more talks with their North Korean counterparts on Oct.
1 to try to decide where to hold reunions for families separated
since the 1950-53 war.  Officials failed to agree on the venue in talks held
yesterday, South Korea’s Unification Ministry said in an e-
mailed statement last night.  North Korea demanded a resumption of tours to the Mount
Geumgang resort, operated by both countries, in order to hold
the events at a reunion center there, according to the statement.
South Korea said the center doesn’t directly have to do with the
tours.  South Korea suspended cross-border tours after a North
Korean soldier shot and killed a 53-year-old South Korean
tourist at Mount Geumgang in July 2008. North Korea, which has
long demanded the tours be resumed, said the South Korean
delegation “took an insincere attitude” at yesterday’s meeting,
the official Korean Central News Agency reported today.  North Korea in April said it will confiscate facilities at
the resort, including the reunion center, amid escalating
tensions between the two countries after the sinking of a South
Korean warship on March 26. South Korea’s Unification Ministry
in May asked government agencies to halt state-funded projects
with North Korea.  The two countries remain technically at war after their
1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire.  Party Congress  North Korea will hold its first party congress in 30 years
on Sept. 28, KCNA said this week. That may set the stage for a
power transfer from  Kim Jong Il  to his youngest son.  The congress is significant because it is taking place as
Kim’s failing health forces him to pass on leadership
responsibilities, U.S. and South Korean officials have said.  The last such gathering, in 1980, secured Kim’s position as
heir to his father, North Korean founder  Kim Il Sung . Kim Jong
Il, 68, has already named his youngest son as successor, the
Tokyo Shimbun newspaper reported on Sept. 19, citing a
photograph of an official ruling party document. Other media
have carried similar reports.  Faltering Economy  The regime may also use the congress to announce new
policies to reinvigorate the country’s faltering economy, which
was dealt a further blow this year when floods wiped out crops
and damaged houses. The changes could include policies that
signal an economic warming to South Korea.  South Korea’s Red Cross on Aug. 31 offered North Korea 10
billion won ($8.5 million) of food, medicine and other goods for
flood victims.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent to 24.7 trillion
won ($21 billion) in 2009, with trade falling 11 percent, after
the United Nations toughened sanctions against the country for
its second nuclear test in May last year, according to the Bank
of Korea in Seoul.  North Korea restored economic reformist  Pak Pong Ju  to its
leadership in August, Yonhap News reported at the time. The
government has focused recent propaganda around the target to
“open the gate to a great, prosperous and powerful nation in
2012,” the centenary of Kim Il Sung’s birth.  The North Korean leader signaled to Chinese President  Hu Jintao  during his last trip to China in late August that he is
willing to resume six-party talks to dismantle his country’s
nuclear weapons program, China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported Aug. 30. The forum, which also includes Japan, the U.S.,
Russia and South Korea, hasn’t met since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  