-- JPMorgan Sued by Petters Group Trustee Kelley Over Polaroid Sale Proceeds
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-12-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/u-s-state-officials-investigate-after-gmac-halts-evictions.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the  second-
biggest  U.S. bank by assets, was accused with others in a
lawsuit of getting more than $300 million from a scheme run by
 Thomas J. Petters  that involved buying  Polaroid Holding Co.   The trustee for Petters Group Worldwide LLC, in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Minnesota, said the New
York-based bank and other defendants received more than
$240 million from selling their stakes in Polaroid when Petters
acquired it. JPMorgan was the majority owner of Polaroid at the
time, according to the complaint.  In 2005,  JPMorgan  had the opportunity to conduct
“extensive due diligence on Petters” in connection with his
acquisition of Polaroid Holding for $426 million, of which
JPMorgan received “in excess of $240 million,” according to
the suit filed by the trustee and court-appointed receiver,
Douglas A. Kelley.  The money Petters used to acquire Polaroid was derived from
the Ponzi scheme, according to the complaint. JPMorgan also
received about $40 million in fees and interest as financial
adviser to Polaroid and due to $185 million in credit it
provided to the company after Petters acquired it, according to
the complaint.  “The windfall that JPMorgan would earn on the transaction
gave JPMorgan an incentive to ignore red flags that would have
revealed the massive Ponzi scheme,” according to the suit.  Petters was sentenced to 50 years in prison last year after
being found guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud. Petters
conned investors into giving him money to finance phony
consumer-goods purchase contracts. His Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based businesses also owned Sun Country Airlines Inc.  Darin Oduyoye , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is Kelley v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-04999, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 