-- Zuckerberg's Newark Gift Won't Go for Private-School Vouchers, Booker Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-09-25T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-25/zuckerberg-s-newark-gift-won-t-go-for-private-school-vouchers-booker-says.html
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg ’s $100 million donation to Newark, New Jersey’s
struggling school district won’t be used to fund private-school
vouchers and may result in some school closings, Mayor  Cory Booker  said.  Booker, joined by Zuckerberg, 26, and Governor  Chris Christie , said he wants his city to become the “first example
of a public school turnaround and” the overhaul may lead to the
shuttering of some city schools.  “Everything’s on the table,” he said today at a press
conference in Newark.  Zuckerberg, who announced he will make the donation through
his newly created Startup: Education foundation, said he chose
Newark based on the “leadership” of Christie and Booker. He
said he researched education and looked at other cities and
decided to direct the foundation’s first “challenge grant” to
Newark based on conversations with the two.  “The city has a good foundation already and there are
structural reasons why the city is good for this, but really
this is more an investment in them,” he said.  The district, with about 39,000 students, has been under
state control since 1995. Christie will give Booker a larger
role in running the schools, and the mayor will also get a say
in picking a new superintendent. Almost half of all students in
the district don’t graduate from high school.  Matching Funds  Booker said the city has begun collecting matching funds
for the donation. He declined to say which private donors or
foundations have pledged money so far. The school district will
require accountability from teachers as a component of any
improvement plan, he said.  He and Christie declined to specify how the money will be
spent.  Christie, a proponent of charter schools in Newark and
statewide, said he expects resistance from the New Jersey
Education Association, the state’s teachers union.  “This is about fixing our public schools,” he said. “For
those folks who want to try and fight it -- all it shows is that
they are defenders of the status quo. Candidly, I don’t give a
damn.”  For Related News and Information:
For a New Jersey state financial profile:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  