-- Magnit Sales Climb 48% on New Stores, More Customers
-- Michael Heath
-- 2007-04-16T14:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-16/magnit-sales-climb-48-on-new-stores-more-customers-update3-.html

          
          
             OAO  Magnit (MGNT) , Russia's second-largest
supermarket chain, said first-quarter revenue rose 48 percent as
it opened more stores and added customers.  
 Sales advanced to 23.4 billion rubles ($910 million) in the
period ended March 31, the Krasnodar-based company said today in
a statement. The retailer opened a net 37 stores in the period
and increased the number of customers by 28 percent to 177
million. Same-store sales climbed 16 percent.  
 Magnit operates discount food stores and had 1,930 outlets
in Russia at the end of the first quarter, compared with 1,574 at
the end of the same period a year ago. The company also plans to
open superstores in the country to tap rising demand and today
named Pawel Prokop as operational director for hypermarkets.  
 Prokop previously headed operations at St. Petersburg-based
Lenta, the biggest retailer in northwest  Russia , Magnit said in a
separate statement. A graduate of Royal University College,
Antwerp, Prokop also worked at Metro AG's Cash & Carry divisions
in  China , Germany and  Poland .  
 Magnit's full-year sales growth could exceed estimates by
analysts at Aton Capital and Alfa Bank if revenue keeps growing
at the same pace, the two banks wrote in separate reports.  
 Aton forecasts Magnit's sales may increase 40 percent in
dollar terms this year, after they climbed 58 percent on the same
basis in the first-quarter, Odile Lange-Broussy, an Aton Capital
analyst in Moscow, who recommends buying Magnit shares, wrote in
the report. Alfa Bank has a ``hold'' rating for the stock.  
 Magnit shares advanced 20.8 rubles, or 1.8 percent, to
1,160.80 rubles on the Micex Stock Exchange at the close of
trading in Moscow, their biggest one-day gain in more than three
weeks. The stock has climbed 61 percent in the past 12 months,
valuing the company at about 84 billion rubles.  
 The retailer operates discount food stores in more than 470
Russian cities and towns, most of them in the southern, central
and Volga regions.  
 X5 Retail Group NV is Russia's largest food retailer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Heath in Moscow at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        