-- U.S. airlines on track for worst-ever year for delays
-- By  John Crawley
-- Mon Aug 6, 2007 6:35pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/06/businesspro-airlines-delays-dc-idUSN0642487420070806

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Major U.S. airlines are on track for 
their worst annual record for on-time performance ever with 
nearly a third of all flights delayed in June, government 
figures showed on Monday. 

  The 68.1 percent on-time arrival rate was the ninth-worst 
month on record and drove carrier performance for the first 
half of 2007 to its lowest mid-point mark -- 72.65 percent -- 
since the U.S. Transportation Department began keeping records 
in 1995.  More than 909,000 flights were delayed at least 15 minutes 
between January and June and more than 93,000 were canceled. It 
was the second highest cancellation rate since the first half 
of 2000, which is considered worst year so far for overall 
airline service.  Consumer complaints about lost luggage, late flights and 
other travel-related problems rose nearly 50 percent at 6,100 
for the 6-month period.  Government and industry officials blame poor weather for 
most airline delays, which tend to peak in winter and the busy 
summer travel period.  But consumer and other industry experts say carriers have 
been saturating the system in recent years, leaving less and 
less recovery margin for unexpected events, like thunderstorms, 
aircraft mechanical problems or security delays.  The 20 airlines reporting data flew a record 3.69 million 
flights between January and June. In June alone, there were 
628,000 scheduled flights, one of the highest monthly totals.  Airlines, however, are struggling with higher fuel costs 
and softening domestic demand to cement their modest financial 
recovery. They have no plans for wholesale changes to their 
operations and defend their scheduling practices.  Trying to maximize their yields, carriers have pared seat 
availability this year already and planes are flying at or near 
capacity.  "Airplanes are flying when people want to fly and where 
they want to fly," said David Castelveter, a spokesman for the 
industry lobbying group, the Air Transport Association.  Airlines say there is little that can be done in the short 
term to reduce delays. "We're working with the Federal Aviation 
Administration to find some solutions," he said.  One concentration point is New York's John F. Kennedy 
International Airport, where only half of all flights were on 
time in June. JFK is traditionally a connecting point for 
international flights but has become a growing alternative to 
LaGuardia and Newark airports for domestic service.  JetBlue Airways Corp ( JBLU.O ) is based at JFK while Delta 
Air Lines ( DAL.N ) has major operations there. JFK accounted for 
a significant number of the longest departure delays last 
month, some of which involved JetBlue flights, records show.  "Air traffic management does need to improve," said JetBlue 
spokesman Bryan Baldwin. He noted that the airline's reliance 
on one airport for 360 of the carrier's 550 daily flights 
maximizes chances that its operations will be disrupted when 
problems arise. A February ice storm in New York disrupted 
JetBlue for days.  One possible solution, the airline has said, is for the FAA 
to check growth by limiting the number of daily flights at JFK.  Michael Boyd, a Colorado-based industry consultant, 
disagrees with flight caps and said the airlines are being 
penalized for years of meaningful government inaction on air 
traffic system improvements.  "The problem is not new," Boyd said. "We've got to fix the 
air traffic control system and that fix is not anywhere near 
being done."