-- Pfizer wins U.S. approval for new HIV drug
-- 
-- Mon Aug 6, 2007 5:45pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/08/06/businesspro-pfizer-hiv-dc-idUSN0642522320070806

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Pfizer Inc ( PFE.N ) said on Monday that 
U.S. regulators approved its AIDS drug, Selzentry, the first in 
a new class of oral HIV medicines. 

  Selzentry is the first drug designed to keep the HIV virus 
that causes AIDS from entering healthy immune cells. Older AIDS 
medicines attack the virus itself.  The drug, also known as maraviroc, blocks the CCR5 
co-receptor that serves as a main doorway for the HIV virus 
into immune cells.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Selzentry 
for use in patients who have tried other medicines and for 
those for whom a diagnostic test has confirmed their HIV strain 
is linked to the CCR5 receptor. About 50 percent to 60 percent 
of patients who have been treated with other AIDS drugs meet 
that definition, the FDA said.  Selzentry will come with a "black box" warning, the 
strongest for prescription drugs, about the risk of liver 
toxicity, the FDA said.  The drug's label also will mention the possibility of heart 
attacks under a list of warnings and precautions, the agency 
said.  The most common problems reported in studies of patients 
who took Selzentry included cough, fever, upper respiratory 
tract infections, rash, abdominal pain and dizziness.  Pfizer, the world's largest drug maker, expects Selzentry 
to be available next month.  In the company's studies, about 45 percent of patients who 
took maraviroc had their HIV virus suppressed to undetectable 
levels. The same was true for 23 percent who got a placebo. All 
patients also were treated with a cocktail of the best 
available drugs and had tried other regimens.  Selzentry's safety and effectiveness have not been 
established in adults or children who have never been treated 
with other HIV drugs, the FDA said, adding the drug has not 
been studied in pregnant women.  Pfizer said in June that the FDA would approve the drug 
once certain conditions were met.  The New York-based company is counting on new medicines 
such as Selzentry to help drive profits as several blockbuster 
medicines lose patent protection and its top-selling Lipitor 
cholesterol treatment faces strong competition.  Industry analysts have projected annual Selzentry sales of 
about $500 million by 2011.  Pfizer shares rose 2.6 percent to close at $24.11 on the 
New York Stock Exchange.  (Reporting by  Lewis Krauskopf  in New York and Lisa Richwine 
in Washington)