-- Big Oil profits in danger as price of crude slides
-- By  Michael Erman
-- Fri Jan 5, 2007 2:41pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/05/businesspro-oil-profits-dc-idUSN0519033420070105

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Energy stocks have taken a beating as 
crude oil prices plummeted this week, but oil producers will 
really feel the pain on the bottom line, threatening to wipe 
out billions of dollars in profits. 

  If this week's $5.50 oil price drop is sustained over the 
year, Exxon Mobil Corp. ( XOM.N ) would lose nearly $3 billion in 
profit -- about $540 million for every dollar off the price of 
oil per barrel, analysts said.  Chevron Corp. ( CVX.N ) and ConocoPhillips ( COP.N ), the 
second- and third-largest U.S. oil companies, would lose about 
$330 million and $200 million, respectively, for every dollar 
off the price of oil per barrel per year.  "I don't think many companies, if any, can offset a 10 
percent decline in the average crude price," said Howard Weil 
analyst Gene Gillespie, who believes oil company earnings could 
fall by up to 10 percent this year from 2006.  "It's going to be difficult sequentially to keep earnings 
at the level that they have been," he said.  Oil prices have dropped to around $55.50 a barrel from 
about $61 on Tuesday on warm winter weather in the U.S. 
Northeast, high inventory levels and concerns about an economic 
slowdown.  Oil stocks have also dropped in the same period. The 
Chicago Board Options Exchange's oil index has lost about 5 
percent of its value since last week.  But the stocks are coming off all time-highs reached as the 
companies posted windfall profits on oil prices that hovered 
near all-time highs for much of last year.  Exxon, the world's largest publicly traded company, is 
projected to have earned nearly $40 billion in profit in 2006.  "We've been in a period that has represented a confluence 
of extremely high commodity prices and extremely high margins," 
said Benchmark Company analyst Mark Gilman, who believes oil 
will average about $50 a barrel in 2007 and will eventually 
retreat to the $35-to-$40 range.  He said that barring an unanticipated and material supply 
disruption, oil company profits have probably peaked.  Exxon Mobil spokesman Mark Boudreaux declined to comment on 
the effect current oil prices would have on the company's 
earnings.  "From our perspective the current price of oil is not 
particularly relevant to our investment decisions because they 
are investment decisions for projects that last decades," he 
said.  Chevron and ConocoPhillips could not immediately be reached 
for comment.