-- Motorola cuts view on cell phone results
-- 
-- Thu Jan 4, 2007 10:05pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/05/businesspro-motorola-outlook-dc-idUSWEN183020070105

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Motorola Inc. MOT.N, the world's No. 
2 maker of cell phones, lowered its forecast for quarterly 
results on Thursday due to a shortfall at its mobile devices 
unit. 

  The earnings warning made late on Thursday fell far below 
Wall Street expectations and could be the result of a fiercer 
price contest between Motorola and its larger rival, Nokia 
( NOK1V.HE ), as well as a greater reliance on emerging markets 
where cheaper handsets are sold, analysts said.  "This probably means they've been trying to fight Nokia on 
pricing. It probably means Nokia's going to see a similar trend 
-- high unit volumes and low phone pricing and margins," said 
Charter Equity Research analyst Ed Snyder.  Motorola said it now estimates fourth-quarter sales of 
$11.6 billion to $11.8 billion, shy of its prior view of $11.8 
billion to $12.1 billion, despite investor hopes for more 
robust sales from its slim Razr phone and new models like the 
Krzr.  "They probably cut pricing on the Razr and the other phones 
didn't make up the difference," said Snyder.  Motorola also said it expects to report net income of 13 
cents to 16 cents per share, below an internal forecast 
compiled at the start of the quarter.  The forecast includes 10 cents per share in special 
charges, such as investment-related losses, stock based 
compensation costs and extraordinary tax expenses.  Analysts on average had forecast fourth-quarter revenue of 
$11.99 billion and earnings per share of 38 cents, before 
special items, according to Reuters Estimates.  The reduced forecast may also stem from demand in emerging 
markets like China and India but less strength in western 
Europe and the United States, Snyder said. He expected Motorola 
and Nokia shares would trade lower on Friday.  "We are very disappointed with our fourth-quarter financial 
performance, but we remain committed to the strategic direction 
and long-term financial targets we discussed at our annual 
analysts meeting," Chief Executive Ed Zander said in a 
statement.  Motorola estimated that unit sales in mobile devices rose 
48 percent to 66 million units from a year ago, but said the 
results fell short of its expectations based on "an unfavorable 
mix" of regional and product-type sales. The company did not 
elaborate further.  Snyder had forecast mobile device sales of about 61 million 
units and said he believed Motorola had likely sold more phones 
at lower prices.  In October, Motorola posted third-quarter revenue that 
disappointed analysts' forecasts due to weaker-than-expected 
mobile phone sales, particularly in Europe. Nokia said at the 
time it had cut prices sharply to win market share, a move that 
squeezed its margins.  One month later, Motorola reported very strong cell phone 
demand "from a shipment perspective," particularly for its Krzr 
model, according to its cell phone unit chief Ron Garriques.  Motorola is due to report fourth-quarter earnings on 
January 19, when it said it would discuss plans to improve 
operating profitability.  (Additional reporting by  Sinead Carew )