-- Fed Minehan says inflation remains challenge
-- By Tamawa Kadoya
-- Fri Jan 5, 2007 11:37am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/05/businesspro-usa-fed-minehan-dc-idUSNAT00236120070105

 

 HARTFORD, Connecticut  (Reuters) - The U.S. economy will 
likely pick up again this year while price pressures ebb, but 
inflation remains a challenge for policymakers, Boston Federal 
Reserve Bank President Cathy Minehan said on Friday. 

  While there were risks to both growth and inflation, she 
said she remained cautiously optimistic.  "I expect U.S. economic growth to accelerate slightly this 
year, unemployment to remain low and price pressures to ease a 
bit," she told a business association conference in Hartford.  "Inflation has been and remains a challenge, though recent 
data provide a bit of assurance that price pressures may be 
beginning to ebb," she said.  While prices seemed to ease a bit in November, core 
consumer price index for the 12-month period remained close to 
its third-quarter high, "suggesting inflation may be slow to 
taper off," she said.  As such, the Fed should keep its focus on containing 
inflation.  "Managing the risks around that seems to me to be the key 
issue facing the central bank at this juncture," she said.  Minehan said the economy seems to be on track to achieving 
a so-called soft landing and growth is likely to pick up again 
this year.  Fed officials raised interest rates steadily until June as 
they aimed for a "soft landing" in which economic growth slowed 
enough to curb price pressures while avoiding a recession.  Minehan said she expected continued moderate growth into 
2007 at or slightly below potential after around 2 percent 
growth in the last quarter of 2006. She said she expected 
growth to pick up further in 2008.  Unemployment would likely remain below 5 percent, she said.  Government data on Friday showed a surprisingly strong jobs 
market, increasing prospects that the Fed would remain on hold 
for some time.  U.S. Treasury debt prices tumbled after the jobs report, 
pushing yields up from one-week lows.  The U.S. economy added 167,000 jobs in December, well above 
the 100,000 new jobs Wall Street economists had forecast. The 
unemployment rate was unchanged from November at 4.5 percent.  Average hourly earnings climbed 0.5 percent in December, 
the largest monthly increase since a 0.6 percent jump in April.  On risks going forward, a deeper rout in the housing market 
which hits consumer spending could pull down growth but that 
scenario was unlikely as there were signs the worst in the 
housing slump could be over, Minehan said.  Employment trends remain solid while equity markets were 
upbeat, she added.  Minehan declined to comment directly on the direction of 
interest rates. She will be a voting member of the 
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee this year.