-- UPDATE 5-Genentech cancer drug shows no significant benefit
-- 
-- Fri Jan 5, 2007 2:01pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/05/roche-pertuzumab-idUSL0555285420070105

 

  (Adds comment from Genentech) 

  By  Toni Clarke BOSTON  Jan 5 (Reuters) - Genentech Inc.'s DNA.N
experimental ovarian cancer drug pertuzumab did not
significantly delay progress of the disease in a mid-stage
trial, the world's No. 2 biotechnology company said on Friday.  Results of a Phase II trial of 130 patients showed that
those taking pertuzumab in combination with Eli Lilly and Co.'s
( LLY.N ) drug Gemzar did not stave off the disease longer, on a
statistically significant basis, than those who took Gemzar
alone.  However, some benefit was seen -- enough for the company to
call the results "encouraging." Genentech said it would release
detailed data from the trial at an upcoming medical meeting.  Krysta Pellegrino, a spokeswoman for Genentech, said the
company has not yet decided whether to take the drug into
late-stage, or Phase III, trials. Genentech is majority-owned
by Roche Holding AG ( ROG.VX ), which is conducting its own trial
of the drug. Results are expected later this year.  "We will take the results of this and other trials and then
make a decision on whether to go to Phase III," Pellegrino
said.  While not definitively positive, the fact that there was
any positive sign at all in the mid-stage trial surprised
analysts because the drug had failed to show benefit in earlier
trials when used as a stand-alone treatment.  "I think investors more or less wrote this program off, so
there was zero expectation here," said Jason Kantor, an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets Corp. "This is not a home run, but it's
going to focus investors' attention on the Roche study. And if
that's positive, Genentech could have a brand new Phase III
program."  Genentech said no new or unexpected safety problems were
reported in the pertuzumab study, and adverse events were
similar to those encountered in previous clinical trials,
including fatigue, diarrhea and back pain.  Genentech shares fell 39 cents to $83.64 in afternoon trade
on the New York Stock Exchange.
 (Additional reporting by Andrew Hurst in Zurich)


