-- Astra says no patent deal talks, expects to prevail
-- By  Mantik Kusjanto  and Patricia Gugau
-- Wed Feb 13, 2008 7:22am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/13/businesspro-astrazeneca-patents-dc-idUSL1344945220080213

 

 FRANKFURT  (Reuters) - AstraZeneca Plc ( AZN.L ) is convinced 
it can prevail in U.S. patent disputes over its two biggest 
drugs, Nexium and Seroquel, and has had no discussions about 
settling the cases, its chief executive said on Wednesday. 

  David Brennan said the Anglo-Swedish company's victories in 
past patent cases showed it had a deep understanding of the 
legal process and this added to its confidence.  "We haven't discussed anything around settlement," he told 
reporters during a visit to Germany.  "Our position has been we have strong intellectual property 
and we intend to defend it and stand behind it. Obviously, we 
have options available to us. We always explore options that 
are available but it's clear to us that we have an intellectual 
property argument to make and we are making it."  Investors are fearful for future AstraZeneca profits, since 
its top seller Nexium, for treating excess stomach acid, could 
face generic competition from April and Seroquel, for 
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, from late March.  Generic firms launching cheap copies in the coming weeks 
would be taking a risk, since AstraZeneca could claim damages 
if its patents were ultimately upheld in court. But such 
so-called "at risk" launches are an increasingly common tactic 
from generic manufacturers.  "We have had experience going through the judicial 
process," Brennan said, noting that the company had prevailed 
in seven out of eight previous patent cases.  Nexium, with worldwide sales of $5.2 billion last year, is 
viewed by analysts as more vulnerable than Seroquel, since it 
is essentially a "cleaned-up" version of AstraZeneca's older 
ulcer pill Losec.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd ( RANB.BO ) has first rights to 
market a generic form of Nexium in the United States and last 
week received tentative U.S. approval for its version.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd TEVA.O and Dr Reddy's 
Laboratories Ltd RDY.BO are also working on Nexium generics.  AstraZeneca says it has valid U.S. Nexium patents expiring 
between 2014 and 2019.  In the case of Seroquel, which sold $4 billion last year, 
the principal challenge comes from Teva.  Brennan and Chief Financial Officer Simon Lowth said 
AstraZeneca had contingency plans in place in the event of 
losing exclusivity on its products, including rapidly taking 
out costs.  Some analysts have suggested AstraZeneca could be left as a 
takeover target for a bigger rival if Nexium or Seroquel were 
to fall to generics but Brennan said he did not believe such a 
mega-merger was likely.  "I think that the future of our industry will have a lot 
more to do with collaboration than it will with consolidation," 
he said, highlighting AstraZeneca's diabetes drug deal with 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co ( BMY.N ) as a good example.  (Writing by  Ben Hirschler ; Editing by  Richard Hubbard )