-- House Panel Cuts Funding for Europe Missile Defense
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2007-07-25T18:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-25/house-panel-cuts-funding-for-europe-missile-defense-update1-.html

          
          
             A U.S. House committee that controls
 defense spending  cut money President George W. Bush requested to
start building missile defense sites next year in Poland and the
Czech Republic.  
 The  House Appropriations Committee , in a measure that
provides defense funding for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1,
cut $139 million of $310 million Bush requested to start
building the sites, while approving the remaining $171 billion
for continued development of an early warning radar.  
 The full House has already cut the construction funding
from companion legislation that sets defense policy, and the
cuts are part of a Senate measure that's been stalled by debate
over  Iraq .  
 Both chambers cited uncertainty over whether the Polish and
Czech Republic governments will approve the project and on the
reliability of the  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  interceptor that would
be installed in Poland-based silos.  
 Representative John Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat who
chairs the defense appropriations panel, said that while there's
no intent to terminate the project, ``it's confusing.''  
 ``They've got to convince us that this is worthwhile'' from
a cost, schedule and threat standpoint, Murtha said. The full
House will likely consider the appropriations bill Aug. 1 or 2,
he said.  
 Funding Iraq War  
 The legislation doesn't include the $141 billion the
administration requested separately to pay for combat operations
in Iraq and  Afghanistan , money contained in both the House and
Senate policy measures.  
 Murtha said that request would be considered in September
after Congress receives progress reports from General David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, and Ryan Crocker, the
U.S. ambassador to Iraq.  
 Murtha repeated his intention to introduce three amendments
next week to the defense bill. One calls for withdrawal of U.S.
troops starting 60 days after the bill is signed into law;
another would limit the deployment of U.S. troops to Iraq who
don't meet training and readiness standards, he said.  
 A third amendment calls for the closure of the U.S.
detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  
 $459 Billion  
 The legislation provides $459 billion for defense spending
in fiscal 2008, including $6.5 billion to buy 12 more  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  Joint Strike Fighters and continue development of
the Pentagon's most costly weapons program.  
 Altogether, the measure would provide $39.7 billion, or 9.5
percent more than spending approved for the current fiscal year.  
 The panel approved $3.15 billion for the  Boeing Co. (BA)  Future
Combat Systems program to develop a family of manned and
unmanned armor vehicles linked by drones and radio networks. The
amount was $406 million less than the Army requested. The House
cut the Future Combat Systems by $867 million in the defense
policy legislation.  
 Murtha said he decided against a larger cut because Army
Chief of Staff General George Casey, along with four members on
the appropriations subcommittee, warned a cut of that magnitude
``would kill the program.'' Still, Murtha said the program faces
long-term challenges.  
 ``The minute this war is over,'' defense spending will
plunge, Murtha said. ``We'll have substantial cuts so I just
don't believe they'll be able to'' afford this program in the
long run.  
 Putin's Concern  
 U.S. missile defense plans for Europe have roiled relations
with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who says the placement of
10 interceptors in  Poland  and a radar station in the Czech
Republic poses a security threat to his nation. The U.S. wants
the facilities in place by 2012 to counter the potential threat
from  Iran , which is expected to have missiles capable of
reaching Europe by 2015.  
 The committee, in its report explaining the legislation,
said full funding for the program ``is premature'' given ``the
uncertainty surrounding the program'' and its cost, which the
Pentagon estimates will hit about $4 billion through 2013.  
 ``These estimates, though, do not include costs for
barracks, family housing or any other costs normally
associated'' with a military infrastructure that will include
U.S. personnel and their families, the committee said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        