-- Svyazinvest New Charter Blocked by Russian Government
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2007-08-28T15:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-28/svyazinvest-new-charter-blocked-by-russian-government-update2-.html

          
          
             The Russian government, which
controls fixed-line phone monopoly OAO Svyazinvest, blocked a new
company charter that would have expanded the rights of minority
shareholder AFK Sistema.  
 The shareholders took no decision on the proposals after the
government prepared to vote against it at today's annual
shareholder meeting, Svyazinvest spokesman Oleg Mikhailov said by
phone. The state owns 75 percent of Svyazinvest.  
 The changes were sought by OAO Comstar United Telesystems, a
phone company controlled by billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov 's
Sistema, which last year paid $1.3 billion for 25 percent plus
one share in Svyazinvest. Comstar wants to influence decisions
made by Svyazinvest's seven regional subsidiaries, which serve
more than 38 million customers.  
 Irina Potekhina, a spokeswoman for Sistema, said Sistema
thought it had the government's backing and now has to work out
what to do next.  
 ``As the charter that satisfied us and was coordinated with
the Economy Ministry and the Federal Property Agency was not
accepted, we have to understand why,'' Potekhina said. ``We would
like to understand why it was not approved by the Communications
Ministry.''  
 More Control  
 The new charter would have allowed Svyazinvest's board to
consider acquisitions, investment programs and budgets for its
regional units. It would also have required 75 percent
shareholder support for approval of large transactions, as
opposed to the current simple majority.  
 ``As experience shows, Svyazinvest's previous owners did not
manage to increase the influence of minority shareholders
regarding company decisions,'' said Konstantin Chernyshev, a
telecommunications analyst with UralSib Financial Corp.  
 Sistema bought its Svyazinvest stake from Russian-born U.S.
billionaire  Len Blavatnik , who in turn acquired it from a group
of investors including  George Soros . The Russian government has
said it would sell its remaining 75 percent of Svyazinvest almost
every year for the past decade since selling 25 percent to Soros.
Soros later called it the worst investment he ever made.  
 ``Increasing the influence of minority shareholders over
Svyazinvest and its units would have helped make the company more
transparent and increased its market capitalization,'' Chernyshov
said.  
 Mikhailov said that Svyazinvest's new board will call an
extraordinary shareholder meeting to ``consider the version of
the charter prepared by the other shareholder, the state.''  
 Svyazinvest's Mikhailov said he did not know why the
government opposed the changes Comstar sought. The  Economy
Ministry  and the Property Agency did not return repeated phone
and e-mail requests for comment. The Communications Ministry said
it will comment later in the day.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        