-- Unified Energy to List Gazprom-Backed Units in London
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-08-28T17:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-28/unified-energy-to-list-gazprom-backed-units-in-london-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Unified Energy System,  Russia 's
national utility, plans to list as many as three power companies
in London this year as it seeks to raise more than $20 billion
from total share sales in 2007. All three units have  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) 
as a major shareholder.  
 Unified may offer 19 percent in OAO Mosenergo, Russia's
biggest generator in terms of installed capacity, and less than
25 percent in OAO OGK-2 and OAO OGK-6, Dmitry Akhanov, Unified
Energy's head of strategy, said today in an interview in Moscow.
The utility will hold as many as seven share sales in the next
four months, he said.  
 ``The sums we're looking at are significant, yet the size of
the stakes are unlikely to draw strategic investors,'' Akhanov
said. ``Even if Gazprom buys part of the offer, there's still a
significant volume'' for financial investors, he said.  
 Russia is breaking up Unified Energy into generation,
distribution and retail businesses to stimulate competition and
fund upgrades and expansion of its aging power network. The
utility's 20 thermal generators, called OGKs and TGKs in Russian,
plan to sell new shares this and next year as one way of raising
money. The sales could raise ``much more'' than $20 billion,
Unified's Chief Executive Officer  Anatoly Chubais  said in June.  
 Unified Energy advanced 3.2 percent today on Moscow's Micex
exchange to close at 32.50 rubles, valuing the utility at 1.33
trillion rubles ($50 billion).  
 Gazprom Stakes  
 Gazprom, the state-controlled natural-gas monopoly, owns 11
percent of Moscow-based Unified and is set to gain 55 percent in
OGK-2 and 52 percent in OGK-6 after the utility's breakup. The
gas producer has already gained control of Mosenergo, which
provides electricity and heating for the Russian capital.  
 Unified's board will decide Aug. 31 whether to sell 42
billion rubles or 54 billion rubles in OGK-2 shares in a sale
slated for October, Akhanov said. OGK-2 will start marketing its
shares to investors in  London  and  Sweden  next week, he said.  
 The board will also make a decision Aug. 31 on selling 19
percent of Mosenergo in the form of global depositary receipts in
London, Akhanov said.  
 The utility has sold shares in four units so far this year:
OGK-5, TGK-5, OGK-3 and Mosenergo. In September, OGK-4 and TGK-1
plan to sell shares, followed by TGK-8 and TGK-9 by the end of
the month or in early October. OGK-2 will conduct a sale in
November, as will TGK-12 and TGK-14. The date for OGK-6 has yet
to be determined, Akhanov said.  
 OGK denotes a wholesale generation company with power plants
spread throughout the country. TGK signifies a regional
generator, tending to have a smaller installed capacity than an
OGK and providing heating alongside electricity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        